564 DISEASES OF P.ONE. element combated. In exceptional cases, where the sequestrum is very slow in separating, as in the outer table of the skull, or where there is risk from sepsis, operation may be undertaken before separation is complete, care being taken to chisel well beyond the disease into the surrounding vascular bone. The operation for the removal of the dead bone (seques- trectomy) consists in opening up the periosteum and the new case to a degree sufficient to allow of the removal of all the dead bone, including the most minute sequestra, as well as any areas of infected granulation tissue and pus. A tourniquet may be employed with advantage. Existing sinuses may be enlarged, but if these are inconveniently situated—for example, in the centre of the popliteal space in necrosis of the femoral trigone— it is better to make a fresh wound down to the bone on that aspect of the limb which affords the best access and which entails the least injury of the overlying soft parts. The periosteum, which is thick and easily separable, is raised from the new case with an elevator, and by means of the chisel or gouge the newly-formed bone is removed to such an extent as will allow of removal of the sequestrum. In exposing and removing the sequestrum, care is taken not to break off and leave behind any fragment from its worm-eaten edges and extremities, for if any such fragment is allowed to remain, it will interfere with healing, or determine a relapse of suppuration at a later period. The dead bone having been removed, the cavity in which it lay is disinfected by scraping away the lining granulations with the sharp spoon, and swabbing the raw surface with pure carbolic acid. The cavity may then be stuffed with iodoform worsted, the stuffing being renewed from time to time until healing is completed. To prevent the worsted sticking into the rough bone, the intervention of a sheet of oil-silk protective is sometimes employed. On account of the time and trouble connected with this method of treating bone cavities, other procedures may be undertaken. The cavity may be allowed to fill up with blood- clot, and, provided there is perfect asepsis, it may be possible in this way to obtain healing under a single dressing. When the cavity is in a superficial bone, it may be filled in by means of a flap raised from the adjacent healthy bone. In other cases the cavity may be filled with bone grafts, such as fragments of living bone obtained in resection of club-foot, or fragments of calcined bone. Lastly, the walls of the rigid cavity may be mobilised by means of the chisel, so that they may be brought