PREVENTION OF WOUND-INFECTION. 29 The application of wet compresses of carbolic lotion to the fingers and toes is to be avoided, especially in women and children, on account of the risk of inducing carbolic gangrene. Corrosive Sublimate.—This lotion is made by dissolving the crystals of perchloride of mercury in distilled water. It is used in strengths varying from 1 in 500 to 1 in 5000 ; that usually employed being 1 in 2000. Although less irritant locally than carbolic lotion, it is more poisonous by absorption, causing abdominal pain, diarrhoea, vomiting, and collajise, which may prove fatal. It corrodes metal instruments and dishes ; and by its action on the albumen of the tissues and of the blood forms an inert albuminate of mercury, so that its antiseptic efficiency is much diminished. Corrosive sublimate is probably the most efficient lotion for purifying the hands after being contaminated with septic material. Lister's Strong Solution is prepared by making a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid in distilled water, in every 500 parts of which one part of perchloride of mercury is dissolved. Biniodide of Mercury.—This lotion is widely used as a substitute for corrosive sublimate. It is a more powerful germicide, while it is less irritant, and it neither forms a mercuric albuminate nor tarnishes metallic instruments. This lotion is used in the same strengths as corrosive sublimate lotion, and may either be dissolved in water or in spirit. Formalin, in one per cent, solution, is useful for purifying the skin before operation, and for washing out tuberculous sinuses and other infected cavities. Peroxide of Hydrogen is of great value in disinfecting and deodor- ising septic wounds and cavities. It acts in virtue of its oxidising properties. Each volume of the fluid contains from ten to fifteen volumes of oxygen in such feeble combination that it is at once given up when it comes into contact with any oxidisable substance. It is most conveniently applied in the form of a spray. Boracic Acid Lotion is a saturated solution of boracic acid crystals in water. It is a weak, non-poisonous lotion of some value as a preventive of sepsis, but of little germicidal power. It is useful in washing out the urinary bladder and as a mouth-wash. Lysol, one of the newer proprietary antiseptics, is most useful in cleansing the skin of the patient and the surgeon’s hands both before and after operations. It is used in strengths varying from 1 in 100 to 1 in 400. It combines the advantages of an antiseptic solution and a soap. Its irritating action on the skin of the hands may to a large ex- tent be prevented by rinsing the hands in sterile water to get rid of the lysol. As it forms a ropy mixture when brought into contact with pus or blood it is not a suitable lotion for wounds. Izal, crcolin, and sanitas are useful disinfectant and deodorant lotions of the non-official class. Iodoform is a feeble germicide, but possesses a peculiar property of neutralising the products of bacteria when it is broken up in contact with the tissues of the body. To this property—probably virtue of the liberation of free iodine in the process of its disintegration—it owes its undoubted value in wounds with a foul discharge, in tuberculous conditions, and in venereal sores. It is also useful in wounds in the neighbourhood of septic cavities, such as the mouth or rectum, as a means of preventing or controlling sepsis. It is best employed in the form of moderate-sized crystals, which should be sterilised by immersion