FRACTURES OF LOWER END OF FEMUR, 515 Prognosis.—The difficulty of controlling the short fragment in these injuries renders accurate apposition and union without shortening very uncertain, and the effusion into the joint which so constantly occurs is liable to lead to stiffness. This is especially liable to occur in the T - or Y -shaped fractures. After an epiphysial separation the growth of the limb is sometimes, although not always, interfered with. The popliteal vessels lie so close to the bone, that they are liable to be pressed upon or even torn by the displaced lower fragment. When this occurs there is great swelling in the region of the knee, with loss of pulsation in the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and not infrequently gangrene of the limb ensues. There may also be injurious pressure on the nerves. Amputation may be called for when these complications exist, or when gangrene or severe septic conditions threaten the life of the patient. Treatment.—Fractures in the region of the knee, especially the supra-condylar and T -shaped fractures, often present great difficulties in treatment. The small size of the lower fragment, its depth from the surface, and the accompanying effusion into and around the joint, render its control difficult if not im- possible. In the majority of cases the two fragments can only be brought into apposition when the knee is flexed on the thigh and the thigh on the pelvis, and it is almost always necessary to carry out the reduction under anaesthesia. In the few cases where the fragments can be accurately approximated in the extended position of the limb, retention may be effected by means of a box-splint reaching well up the thigh. In the majority, however, flexion is necessary, and the limb must be fixed on a double inclined plane, so constructed that the angle of flexion can be adjusted to meet the requirements of the individual case. If the lower fragment is of sufficient length to permit of extension strapping being applied to it, extension by weight and pulley, acting in the axis of the femur, and carried over an upright at the foot of the bed, may be useful. In most cases, however, this is impracticable, A poroplastic splint moulded over the front of the limb and secured by bandages is a valuable aid in maintaining accurate apposition of the fragments, which, unless so secured, are very liable to become redisplaced. Hodgen’s splint, bent nearly to a right angle, is also found useful in the treatment of these injuries. A careful watch must be kept on the circulation of the limb