REGENERATION OF BONE. 549 of disease. In rickets, for example, the formation of new bone may take place unequally, and may go on more rapidly in one half of the disc than in the other, with the result that the axis of the shaft comes to deviate from the normal, as in knock-knee and bow-knee. In bacterial diseases originating in the marrow, if the epiphysial junction is directly involved in the destructive process, its bone-forming functions may be retarded or abolished, and the subsequent growth of the bone be seriously interfered with. On the other hand, if it is not directly involved, but is merely influenced by the proximity of an inflammatory process, its bone-forming functions may be stimulated and the growth of the bone in length exaggerated. In paralysed limbs the growth from the epiphyses, although sometimes retarded or arrested, is usually little short of the normal. The result of interference with growth is more injurious in the lower than in the upper limb, because, from the functional point of view, it is essential that the lower extremities should be approximately of equal length. If the growth of one of two parallel bones is arrested, as in the forearm or leg, the continued growth of the other results in a deviation of the hand or foot to one or other side. In certain constitutional diseases, such as rickets and inherited syphilis, all the epiphysial junctions of the skeleton may have their activities retarded, in which case dwarfing of the individual results. Regeneration of Bone.—When bone has been lost or destroyed as a result of injury or disease, it is capable of being reproduced, and the extent to which regeneration takes place varies under different con- ditions. The chief part in the regeneration of bone is played by the periosteum, in virtue of the active functions possessed by the layer of osteoblasts on its dee}) surface. Provided the periosteum has been preserved, the whole shaft of a long bone may be reproduced after having been destroyed by disease or removed by operation. The reproductive capacity of the periosteum covering the epiphyses is usually more restricted ; were it otherwise, the exaggerated formation of new bone which sometimes occurs after injury or disease might interfere with the movements of the adjacent joint more frequently than it does. Similarly, the periosteum of the flat bones of the skull and of the bones of the face, which are primarily developed in membrane, has very little capacity of forming new bone ; hence, when bone has been lost or removed in these situations, there often results a permanent gap or defect, even although the periosteum has been preserved. The marrow plays a minor part in the regeneration of bone. It is chiefly of service in eating away or removing periosteal bone which is not permanently required, and in modelling the new bone according to the architectural requirements of the part. When the marrow has been destroyed by disease, or scooped out in the course of an operation, the formation of new bone may result in the obliteration of the medullary canal. Wounds or defects in articular cartilage are repaired chiefly by the formation of fibrous or osseous tissue. Transplantation of Bone—Bone-grafting.—There is still considerable difference of opinion as to the fate of portions of bone which have been removed from their native soil and implanted elsewhere, or reimplanted in the situation from which they were detached. According to Barth and others, the implanted portion of bone remains quite passive, like any other aseptic foreign body, such as ivory or calcined bone, and is gradually penetrated by the surrounding vessels and tissue elements, and finally replaced by new bone. Clinical experience is conclusive