SUPPURATION. 60 In the first variety, the mechanical obstacle to closure may be the presence of a foreign body, such as a piece of dead bone, a septic ligature, or a bullet iu the abscess cavity; the constant escape of pus which has not a sufficiently free outlet; or merely want of rest to the affected part. The sinus is lined by ordinary granulation tissue, and when a foreign body is present, a mass of redundant granulations often projects from the external opening. In sinuses of long standing there is often a consider- able amount of scar tissue around them, the contraction of which drags the opening of the sinus below the level of the sur- rounding skin. The treatment in these cases is the removal of the cause, by enlarging the opening so as to be able to remove any foreign substance and to permit of disinfection as well as of more thorough drainage. Any muscles through or between which the sinus passes must be kept at rest by suitable splints, or by division of their fibres. The sinus may be scraped, and treated with pure carbolic acid or the thermo-cautery, and then stuffed with iodoform worsted, so as to encourage healing from the bottom. Sinuses in scar tissue may be treated by complete excision, the raw surfaces left being approximated by stitches. The tuberculous sinus fails to close because the destructive process is going on in its walls. These are lined with granula- tions which are infected with bacilli and studded with tuber- culous nodules. As a rule the primary focus of tubercle in bone, joint, or gland is still active, and the sinus is a necessary avenue for the escape of discharge. These sinuses, which are often long and tortuous, are treated by thorough removal of all the tuberculous tissue from which they originate and by which they are lined, and by thorough disinfection with carbolic acid or some other powerful and penetrating antiseptic. Packing with iodoform worsted is a useful form of dressing. A Fistula is an abnormal canal passing from a mucous surface to the skin or to another mucous surface. Fistulm resulting from suppuration usually occur near the natural openings of mucous canals—for example, on the cheek, as a salivary fistula; beside the angle of the eye, as a lachrymal fistula; near the ear, as a mastoid fistula; or close to the anus, as a fistula-in-ano. Intestinal fistula: are sometimes met with in the abdominal wall after strangulated hernia, operations for appendicitis, tuber- culous peritonitis, and other conditions. In the perineum they frequently complicate strictures of the urethra. Fistula: also occur between the bladder and vagina (vesico- vaginal), or between the bladder and the rectum (recto-vesical). The guiding principle in treating a fistula is to enable the