77 CONDITIONS OF ULCERS. m tlie surrounding tissues results from coagulation and partial organisation of the inflammatory effusion, and prevents the necessary contraction of the sore. The base of a callous ulcer lies at some distance below the level of the swollen, thickened, and white edges, and presents a glazed appearance, such granu- lations as are present being unhealthy and irregular. The characteristic discharge is a thin, serous fluid, mixed with pus, and having a foul odour. Unless when inflamed, pain is not a prominent feature. The sufferers from this variety of ulcer are chiefly met with in hospital practice. The prolonged hypersemia of the tissues in relation to a callous ulcer of the leg often leads to peculiar changes in the underlying bones. The peri- osteum is abnormally thick and vascular, the superficial layers of the bone become injected and porous, and the bones, as a whole, are thickened. In the macerated bone “ the surface is covered with irregular, stalactite - like processes or foliaceous masses, which, to a certain extent, follow the line of attachment of the interosseus membrane and of the intermuscular septa ” (Cath- cart) (Fig. 16). When the whole thick- ness of the soft tissues is destroyed by the ulcerative process, the area of bone which comes to form the base of the ulcer projects as a flat, porous node. In course of time the ulcer eats its way into the bone, and produces de- pressions or erosions on its surface These changes have often been mistaken for primary disease in the bone. The irritable condition is met with in ulcers which occur, as a rule, just above the external malleolus in women of neurotic temperament. They are small in size and have prominent granulations, and by the aid of a probe points of excessive tenderness .may be discovered. These, Hilton believed, corre- spond to exposed nerve filaments. Ulcers which are spreading may be met with in one of several conditions. The Inflamed Condition.—Any ulcer may become acutely Fig. 16.—Tibia and Fibula, illustrating the Changes associated with Chronic Ulcer of the Leg. (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)