112 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. vessels or tissues of the body. In the majority of cases the Klebs-Ldffler bacillus is found associated with streptococci, less commonly with staphylococci, pneumococci, and other pathogenic bacteria, and these may give rise to various complications, such as cellulitis, suppuration in the glands of the neck, or septicaemia. The disease is usually transmitted from one patient to another, but it may be contracted from cats, fowls, or through the milk of infected cows. Cases have occurred in which the surgeon has carried the infection from one patient to another through neglect of ordinary antiseptic precautions. The local cell necrosis which results in the formation of the false membrane is due to the action of the toxin. The con- gestion of internal organs, the cloudy swelling of the kidney, the hyaline degeneration of the heart muscle, and the parenchy- matous degeneration of the myelin sheaths of the peripheral nerves are all due to the same cause. Leucocytosis is usually well marked. Clinical Features.—The incubation period varies from two to seven days. On the first or second day of the disease redness and swelling of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, tonsils, and palate are well marked, and small, circular, greenish or grey patches of false membrane begin to appear. These rapidly increase in area and thickness, till they coalesce and form a complete covering to the parts. In the pharynx the false membrane is less adherent to the surface than it is in the air-passages. The lymphatic glands behind the angle of the jaw enlarge and become tender. There is pain on swallowing, and often ear-ache and the patient speaks with a nasal accent. He becomes weak and anaemic, and loses his appetite. There is often albuminuria. The false membrane may become separated and cast off, after which the patient gradually recovers. Death may take place from asthenia or from sudden syncope during some slight exertion. The disease may arise in the air-passages primarily, although, as a rule, it spreads thence from the pharynx. It first manifests itself by a short, dry, croupy cough and hoarseness of the voice. The difficulty in breathing usually first takes place suddenly during the night, and once it begins, it rapidly gets worse. Inspiration becomes noisy, sometimes stridulous or metallic or sibilant, and there is marked indrawing of the epigastrium and lower ribs. The voice becomes more rough, the cough more severe, and the patient very restless. The difficulty of breathing occurs in paroxysms, which gradually increase in frequency and severity until at length the exhausted patient becomes asphyxiated