ULCERATION AND ULCERS. inflamed from the access of fresh organisms, aided by mechanical irritation from trauma, ill-fitting splints or bandages, or want of rest, or from chemical irritants such as strong antiseptics. The best clinical example of an inflamed ulcer is the venereal soft sore. The base of the ulcer becomes red and angry-looking, the granulations disappear, and a copious discharge of thin, yellow pus, mixed with blood, escapes. Sloughs of granulation tissue or of connective tissue may form. The edges become red, ragged, and everted, and the ulcer increases in size by spreading into the inflamed and cedematous surrounding tissues. Such ulcers are frequently multiple. Pain is a constant symptom, and is often severe, and there is usually some constitutional disturbance. The pliagedcenic condition is the result of an ulcer being infected with specially virulent bacteria. It often occurs in syphilitic ulcers, and leads to a very rapid and destructive infiltration of the surrounding tissues, with the formation of sloughs and much pus. It is also met with in the throat in some cases of scarlet fever, and may give rise to fatal haemor- rhage by ulcerating into large blood-vessels. All the signs of inflammation, both local and constitutional, are present to a marked degree. Treatment of Ulcers.—The prompt and patient treatment of ulcers is a matter of great practical importance. An ulcer is not only an immediate cause of suffering to the patient, crippling and incapacitating him for his work, but is a distinct and constant menace to his health : the prolonged discharge reduces his strength ; the open sore is a possible source of infection by the organisms of suppuration, erysipelas, or other specific diseases. Phlebitis, with formation of septic emboli, leading to pyremia, is liable to occur; and in old persons it is not uncommon for ulcers of long standing to become the seat of cancer. In addition, the offensive odour of many ulcers renders the patient a source of annoyance and discomfort to others. Principles of Treatment applicable to all Ulcers. — The primary object of treatment in any ulcer is to bring it into the condition of a healing sore. When this has been effected nature will do the rest, provided extraneous sources of irritation be excluded. Rest is an essential condition to the repair of all ulcers, and is best secured by confining the patient to bed. Elevation of the part to facilitate the venous return is also most important. The limb should be placed on pillows, or the foot of the^bed raised upon blocks, so that the ulcer lies at a higher level