COBLES’ FRACTURE. 473 It is almost invariably the result of a fall on the palm of the hand, the force being received on the ball of the thumb, and transmitted through the carpus to the lower end of the radius. “ If at the moment of impact the angle between the axis of the forearm and ground is less than 60°, the line representing the direction of the force passes upwards in front of the axis of the forearm; the whole shock is therefore borne by the lower end of the radius, which is broken off, and the force being continued, the lower fragment is driven backwards ” (Chiene). The fracture takes place through the cancellated extremity of the bone, within a half to three-quarters of an inch of its articular surface. It is usually transverse, but may be slightly oblique. In a considerable proportion of cases it is impacted, and not infrequently the lower fragment is comminuted, the fracture extending into the radio-carpal joint. When impaction takes place it is usually recip- rocal, the dorsal surface of the upper fragment piercing the lower frag- ment, and the palmar surface of the lower frag- ment piercing the upper. The mechanism producing comminution of the lower fragment is practically constant, the upper fragment being forced as a wedge into the lower, taking effect first and chiefly on the side of the fragment next the ulna (E. H. Bennett). The periosteum is usually torn and stripped from the palmar aspect of the fragments, while it remains intact on the dorsum. In the majority of cases the styloid process of the ulna is torn off by traction exerted through the internal lateral ligament. The resulting displacement is of a threefold character : (1) the lower fragment is displaced backwards; (2) its carpal surface is rotated backwards on a transverse diameter of the forearm; while (3) the whole fragment is rotated upward through the arc of a circle, the centre of which is situated at the ulnar attachment of the triangular ligament, the radius of the circle being a line from the ulnar attachment of the triangular ligament to the tip of the styloid process of the radius (Chiene). Stated more simply, the radial styloid is tilted so that it comes to lie at a higher level than normal. Fig. 123.—Colies’ Fracture, in a man *t. 30, from a fall on the palm. “Inverted spoon” deformity well marked.