FRACTURES OF UPPER END OF THE ULNA. 459 M swelling from effusion of blood into the joint. The power of extending the forearm is impaired, and other symptoms of fracture are present. The amount of displacement depends upon the level of the fracture, and the extent to which the aponeurotic expansion of the triceps is torn. As the fracture is usually near the tip the displacement is generally comparatively slight, the prolongation of the fibres of insertion of the triceps on to the lateral and posterior parts of the process holding the small fragment in position. When the line of fracture is nearer the base, however, the contraction of the triceps tends to separate the fragments widely, and a distinct gap, which is increased on flexing the elbow, may often be felt between them. The upper fragment may be palpated ; and if the elbow be passively extended, the fragments may be brought into ap- position, and crepitus elicited. The upper fragment sometimes forms attachments to the shaft of the humerus, and this leads to stretching of the fibrous band between the fragments. When the fracture is oblique and there is little displacement bony union may result. In many cases the fragments are united by fibrous tissue. Treatment.—Within recent years the tendency of surgical opinion has been towards operative treatment in fracture of the olecranon, particularly where there is marked separation of the fragments young adults. It is still an open question, however, whether the results after operation are better than those obtained by one or other of the non-operative measures to be described. It would appear that too much stress has been laid on the necessity of fixing the fragments in accurate apposition, and that too little attention has been paid to the importance of massage and movement in maintaining the functions of the muscles and of the joint. Treatment by Apparatus.—When the fracture passes through the tip of the process, and there is little or no displacement, the application of a convergent spica bandage to the elbow, a rect- angular splint, and a sling fulfil all requirements. When the displacement is considerable, however, the arm should be almost, but not quite, fully extended, and a bandage Fig. 110.—T-shaped Frac- ture of Olecranon Process. the case of