DISEASES OF MUSCLE. 367 tissue and fat. The affected muscles exhibit the reaction of degeneration. “Muscular Rheumatism.”—This clinical term is applied to a group of affections of which lumbago is the best - known example. The group includes lumbago, stiff-neck, and pleuro- dynia—conditions which have this in common, that sudden and severe pain is excited in the part by movement. In lumbago the pain is usually located over the sacrum, the sacro-iliac joint, or aponeuroses of the lumbar muscles on one or both sides. The amount of tenderness varies, but so long as the patient is perfectly quiet he is free from pain. The slightest attempt to alter the position of the back, however, is attended by pain, which may be so severe as to render him helpless for the moment. The pain is most marked on rising from the stooping position. The pain may shoot down the back of the hip, thus simulating sciatica, or the patient may suffer from lumbago and sciatica at the same time. Once a patient has suffered from lumbago, it is very liable to recur, and an attack may be determined by errors of diet, by changes of weather, and by exposure to cold. It is chiefly met with in male adults, and is most apt to occur in those who are gouty or rheumatic, or the subjects of oxaluric dyspepsia. In “ painful stiff-neck ” or rheumatic torticollis the pain is located in one side of the neck, and is excited by some inadvertent movement. The head is held stiffly on one side as in wry-neck, the patient voluntarily contracting the sterno- mastoid. There may be tenderness over the vertebral spines or in the lines of the cervical nerves, and the sterno-mastoid may undergo atrophy. This affection is as common in children as in adults. In pleurodynia the pain is located to the side of the chest, in the line of the intercostal nerves, and is excited by movements of the chest, as in coughing, or by any bodily exertion. There is often marked tenderness. A similar affection is met with in the shoulder, especially on waking from sleep. There is acute pain on attempting to abduct the arm, and there may be localised tenderness in the region of the circumflex nerve. * It would appear that these conditions, which have hitherto been regarded as specially affecting muscles, are in many cases dependent on a nerve lesion such as neuritis or on some joint affection. Treatment.-—The general treatment is concerned with the diet, attention to the stomach, bowels, and kidneys, and with