554 DISEASES OE BONE. tion. Where the process is most advanced—that is, at the ossifying junction—there are evidences of absorption, rarefaction, and disappearance of the framework of the bone; the marrow spaces and Haversian canals are enlarged, resulting in the formation of visible tunnels and cavities which are occupied by greenish-yellow pus. These destructive changes are most marked in the region of the ossifying junction ; the larger spaces are near the epiphysial disc itself, and they often communicate with the exterior through holes in the cortex, through which the pus may escape. The blood- vessels and tissue elements of the marrow undergo destruction, and the veins may become the seat of thrombosis and infective phlebitis. Necrosis of a considerable portion, or of the entire bone in the region affected, may occur; hence the name “ acute necrosis ” formerly applied to the disease. The necrosis is mainly attributable to the poisonous action on the bone of the bacterial products in the pus with which it is in contact. Doubtless the vitality of the bone is seriously impaired by the vascular and tissue changes which attend the process, but the actual death is the result of the action of the toxins. The inflammatory and suppurative process may remain localised to the ossifying junction, may spread along the medullary canal for a varying distance, or may extend through the pIC 17g Acute cor^ex the deeper surface of the periosteum Suppurative Perios- by way of the Haversian canals. It then titis of Humerus, spreads along the deeper layer of the peri- showing stripping osteum, and presents the features of periosteal u*) *n^aln,aati°n and suppuration, the pus ac- physis.Pm ° ' ^ cumulating under the periosteum and lifting it up from the bone (Fig. 179). The periosteum of the diaphysis is easily separated—hence the facility with which the pus spreads along the shaft; whereas in the region of the ossifying junction the periosteum is raised with difficulty, because of its intimate connection with the epiphysial cartilage. Less frequently there are several distinct collections of pus under the periosteum, scattered up and down the shaft, each being derived from a focus of suppuration in the subjacent marrow. The sub- periosteal pus may communicate with that in the marrow, and also with collections of pus in the overlying cellular tissue.