INJURIES OF NERVES. 313 in the forearm, where the ulnar, median, and radial nerves are frequently cut across. The mere interruption of the continuity of a nerve may result in degeneration of its fibres; the myelin being broken up into droplets and absorbed, while the axis cylinders swell up, disintegrate, and finally disappear. Both the conducting and the insulating elements are thus lost. The degeneration in the central end of the divided nerve is limited to the immediate proximity of the lesion, and does not involve all the nerve fibres. In the distal end it is generally believed to extend throughout the entire peripheral distribution of the nerve, because the fibres are cut off from their trophic nerve cells in the spinal cord. The amount of degeneration, however, would appear to depend largely upon whether the ends are reunited or not, and on the length of time they remain apart. If there is a gap left between them, or if they are separated by scar tissue, the peripheral end undergoes complete degeneration in from six weeks to two months. If, however, the ends are in contact, degeneration may take [dace only to a very limited extent, or not at all. Process of Repair when the Ends are in Contact.—If the tvound is aseptic, the ends of the divided nerve become united, and the conducting paths are established by a regenera- tion of nerve fibres. There is a difference of opinion as to the method of regeneration. According to one view, the divided axis cylinders in the central end grow downwards and subdivide, forming new axis cylinders, which enter the nerve sheaths of the distal portion, and continue growing until they reach the peripheral terminations in muscle and skin. In course of time they acquire a myelin sheath. In this way both conduction and insulation are completed, and messages may then be trans- mitted between the central nervous system and the periphery. This method of regeneration is necessarily slow because of the distance to be traversed by the down-growing axis cylinders. The other and more probable view is that the formation of new axis cylinders is not confined to the central end, but that it goes on also in the peripheral segment from the nuclei lying beneath the neurilemma. The new axis cylinders do not attain maturity, however, until continuity with the central end has been re- established. When a nerve has been divided accidentally in the course of an operation—for example, the ulnar nerve, in excising the elbow—the immediate suture of the ends may be followed by the restoration of conduction within a few days. It would appear, therefore, that the changes which take place vary