TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. 619 favours the progress of ulceration of cartilage and of articular caries. These processes are usually more advanced in the areas most exposed to pressure—for example, in the case of the liip- joint, on the superior aspect of the head of the femur, and on the posterior and upper segment of the acetabulum. The occurrence of 'pathological dislocation is due to softening and stretching of the ligaments, which normally retain the bones in position, and to some factor causing displacement, which may be the accumulation of fluid or of granulations in the joint, the involuntary contraction of muscles, or some movement or twist of the limb. The occurrence of dislocation is also favoured by destructive changes in the bones. In rare instances the synovial membrane may present nodular masses or lumps, resembling the tuberculous tumours met with in the brain. They project into the cavity of the joint, are often pedunculated, and may give rise to the same symptoms as a loose body. The fringes of the synovial membrane may also undergo a remarkable development, like that observed in arthritis deformans. Both these types are most frequently met with in the knee-joint. The Contents of Tuberculous Joints.—In a large proportion of cases of synovial tuberculosis the joint cavity is entirely filled up by the diffuse thickening of the synovial membrane, and there is no fluid in the joint. In a small number there is an abundant serous exudation, and the condition is known clinically as tuberculous hydrops. There may be a considerable formation of fibrin within the joint, covering the free surface of the membrane and floating in the fluid as shapeless flakes or masses. Under the influence of joint movements this fibrin may assume the shape of melon seed bodies (Fig. 217). More rarely the joint contains tuberculous pus, and the surface of the synovial membrane resembles the wall of a cold abscess. Peri-articular tubercle and abscess may result from the spread of disease from the bone or joint into the surrounding tissues, either directly or by way of the lymphatics. A peri-articular abscess may spread in several directions, sometimes invading tendon sheaths or bursae, and finally reaching the skin surface by tortuous sinuses. Reactive changes in the vicinity of tuberculous joints are of common occurrence, and play a considerable part in the produc- tion of what is known clinically as white smiling. New con- nective tissue forms in the peri-articular fat and between muscles and tendons. It may be tough and fibrous, or soft, vascular, and oedematous, and the peri-articular fat becomes swollen and