654 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. be recognised by swelling and pain on pressure over the bone. The grosser osseous lesions may cause enlargement of the bone, and are readily demonstrated by skiagraphy. Abscess formation most commonly occurs beneath the triceps, and the abscess points at one or other margin of that muscle. A subcutaneous abscess may form over the upper end of the ulna or over the radio-humeral joint. Tuberculous hydrops with melon-seed bodies is rare. Treatment.—Conservative measures are indicated in cases where there is any prospect of securing a movable joint. The limb is placed in a Thomas’, Croft’s, or poroplastic splint, flexed to rather less than a right angle and with the hand semi- pronated. If it is decided to inject iodoform emulsion, the needle of the syringe is most easily introduced between the external condyle and the head of the radius. Cold abscess is treated on the usual lines. A localised focus of disease in one or other of the bones may be eradicated without opening into the synovial cavity. If the articular surfaces are so involved that recovery is likely to be attended with ankylosis, the disease should be removed by arthrectomy or excision without unnecessary delay. Cure of the disease with a useful and movable limb may then be reasonably anticipated within two or three months. It may happen, however, that the patient’s occupation is such that a strong, stiff joint is preferable to a weaker movable one. Arthritis deformans occurs as a hydrops with hypertrophy of the synovial fringes and loose bodies, or as a dry arthritis with eburnation and lipping of the articular margins (Fig. 210). Neuro-arthropathies are chiefly met with in syringomyelia, and are attended with striking alterations in the shape of the bones and with abnormal mobility. Pyogenic diseases result from staphylococcal osteomyelitis— chiefly of the humerus or ulna—and from gonorrhoea. The remaining diseases at the elbow include syphilitic disease in young children, bleeder’s joint, hysterical affections, and loose bodies, and do not call for special description. The Wrist-Joint. The close proximity of the flexor sheaths to the carpal articulations enables infective processes to spread readily from one to the other. The arrangement of the synovial membrane also favours the extension of disease throughout the numerous articulations in the region of the wrist.