TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF GLANDS. 305 enlarge and to become confluent, so that the whole gland is converted into a caseous mass surrounded by the thickened capsule. The caseated tissue may become calcified, but more frequently it liquefies and breaks down into tuberculous pus. Disease in the cervical glands is a common accompaniment or sequel of adenoids, enlarged tonsils, carious teeth, pharyngitis, middle-ear disease, conjunctivitis, and suppurative lesions of the scalp, such as impetigo. These lesions afford the bacilli a chance of entry into the lymphatics, in which they are carried to the glands of the neck, where they give rise to tuberculous disease. In the cervical glands the enlargement may affect only one gland, usually below the angle of the jaw, and may remain confined to it. The enlarged gland is painless, firm, ovoid, and varies in size from a hazel nut to a walnut. More commonly the disease affects several glands, spreading from one to another on one and sometimes on both sides of the neck. When the disease commences in the pre-auricular or submaxillary glands, it tends to spread to those along the carotid sheath. When the posterior auricular and occipital glands are first involved, the spread is towards those along the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid. In many cases all the various chains in front of, beneath, and behind this muscle are involved, the enlarged glands extending from the mastoid to the clavicle. When several glands are affected, they are at first discrete and movable, and may even vary in size from time to time, but with the addition of peri-adenitis they become fixed and matted together, forming large lobulated or nodular masses. They not only become adherent to one another, but also to the structures in their vicinity,—skin, fascia, muscles, veins, and nerves,—a point of considerable importance in regard to their removal by operation. The tuberculous disease in the interior of the glands may undergo cicatrisation and cure. Much more commonly, however, it caseates, and although this may result in calcification and arrest of the disease, it more frequently terminates in liquefaction and suppuration, in which case the tubercle bacilli may have been reinforced by the penetration of other organisms. The result is an abscess, which is usually of the cold variety, but which may partake of the more active features of the pyogenic type. The transition from the solid to the liquefied stage of the disease is attended with pain and tenderness in the gland, which at the same time becomes more fixed—especially to the skin —and more globular. Finally it becomes elastic and yields fluctuation. If left to itself the softened tubercle erupts through the VOL. I—20