570 DISEASES OF BONE. bell shaped, one part being under the periosteum, and the other in the marrow. The bone lesions usually occur during the seventh or eight week of the disease. There is little disturbance of the general health, and fever may be absent altogether. The chief complaint is of vague pains in the bones. After being referred to several bones, these usually become localised in one ; they are aggra- vated by movement, or by handling the bone, and are worst at night. They may disappear spontaneously, but may reappear later. There is redness and oedema of the overlying soft parts, and swelling with vague iiuctuation over the bone, and on incision there escapes a yellow creamy pus, or a brown syrupy fluid. Necrosis is exceptional. Where the abscess develops very slowly, the condition may resemble tuberculous disease of the bone. Stress is to be laid on the history of typhoid, and on the bacteriological examination of the pus. The prognosis is favourable in pure infections with the typhoid bacillus, but recovery is apt to be slow, and relapse is not uncommon. In the treatment of typhoid lesions it is usually sufficient to incise the periosteum. In the case of the ribs, it may be necessary to resect portions of bone. Mixed Infections. — Regarding mixed infections with combinations of pyogenic organisms, very little is known, but they are usually regarded as more serious than pure infections. Infections following the eruptive fevers, such as scarlet fever, measles, or smallpox, are usually due to for discussion those which result from Fig. 185.—New Periosteal staphylococci, streptococci, or other or- Bone on Surface of Femur ganisms which have gained an entrance from Amputation Stump, through the specific lesions of the mouth, Osteomyelitis supervened throat, or skin, which characterise these on the amputation and diseases. resulted in necrosis at the Pyogenic Diseases from Direct Infection. sawn section of the bone. —In the diseases of bone considered in the preceding sections, the infection takes place iw ^ o..v through the arteries. There still remain direct infection, through a wound involving the bone—for example compound fractures, gunshot injuries, osteotomies, amputations, re- sections, or operations for ununited fracture. In all of these the marrow is exposed to infection by such organisms as may be present in the associated wound in the soft parts. In the case of the jaws, the infection may spread to the bone from lesions of the mouth ; in the skull, from lesions of the scalp, or of the cranial bones themselves—such as a syphilitic gumma or a sarcoma which has fungated externally ; and in the case of the petrous temporal, from suppuration in the middle ear.