COMPOUND DISLOCATIONS. 419 the first day onward; and the patient is encouraged to use the joint as early as possible. The appropriate apparatus and the period during which it should be worn will be considered with the individual dislocations. Operation in Simple Dislocations.—In a limited number of cases, even with the aid of an anaesthetic, reduction is found to be impossible. Resort must then be had to operation, which under aseptic conditions is a comparatively safe and satisfactory proceeding, although oftentimes difficult. It may happen that the undoing of the displacement is only possible after the removal of a portion of one or other of the bones involved. Compound Dislocations.—Compound dislocations are usually the result of extreme violence produced by machinery or railway accidents, or by falls from great heights. In the majority of cases they are complicated by fracture of the constituent bones of the joint, as well as by laceration of muscles, tendons, and blood- vessels. In the region of the ankle, wrist, and joints of the thumb, however, compound dislocations, uncomplicated by other lesions, are sometimes met with. The great risk in compound disloca- tions is septic infection, which may result in serious impairment of the usefulness of the joint or even in its complete destruction, results towards which the concomitant injuries materially con- tribute. In many instances where septic infection has occurred, ankylosis is the best result that can be hoped for. Treatment. - As a rule the first question that arises in the treatment of cases of compound dislocation is whether amputation is necessary or not. The considerations which determine this point are the same as in the case of compound fractures. When an attempt is to be made to save the limb the dislocation is reduced after the parts have been thoroughly purified. In many cases excision of portions of bone is necessary to ensure asepsis or to permit of reduction. Drainage- tubes having been inserted and the rest of the wound closed, a retentive apparatus is applied, provision being made for the dressing of the wound. Dislocation complicated by Fracture.—In certain dislocations the separation of small portions of bones or of epiphyses is of almost constant occurrence—for example, fracture of the coronoid process in dislocation of the elbow backwards, and chipping off of a portion of the edge of the acetabulum in dislocation of the hip. These neither add to the difficulties of diagnosis nor necessitate any modification of the treatment, and they need not be further referred to.