154 SYPHILIS. genital organs. It is scarcely possible to mention any part of the body on which these have not been observed. They differ to some extent from the hard sore as met with on the penis. The sore is usually larger, with more inflammation and pain, and less definite induration, and the associated bubo is very much larger and more sensitive. The bubo affects the glands in nearest relation to the sore, so that we look for enlarge- ment of the epitrochlear or axillary glands in chancre of the finger, of the submaxillary glands in chancre of the lip or mouth, or of the pre-auricular gland in chancre of the eyelid or fore- head. In consequence of their divergence from the typical chancre and of their being often met with in individuals who, from age, surroundings, or moral character, are unlikely subjects of venereal disease, the true nature of erratic chancres is often overlooked until the persistence of the lesion, its want of resem- blance to anything else, or the onset of constitutional symptoms determines the diagnosis of syphilis. A solitary, indolent sore occurring on the lip, eyelid, linger, or nipple, which does not heal but tends to increase in size, and is associated with indura- tion and enlargement of the adjacent glands, is most likely to be the primary sore of syphilis. The erratic chancre may become the seat of phagediena. The prognosis in primary syphilis should always be given with reserve. In the absence of treatment, constitutional symp- toms will follow with very few exceptions; but if the patient is brought under the influence of mercury, although constitutional symptoms may not fail to show themselves they will be greatly modified. Treatment.—Reference may be made in the first instance to the question of excising or destroying the primary sore with a view to the prevention of constitutional infection. As a matter of fact, this question very rarely arises in practice, because by the time the chancre has sufficiently developed to be diagnosed with certainty, the virus has already entered the lymphatics, and is beyond the reach of surgical interference. When the chancre is situated on the prepuce it may be an advantage to remove it by performing circumcision, without, however, holding out any certain hope of preventing constitutional infection. So long as the diagnosis is uncertain, treatment should be restricted to keeping the suspected sore absolutely clean, and to protecting it from irritation. When the diagnosis of syphilis is established, the question arises whether or not the patient should be brought under the influence of mercury. While condemning the institu- tion of what must necessarily be a prolonged course of mercury