104 GANGRENE. gums, the iloor of the mouth, or even the jaws become gangrenous and the teeth fall out. The constitutional disturbance is severe, the temperature raised, and the pulse feeble and rapid. The extremely foetid odour which pervades the room or even the house the patient occupies, is usually sufficient to suggest the diagnosis of cancrum oris. It must not be mistaken for the decomposition of sordes on the teeth and gums of a debilitated patient. It is most important to recognise the disease early, otherwise treatment is of no avail. The prognosis is always grave in the extreme, although spontaneous recovery is not unknown. Septic pneumonia is a not infrequent cause of death. Treatment.—The only treatment of any avail is the thorough removal under chloroform of all the sloughy tissue, with the surrounding zone in which the organisms are active. This is most efficiently accomplished by the knife or scissors, cutting until the tissue bleeds freely, after which the raw surface is painted with undiluted carbolic acid and dressed with iodoform gauze. It is often necessary to remove large pieces of bone when the necrotic process has implicated the jaws. The mouth must be constantly sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen, and washed out with a disinfectant and deodorant lotion, such as Condy’s fluid. The patient’s general condition calls for free stimulation. The deformity resulting from these necessarily heroic measures is often not so great as might be expected, and can be further diminished by plastic operations. Phagedcena, Hospital Gangrene, and Diphtheritic Gangrene. —Fortunately little need be said regarding these conditions. They are chiefly of historical interest as having constituted at one time the scourge of surgical wards, and as having been the first diseases to disappear after the introduction of antiseptic surgery. A few days after the infliction of a wound, pain and swelling appeared. On the surface of the wound, which became dry and pale, a false membrane formed, and under this the tissues ulcerated and became gangrenous with great rapidity. The false membrane became thicker and sdfter as the process progressed; the skin, cellular tissue, and muscles rapidly sloughed; and not infrequently large vessels were opened into, and death resulted from haemor- rhage. High fever, diarrhoea, sleeplessness, and delirium pre- ceded the almost invariably fatal issue. Amputation was the only treatment which offered any prospect of recovery.