34 METHODS OF WOUND TREATMENT. Means adopted to combat Septic Infection. -— As lias already been indicated, the same antiseptic precautions are to be taken in dealing with infected as with aseptic wounds. In the case of recent injuries such as result from railway or machinery accidents, with bruising and crushing of the tissues, and grinding of gross dirt into the wounds, the scissors must be freely used to remove the devitalised structures and the foreign material. Hair-covered parts should be shaved. Crushed and contaminated portions of bone should be chiselled away. Opinions differ as to the benefit derived from washing such wounds with strong lotions, which are liable to devitalise the tissues with which they come in contact, and so render them less able to resist the action of any organisms which may remain in them. All are agreed, however, that free washing with normal salt solution is useful in mechanically cleansing the injured parts. Peroxide of hydrogen sprayed over such wounds is also beneficial in virtue of its oxidising properties. Efficient drainage must be provided, and stitches should be used sparingly, if at all. The best way in which to treat such wounds is by the open-ivound method. This consists in packing the wound with iodoform gauze, which is left in position as long as it adheres to the raw surface. The packing may be renewed at intervals until the wound is filled by granulations; or in the course of a few days, when it becomes evident that the septic infection has been overcome, secondary sutures may be introduced and the edges drawn together, provision being made at the ends for further packing or for drainage-tubes. These measures have been found specially useful in-military surgery. If earth or street dirt has entered the wound, before intro- ducing the iodoform gauze, the surface may with advantage be brushed over with pure carbolic acid, as virulent organisms, such as those of tetanus or spreading gangrene, are liable to be present. Where septic processes have become established in a wound, and suppuration is going on and probably spreading in the tissues, the first essential in treatment is to ensure free drainage by openings and counter-openings, if necessary. The open method is the only safe means of treating such wounds. The infected surface may be sponged over with pure carbolic acid, and the wound either drained by tubes or packed with iodoform gauze. The practice of scraping such surfaces with the sharp spoon, squeezing, or even of washing them out with antiseptic lotions, are attended with the risk of further diffusing the