SYPHILIS. 158 cleanliness. Condylomata present the appearance of well- defined circular or ovoid areas in which the skin is thickened and raised above the surface; they are covered with a white sodden epidermis, and furnish a scanty but very infective discharge. Under the influence of irritation and want of rest, as at the anus, or angle of the mouth, they are apt to become fissured and superficially ulcerated, and the discharge then becomes more abundant, and may crust on the surface, forming yellow scabs. At the angle of the mouth the condylomatous patches may spread from the edge of the mucous membrane on to the skin of the cheek, and when they ulcerate may leave numerous fissure-like scars radiating from the mouth—an appear- ance best seen in inherited syphilis. The Appendages of the Skin.—The hair loses its gloss, becomes dry and brittle and readily falls out, either as an exaggeration of the normal shedding of the hair or in scattered areas over the scalp. In young adults it is usually reproduced, but in older patients, or where the scalp has been the seat of a severe pustular eruption, the hair which is lost may not be replaced. The nails of the fingers and toes occasionally present a trouble- some pustular eruption and superficial ulceration around their margins, to which the name syphilitic onychia has been applied ■ more commonly the nails become brittle and ragged, and they may even be shed altogether. The Mucous Membranes, and especially those of the mouth and throat, suffer from lesions similar to those met with on the skin. From the discomfort which they produce they are more likely to attract the attention of the patient, so that in the diagnosis of antecedent syphilis the history of a sore mouth or throat may be of considerable assistance. On a mucous surface the papular eruption assumes the form of mucous patches, which are areas with a congested base covered with a thin white film of sodden epithelium like wet tissue-paper. They are best seen on the inner aspect of the cheeks, the soft palate, uvula, pillars of the fauces and tonsils. In addition to mucous patches, there may be a number of small, superficial, kidney-shaped ulcers, especially along the margins of the tongue and on the tonsils. In the larynx the presence of congestion, oedema, and mucous patches may be the cause of persistent hoarseness. The tongue often presents a combination of lesions including ulcers, j^atches where the papillae are absent, fissures, and raised white papules resembling warts, especially towards the centre of the dorsum. These lesions are specially apt to occur in those who smoke, drink, and eat hot condiments to excess, and in those with