LEUCOCYTOSIS. 19 of pregnancy, and during the puerperium also, the leucocytes usually number from 16,000 to 18,000. In young infants, also, the leucocyte count is abnormally high. Absence of Leucocytosis—Leucopenia.—In certain infective diseases the number of leucocytes in the circulating blood is abnormally low— 3000 or 4000—and this condition is known as leucopenia. It occurs in typhoid fever, especially in the later stages of the disease ; in tuberculous lesions—for example, tuberculous peritonitis, pleurisy, ostitis, or perios- titis, when unaccompanied by suppuration ; in malaria, and in most cases of uncomplicated influenza. The occurrence of leucocytosis in any of these conditions is to be looked upon as an indication that a mixed infection has taken place and that some suppurative process is in progress. The absence of leucocytosis in some cases of virulent septic poisoning has already been referred to. The Temperature in Surgical Diseases. It may be convenient here to study some of the variations in tempera- ture met with in different forms of surgical disease. A marked raising of the general temperature of the body is one of the most constant and important concomitants of all inflammatory affections, and the temperature chart forms a fairly reliable index of the severity of the patient's condition. It is due to the absorption into the circula- tion of bacterial products which interfere with the special nerve-centres in the medulla which regulate the balance between the production and the loss of body heat. Clinically the temperature is estimated by means of a self-registering thermometer placed, for from five to ten minutes, in close contact with the skin in the axilla, or the temperature may be taken in the mouth. Sometimes the thermometer is inserted into the rectum, where, however, the temperature is normally f° F. higher than in the axilla. In health the temperature of the body is maintained at a mean of about 98*4° F. (37° C.) by the heat-regulating mechanism. The tempera- ture varies from hour to hour even in health. It reaches its maximum between four and eight in the evening, when it may rise to 99° F., and is at its lowest between four and six in the morning, when it may be about 97° F. On reading and interpreting a temperature chart in disease, therefore, it is necessary to make allowance for this normal variation, and it is interesting to observe in this connection that an hourly chart of a case of acute septic infection runs parallel with the normal curve. It is also worthy of note that the temperature is much more easily disturbed in children than in adults, and may become markedly elevated (104° or 105° F.) from comparatively slight causes ; while in the aged it is less liable to change, so that in them a rise to 103° or 104° F. is to be looked upon as indicating a high state of fever. It is rare for a patient to live if the temperature remains for any length of time above 106° F., although some extraordinary cases are on record in which it has reached as high as 116° F. without proving fatal. A sudden rise of temperature is usually associated with a feeling of chilliness down the back and in the limbs, which may be so marked that the patient shivers violently, while the skin becomes cold, pale, and shrivelled—cutis anserina. This is a nervous reaction due to a want of correspondence between the internal and the surface temperature of