CHARCOT’S DISEASE. 613 like an exaggeration of that met with in arthritis deformans, only there is usually great oedema of the peri-articular tissues (Fig. 216). The joint is wobbly or flail-like from the stretching and destruction of the controlling ligaments, and there is no sensation in it. In other cases the wearing down and total disappearance of the ends of the bones is the prominent feature, this being also attended with flail-like movements and with coarse grating of the opposed surfaces. Dislocation is chiefly observed at the hip (Fig. 229). It is rather a gross displacement with exaggerated mobility than an ordinary dislocation, and it is usually possible to move the bones freely upon one another. An occasional and very striking feature is the extensive formation of new bone in the capsular liga- ment and surrounding muscles, resulting in the presence of large masses and plates which may add materially to the already-existing deformity of the joint. In cer- tain cases the enormous swelling and its rapid development may suggest the growth of a malig- nant tumour. The most useful factors in diagnosis are the entire absence of pain, of tender- ness, and of common sensibility. Fig. 216.—Charcot’s Disease of Left The freedom with which a tabetic The j011lt 1S lllstenile'1 with patient will allow his disorgan- ised joint to be handled requires to be seen to be appreciated. In syringomyelia joint affections (“gliomatous arthropathies”) are more frequent than in tabes, and they usually involve the upper extremities in correspondence with the seat of the spinal lesion, which chiefly affects the lower cervical and upper dorsal segments of the cord (Fig. 219). Except that the joint disease is rarely symmetrical, it closely resembles the arthropathy of tabes. The completeness of the analgesia of the joint structures and of the overlying soft parts is well illustrated by the fact that the joint has been painlessly excised without an anaesthetic, and that in one case the patient himself was in the habit of evacuating the fluid from his elbow with the aid of a pair of scissors.