332 THE NERVES. powerlessness in the limb as a whole, but these phenomena are usually evanescent. This is commonly known as sleeping of the limb. The most important surgical lesion of the nerve trunk is when a portion of it has been resected in removing a tumour. Although the limb is at first quite powerless, the patient usually recovers sufficiently to be able to walk without a support. The chief clinical feature is “drop-foot.” Although the ham- strings are paralysed, the knee can still be flexed by the sartorius and gracilis. The foot is usually cold and bluish, and may present trophic sores. The skin is anaesthetic except in the distribution of the long saphenous nerve. The anterior crural and obturator nerves are so rarely injured that they do not merit separate consideration. NEURALGIA. The term neuralgia is applied clinically to any pain which follows the course of a particular nerve and its branches, and which is not referable to any definite lesion of the nerve, or to any other discoverable cause. This term should not be applied to pain which results from pressure on a nerve by a tumour, a mass of callus, an aneurysm, or by any similar gross lesion. We shall only consider here those forms of neuralgia which are amenable to surgical treatment. Brachial Neuralgia.—One or more of the roots or branches of the brachial plexus may be the seat of pain which is due to a localised neuritis. In some cases no cause of the neuralgia is discoverable. The region of the root of the neck should be carefully examined to exclude the pressure of a cervical rib, a tumour, or an aneurysm as a cause of the pain. The pain is definitely located in the distribution of one of the branches or nerve roots, is often intermittent, and is usually associated with tingling and disturbance of tactile sensation. When medical treatment fails, recourse may be had to operative measures. The affected cords are exposed and stretched in the posterior triangle of the neck through an incision extending from the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, commencing at the junction of its middle and lower thirds, passing outwards and downwards to the junction of the outer and middle thirds of the clavicle. If this operation fails to give relief, the posterior roots of the nerves may be resected within the spinal canal. Neuralgia of the great sciatic nerve—sciatica—is the most common form of neuralgia met with in surgical practice.