372 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. some toxin in the blood. It is common in the tendons at the wrist, and especially in the extensors of the thumb. In certain occupations—in riveters, in washerwomen, pianists, fencers, and in those who row—-it is frequently met with. At the ankle it may affect the peronei, the extensor longus digitorum, or the tibialis anticus, but it is most often met with in relation to the tendo Achillis. This affection, which is known as Achillo-dynia, results from the pressure of ill-fitting boots or from the excessive use and strain of the tendon in cycling, walking, or dancing. There is pain and difficulty in raising the heel from the ground, and there is well-marked crepitation or creaking when the tendon is moved beneath the examining fingers. It readily subsides under rest and the application of a blister, but it is apt to relapse on a repetition of the exciting cause. In the upper arm the sheath of the long tendon of the biceps may be affected. The anatomical changes resemble those observed in a dry pleurisy; there is an exudation of fibrinous lymph onto the surface of the tendon and its sheath, so that there is friction when these surfaces rub together. The clinical features are pain on movement, tenderness on pressure over the affected tendon, and a sensation of crepitation or friction when the tendon is moved in its sheath. The crepitation may be soft like the friction of snow, or may resemble the creaking of new leather—“ saddle-back creaking.” There may be swelling in the long axis of the tendon, and redness and oedema of the skin. If there is an effusion of fluid into the sheath, the swelling is more marked and crepitation is absent. The affection subsides in a few days under rest, but is liable to relapse on a renewal of the exciting cause. There is usually little tendency to the formation of adhesions. Treatment.—When the extensor tendons of the thumb or fingers are affected, the pain is relieved by lead and opium fomentations, or by glycerin and belladonna, and the forearm and hand should be immobilised on a palmar splint. The later treatment consists in massage and movement of the thumb and fingers. Any constitutional or gastro-intestinal derange- ment should be corrected by appropriate diet and medicinal treatment. Gouty Tenosynovitis.—The deposit of urate of soda beneath the endothelial covering of tendons or of that lining their sheaths is commonly met with in gouty subjects. The accumulation of urates may result in the formation of visible nodular swellings, varying in size from a pea to a cherry,