174 SYPHILIS. example, nodular thickenings of the shaft, flattening of the crest, or a more uniform increase in thickness and length of the entire shaft of the bone, -which, when it is curved in addition, is described as the “ sabre-blade ” deformity. Among the lesions of the viscera mention should be made of gumma of the testis, which causes the organ to become enlarged, uneven, and indurated. This has even been observed in infants a few months old. A syphilitic child may occasionally suffer from a succession of these gummatous lesions causing persistent ill-health, and, it may be, waxy disease of the internal organs; or it may recover and present no further manifestations of the inherited taint. At or near puberty there is frequently observed an affection of the eyes, known as chronic interstitial keratitis, the relation- ship of which to inherited syphilis was first established by Hutchinson. It occurs between the ages of five and eighteen years, and usually affects one eye before the other. It commences as a diffuse haziness or steaminess near the centre of the cornea, and as it spreads, the entire cornea may present the appearance of ground glass. The chief complaint is of dimness of sight which may almost amount to blindness, but there is little pain or photophobia; a certain amount of conjunctival and ciliary congestion is usually present, and there may be iritis in addition. The cornea, or parts of it, may become of a deep pink or salmon colour from the formation of new blood-vessels. The affection is very chronic, and may last for from eighteen months to two years. Complete recovery may take place, or slight opacities, especially in the site of former salmon patches, may remain permanently. The disease occasionally relapses. Choroiditis and retinitis may also occur, as in acquired syphilis. Among the rarer and more serious lesions of the inherited disease may be mentioned gummatous disease in the larynx and trachea, attended with ulceration and resulting in stenosis, and lesions of the nervous system which may result in convulsions, paralysis, or dementia. Changes in the Permanent Teeth.—These specially affect the upper central incisors, which are dwarfed and stand somewhat apart in the gum with their free edges converging towards one another. They are tapering or peg-shaped, and present at their cutting margin a deep semilunar notch. These appearances are commonly associated with the name of Hutchinson, who first described them. Affecting as they do the permanent teeth, they are not available for diagnosis until the child is about eight years of age. In a limited number of cases, about the period of puberty