193 CARCINOMATA OR CANCERS. met with, for example, in the skin, in certain portions of the alimentary canal, in the breast, the uterus, and the external genitals; less frequently in the gall-bladder, larynx, thyroid, prostate, kidney, and urinary bladder. A cancer may appear as a papillary growth from a mucous or a skin surface, as an imperfectly-circumscribed nodule in the substance of an organ, or as a diffuse thickening of tubular structures such as the intestine or stomach. The absence of definition in cancerous tumours explains the difficulty in completely removing them by surgical measures, and has left to the practice of complete extirpation of cancerous organs wherever this is possible. The boundaries of the affected organ are, moreover, frequently transgressed, and the epithelial infiltra- tion attacks the surrounding parts. In cancer of the breast, for example, the disease often extends to the adjacent skin, fat, and muscle; in cancer of the lip or tongue, to the lower jaw ; in cancer of the uterus or intestine, to the investing peritoneum. In addition to its tendency to infiltrate adjacent tissues and organs, cancer is also liable to give rise to secondary growths. These are most often met with in the nearest lymphatic glands : those in the neck, for example, becoming infected from cancer of the lip, tongue, or throat; those in the axilla, from cancer in the breast; those along the curvatures of the stomach, in cancer of the pylorus • and those in the groin, from cancer of the external genitals. In lymphatic vessels the cancer cells may merely accumulate so as to fill the lumen and give rise to indurated cords, or they may proliferate and give rise to secondary nodules along the course of the vessels. When the lymphatic network in the skin is diffusely infected the appearance is either that of a multitude of secondary nodules, or of a diffuse thickening so that the skin comes to resemble coarse leather. On the wall of the chest this condition is known as cancer en cuirasse. Although the cancer cells very constantly attack the -walls of the adjacent veins and spread into their interior at an early period, secondary growths due to dissemination by the blood- stream rarely show themselves clinically until late in the course of the disease. It is probable that many of the cancer cells which are carried away in the blood or lymph stream undergo necrosis and fail to give rise to secondary growths. Secondary growths present a faithful reproduction of the structure of the primary tumour. Apart from the lymphatic glands, the chief seats of secondary growths are the liver, lungs, serous membranes, l and bone marrow. The tumour tissue may undergo necrosis, and when the VOL. I—13