613 PYOGENIC DISEASES. if carried out sufficiently early and before any destructive changes have taken place. On the other hand the results of simple drainage may be unsatisfactory. Indications of progressive mischief may call for further interference. Continuous irrigation with several openings for drainage may be tried, or the joint may be laid freely open so that every pocket and recess is exposed. In certain joints this is only attainable by the resection of one or other of the bones. The existence of suppuration in the peri-articular soft parts or in one of the adjacent bones must be looked for and promptly dealt with. Amputation is only to be had recourse to if life is threatened by general infection. When convalescence is established, attention is directed to the restoration of the functions of the limb, to the prevention of stiffness and deformity by movements and massage, and the use of hot air and other baths. At a later stage, and especially in neglected cases, operative and other measures may be required for deformity or stiffness. Other Forms of Pyogenic Infection.—In typhoid fever joint lesions may result from infection with the typhoid bacillus or with ordinary pyogenic organisms. They have been observed, especially in the hip-joint, to run their course with or without suppuration. They are sometimes remarkably latent, but may result in dislocation on slight movement, or on lifting the patient. Ankylosis may occur. They are very amenable to treatment. Joint lesions are comparatively common in scarlet fever. They were formerly described as scarlatinal rheumatism. The most frequent clinical type is that of a serous synovitis, occurring within a week or ten days from the onset of the fever. It is most common in females over fifteen years. Its favourite seat is in the hand and wrist, the sheaths of the extensor tendons as well as the synovial membrane of the joints being involved. It does not tend to migrate to other joints, and rarely lasts longer than a few days. It is probably due to the specific virus of scarlatina. An arthritis is sometimes met with which may be acute and suppurative, may affect several joints, and may exhibit a grave septicsemic or pyaemic character. It is chiefly met with in children at a later stage of the fever, and in cases in which the throat lesion is severe. There is also described a “ true rheumatic arthritis ” occurring