CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 45 of danger, the use of hot or cold sponging, or even the cold hath, is preferable to the administration of drugs internally. Weakness of the heart, as indicated by the condition of the pulse, is treated by the use of alcohol, digitalis, strophanthus, or strychnine, according to circumstances. Castro-intestinal disturbances are met by ordinary medical means; and derangements of the nervous system by the use of chloral, bromides, or other nerve sedatives. The treatment of inflammation in special tissues and organs will be considered in the sections devoted to regional surgery. Results of Inflammation.—Inflammation may have a fatal result in a variety of ways, the most common being the absorption of excessive doses of bacterial toxins, as in saprtemia and septicm- mia. In other cases the inflamed organ, such as the brain, the lungs, or the kidneys, may be so essential to life that the continued interference with its function proves fatal. On the other hand, inflammation may end in complete re- covery, in which case resolution is said to take place. The removal of the cause is followed by the return of the local circulation to the normal, and the reabsorption of inflammatory products. In certain situations, notably in tendon sheaths, the cavities of joints, and the interior of serous cavities, the restoration to the normal condition is incomplete, fibrous adhesions forming between the adjacent surfaces of the inflamed structures, and remaining more or less persistent. Finally, a condition of chronic inflammation may be estab- lished. Chronic Inflammation. Although the difference between acute and chronic inflamma- tion is essentially one of degree, there are certain pathological and clinical distinctions which call for description. Chronic inflammation may result from a slow and gradual subsidence of an acute process, or it may be due to the action of the specific virus of such diseases as tubercle, syphilis or other chronic infective process, which seldom gives rise to acute manifestations. The tendency of chronic inflammation is towards the forma- tion of granulation tissue, which goes on to form new connective tissue. Suppuration is rare in chronically inflamed tissues, unless from the fresh introduction of infective organisms. The most prominent clinical feature of chronic inflammation is swelling, which is of a firm, elastic character, being due to the formation of young fibrous tissue. Pain is not marked,