THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 288 swelling in the back to the left of the vertebral column. In such cases great pain is caused by pressure on the spinal nerves. The surgical methods of treatment for thoracic aneurysm are merely palliative, and are designed to avert rupture. Needling, electrolysis, the Moore -Corradi method, and the subcutaneous injection of gelatin have all been employed with this object. Christopher Heath recommends ligature of the left common carotid as a distal operation in aneurysm of the transverse part of the aortic arch. Aneurysm of the Abdominal Aorta.—The most common seats of aneurysm of the abdominal aorta are close to its bifurcation, and at the origin of the cceliac axis. Any of the large branches of the aorta may be the seat of aneurysm. Aneurysm of the main trunk manifests itself by forming a pulsating swelling, which is to be distinguished from the “ pulsating aorta ” met with in anaemic and dyspeptic women, and from solid tumours overlying the artery. There is great pain when the aneurysm causes erosion of the vertebrae. Electrolysis and the Moore-Corradi method have been success- fully employed, access to the sac having been obtained by opening the abdomen. Ligature of the aorta has so far been unsuccessful. Innominate Aneurysm may be of the fusiform or of the sac- culated variety, and is frequently associated with aneurysm of the aorta. It usually grows upwards and outwards, projecting above the sternum and right clavicle, which may be eroded or displaced by it. Symptoms of pressure on the structures in the neck, similar to those produced by aortic aneurysm, occur. The pulses in the right upper extremity and in the right carotid and its branches are diminished and delayed. Pressure on the right brachial plexus causes shooting pain down the arm and muscular paresis on that side. Vasomotor disturbances and contraction of the pupil on the right side may result from pressure on the sympathetic fibres. Death may take place from rupture, or from pressure on the air-passages. The available methods of treatment are ligature of the right common carotid and third part of the right subclavian (Wardrop’s operation). If this be impracticable, needling, electrolysis, or the Moore-Corradi method may be tried. Carotid Aneurysms.—Aneurysm of the common carotid is more frequent on the right than on the left side, and is usually situated either at the root of the neck or near the bifurcation of the [artery. It is the form of external aneurysm most frequently met with in women. From its position the swell-