728 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. exposed on the dorsum is converted into librous tissue. Bony ankylosis has not been observed. Treatment.—In early cases great benefit results from measures directed towards the cure of the accompanying flat- foot. If the joint of the big toe is painful and sensitive, absolute rest should be enforced until these symptoms have dis- appeared. The patient must wear a properly shaped boot with a pliable sole, and is then instructed how to manipulate and exercise the toe. When the toe is already rigid or flexed towards the sole, the above treatment is not feasible. The suffering may be relieved by inserting in the boot a rigid metal plate which will prevent any attempt at dorsi-flexion in walking. The deformity may be corrected under anaesthesia by wrenching the toe into the dorsi-flexed position, or where this is impossible, by excising a wedge from the dorsal aspect of the metatarsal bone puberty, and is then, as a rule, bilateral. The first phalanx is dorsi-flexed, the second is plantar-fiexed, while the third varies in its attitude, sometimes being in line with the second, sometimes even more plantar-fiexed, and some- times dorsi-flexed. When the second toe is alone affected, as is commonly the case, it is partially buried by those on either side of it, only the knuckle of the first inter-phalangeal joint projecting above the level of the other toes. The skin over the head of the first phalanx being pressed upon by the boot usually presents a corn, under which a bursa forms. Both the corn and the bursa are subject to attacks of inflammation which cause considerable suffering and disability in walking. The soft parts at the distal extremity of the toe are flattened out by contact with the sole of the boot—hence the supposed resemblance to the head of a hammer. On dissection it is found that the contracture depends on shortening of the plantar portions of the lateral ligaments and of the glenoid ligament upon which rests the head of the first phalanx. Although the extensor and the flexor tendons may immediately behind its articular surface. Fig. 257.—Hammer-tos. Hammer - toe. —This is a flexion-contracture which usually involves the second, but some- times also other toes. It is sometimes congeni- tal and inherited, but usually develops about