VARIX -VARICOSE VEINS. 259 carried as septic emboli. These may lodge in distant parts and give rise to secondary foci of suppuration—pyaemic abscesses. Clinical Features.—Suppurative phlebitis is most frequently met with in the lateral sinus as a sequel to chronic suppuration in the mastoid antrum, but it also occurs in relation to the peri- pheral veins. In these latter, however, it can seldom be recognised as a separate entity, being merged in the general septic process from which it takes origin. Its occurrence may be inferred, if in the course of a suppurative lesion there is a sudden rise of temperature, with pain, redness, and swelling along the line of a venous trunk, and a rapidly developed oedema of the limb, with pitting of the skin on pressure. In rare cases a localised abscess forms in the vein and points towards the surface. The clinical features of thrombo-phlebitis of the lateral sinus are described elsewhere. Treatment.—In the case of the peripheral veins the diagnosis can seldom be made with sufficient certainty to permit of local treatment of the inflamed and suppurating vein. Attention must therefore be directed towards the septic condition with which the phlebitis is associated. In some cases—for example, in septic compound fractures—the occurrence of suppurative phlebitis may necessitate amputation of the limb. Ligature of the vein on the cardiac side of the thrombus with a view to preventing embolism is seldom feasible in the peripheral veins, although, as will be pointed out later, the jugular vein may be ligatured with this object in cases of thrombosis of the lateral sinus. Varix—Varicose Veins. The term varix is applied to veins which are so altered in their structure that they remain permanently dilated, and are at the same time lengthened and tortuous. Any vein in the body may become varicose, but the condition is extremely rare except in the veins of the lower extremity, in the veins of the spermatic cord (varicocele), and in the veins at the lower end of the rectum (tnemorrhoids). Varicocele and hannorrhoids will be described elsewhere. We are here only concerned with varix as it occurs in the veins of the lower extremity. Etiology.—Considerable difference of opinion still exists as to the essentia] cause of varix, but the weight of evidence is in favour of the view that it results from a congenital defect in the structure of the affected vessels, and that it is allied to certain of the angiomata.