10 CONDITIONS INTERFERING WITH REPAIR. unsuitable dressings, bandages, or ill-fitting splints; or by chemical agents in the form of strong lotions or other applications. An unhealthy or devitalised condition of the patient's tissues also hinders the reparative process. Bruised or lacerated skin heals less kindly than skin cut with a smooth, sharp instrument. Venous congestion of a part, such as occurs in the leg when the veins are varicose, or the existence of grave constitutional disease, such as Bright’s disease, diabetes, syphilis, scurvy, or alcoholism, also impedes healing. Infection by disease-producing micro-organisms, or pathogenic bacteria, is, however, the most potent factor in disturbing the natural process of repair in surgical wounds. Surgical Bacteriology. Within recent years the whole science of pathology has been revolutionised by the knowledge which has accumulated regarding the nature of micro-organisms, and their relation to disease. So much has bacteriology come to dominate every department of surgery in particular, that it is now the standpoint from which nearly all surgical questions have to be considered. In no depart- ment of medical science has so much progress been made, or such a wealth of information and literature arisen, in a corresponding period of time. It is therefore necessary that we should here confine our attention to such aspects of the subject as have a direct surgical bearing. The term sepsis as now used in clinical surgery no longer retains its original meaning as synonymous with “ putrefaction,” but is used to denote all conditions in which bacterial infection has taken place, and more particularly those in which pyogenic bacteria are present. In the same way the term aseptic conveys the idea of freedom from all forms of bacteria, putrefactive or otherwise; and the term antiseptic is used to denote a power of counteracting bacteria and their products. General Characters of Bacteria.—The term bacteria is em- ployed in a generic sense to include all the forms of minute vegetative organisms of which the science of bacteriology treats, and is to be accepted as synonymous with such terms as micro- organisms, microbes, or germs. A bacterium consists of a finely granular mass of protoplasm, enclosed in a thin gelatinous envelope. Many forms are motile —some in virtue of fine thread-like flagella, and others through contractility of their protoplasm. The great majority multiply