44 INFLAMMATION. cup is applied. Each cup withdraws about two or three drams of blood, and if more is desired, hot fomentations may be applied. Free incisions, with antiseptic precautions, are safe and certain as a means of letting blood, and may be called for in deep-seated inflammations to relieve extreme tension. Cold.—Cold is only to be employed in the early hypersemic stages of inflammation. It acts by contracting the blood-vessels and so diminishing the amount of blood reaching the part. In the stages of congestion or stasis its use is attended with con- siderable risk, as it diminishes the blood-flow from the part and may determine gangrene of tissues already devitalised. Dry cold may be employed by means of ice-bags, or by Leiter’s lead tubes through which a continuous stream of ice- cold water is kept flowing. A milder form of employing cold is by means of evaporating lotions. A thin piece of lint or gauze is applied over the inflamed part and is kept constantly moist with the lotion, the dressing being left freely exposed to allow of continuous evapora- tion. A useful evaporating lotion is made up as follows :—• Take of chloride of ammonium, half an ounce ; rectified spirit, one ounce ; and water, seven ounces. lleat is indicated in the later stages of inflammation, especi- ally when deep-seated parts are affected. It is best employed by means of a fomentation. A piece of flannel or lint is wrung out of very hot water or antiseptic lotion (1 in 40 or 1 in 60 carbolic) and applied under a sheet of macintosh. Fomenta- tions should be renewed as often as they cool. An ordinary india-rubber bag, filled with hot water and fixed over the fomentation, by retaining the heat, obviates the necessity of frequently changing the application. The addition of a few drops of laudanum sprinkled on the flannel has a soothing effect. Lead and opium lotion is a useful, soothing application employed as a fomentation. General Treatment.—In addition to the means taken to combat inflammation, treatment includes the alleviation of certain of its results. Pain, for instance, may be relieved either by the local application of warm and moist applications, such as antiseptic or lead and opium fomentations, or by belladonna and glycerin or ichthyol ointment. The internal administration of opiates even may be necessary. In surgical inflammations, as a rule, nothing is gained by lowering the temperature, unless at the same time the cause is removed. When severe or prolonged pyrexia becomes a source