CIRSOID ANEURYSM. 271 vascular tumour in which arteries, veins, and capillaries are all involved. It is chiefly met with on the upper part of the trunk, the neck, and the scalp. It tends gradually to increase in size, and may, after many years, attain an enormous size. The tumour is nodulated, ill-defined, and varies in consistence. It is pulsatile, and a systolic bruit or a “ thrilling ” murmur may be heard over it. The chief risk is haemorrhage from injury or ulceration. The treatment is conducted on the same lines as for nsevus. Where electrolysis is employed, it should be directed towards the afferent vessels; and if it fails to arrest the flow through these, it is useless to persist with it. Excision is seldom justifi- able on account of the risk from haemorrhage. In some cases ligature of the afferent vessels has been successful. Venous Angioma.—This term is sometimes applied to that form in which the venous element seems to predominate. There is no tumour composed entirely of veins, except certain varieties of varix, which have been described elsewhere. Arterial Angioma.—Cirsoid Aneurysm.—This form of tumour is composed entirely of the enlarged branches of an arterial trunk. The condition originates in the smaller branches of an artery—usually the temporal—and may spread to the main trunk, and may even involve branches of other trunks with which the original artery normally anastomoses. This is not to be confused with the condition known as aneurysm by anastomosis which has already been described. The condition is probably congenital in origin, though its appearance is frequently preceded by an injury. The affected vessels increase in size, and become charac- teristically tortuous, with narrowings and dilatations here and there. Grooves or gutters are frequently found in the bone underlying the dilated vessels. Cirsoid aneurysm almost invari- ably occurs on the head. It is usually met with in adolescents or young adults, and it increases in size exceedingly slowly. There is no tendency either to natural cure or to rupture. Severe and even fatal haemorrhage may follow a wound of the dilated vessels. There is a constant loud bruit in the tumour, which greatly troubles the patient and may interfere with sleep. The condition may be treated by excision or by electrolysis. In excision the haemorrhage is controlled by an elastic tourni- quet applied horizontally round the head, or by ligature of the feeding trunks. In large tumours the bleeding may be formidable. In many cases electrolysis is to be preferred, and