FRACTURES OF LOWER END OF FEMUR, 513 The knee is an example of a joint which depends for its strength chiefly on its ligaments. Not only are the external and internal lateral ligaments and the posterior part of the capsular ligament par- ticularly strong, but the crucial ligaments and the semilunar cartilages inside the cavity of the joint further add to its stability. The powerful tendon of the quadriceps extensor muscle, in which the patella is developed as a sesamoid bone, protects and strengthens the front of the joint. The synovial cavity extends from the level of the head of the tibia to an inch or more above the trochlear surface of the femur, passing slightly higher on the inner aspect of the joint than on the outer (Fig. 232). The large bursa between the quadriceps muscle and the femur generally communicates with the cavity of the joint. The synovial cavity of the superior tibio-fibular articulation is usually distinct from that of the knee-joint, but may communicate with it through the popliteal bursa. A large bursa (prepatellar) lies over the lower part of the patella and upper part of the ligamentum patellse ; and a smaller one separates the ligamentum patellse from the tubercle of the tibia. Several important bursas are found in the popliteal space, one of which—the semi-mem- branosus bursa—sometimes communicates with the knee-joint. Fractures of the Lower End of the Femur. Supra-condylar fracture of the femur is usually the result of a fall on the feet or knees, or of direct violence. It is most common in adults. The line of fracture is generally irregularly transverse, or it may be slightly oblique from above downwards and forwards, so that the upper fragment passes forward towards the patella, while the lower is rotated backward on its transverse axis by the gastrocnemius muscle. The T - or Y -shaped fracture is, as a rule, produced by direct violence, the force first breaking the bone above the condyles, and then causing the upper fragment to penetrate the lower and split it up into two or more pieces. The main fissure is usually through the inter-condylar notch, and sometimes the lower end of the bone is severely comminuted. Separation of the lower epiphysis is a comparatively common injury. It occurs usually in males between the ages of thirteen and eighteen, as a result of severe violence such as results from the limb being caught between the spokes of a revolving wheel, or from hyper-extension of the knee. It has also been produced in attempting to rectify knock-knee and other deformities in this region. As a rule there is little displacement of the loose epiphysis, but it may pass in any direction, forward being the most common. Either condyle may be broken off without the integrity of the shaft being destroyed, by a direct blow or fall on the VOL. 1—33