DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 507 the other is placed behind the head of the tibia, the leg being held at right angles to the thigh. An assistant, meantime, steadies the pelvis by making firm pressure over the iliac crests. As the chief obstacle to reduction is the tension of the ilio- femoral ligament, the first indication in the reduction of any form of dislocation is to relax this structure by hexing the limb at the hip-joint. In the backward varieties (dorsal and ischiatic) this is effected by fully flexing the thigh upon the pelvis in the position of adduction. The thigh is then fully abducted, to cause the head of the bone to retrace its steps forward towards the rent in the capsule; and at the same time rotated outwards, to relax the rotator muscles. This combined movement also tends to open up the rent in the capsule and to facilitate the return of the bone. Finally, the limb is quickly extended to cause the head to enter the socket. This object is often aided by making vertical traction or lifting movements on the abducted and externally rotated limb before extending. For the reduction of the forward varieties (obturator and pubic) also, the thigh is first fully flexed on the pelvis, but in the abducted position. The limb is then strongly rotated inward and adducted, and finally extended. Lifting movements are also found useful in many of these cases. All methods of reduction by forcible traction on the extended limb are to be avoided, as they fail to meet the primary indica- tion of relaxing the A-ligament. After reduction the limb is steadied by a sand-bag, massage and movement being carried out after the first few days. The range of movement is gradually increased, and the patient is allowed to use the limb with caution in from three weeks to a month. When the rim of the acetabulum has been fractured, the patient must be confined to bed with extension and a long splint for eight or nine weeks, to avoid the risk of redislocation. Changes of the nature of chronic arthritis are liable to occur in and around the joint in old and rheumatic subjects; and atrophy or paralysis of muscles supplied by the injured nerves may follow. Old-standing Dislocations.—It is impossible to lay down any time limit for attempting reduction in old-standing disloca- tions of the hip. Manipulation may succeed in cases of some months’ standing, and may fail where the bone has only been out for a few weeks. In certain cases, even after reduction has been effected, there is a marked tendency to redisplacement. In