86 ULCERATION AND ULCERS. tective covered with pads of aseptic gauze and absorbent wool, the part being immobilised by a suitable splint. The dressing is changed in four or five days. Many of the grafts disappear temporarily, but reappear in the course of a few days as thin bluish-white patches which gradually increase in size and thick- ness. Great care is necessary to prevent the cicatrix from breaking down again. The application of lanoline or weak boracic ointment (a quarter the pharmacopceial strength) pre- vents the young epithelium from cracking, and keeps it soft and pliable. Lusk’s method consists in transplanting to the ulcerated surface the epidermis from a blister, raised intentionally by blistering fluid, or taken from an accidental burn. Thiersch’s Method.—For all practical purposes this is the procedure which yields the most satisfactory results and which is most generally applicable. It consists in transplanting strips of epidermis, shaved from the surface of the skin, the razor passing through the tips of the papillm. The grafts are most conveniently obtained from the inner aspect of the thigh or upper arm, or from the front of the forearm, the skin in these regions being soft, pliable, and comparatively free from hairs. They are cut with a sharp, hollow-ground razor, or Thiersch’s skin-grafting knife, the blade of which is moistened with warm saline solution. The skin is stretched and kept flat and per- fectly steady. To ensure uniform strips being cut the razor must be kept parallel with the surface, and used with a short, rapid sawing movement. With a little practice grafts six or eight inches long by one or two inches broad can readily be cut. The strips of epithelium thus obtained are directly transferred to the raw surface prepared for them, for which they should be made to form a complete carpet, slightly overlapping the edges of the sore and of one another. Firm pressure is then made with a pad of gauze over the grafts to express blood and air-bubbles, and to ensure accurate apposition. Some difference of opinion exists regarding the best dressing. It would appear that when the grafts are applied to a fresh raw surface, and when there is no reason to anticipate any discharge, a dry, aseptic gauze dressing is most appropriate, or the same gauze smeared with sterilised vaseline. When the grafts are applied to a granulating surface, however, and when there may be doubt as to its perfect asepticity, perforated pro- tective should be applied. The surface from which the grafts have been taken is covered