4 REPAIR. Modifications of the Process of Repair.—Reunion of Paris entirely Separated from tlte Body.—Small portions of tissue, such as the end of a finger, the tip of the nose, or a portion of the external ear, completely separated from the body, if ac- curately replaced and fixed in position occasionally adhere by primary union. Healing under a Scab.—When a small superficial wound is exposed to the air, the blood and serum exuded on to its surface sometimes dry, and form a hard crust or scab, which may serve to protect the surface from external irritation. Under this scab the formation of granulation tissue, its transformation into cicatricial tissue and the growth of epithelium on the sur- face, go on uninterruptedly, until in the course of time the crust separates, leaving a healthy scar. Healing by Blood-clot.—Under many circumstances, such as in subcutaneous wounds, amputation wounds, wounds made in excising tumours or in operating upon bones, it is impossible accurately and completely to approximate the divided surfaces. The result is that the space left becomes filled with blood-clot, which acts as a temporary scaffolding in which granulation tissue is built up. Capillary loops grow into the coagulum, and migrated leucocytes from the adjacent blood-vessels destroy the red corpuscles, and are in turn destroyed by the developing fibroblasts, which by their growth and proliferation fill up the gap with young connective tissue. It will be evident that this process only differs from healing by primary union in the amount of blood-clot which is present. Repair after Loss or Destruction of Tissue.—When no attempt towards approximation of the edges of a wound can be made either because a considerable portion of tissue has been lost, for example, in excising a tumour implicating the skin, or because of the presence in the wound of a foreign body, such as a drainage-tube or a pad of gauze, the healing process is some- what modified. A much greater amount of new tissue is required to fill up the gap,—although the process by which this is produced is essentially the same as in the ideal method of repair—namely, the formation of granulation tissue, and its transformation into young fibrous tissue. The raw surface is first covered by a layer of coagulated blood and fibrin. An extensive new formation of capillary loops and fibroblasts takes place towards the free surface, and goes on until the gap is filled by a fine velvet-like mass of granulation tissue, and then the process tends to stop. This