286 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. the artery through the medium of an aneurysmal sac (varicose aneurysm). Either variety may result from pathological causes, but in the vast majority of cases they are traumatic in origin, being due to such injuries as stabs, punctured wounds, and gunshot injuries which involve both artery and vein. In former times the most common situation was at the bend of the elbow, the brachial artery having been accidentally punctured in perform- ing phlebotomy of the median basilic vein. Arterio-venous aneurysm is a frequent result of injuries by modern high-velocity bullets. Both in aneurysmal varix and in varicose aneurysm the higher blood pressure in the artery forces arterial blood into the veins, which become distended and thickened, and in course of time assume certain of the characters of varicose veins. In aneurysmal varix the vein near to the point of communi- cation with the artery tends to become dilated, and to form a thick-walled sac, beyond which the vessel and its tributaries are distended and tortuous. The free flow of arterial blood through this varicose vessel makes it pulsate, and produces in it a marked vibratory thrill and a loud murmur. In addition to these characters, the clinical features of aneurysmal varix closely resemble those associated with varicose veins. The tendency of the varix is to remain stationary. Rupture is exceedingly rare. As a rule, the support of an elastic bandage is all that is necessary in the way of treatment, but when the condition causes serious inconvenience the artery should be ligatured above and below the point of communication. Varicose aneurysm usually develops in relation to a traumatic aneurysm, the vein involved having formed adhesions with the sac, and ultimately opened into it. In this way a communica- tion between the artery and the vein is established. Clinically the patient exhibits a combination of the features of traumatic aneurysm and aneurysmal varix. As there is little tendency to spontaneous cure, and as the aneurysm is liable to increase in size and finally to rupture, opera- tive treatment is usually called for. This consists in applying a ligature to the artery above and below the point of communi- cation, and at the same time incising the sac, turning out the clots, and ligaturing any branches which happen to open into the sac. The vein should not be ligatured unless it is absolutely necessary.