165 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. their powers of resistance lowered by privation, by alcoholic indulgence, or by prolonged residence in tropical climates. The general characters of tertiary manifestations may be stated as follows. They attack by preference the tissues derived from the mesoblastic layer of the embryo, the cellular tissue, bones, muscles, and viscera. They are often localised to one particular, tissue or organ—such, for example, as the subcutaneous cellular tissue, the bones, or the liver, and they are rarely symmetrical. They are usually aggressive and persistent, with little tendency to natural cure. They are the only syphilitic lesions which may be dangerous to life, because of the destructive changes produced in such organs as the brain or the larynx. They are remarkably amenable to treatment by iodides, if these are given before that stage is reached which is attended with destruction of tissue. Early tertiary lesions may be infective, and the disease may be transmitted by the discharges from them; but the later the lesions are of appearing the less is the risk of their containing an infective virus. The most prominent feature of tertiary syphilis consists in the formation of granulation tissue, and this takes place on a scale considerably larger than that observed, in lesions of the secondary period. The granulation tissue frequently forms a definite swelling or tumour-like mass (syphiloma), which, from its peculiar elastic consistence, is known as a gumma. The gumma does harm by displacing and replacing the normal tissue elements of the part affected, and by involving these in the degenerative changes of the nature of caseation and necrosis which it is liable to undergo, and which result in the well-known destructive lesions of the skin, mucous membranes, and internal oi'gans. This is true not only of the circumscribed mass or gumma, but of the condition in which the granulation tissue is diffused throughout the connective-tissue framework of such an organ as the tongue or liver, and which is known as gummatous infiltration or syphilitic cirrhosis. The life-history of an untreated gumma varies with its environment. When protected from injury and irritation in the substance of an internal organ such as the liver, it may become encapsulated by fibrous tissue and persist in this condition for an indefinite period, or it may become absorbed and leave in its place a fibrous cicatrix. In the interior of a long bone it may replace the rigid framework of the shaft to such an extent as to lead to pathological fracture. If it is near the surface of the body,—as, for example, in the subcutaneous or submucous cellular tissue, or in the periosteum of a superficial bone, such as the palate,—the skull (Fig. 31), or the tibia, the tissue