THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 270 As the process is painful, a general anaesthetic is necessary. The current used should be from 20 to 80 milliamp&res, gradually increasing from zero, without shock; three to six large Bunsen cells give a sufficient current. Steel needles insulated with vulcanite to within an eighth of an inch of their points are the best. Both poles are introduced into the naevus, the positive being kept fixed at one spot, while the negative is moved about inside the tumour, so as to produce a number of different tracks of cauterisation. On no account must either pole be allowed to come in contact with the skin lest a slough be formed. The duration of the sitting is determined by the effect produced. The object aimed at is to produce hardening of the tumour. If pallor of the skin appears, it indicates that the needles are too near the surface, or that the blood-supply to the integument is being cut off, and is an indication to stop. The average duration is from fifteen to twenty minutes. To cauterise the track and so prevent bleeding, the needles should be slowly withdrawn while the current is flowing. When the skin is reached the current is turned off. The punctures are covered with collodion. Six or eight weeks should be allowed to elapse before repeating the procedure. From two to eight or ten sittings may be necessary, according to the size and character of the naevus. Excision is the best operation for naevi of moderate size situated on covered parts of the body, where a scar is of no importance. When only a small proportion of the naevus is cutaneous, the invaded piece of skin may be removed with the tumour. Excision is preferable to ligature, as nothing is left to slough off and primary union can be relied upon. Its advantage over electrolysis is that a single operation is sufficient. There is practically no risk from haemorrhage. Cavernous Angioma.—The cavernous tumour proper consists solely of dilated capillaries, which communicate freely with one another and with large blood spaces formed by the disappearance of adjacent capillary walls. This variety is met with in internal organs as well as in the subcutaneous tissue. It may appear at any age from early youth to middle life, and is of very slow growth. The swelling is rounded or oval, and feels not unlike a fatty tumour. There is no pulsation or bruit, and the tumour is but slightly compressible. These tumours are best treated by excision, but when of large size and diffuse they may be electrolysed. Aneurysm by Anastomosis is the name applied to a