399 FRACTURES. and the method of applying them will be discussed later ; but it may here be said that the general principle is that when dealing with a part where there is a single bone, as the thigh or upper arm, the splint should be applied in the form of a ferrule to surround the break ; whereas in situations where there are two or more parallel bones, as in the forearm, leg, metatarsus, or metacarpus, the splint should take the form of a box (Fig. 84). Simple wooden splints of plain deal board or yellow pine, sawn to the appropriate length and width ; or Gooch's splinting, which consists of long strips of soft wood, glued to a backing of wash leather, are the most useful materials for splints. Gooch’s splinting has the special advantage that when applied with the leather side next the limb it encircles the part as a ferrule ; while it remains rigid when the wooden side is turned towards the skin (Fig. 84). Perforated sheet lead or tin, stiff wire netting, and hoop iron also form useful splints. When it is desir- able that the splint should take the shape, of the part accurately, a plastic material may be employed. Perhaps the most convenient is poroplastic felt, which consists of strong felt saturated with resin. When heated before a strong fire, or when placed in boiling water, it becomes quite plastic, and may be accurately moulded Fro. 84.—Gooch Splint applied as a “Ferrule” on to any part, and on Right Upper Arm, as a “Box” on Left Forearm, cooling again becomes rigid. The splint should be cut from a carefully fitted paper pattern. Millboard, leather, or gutta-percha softened in hot water, and moulded to the part, may also be employed. In military practice in the field, and in other conditions where treatment by massage and movement is impracticable, and where movable splints are inconvenient, splints of plaster of Paris, starch, or water-glass are sometimes used, especially in the treatment of fractures of the leg. When employed in the form of an immovable case they are open to certain objections — for example, if applied immediately after the accident they are apt to become too tight if swelling occurs ; and if applied while swelling is still present, they become slack when this subsides, so that displacement is liable to occur. When it is desired to enclose the limb in a plaster case, coarse muslin bandages, three yards long, and charged with the finest quality of thoroughly dried plaster of Paris, are employed. A boracic lint bandage is evenly applied next the skin, and the bony prominences are specially padded. The plaster bandage is then placed in cold water till it is thoroughly saturated, and after the excess of water is squeezed out of it, is applied in the usual way from below upward. From six to ten