DISEASES OF JOINTS. 644 Suppuration, apart from superadded infection through a breach of the surface, does not occur in any of the forms of spinal arthropathy. Pathological fracture may occur as a complication both in tabes and in syringomyelia. The prognosis is uncertain, as the disease may go on to complete disorganisation of the joint, or it may become arrested, in which case the limb may retain its functions to a greater or less extent. Treatment is usually directed towards retarding or arresting the progress of the disease by supporting and protecting the joint by means of bandages, splints, and special apparatus. In the lower extremity the use of crutches may assist in taking the strain off the affected limb. When there is much distension of the joint considerable relief may follow evacuation of the fluid. The best possible result being rigid ankylosis in a good position, it may be advisable to bring this about artificially by arthrodesis or excision, where only one joint is affected, and where the cord lesion is such as will permit of the patient moving about. Although the victims of tabes are unfavourable subjects for operative interference on account of their liability to intercurrent complications, the wounds heal remarkably well. When the limb is quite useless, and there is danger from superadded pyogenic infection, amputation may be necessary. In cerebral lesions attended with hemiplegia, joint affections, characterised by evanescent pain, redness, and swelling, are occasionally met with in the paralysed limbs. The secondary changes in joints which are the seat of paralytic contracture are considered elsewhere. An intermittent neuropathic hydrops has been observed— especially in the knee—in cases of epilepsy, hysteria, and general paralysis of the insane, but it is of little clinical im- portance. Hysterical or Mimetic Joint Affections. Under this heading Sir Benjamin Brodie in 1822 described an affection, characterised by the prominence of subjective symptoms, and the absence of any pathological changes in the joint. Although chiefly met with in young women with an im- pressionable nervous system, and especially among those in good social circumstances, it occurs occasionally in men. The onset may be referred to injury or exposure to cold, or it may be associated with some disturbance of the emotions or of the