702 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. irregular than normal—changes which are usually regarded as of rachitic origin. The neck of the femur is shortened and its angle diminished. The bones of the leg are sometimes bent inwards in their lower thirds, so as to compensate partly for the valgus deformity at the knee. The articular cartilage over the external condyle and the external semilunar cartilage are usually thickened. In pro- nounced cases the patella and quadriceps tendon are displaced out- wards. The changes in the soft parts are secondary to those in the bones. It has been shown by Symington that the biceps tendon and ilio-tibial band are shortened and more prominent as a result of the approximation of their attach- ments, and they are also displaced outwards. The sartorius and gracilis are displaced backwards, so that they descend behind instead of on the inner side of the knee. The popliteal artery lies on the back of the external condyle instead of in the hollow between the condyles, and the internal pop- 1 iteal nerve is d isplaced even further outwards. The capsular and other ligaments are usually slack, so that the joint is wobbly and easily hyperextended. There is often a little effusion into the joint. Clinical Features.—In the in- fantile form (Fig. 243) the knock- knee is very commonly associated with signs of rickets in other parts of the skeleton, and especially with bending of the tibia and femur, and in extreme cases the child may be unable to walk. In the majority of cases of adolescent knock-knee the patient seeks advice because of the deformity alone, but in addition he may complain of pain after exertion, especially at the inner side of the epiphysial junctions, of being easily tired, and of his incapacity for any laborious occupation, or even for one involving much standing. The deformity is about as frequently bilateral as unilateral. There may be knock-knee on the one side and bow-knee on the Fin. 243.—Knock-knee in Child oat. 7, the subject of Rickets. The patient was unable to walk with- out support.