640 DISEASES OE JOINTS. Treatment.—In the absence of definite knowledge of the etiology of the disease, the treatment is chiefly directed towards the relief of symptoms. On no account should the affected joints be kept at rest. Passive movements, exercises of all kinds, massage, hot-air baths, and douching are to be steadily persevered with. When pain is a prominent feature it may be relieved either by douches of iodine and hot water (tincture of iodine 1 oz. to the quart), or by the application of lint satu- rated with a lotion made up of chloral hydrate, gr. v., glycerine 5j., water 5j., and covered with oil-silk. Operative inter- ference by arthrectomy, arthrodesis, or excision is only indicated in large joints when the disease is of an aggravated type, when it is monarticular, and when the general condition of the patient is otherwise favourable. A course of treatment at one of the reputed spas—Aix, Bath, Buxton, Gastein, Wiesbaden, Wildbad—is often of great service. The patient should be well nourished, and there need be no restriction in the diet such as is required in gouty patients, so long as the digestion is not impaired. Benefit is also derived from the adminis- tration of cod-liver oil and of tonics, such as strychnine, arsenic, and iron, and in some cases of iodide of potassium. Haemophylia, Haemarthrosis, Bleeder’s Joint.—This is a rare but characteristic affection, chiefly met with in the knee-joint of boys and young adult males who are the subjects of the haemorrhagic diathesis. The first haemorrhage into the joint originates suddenly after some trivial injury or without apparent cause. The appearances re- semble those of a moderate hydrops ; there is little or no pain, and the patient is usually anaemic. The temperature is often elevated (101°, 102° F.), especially if at the same time there are haemor- rhages into the cellular tissue of the limb or elsewhere in the body. The presence of ecchymoses or swellings apart from the joint affected are of great assistance in diagnosis. After a single haemorrhage into the joint the blood is usually reabsorbed. Fig. 214. — Arthritis Deformans affecting several Joints, in a boy aet. 10. (Dr. Dickson’s case.)