658 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. become pale, that he has ceased to take food well, that his sleep has been disturbed, and that the pain and the limp, after coming and going for a time, have become more continuous and pronounced. On walking, the affected limb is dragged in such a way as to avoid movement at the hip, and to substitute for it movement of the pelvis. The child throws the weight of the trunk as little as possible on to the affected limb, and inclines to rest on the balls of the toes rather than on the heel. There is usually some wasting of the muscles of the thigh and slight flattening of the buttock. Diminution or loss of the gluteal fold indicates a degree of flexion at the hip which might other- wise escape notice. Pain is complained of in the hip, or shooting down through the obturator nerve to the inner side of the knee. Sometimes the pain is confined to the knee, and if the examina- tion is restricted to that joint the disease at the hip may be overlooked. At this stage the attitude of the limb is not constant; it may be quite natural at one time, and slightly flexed or abducted at another. Tenderness of the joint may be elicited either in front or behind the head of the bone, but is of little diagnostic importance. Pain elicited on driving the head against the acetabulum may occasionally assist in the recognition of hip disease, but the diagnostic value of this sign has been overrated. Most stress is to be laid on testing the functions of the joint, and if this be done gently and without jerking, there is no complaint of pain. To reassure the child the movements should be first practised on the sound limb. The child should lie on his back, either on his nurse’s knee or on a table. On slowly flexing the thigh of the affected limb, it will be found that the range of flexion at the hip is soon exhausted, and that any further movement in this direction takes place at the lumbo- sacral junction. The child is next made to lie on his face with the knees flexed in order to test the movements of rotation. The thigh is rotated outwards and inwards, and on comparing the two sides it will be found that rotation is restricted or abolished on the side affected, any apparent rotation taking place at the lumbo-sacral junction. These tests reveal the presence of rigidity resulting from the involuntary contraction of muscles, which is the most reliable sign of hip disease during the initial stage. This procedure has the advantage of being universally applicable, even in the case of very young children. If-there should still exist any doubt as to the presence of hip disease, the examina- tion should be repeated from week to -week until a definite conclusion is arrived at,