120 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. sera, we are bound to give the patient the benefit of what is meanwhile the only rational treatment offering any hope of cure. The earlier the serum is injected the greater is that hope, and the initial dose must be a large one—not less than 60 c.c. Several smaller doses may subsequently be given within the first twenty-four hours if the symptoms do not abate. The best results hitherto seem to have been obtained by Tizzoni’s serum. It has been alleged that if the serum be injected directly into the cerebral tissue the results are better, but experience has not confirmed this statement. A small hole is drilled in the frontal bone, and the serum very slowly injected into the substance of the frontal lobe. The operation, however, is not devoid of risk even when performed with every precaution as to asepsis. The subcutaneous injection of an emulsion of rabbit's brain has been followed by recovery in some cases; and considerable benefit has also been derived from the injection of 20 minims of a 2 per cent; solution of carbolic acid in the region of the wound. (4) To conserve the patient’s strength by preventing or diminishing the severity of the spasms.—The patient should be placed in a quiet room, and every form of disturbance rigidly avoided. Sedatives must be given in large doses. Chloral is perhaps the best, and the patient should rarely have less than 150 grains in twenty-four hours. When he is unable to swallow it should be given by the rectum. The administration of chloroform is of great value in conserving the strength of the patient by abolishing the spasms, and enabling the attendants to administer nourishment or drugs either through a stomach- tube or by the rectum. Extreme elevation of temperature is met by tepid sponging. It is necessary to use the catheter if retention of urine occurs. Hydrophobia. Hydrophobia is an acute infective disease following on the bite of a rabid animal. The analogies existing between hydrophobia and other diseases of undoubted bacterial origin justify the belief that this disease is due to a specific organism, although it has not yet been demonstrated. In this country it most commonly follows the bite or lick of a rabid dog or cat. The virus appears to be communicated through the saliva of the animal, and the disease is most likely to develop when the patient is infected on the face or some other uncovered part. Only about one person out of three bitten by animals proved to be rabid suffer from the disease. llabies in the Dug. — The animal becomes depressed and listless,