547 CHAPTER XXVIII. DISEASES OF BONE. Anatomy and physiology—Regeneration of bone — Transplantation of bone. Diseases of Bone—Definition of terms—Pyogenic diseases: Acute osteomyelitis and periostitis; Chronic and relapsing osteo- myelitis; Abscess of bone—Tuberculous diseases—Syphilitic diseases —Hydatids ; Rickets ; Osteomalacia—Tumours of bone. Surgical Anatomy.—During the period of growth a long bone, such as the tibia, consists of a shaft or diaphysis, and two extremities or epiphyses. So long as growth continues there intervenes between the shaft and each of the epiphyses a disc of actively growing cartilage — the epiphysial cartilage. At the junction of this cartilage with the shaft is a zone of young, vascular, spongy bone known as the ossifying or epiphysial junction. The shaft may be described as a cylinder of compact bone— the cortex—enclosing the medullary canal, which is filled with marrow. The extremities, which include the ossifying junctions, consist of spongy bone, the spaces of which are also filled with marrow. The articular aspect of the epiphysis is invested with a thick layer of hyaline cartilage, known as the articular cartilage. The external investment of the bone—the periosteum—is thick and vascular during the period of growth, but becomes thin and less vascular when the skeleton has attained maturity. It is easily detached from the shaft of the bone except at the attachments of muscles ; at the extremities it is intimately connected with the epiphysial cartilage and with the epiphysis, and at the margin of the latter it becomes continuous with the capsular ligament of the adjacent joint. The arrangement of the blood-vessels determines to some extent the incidence of certain of the diseases to which bones are liable. The nutrient artery, after entering the medullary canal through a special foramen in the cortex, bifurcates, and one main division runs towards each of the extremities of the bone, and terminates at the ossifying junction in a series of capillary loops projected against the epiphysial cartilage. This arrangement of capillary loops favours the lodgment of any organisms which may be circulating in the blood, and is partly accountable for the frequency with which diseases of bacterial origin develop in the region of the ossifying junction. The shaft of the bone is nourished also by numerous blood-vessels from the periosteum, which penetrate the cortex through the Haversian canals and anastomose with those derived from the nutrient artery.