VARIX—VARICOSE VEINS. 263 tortuous veins in the region of the knee, and sometimes at the ankle. Frequently a large branch establishes a communication between the systems of the internal and external saphenous veins in the region of the popliteal space, or across the front of the upper part of the tibia. The superficial position of this last branch and its proximity to the bone render it very liable to injury. The small veins of the skin often show as fine blue streaks arranged in a stellate or arborescent manner. This is most often observed in women who have borne children. Complications.—Chronic eczema and ulcers are often met with in the lower part of the leg in association with varix, and are due to in- terference with the nutrition of the skin. The incompetence of the valves allows the pressure in the varicose veins to equal that in the arterioles, so that the capillary circulation is impeded. From the same cause the blood in the deep veins is enabled to enter the superficial veins, where the backward pressure is so great and so a blood there- oxygen, and standing, that the blood flows down again, vicious circle is established. The fore loses more and more of its so fails to nourish the tissues. When the varicosity is of long the skin may become pigmented, assuming a mahogany-brown or bluish lme. Profuse haemorrhage may take place from a varicose vein as a result of a wound or of ulceration of its walls. The increased intra- venous pressure produced by severe muscular strain may determine rupture of a vein exposed in an ulcer. If the limb be dependent, the incompetency of the valves permits of very rapid and copious bleeding, which may prove fatal, particularly if the patient be intoxicated when the rupture takes place. The bleeding may, however, at once be arrested by elevating the limb, or by applying pressure directly over the bleeding point. Phlebitis and thrombosis are common sequelae of varix, and may prove dangerous, either by spreading into the large venous trunks or by giving rise to emboli. The larger the varix the greater is the tendency for a thrombus to spread upwards and to involve the deeper veins. Thrombi usually originate in venous Fig. 47.—Varix of Internal Saphena Vein, with Sac- cular Dilatation over Saphenous Opening.