INJURIES OF ARTERIES. 237 blood occludes the veins and leads to marked congestion and oedema of the limb beyond. The interference with the circula- tion may be so great that gangrene ensues. If no complications supervene the swelling subsides, and recovery may be complete in six or eight weeks. Even in cases of complete rupture expectant treatment has in many cases yielded satisfactory results. In some cases it may be safer to expose the injured vessel, and, after clearing away the clots, to apply a ligature above and below the rupture. This should always be done if the extravasation is great or if the skin threatens to give way. Amputation is called for if gangrene ensues. Laceration of Arteries associated with an Open Wound.— Laceration of . large arteries is a common complication of severe machinery and railway accidents. The violence being usually of a tearing, twisting, or crushing nature, such injuries are seldom associated with much haemorrhage, as torn or crushed vessels quickly become occluded by contraction and retraction of their coats and by the formation of a clot. A whole limb even may be completely avulsed from the body with comparatively little loss of blood. The great risk in such cases is secondary haemorrhage resulting from septic infection. The treatment is that applicable to all infected wounds, with, in addition, the ligation of the lacerated vessels. Punctured wounds of blood-vessels may result from stabs, or they may be accidentally inflicted by the surgeon in the course of an operation. The division of the coats of the vessel being incomplete, the natural haemostasis which results from curling up of the intima and contraction of the media fails to take place, and bleeding goes on externally and into the surrounding tissues. If the sheath of the vessel be not widely damaged, the gradually increasing tension of the extravasated blood retained within it may ultimately arrest the escape from the vessel. A clot then forms between the lips of the wound in the vessel wall and projects for a short distance into the lumen, without, however, materially interfering with the flow through the vessel. The organisation of this clot may result in the healing of the wound in the vessel wall. In other cases the blood escapes beyond the sheath and infiltrates the surrounding tissues, and a traumatic aneurysm results. Secondary haemorrhage may result if the wound become septic. The treatment consists in enlarging the external wound