441 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. lias frequently been fractured .during attempts to reduce an old-standing dislocation. As a rule the fracture implicates; the surgical neck, the lower fragment lying outside the upper and being displaced upwards. The head may be felt in its abnormal position but does not move with the shaft when the humerus is rotated; crepitus, abnormal mobility, and shortening of the limb can usually be recognised. A general anaesthetic is almost always necessary to permit of an exact diagnosis being made, as well as to aid in reduction. The first indication in treatment is to reduce the dislocation. In certain cases, where the head lies close to the glenoid cavity and the capsule is widely lacerated, this may be done by manipulating the upper fragment from the axilla. On no account should the lower fragment be employed as a lever in attempting reduction. When reduction by external manipu- lation fails, the upper fragment should be exposed by an incision over its outer aspect, and gripped by forceps or held by M ‘Burney’s hook, which is specially constructed for the purpose of serving as a .lever with which to return the head to its socket. Reduction having been accomplished, the fracture is then adjusted in the usual way, advantage of the open wound being taken, if necessary, to wire, peg, or otherwise fix the fragments together. Massage and movement should be commenced early to jirevent stiffness of the joint. When it is found impossible to reduce the dislocation, the upper fragment should be removed, and a false joint allowed to form between the lower fragment and the glenoid. The method of allowing the fracture to unite without re- ducing the dislocation, and then attempting reduction, usually results in rebreaking the bone, or else in failure to replace the head in the socket. It has nothing to recommend it, and should never be practised. Old-standing Dislocations of the Shoulder.—As has already been said in discussing the general question of old-standing dislocations, it is impossible to lay down definite rules as to the date after which it is inadvisable to attempt reduction by manipulation. Experience of a hundred cases in Bruns’ clinic led Einckh to conclude that, provided there be no complications, reduction can generally be effected within four weeks of the accident; that within nine weeks the prospect of succeeding is fairly good; but that beyond that time reduction is exceptional. The patient is anaesthetised, and all adhesions broken down by free, yet gentle movement of the limb. The appropriate