ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBE]') ABSCESS. 49 fat, mucin, cholesterin crystals, and small portions of necrosed tissue are also present. Pus cells from an acute abscess have a well-defined rounded outline, are colourless, and contain granular protoplasm free of fat, and multi-partite nuclei. They show amoeboid movement. Those from a chronic or cold abscess are aggregated into clumps. These clumps consist of granular debris, the protoplasm having undergone fatty degeneration and the cells lost their outline and nuclei. Variations from Typical Pus.—Pus from old-standing sinuses is often watery in consistence (ichorous), with a low specific gravity (1020) and few cells. Where the granulations are vascular and bleed easily it becomes sanious from admixture with red corpuscles; while if a blood-clot be broken down and the debris mixed with the pus, it contains granules of blood pigment and is said to be grumous. The odour of pus varies with the different bacteria producing it. Pus due to ordinary pyogenic cocci has a mawkish odour; when putrefactive organisms are present it has an extremely offensive putrid odour; when it forms in the vicinity of the intestinal canal it usually contains the bacillus coli communis, and has a faecal odour. The colour of pus also varies : when due to one or other of the varieties of the bacillus pyocyaneus it is usually of a blue or green colour; when mixed with bile derivatives or altered blood pigment it may be of a bright orange colour. In wounds inflicted with rough iron implements from which rust is deposited the pus often presents this same colour. The pus may form and collect within a circumscribed area, constituting a localised abscess; or it may infiltrate the tissues over a wide area—diffuse suppuration. Acute Circumscribed Abscess. Any tissue of the body may be the seat of an acute abscess, and there are many routes by which the bacteria may gain access to the affected area. For example, an abscess in the integument or subcutaneous cellular tissue usually results from infection by organisms which have entered through a wound or abrasion of the surface or along the ducts of the skin ; an abscess in the breast from organisms which have passed along the milk ducts opening on the nipple or along the lymphatics which accompany these. An abscess in lymphatic glands is usually due to infection passing by way of the lymphatic channels from the area of skin VOL. I—4