INJURIES OF NERVES. 317 current is employed, using at first a mild current of not more than five milliamperes for about ten minutes, the current being- made to flow downwards in the course of the nerve, with the positive electrode applied to the spine, and the negative over the affected nerve near its termination. It is an advantage to have a key in the circuit whereby the current can be opened and closed at intervals, so as to cause contraction of the muscles. The results of primary suture, when it has been performed under favourable conditions, are usually satisfactory. Where the nerve has been sutured immediately after division, reunion of the divided ends may take place so rapidly that there may never be any paralytic phenomena. In cases where an interval of several hours has elapsed, recovery is usually very slow, one month being the shortest time recorded before restoration of function. Sometimes sensation returns within a few days, only to dis- appear again. When it returns permanently, sensation to touch reappears before that to pain and temperature. The return of voluntary motor power often precedes that of excitability to electrical stimulation. While confusion of sensory localisation is not uncommon, the transmission of impulses to muscles is usually ! most accurate. The recovery of function may be impaired if neuritis supervenes. Primary suture should not be attempted so long as the wound shows signs of inflammation or suppuration, as it is almost certain to end in failure. The ends should be sutured, however, as soon as the wound is aseptic or has healed. Secondary Suture.- —The stitching of the ends of a nerve in a wound which has already healed is known as secondary suture. The operation of uniting a divided nerve is more difficult in a wound which has healed, because the ends are usually involved in scar tissue. An incision is made in the line of the nerve, and the cut ends sought for. If they cannot be identified in the scar tissue, they will be found at a little distance above and below, in their normal anatomical situation. The ends of the nerve, after being freed from the scar tissue, are trimmed with scissors and approximated by sutures as already described. If a tourni- quet is employed, it should be removed as soon as the ends of the nerve have been isolated. Results of Secondary Suture.—When secondary suture has been performed under favourable conditions the prognosis is good, but a much longer time is required for complete restoration of function than after primary suture—in the recorded cases the shortest time was three months, and the longest three years. Sensation is recovered first, but it seldom returns before three or