712 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. the scaphoid. The tendo Achillis and tibialis posticus are divided with a tenotomy knife. The wound is closed and the foot main- tained in position by splints or plaster of Paris. In the case of children before the tarsal bones have become completely ossified, Ogston has suggested that, instead of remov- ing a wedge from the tarsus, the osseous nuclei of the individual bones should be gouged out and the cartilaginous shell left. In this way the intertarsal joints are not interfered with, the cartilaginous tarsus can be moulded so that when ossification is completed the bones differ but little from the normal. Removal of the astragalus is an alternative operation to resection of the tarsus, and yields at least equally good results. After any of these operative procedures, manipulations, mas- sage, exercises, electrical stimulation of the muscles and the wearing of some apparatus must be persevered with for at least twelve months. Failures are due to not over-correcting the deformity completely in the first instance, and to neglect of after-treatment. Finally, amputation by Cb opart or Pirogoff’s method may be called for. Acquired Talipes Equino-varus.—This develops as a result of disease or injury in a foot which was previously healthy. In contrast to the congenital form, it is said to be equally common in the two sexes and is frequently unilateral. In the great majority of cases it results from infantile para- lysis. When this specially affects the extensor and peronei muscles the patient is unable to dorsi-flex and abduct the foot, and it hangs with the toes pointed and the sole turned in. At first the joints are quite flaccid, and the attitude can be easily corrected by manipulation. In the course of time, however, the opposing muscles—those inserted into the tendo Achillis, the tibialis posticus, and the long flexors of the toes — become shortened. There is also secondary contraction of the plantar fascia and of the ligaments on the inner side of the foot, and the deformity is thus rendered permanent. The bones are also altered in their shape and mutual relations, the astragalus being displaced forwards so that a large portion of its trochlear surface protrudes from the tibio-fibular socket. The skin of the foot is cold and livid, and readily suffers from pressure sores. The whole limb is ill-developed, and may be shorter than its fellow, and the paralysed muscles are wasted and give the reaction of degeneration. A similar deformity may result from section of the external popliteal nerve, from the peroneal form of pro- gressive muscular atrophy, and from peripheral neuritis. The treatment of talipes equino-varus due to infantile para-