572 DISEASES OF BONE. affection, the bacilli being usually derived from some pre-existing focus in the body. Tubercle bacilli, like staphylococci, may lie dormant in the marrow for long periods, until, under the influence of such conditions as lowering of the general health or the effects of a comparatively trivial injury, the disease may become active or break out afresh. Tuberculous Periostitis.—Tuberculous disease may originate in the periosteum or may spread thence from the marrow. It is met with in the ribs, sternum, spinal column, skull, and less frequently in the long bones of the limbs. In superficial hones, such as the sternum, the formation of tuberculous granulation tissue in the deeper layer of the peri- osteum, and its subsequent caseation and liquefaction, arc attended by the insidious development of a doughy swelling in relation to the bone, which is usually painless although tender on pressure. It is often accidentally discovered by the patient so that its exact date of origin cannot be determined. While the swelling may remain for some time without change, it often increases in size, becomes boggy, fluctuates, and assumes the characters of a cold abscess. The pus perforates the fibrous layer of the periosteum, invading and infecting the overlying soft parts, its spread being influenced by the anatomical arrange- ment of the tissues. The size of the abscess affords no indication of the extent of the bone lesion from which it originates. The pus gradually reaches the skin, which becomes of a dusky red or livid colour, is thinned out, and finally gives way, the contents of the abscess escaping through a sinus. A probe passed into this sinus strikes the bone, which, from its friable and eroded condition, is described as carious. The sinus persists as long as any active tubercle remains in the tissues, and unless protected by suitable dressings, forms an avenue for infection by pyogenic organisms which favour the spread of the disease both in the bone and in the overlying soft parts. Small superficial sequestra of compact bone may sometimes be found embedded in the granulation tissue formed in relation to the periosteum. In deeply seated hones, such as the femur, the formation of a cold abscess in the overlying soft parts is often the first evidence of tuberculous disease in the periosteum, and its true source and nature may only be recognised on incising the abscess and exploring its interior with the finger. Diagnosis.—Before the stage of cold abscess is reached, the localised swelling over the bone is to be differentiated from a syphilitic gumma, from chronic forms of staphylococcal osteomyelitis, from certain forms of enlarged bursa or ganglion,