665 THE HIP-JOINT. septic infection is almost inevitable. This may result in abundant purulent discharge, or, where the external opening is insufficient for drainage, in repeated attacks of inflammation attended with fever, burrowing of pus, and the formation of fresh sinuses, until the condition of the patient merges into that of hectic fever or chronic septic poisoning. He loses ground from day to day, may become the subject of waxy disease in the viscera, or may die of exhaustion, tuberculous meningitis, or general tuberculosis. It is not to be inferred that the presence of septic sinuses is incompatible with recovery, but they are a source of danger to which the patient should never be exposed if he comes under treatment with unbroken skin. Dislocation is a comparatively rare complication of hip disease; it is most likely to occur in untreated cases during the stage of adduction with inversion. It is known to have taken place during sleep, from the same spasmodic contractions of muscles that give rise to startings at night. In dorsal dis- location, which is the most common form, adduction and inver- sion are pronounced, the trochanter projects above and behind Nelaton’s line, and the head of the bone may be felt on the dorsum ilii. When dislocation has occurred there may be less complaint of pain or of startings than before, and passive move- ments may be elicited which up till then were impossible. Bilateral Hip Disease.—Both liip-joints may become affected with tuberculous disease, either simultaneously or successively, each running its course independently of the other. The patient is necessarily confined to the recumbent posture, and if the disease is recovered from, his capacity for walking may be seriously impaired, especially if cure has taken place with rigidity or ankylosis in both joints, and if the joints have be- come fixed in an undesirable attitude. Both the length and the attitude of the two limbs may be altered. The most striking deformity occurs when both limbs are adducted so that they cross each other,—the “ scissor-leg ” or “ crossed-leg ” deformity, —in which the patient, if able to walk at all, does so by forward movements from the knees. Diagnosis of Hip Disease.—The diagnosis is to be made not only from other affections of the joint itself, but also from morbid conditions in the vicinity of the hip, since in any of these the patient may seek advice on account of pain and a limp in walking. The patient should be stripped, and if able to walk, his gait should be observed. He is then examined in the recumbent position, and attention is directed to the comparative length of the limbs, to the attitude of the limbs and pelvis, and