WINGED SCAPULA. 731 the scapula, when the patient attempts by using the deltoid to raise the arm from the side (Fig. 259). Under normal conditions, in making this movement the serratus magnus and rhomboid muscles pull forward the vertebral border and inferior angle of the scapula, and so fix the bone firmly against the chest wall. When these muscles are paralysed, as a result of infantile para- lysis, neuritis, or injury of the nerve of Bell, or of the fifth and sixth cervical nerve roots, through which they receive their supply, the patient is unable to abduct the arm, the deltoid having lost its point d'appui, and its contraction merely results in tilting the angle of the scapula backward. The treatment consists in the administration of strychnine and other muscle and nerve tonics, and the use of massage and the faradic current. The applica- tion of a carefully adjusted padded belt is sometimes useful. A former method of treatment by stitching the latissimus dorsi over the lower angle of the scapula was based on the erro- neous assumption that the dis- placement was due to the slipping of that muscle from off the bone, although it must be admitted that the operation sometimes diminishes the deformity and adds to the patient’s comfort. Fia 259.—Winged Scapula. Displacement of the scapula upwards and outwards, has been observed as a result of partial paralysis of the trapezius when the spinal accessory nerve has been divided in removing tuberculous glands from the neck. In these acquired displacements treatment is directed towards the nerve lesion and towards the improvement of the muscles by electricity, massage and exercises. Congenital Dislocation of the Shoulder.—This is a very rare condition. It is usually bilateral and associated with other congenital defects. The dislocation may be subcoracoid, sub- acromial or subspinous. The glenoid cavity is deformed or absent altogether. The movements of the arm are restricted, and the development of the extremity as a whole is interfered