99 CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. cases gangrene recurs in the stump and necessitates a second operation. That amputation for senile gangrene performed between the ankle and the knee seldom succeeds is explained by the fact that the vascular obstruction is usually in the upper part of the posterior tibial artery, and the operation is therefore performed through tissues with an inadequate blood-supply. In spite of the feeble condition of many of these patients, it is found that the operation is borne remarkably well, provided it is done early and before the patient is worn out by pain and want of sleep. Diabetic Gangrene.—This form of gangrene occurs in subjects suffering from diabetes, and shows a marked tendency to assume the moist type (Figs. 20 and 21). It may begin as an ordinary dry senile gan- grene, but on account of the exces- sively low vitality of the tissues, bacterial infection is prone to occur and to change the type of the disease. In other cases, however, it has peculiar characters of its owm from the onset. The abnormal chemical substances circulating in the blood produce endarteritis, and the innervation of the parts is deficient; and these factors, together with the general low vitality of the tissues, render the access of bacteria specially liable to produce a degree of inflammatory reaction which ends in gangrene. The process spreads rapidly, causing great destruction of skin. There is usually a peculiarly offensive odour about the patient, which differs from that of other forms of moist gangrene. Death usually occurs from toxaemia, diabetic coma, or exhaustion. The surgical treatment depends on whether the gangrene is of the dry or moist type. The prognosis both as to life and as to recurrence of the disease in the stump after amputation must be guarded. The rules for amputation are the same as those governing the treatment of senile gangrene. A form of gangrene is occasionally met with in robust young persons, even in children, due to a marked degree of angio- sclerosis, with narrowing and thrombosis of the main arteries as well as of the smaller veins. It usually occurs in the feet, is Gangrene developed.