546 INJURIES IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. results from the same kinds of violence as the last, the astragalus retains its position in the tibio-fibular socket, and the os calcis and scaphoid, with the rest of the foot, are carried away from it. The head of the astragalus, therefore, maintains its normal relationship with the malleoli—a point of importance in the differential diagnosis between this injury and dislocation of the astragalus. The displacement is usually incomplete, and the foot may either pass backward and inward, or backward and outward. When the foot passes backward and inward, the head of the astragalus projects on the outer part of the dorsum, resting on the cuboid. The dorsum of the foot is shortened, the heel lengthened, the toes adducted, and the inner border of the foot raised. The external malleolus is unduly prominent, and reaches nearly to the sole. In the backward and outward variety, the internal malleolus and head of the astragalus project unduly towards the inner side of the foot, which is abducted and everted. In neither variety is there any mechanical obstacle to move- ment at the ankle-joint. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for disloca- tion of the astragalus, reduction being effected without difficulty in most cases. If this fails, as it occasionally does, it may be necessary to excise the astragalus. Medio-tarsal dislocation—that is, at the astragalo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid articulations — is extremely rare. The distal segment of the foot is usually displaced towards the sole ; the foot is foreshortened, the malleoli raised from the sole, the arch of the foot is lost, and the first row of tarsal bones project on the dorsum. The treatment consists in reducing the displace- ment by manipulation, after which massage and movement are employed. Tarso-metatarsal Dislocations.—One, several, or all of the metatarsals may be separated from the distal row of tarsal bones —the usual cause being a fall from a horse, the foot being fixed in the stirrup. The bases of the metatarsal bones are displaced outward and toward the dorsum. Reduction by manipulation is generally easy. Dislocations of the Toes. —The great toe may be dislocated at its metatarso-phalangeal joint, the base of the proximal phalanx passing outward and towards the dorsum. Diagnosis and reduc- tion are alike easy. Inter-phalangeal dislocations are very rare.