125 GLANDERS. the pustule to nature and merely protecting it with an antiseptic dressing are equally good. The general treatment consists in feeding and stimulating the patient as freely as possible. Quinine, in 5 to 10 grain doses every four hours, and powdered ipecacuanha, in 40 to 60 grain doses every four hours, have also been employed with benefit. Glandeks. Glanders is due to the action of a specific bacterium, the bacillus mallei, which resembles the tubercle bacillus, save that it is somewhat shorter and broader, and refuses the stains used for that organism. It requires higher temperatures for its cultivation than the tubercle bacillus, and its growth on potato is of a characteristic chocolate-brown colour, with a greenish- yellow ring at the margin of the growth. The bacillus mallei retains its vitality for long periods under ordinary conditions, but is readily killed by heat and chemical antiseptics. It does not form spores. Clinical Features.—Both in the lower animals and in man the bacillus gives rise to two distinct types of disease—acute glanders, and chronic glanders or farcy. Acute Glanders is most commonly met with in the horse and in other equine animals, while horned cattle are immune. It affects the septum of the nose and adjacent parts, in the mucous membrane of which firm, translucent, greyish nodules containing lymphoid and epithelioid cells appear. These sub- sequently break down in the centre and give rise to irregular ulcerations, with profuse discharge, and marked inflammatory swelling around them. The cervical lymphatic glands, as well as the lungs, spleen, and liver, may be the seat of secondary nodules. In man acute glanders is commoner than the chronic variety. Infection always takes place through an abraded surface, and usually on one of the uncovered parts of the body—most commonly the skin of the hands, arms, or face; or on the mucous membrane of the mouth, nose, or eye. The disease has been acquired by accidental inoculation in the course of experimental investigations in the laboratory, and has proved fatal. The incubation period is from three to five days. The local manifestations are pain and swelling in the region of the infected wound, with inflammatory redness around it and along the lines of the superficial lymphatics. In the course