THE ANKLE-JOINT. 685 Arthritis deformans may affect the knee alone or in combina- tion with other joints. The changes related to the synovial mem- brane attain their maximum development in this joint, and may assume the form of hydrops with or without fibrinous bodies, or of overgrowth of the synovial fringes and the formation of peduncu- lated loose bodies. Fibrillation of the cartilage imparts a feeling of roughness when the joint is grasped during flexion and extension, while lipping of the margins of the trochlear surface of the femur may be felt when the joint is fully flexed. When a portion of the “ lipping ” is broken off it may give rise to the symptoms of loose body. In advanced cases of hydrops with destruction of the cartilages, there may be lateral move- ment with grating of the articular surfaces. In cases of hydrops the joint may be tapped and iodoform glycerin injected. When the symptoms are due to the presence of hypertrophied fringes and loose bodies, these may be removed by operation. When the disease is of an aggravated type and is confined to one knee, the question of excising the joint should be considered. Bleeder’s knee, Charcot’s disease, hysterical knee and loose bodies in the joint have been sufficiently described in the general article on diseases of joints. The Ankle-Joint. There is a common synovial cavity for the ankle and the inferior tibio-fibular joints. The lower ossifying junction of the fibula is included within the limits of this synovial cavity ; that of the tibia abuts on the surface immediately above the reflection of the synovial membrane. The astragalus is related to three articulations—the ankle above, the astragalo-scaphoid joint in front, and the calcaneo-astragaloid joint below. The close proximity of the different tendon sheaths to the ankle exposes them to the spread of infective disease from the joint; this is especially true of the sheaths of the peronei and of the tibialis posticus. Tuberculous Disease.—Tuberculous disease at the ankle is as frequently met with in adolescents and adults as it is in children. In the majority of cases it commences in the synovial membrane. Gross lesions in the bones are comparatively rare, and are more often met with in the head and neck of the astragalus than in the lower ends of the tibia and fibula. Primary synovial disease usually exhibits the features of white swelling, anteriorly projecting beneath the extensor