69 THE HEALING SORE. whether depressed or elevated in relation to the surrounding parts. (2) The discharge as to quantity, consistence, colour, composition, and odour. (3) The edges, noting particularly whether or not the marginal epithelium is attempting to grow in over the surface; also their shape, regularity, thickness, and whether undermined or overlapping, everted or depressed. (4) The surrounding tissues as to whether they are congested, cedematous, inflamed, indurated, or otherwise. (5) Whether or not there is pain or tenderness in the raw surface or its surround- ings. (6) The part of the hocly on which it occurs, because certain ulcers have special seats of election—for example, the varicose ulcer in the front of the leg, the perforating ulcer on the foot, and so on. The Healing Sore.—When a portion of skin has been excised aseptically—for example, in skin-grafting or in removing a small cutaneous tumour—-the raw surface left is soon covered over with a layer of coagulated blood and lymph. In the course of a few days this is replaced by the growth of granulations, which are of uniform size, of a pinkish-red colour, and moist with a slight serous exudation containing a few dead leucocytes. They grow until they reach the level of the surrounding skin, and so fill the gap with a fine velvety mass of granulation tissue. At the edges the young epithelium may be seen spreading in over the granulations as a fine bluish-white pellicle, which gradually covers in the sore, becoming paler in colour as it thickens, and eventually forming the smooth, non-vascular covering of the cicatrix. There is neither pain nor fever, and the surrounding parts are healthy. This may be taken as the ideal form of ulcer, and may con- veniently be used as a type Avith Avhich to compare the ulcers seen at the bedside, so that Ave may determine how far, and in what particulars, these differ from the type; and that Ave may in addition recognise the conditions which have to be counter- acted before they assume the characters of the typical healing sore. For purposes of contrast Ave may look at the characters of an ulcer in Avhiclx bacterial infection has taken place. Suppose our skin-grafting Avound become infected Avith virulent pyogenic bacteria, the effused blood and serum undergo septic changes and are converted into pus. No attempt at the formation of granulation tissue is made, and the base of the ulcer becomes red and irritable, is bathed in thin yelloAV or grumous pus, and probably tissue necrosis takes place here and there and small sloughs form.