412 INJURIES OF JOINTS. The injuries to which a joint is liable are Contusions, Wounds, Sprains, and Dislocations. Contusions of Joints. — Contusion is the mildest form of injury to which a joint is liable. Whether the violence is trans- mitted from a distance, as in contusion of the hip from a fall on the feet, or acts more directly in the vicinity of the joint, as from a fall on the great trochanter, the main incidence of the force is on the articular surfaces of the bones, which are violently driven against one another. The articular cartilages and the underlying spongy bone, as well as the synovial membrane, are bruised, and there is an effusion of blood and serous fluid into the joint cavity and surrounding tissues. The most prominent clinical features are swelling and dis- coloration. The swelling, especially in superficially placed joints, is an early and marked symptom, and being mainly due to bleeding into the joint (kcemarthrosis), takes the shape of the synovial cavity. In deeply placed joints discoloration may not appear on the surface for some days, especially if the violence has been indirect. The joint is kept in the flexed position, and is only painful when moved. There is no local heat. In lnemophylia considerable effusion of blood into a joint may follow the most trivial injury. The prognosis, as a rule, is good, although a slight degree of effusion into the joint (hydrarthrosis) often persists for a time. Tuberculous affections of joints not infrequently date from a contusion. Suppuration is a rare sequel. Treatment.—When seen immediately after the accident, the best results are obtained by the application of a firm elastic bandage over a thick layer of absorbent wool. After a few hours, massage and movement of the joint are commenced, and systematically and persistently employed. When the effusion is very great and the joint too tense to permit of movement, absorption is often promoted by withdrawing some of the fluid from the joint by means of an aspirating needle. The local application of ice is soothing, but otherwise useless; and pro- longed rest only ends in stiffness and impaired or delayed usefulness. Wounds of Joints.—An accidentally inflicted wound opening into a joint—such, for example, as a stab with a penknife or the point of a railing—is always a serious form of injury, on account of the risk of septic infection giving rise to a generalised purulent arthritis. This is attended with grave danger, not only to the limb, which will be greatly impaired in usefulness, and may even require to be amputated on account of the virulence