HAEMORRHAGE. 245 certain means of preventing haemorrhage—say in an amputation —is by the use of some form of tourniquet, such as the elastic tubing of Esmarch or of Foulis, or an elastic bandage, or the screw tourniquet of Petit. Before applying any of these it is advisable to empty the limb of blood. This is best done after the manner suggested by Lord Lister. The limb is held vertical for three or four minutes; the veins are thus emptied by gravitation and they collapse, and as a physiological result of this the arteries reflexly contract, so that the quantity of blood entering the limb is reduced to a minimum. With the limb still elevated the tourniquet is firmly applied, a part of the limb being selected where the vessel can be pressed directly against a bone, and where there is no risk of exerting injurious pressure on important nerve trunks. To protect the skin the tourniquet should be applied over a layer of lint. The first turns of the tourniquet must be rapidly and tightly applied to arrest com- pletely the arterial flow. Unless this is done the veins only are obstructed and the limb becomes congested. In the inferior extremity the best place to apply a tourniquet is the lower third of the thigh, and in the superior, the middle of the upper arm. This “ bloodless method ” of operating is subject to the objection that, owing to the vasomotor paralysis of the smaller vessels, the bleeding which takes place after the removal of the tourniquet is often profuse. To obviate this disadvantage, many surgeons rely upon digital compression of the main vessel supplying the limb. The amount of blood lost immediately may be greater than by the “ bloodless method,” but the small vessels bleed much less, so that the total loss of blood is probably about equal in the two. In selecting a point at which to apply digital compression, it is essential that the vessel should be lying over and close to a bone which will furnish the necessary resistance. The following are the more important vessels which lend themselves to digital compression, and the directions in which the pressure should be applied. The common carotid is pressed backward and inward against the transverse process (carotid tubercle) of the sixth cervical vertebra; the temporal against the zygoma in front of the ear; and the facial against the lower jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle. In the upper extremity the subclavian is pressed against the first rib by making pressure downwards and backwards in the hollow above the clavicle ; the axillary and brachial by pressing against the shaft of the humerus. In the lower extremity the femoral is controlled by pressing