DIPHTHERIA. 113 and dies. The duration of the disease varies from a few hours to four or five days. Surgical Complications.—The diphtheritic process may spread to the nasal cavities, causing blocking of the nares, with a profuse ichorous discharge from the nostrils, and sometimes severe epistaxis. The inflammation may spread along the nasal duct to the conjunctiva. The middle ear also may become involved by spread along the Eustachian tube. Suppurative processes in the lymphatic glands or cellular tissue of the neck is usually a result of a superadded infection with streptococci. The vulva, vagina, prepuce, glans penis, anus, and external auditory meatus may each be the seat of a diphtheritic inflam- mation. The process may also attack surgical wounds. For a description of the pulmonary, renal, cardiac, and nervous complications, the reader is referred to books on medicine. Diagnosis.—Diphtheria has to be diagnosed from suppurative tonsillitis and from croup. In true diphtheria, when the false membrane is removed, a raw bleeding surface is left. So much doubt exists as to the real nature of membranous croup and its relationship to true diphtheria, that when the diagnosis between the two is uncertain, the safest plan is to treat the case as one of diphtheria. The finding of the Klebs-Ldffler bacillus is regarded by bacteriologists as the only conclusive evidence of the disease. The bacillus may be obtained by swabbing the throat with a piece of aseptic—not antiseptic—cotton wool or clean linen rag held in a pair of forceps, and rotated so as to entangle portions of the false membrane or exudate. The swab thus obtained is placed in a test-tube previously sterilised by having had some water boiled in it. The organism stains with a saturated watery solution of methylene blue. Cultures made on blood serum and kept for fourteen hours at the body temperature furnish reliable results. When a bacteriological examination is impossible, or when the clinical features do not coincide with the results obtained, the patient should always be treated on the assumption that he suffers from diphtheria. It is to be remembered that an inocuous organism, morphologically identical with the Klebs-Loffler bacillus, is frequently found in the nasal cavity and pharynx of healthy individuals. Treatment.—An attempt may be made to destroy or to counteract the organisms by swabbing the throat with strong antiseptic solutions, such as 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate or 1 in 30 carbolic acid, or by spraying with peroxide of hydrogen. The antitoxic serum is our sheet-anchor in the treatment of diphtheria, and recourse should be had to its use as early as VOL. I—8