492 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. Fig. 139.—Nelaton’s Line. socket of the acetabulum, to the bottom of which it is attached through the medium of the ligamentum teres. The edge of the acetabulum is specially strong above and behind, while there is a gap in its lower margin, bridged over by the cotyloid ligament. In relation to fractures of the upper end of the femur it is to be borne in mind that the antero-posterior diameter of the neck is less than that of the shaft, and that as a considerable por- tion of the great tro- chanter lies behind the junction of the neck with the shaft, this prominence takes little or no part in bearing any strain put upon the upper end of the bone. The head and neck of the femur are nourished by the thick, vascular periosteum, and through certain strong fibrous bauds reflected from the attachment of the capsule—the cervical ligaments of Stanley. These ligaments play an important part in determining union in fractures of the neck of the femur. It is commonly alleged that an alteration in the angle of the femoral neck takes place with advancing years. Whether this be true or not, it is now generally recognised that it is of no importance in relation to fractures in this region. The capsular ligament of the hip is of exceptional strength. It is attached above to the en- tire circumference of the acetabulum, and below to the neck of the femur in such a way that while the whole of the anterior and inferior aspects of the neck lie within its attachment, only the inner half of the posterior and sujierior aspects is intracapsular. The capsule is augmented by several accessory bands, the most important of which is the ilio-femoral or \-shaped ligament of Bigelow, which passes from the anterior inferior iliac spine to the anterior inter-trochanteric line, its fasciculi being specially thick towards the upper and lower ends of this ridge. The inner limb of this ligament limits extension of the thigh, while the outer limits eversion and adduction. The weakest part of the capsular ligament lies opposite the lower and back part of the joint. The hip-joint is surrounded by muscles which contribute to its strength, the most important from the surgical point of view being the obturator internus, which plays an important part in certain dislocations, and the ilio-psoas, which influences the deformity in various lesions in this region. Fig. 140.—Bryant’s Lines.