YOL. 1—22 337 CHAPTER XVII. THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. Structure of skin — Blisters—- Callosities—Corns — Chilblains —Boils— Carbuncle—Abscess—Veldt sores—Tuberculosis of skin: Inoculation tubercle—Lupus : Varieties—Elephantiasis : Varieties—Sebaceous cysts or wens—Moles—Horns—New growths: Fibroma; Papilloma ; Adenoma; Epithelioma ; Piodentcancer ; Melanotic cancer ; Sarcoma — Affections of Cicatrices — Varieties of scars — Keloid — Tumours—Affections of Nails. Structure of Skin.—The skin is composed of two layers, a superficial cellular layer, the epidermis, along with which should be reckoned the modified depressions of epidermis which form hair follicles, sebaceous and sweat glands. The epidermis is differentiated from without inwards into the stratum corneum or horny layer, the stratum lucidum or clear layer, the stratum granulosum, and the rete Malpighii or germinal layer, from which all the others are developed. The deeper layer of the skin, known as the corium or true skin, consists of con- nective tissue, in which ramify the blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. That part of the corium immediately adjoining the epidermis is known as the papillary portion, and contains the terminal loops of the cutaneous blood-vessels and the terminations of the cutaneous nerves. The deeper layer of the true skin is known as the reticular portion, and is largely composed of adipose tissue. Blisters result from the exudation and accumulation of serous fluid beneath the horny layer of the epidermis. The fluid may be clear, as in the blister of a recent burn, or blood- stained, as in the blisters so commonly seen in relation to severe fractures of the leg. It may become purulent as a result of the entrance of pyogenic organisms, and blisters may be the starting-point of septic lymphangitis, cellulitis, or bubo. The treatment consists in disinfecting the skin, puncturing the blister, and evacuating the contents. When the contents are septic, the separated horny layer must be cut away with scissors in order to allow of the necessary disinfection. Callosities are prominent, indurated masses of the overgrown