DISEASES OF BONE. 592 the legs are held apart, slightly flexed at the knee, and are rotated out as well as curved ; the whole appearance is that of the larger anthropoid apes, but is relieved by the wide and arched forehead. The patient may be able to walk and ride on horseback, although he may complain of the weight of his limbs, and of difficulty in breathing owing to the fixation of the chest. There are no mental symptoms. The muscles of the limbs may waste to such an extent as to leave the large, curved, misshapen bones covered only by the skin (Fig. 198). The disease is of indefinite duration, the general health remaining for long unaffected; the patient may, however, become bedridden, and finally succumb to bronchitis or other intercurrent disease. In a con- siderable number of cases the bones become the seat of sarcoma, either solitary or multiple, and may then sustain pathological fracture. There is no treatment beyond that directed towards the relief of symptoms. Neuropathic Atrophy of Bone.—The conditions included under this head occur in association with diseases of the nervous system. There is general agreement that the nutrition of bones is under the influence of trophic nerves, although this influence is neither so direct nor so specialised as is the case in muscles and secreting glands. It is difficult to ascertain how far the changes in the skeleton associated with nerve lesions are the result of altered trophic nerve influence, and how far they are the result of vasomotor disturbances. Among the clinical forms of neuropathic atrophy, most importance is attached to the acquired fragility of the bones met with in locomotor ataxia and other chronic diseases of the spinal cord. The bones become porous and brittle, with an excess of fatty marrow, so that they are liable to be fractured by forces which would be insufficient to break a healthy bone. The fragility especially affects the bones of the extremities, and may occur before there are any definite nerve symptoms, but they are more often met with in the stage of ataxic movements, which, from their abruptness and want of control, may play a considerable part in the causation of the fractures. Joint lesions of the nature of Charcot’s disease may exist simultaneously with the alterations in the bones. The fractures may be unattended with pain, and they may fail to unite ; when repair does take place it is sometimes attended with an excessive formation of callus. In syringomyelia pathological fracture is not so frequent as in locomotor ataxia ; it is more likely to occur in the bones of the upper extremity, and especially in the humerus, as a result of muscular action. In paralytic dementia and other chronic forms of insanity a similar porosity and brittleness of bones may be observed, and may result in pathological fracture, especially of the ribs or femur. The occurrence of these fractures in the insane may lead to unjust reflections on the conduct of those in charge of the patient. In some cases of epilepsy the bones may be so brittle that the patient sustains a fracture at every seizure in which he falls to the ground, and the fracture may show a remarkable degree of comminution. Fragilitas Ossium. —This heading is merely used for convenience to include conditions in which there is an undue fragility of the bones without there being any disease to account for it. This may occur in several members of the same family, or there may be no such history of heredity. The bones are easily fractured, and as a rule unite normally ; but in some cases union is much delayed, and is associated with great deformity. The fractures may occur before birth, or at any period of extra-uterine life.