707 CLUB-FOOT. ture is forwards. The ungainliness in walking may be added to by flat-foot. The deformity of the legs may be associated with knock-knee or bow-knee. Backward curve of the upper end of the tibia has been described as one of the causes of genu recurvatum. The chances of natural straightening of the curvature are very considerable in children under six years, and especially in those who are actively growing. The most extreme and per- sistent deformities are met with in rickety dwarfs. Treatment.—Under the age of six the bones will probably straighten if the child is treated for rickets and kept off its feet. Well-padded external splints should be applied as recommended for knock-knee, and these should be taken off' at intervals for massage and douching, and manipulations tending to undo the curvature. In order to save time the bones may be forcibly straightened under chloroform. Above the age of six, when the bones have become hard, they must be divided at the seat of greatest curvature. In the tibia an oblique or vertical osteo- tomy usually suffices, but it may be necessary to remove a wedge of bone. The fibula may be forcibly straightened or may require to be divided through a separate incision. In aggravated cases it may also be necessary to divide the tendo Achillis. The deformities of the legs in inherited syphilis, ostitis deformans and osteomalacia have already been described. Deformities of the Foot. Various deformities are met with in the region of the ankle and tarsus. The term “ talipes ” is commonly used to include all these, but will be here restricted to that form in which the heel is more or less elevated, and the foot supinated so that it rests on its outer border—talipes equino-varus or club-foot. In pes equinus the foot is in the position of plantar-flexion, and the patient walks on the toes. In pes calcaneus the foot is dorsi- flexed so that the tip of the heel comes in contact with the ground. This deformity may be combined with eversion of the foot, pes calcaneo-valgus, or with inversion, pes calcaneo-varus. When the instep is unduly arched the terms pes cavus, pes arcuatus or hollow claw-foot are employed; while loss of the arch constitutes flat-foot or pes valgus. Club-foot. Talipes Equino-varus.—This deformity is present at birth in three-fourths of the total number of cases. It may be ac- quired, chiefly as a result of infantile paralysis.