136 TUBERCULOSIS. Tlie entrance of the bacilli into one or other of these groups of glands may result in active tuberculous disease of the infected group. On the other hand, there is reason to believe that the organisms may lie in a dormant or latent condition for an almost indefinite period, and only become active long afterwards, when some general depression of the patient’s health produces conditions which favour their growth. When the organisms become active in this way, the tuberculous tissue may undergo softening and disintegration, the infective material may erupt into an adjacent vein, and thus entering the general circulation, may be carried by the blood-stream to distant parts of the body, and so give rise to an acute general tuberculosis. The initial infection of the lymphatic glands within the chest, being un- attended with any external or clinical evidence of its occurrence, remains unrecognised and unsuspected, and the patient, usually a child, may present the appearances of even robust health. At any subsequent period of life, however, tuberculous disease may make its appearance in some tissue of the body—for example, in a bone or joint, in the kidney or testicle, or in the membranes of the brain. More than one tissue may be infected either simultaneously or in succession, without any external evidence of the transference of the bacilli from one part of the body to another. Many tuberculous patients are to be regarded as possessing in their bronchial glands, or elsewhere, an internal store of bacilli, to which the existing disease owes its origin, and from which similar outbreaks of tuberculosis may originate in the future. It is probable that in some cases the tubercle bacilli may effect an entrance through the mucous membrane of the respiratory tract directly into the blood-vessels, and thus into the circulating blood, by means of which they may be carried to any part of the body. The alimentary mucous membrane, especially that of the small intestine, is exposed to infection by swallowed sputum and by food materials, such as milk, containing tubercle bacilli. The organisms may lodge in the mucous membrane and cause tuberculous ulceration, or they may be carried through the wall of the bowel into the lacteals, along which they pass to the mesenteric glands. There they may become arrested, and either give rise to active tuberculous disease of the glands, or lie dormant indefinitely and only become active at a subsequent period. It may happen that the bacilli from a tuberculous mesenteric gland are carried by way of the receptacle of the chyle and the thoracic duct into the general circulation, and in