724 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. of the bones of the legs, and is treated on the same lines as other rickety deformities. Flat - foot may follow upon an attack of acute rheumatism or upon diseases in the region of the ankle and tarsus, such as those resulting from gonorrhoea, arthritis deformans, tuberculosis, and Charcot’s disease. There is a congenital form of flat-foot in which the sole is convex and the dorsum concave, the result of the persistence of an abnormal attitude of the foetus in utero. Lastly, there is a racial variety of flat-foot, chiefly met with in negroes and in Jews, which is inherited and developmental, and which, although unsightly, is rarely a cause of disability. Metatarsalgia.—This affection, which was first described by Morton of Philadelphia, is a neuralgia of the plantar aspect of the foot in the region of the heads of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It is most often met with in adults between thirty and forty, and is commoner in women than in men. The patient complains of a dull aching or of an intense boring pain in the anterior part of the foot. The pain is usually relieved by taking off the boot and by rest. It may be excited by squeezing the heads of the metatarsals together or by grasping the fourth metatarso-phalangeal joint between the finger and thumb. The pain may be so severe in advanced cases as completely to cripple the patient, so that he is obliged to use a crutch. On examination, the sole may be found to be broadened across the balls of the toes, and there may be corns over the heads of the third and fourth metatarsals. Skiagrams may show a downward displacement of the head of one or other of these bones. Prints of the foot may show an increased area of contact in the region of the balls of the toes. The affection is sometimes traced to an injury, but is more often of insidious development, and is then ascribed to sinking of the transverse arch of the foot, the result of wearing badly-fitting boots. The intense pain is due to stretching of, or pressure upon, the interdigital nerves or the communicating branch between the internal and external plantar nerves. The affection is often combined with ordinary flat-foot. Treatment.—Great improvement may result from treating the co-existing flat-foot. Pain is relieved by rest, massage, and douching. Boots should be made from a plaster cast of the foot, high and narrow at the instep so as to compress the bases of the metatarsals, with thick soles and the inner edge of the heel slightly raised. A tight bandage or strip of plaster applied round the instep before putting on the stocking may relieve pain. Where the head of one of the metatarsals is displaced it