336 THE NERVES. resected by an operation in which the incision is made over the infra-orbital foramen and the nerve is traced back along the canal in the floor of the orbit; or the main trunk may be removed at its emergence from the foramen rotundum along with Meckel’s ganglion by resecting and temporarily displacing the malar bone. The inferior dental is the branch of the third division most frequently affected. It may be exposed before it enters the bone by trephining the ascending ramus of the lower jaw opposite the last molar tooth, or below, by cutting down on the nerve as it emerges from the mental foramen; the intervening portion is then pulled out from the inferior dental canal. The lingual nerve is also exposed lying in front of the inferior dental when the ascending ramus of the lower jaw is trephined. The auriculo-temporal branch is exposed by a vertical incision crossing the zygoma immediately in front of the ear. The entire trunk of the third division may be exposed at the foramen ovale by an operation in which the zygoma and the masseter muscle are displaced downwards, the temporal muscle and coronoid process upwards, and the lingual and inferior dental branches are then traced upwards until the main trunk is reached at its emergence from the skull. When the neuralgia involves branches of two or of all three divisions, or where it has recurred after temporary relief following resection of individual branches, the removal of the Gasserian ganglion, along with the main trunks of the second and third divisions, should be considered. This is usually carried out by what is known as the Krause-Hartley operation, which consists in making a large opening into the skull in the temporal region, stripping up the dura, and raising the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the brain from the middle fossa of the skull until the ganglion is exposed lying on the upper aspect of the petrous temporal bone. The operation is a difficult and serious one, but the results are most gratifying so far as the cure of the neuralgia is con- cerned. Krause reports twenty-seven cases with three deaths. There is little or no disability from the unilateral paralysis of the muscles of mastication; but on account of the insensitiveness of the cornea, the eye must be carefully protected from irritation, especially during the first month or two after the operation. In cases in which the removal of the Gasserian ganglion is contra-indicated, it may be worth while to consider the question of excising the superior ganglion of the cervical sympathetic. The resulting vasomotor disturbance may lead to the dis- appearance of the neuralgia, although this result may be delayed for several months, and cannot be relied upon.