FRACTURES OF LOWER END OF HUMERUS. 457 intra-capsular, so that the joint is always involved. Undue mobility, pain, crepitus, and the other signs of fracture are present. As the ulna and radius remain attached to the respective fragments by their ligaments, which are intact, there is little or no immediate displacement. Secondary displacement is liable to occur, however, during the process of union, pro- ducing alterations in the “ carrying angle ” of the limb— cubitus varus or valgus. Fracture of the external epncondyle alone is so rare that it need not be further referred to. The internal epicondyle may be chipped off by a fall on the edge of a table or kerb-stone, or may be forcibly avulsed by traction through the internal lateral ligament as an accompani- ment of dislocation. It is usually displaced downwards and forwards by the flexor muscles attached to it, and may thus come to exert injurious pressure on the ulnar nerve. The fragment may be grasped and made to move on the shaft, producing crepitus. Fibrous union is the usual result. Up to the age of seventeen or eighteen the corresponding epiphysis may be separated. Treatment of Fractures in region of Elbow.—It has already been mentioned that a general anaesthetic is necessary for the diagnosis of fractures in this region. It is no less essential as an aid to accurate reduction and fixation. Much discussion has taken place as to the best position in which to treat these fractures, and the consensus of opinion seems now strongly to favour that of full flexion of the elbow. Clinical experience is supported in this view by the evidence afforded by the Rontgen rays. In no other position of the joint can the fragments be brought into such accurate apposition. In all cases the early employment of massage and movement is necessary to avoid the risk of stiffness and diminished range of motion. The supra-condylar fracture, is reduced by first extending the elbow to free the lower fragment from the triceps, and then making traction through the forearm and manipulating the fragments into position, and finally fully flexing the elbow In this way the triceps is put upon the stretch and forms a natural posterior splint. A pad is placed in the bend of the elbow to separate the opposed skin surfaces. The elbow is fixed in this position by means of a figure-of-eight bandage, supplemented by a posterior, gutter-shaped splint of poroplastic, or by a modification of Croft’s splint placed along each side of the limb. The arm is placed in a sling and fixed to the side