DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 682 develop. The joint, although perhaps a little sensitive and restricted in its movements, and in some cases the seat of a serous effusion, may not become infected with tubercle unless the disease in the bone is neglected. If the focus reaches the surface of the bone at the level of the reflection of the synovial membrane, the membrane becomes thickened at the site of infection in the first instance; but as time goes on, it becomes infected throughout, just as in primary synovial disease. The clinical features are similar to those described under the head of diffuse thickening of the synovial membrane,—only they are apt to be more severe and to progress more rapidly, and to be associated with abscess formation in the vicinity of the osseous focus. If the focus reaches the surface of the bone where it is covered by articular cartilage, the latter is perforated or detached, and the joint becomes infected. The symptoms vary with the nature of the perforation and the amount of infective material thrown into the joint. The resulting joint disease may evolve gradually and assume the characters of a dry arthritis with pain, rigidity and tendency towards fibrous ankylosis, or it may develop suddenly and progress rapidly towards suppuration and disorganisation of the joint. Tuberculous disease, attended only by symptoms of involve- ment of the articular surfaces, is to be differentiated from arthritis deformans and from hysterical knee. The formation of abscess in tuberculous disease of the knee takes place in rather more than fifty per cent, of cases. Abscesses may originate in the substance of the synovial membrane, within the synovial cavity or in one of its compartments, in the sur- rounding cellular tissue, or in relation to one of the bursae in the popliteal space. When left to themselves such abscesses tend to spread up into the thigh or down the back of the leg, and numerous sinuses may result from their rupture through the skin. The diagnosis of tuberculous disease of the knee has been considered in relation to the different clinical types. Treatment.—Conservative measures are indicated where there is a prospect of obtaining a movable joint. When the articular surfaces are so involved that this is no longer possible, it is usually both a waste of time and a source of danger to the patient to persist with conservative measures. By means of operation one may anticipate cure of the disease within a definite time, and although the knee is stiff the limb is a useful one. We may be justified in persevering a little longer with