319 INJURIES OF NERVES. sufficiently short, they may become involved in the cicatrix, and it may be necessary, on account of pain, to free them from their adhesions, and to resect enough of the terminal portions to prevent them again becoming adherent. Where this is difficult, a portion may be resected from each of the nerve trunks at a higher level, and if this fails to give relief, a fresh amputation must be performed. Subcutaneous Injuries of Nerves.—It is useful to distin- guish between those cases of subcutaneous injury in which the compressing force acts gradually and comparatively gently, and those in which it acts abruptly and severely. The former class includes the compression paralysis of the nerves of the upper arm which results from sleeping with the arm resting on the back of a chair or the edge of a table—the so-called “ drunkard’s palsy ” ; and from the pressure of a crutch in the axilla—“ crutch paralysis.” It also includes paralysis from the pressure of a tourniquet, from tight bandages or splints, from the pressure exerted by a dislocated bone or by excessive callus, and from hyper-extension of the arm during anaesthesia. In all these forms there is impaired sensation, rarely amount- ing to anaesthesia, marked muscular wasting, and diminution or loss of voluntary motor power, while—and this is a point of great importance—the normal electrical reactions are preserved. The prognosis is usually favourable, as spontaneous recovery is the rule within from one to three months. In some cases, how- ever, neuritis supervenes, the muscles degenerate, the electrical reactions are altered, and recovery may be retarded or may fail to take place. Injuries which act abruptly or instantaneously are illustrated in the crushing of a nerve by the sudden displacement of a sharp- edged fragment of bone, as may occur in comminuted fractures of the humerus. The symptoms include perversion or loss of sensation, motor paralysis, and atrophy of muscles, which show the reaction of degeneration from the eighth day onwards. The occurrence of the reaction of degeneration influences the prog- nosis, for it implies a nerve lesion which is probably incapable of spontaneous recovery. The treatment varies witli the cause and nature of the lesion. When, for example, a displaced bone or a mass of callus is pressing upon the nerve, steps must be taken to relieve the pressure, by operation if necessary. When there is reason to believe that the nerve is severely crushed or torn across, it should be exposed by incision, and, after removal of the damaged ends, should be united by sutures. When it is impossible to