341 CARBUNCLES. It may be looked upon as a number of boils aggregated together, and it commences like a large boil with a densely hard base and a brownish-red discoloration of the skin. A carbuncle is usually about the size of a crown piece, but it may continue to enlarge until it attains the size of a dinner plate. The patient is decidedly run down, ill, and feverish, and the pain may be so severe as to prevent sleep. As time goes on several points of suppuration appear, and when these burst there result a number of openings in the skin giving it a cribriform appearance : these openings exude pus. The different openings ultimately fuse together and a large adherent greyish-white slough is exposed. The separation of this slough is a tedious process, and the patient may become exhausted by pain, discharge, and septic absorption. When the slough is finally thrown off, a large deep gap is left which takes a long time to heal. A large carbuncle is a grave disease, especially in a weakly individual, and in one suffering from diabetes or chronic alcoholism. In the majority of cases the patient is laid aside for several months. It is most common in male adults over forty years of age, and is usually situated on the back between the shoulders. When it occurs on the face or anterior part of the neck it is especially dangerous, because of the greater risk of general infection and septicaemia. A carbuncle is to be differentiated from a syphilitic gumma by its more acute progress and its rapidly destructive qualities. Treatment.—Pain is to be relieved by full doses of opium or codein. Opium is especially indicated where sugar is present in the urine. The diet should be liberal and easily digested, and alcoholic and other stimulants may be of service in tiding the patient over the critical period of the disease. Locally, carbolic fomentations are employed until suppuration commences. If the patient is able to stand an operation, the best procedure is to excise the carbuncle, cutting all round it and down to the deep fascia, swabbing the wound with pure carbolic acid, and packing with gauze. The illness is thereby much shortened, suffering is relieved, and the risk of extension and general infection abolished. When the resulting wound becomes covered with healthy granula- tions, it may be covered over with Thiersch grafts. Where excision is contra-indicated, the next best procedure is to make several incisions across the carbuncle in different directions so that the resulting wound presents a stellate appear- ance ; then to cut away the undermined skin, remove the slough, and rub pure carbolic acid into all the exposed tissues, and pack with iodoform gauze or worsted. In very feeble individuals these operations are inadmissible,