410 INJURIES OF BONES. Daily massage and the use of a rigid apparatus in the intervals are often beneficial. The injection of oil of turpentine between the fragments has been recommended by Mikulicz; while others favour the forcible rubbing of the ends together, under an anaesthetic if necessary, to promote a plastic reaction in the unit- ing material. The administration of thyroid extract has been found beneficial in improving the nutrition of the bones in some cases. These methods having failed, the parts may be exposed by incision, and the ends of the bones rawed, and pegged or wired. As a rule satisfactory union is ultimately obtained, although much patience is required. Want of Union.—In a few cases, without any discoverable cause, union entirely fails to take place. The fragments become atrophied, the ends rounded, and the medullary cavity obliterated, and the ends of the bone remain separate and freely movable. The whole limb may share in this atrophy. In adults this is most frequently met with in the humerus (Fig. 86) and femur, and in most cases union may be brought about by operative measures. In children it is occasionally met with in the bones of the leg, and is seldom, if ever, cured by operation. The lower fragments in these cases become very small and thin, and the limb is so useless that amputation is usually necessary. Sometimes dense fibrous tissue forms between the fragments, constituting fibrous union. The treatment consists in exposing the ends, and after removing any intervening material and rawing their surfaces, inserting nails or wires to secure their apposition. In certain cases dove-tailing the ends into one another, grafting bone, or enclosing the frag- ments in a ferrule of decalcified bone has been successful. False Joint.—This is the rarest of all forms of defective union. The ends of the bones become rounded, eburnatecl, and covered with a layer of cartilage. A firm capsule of fibrous tissue, lined by a layer of endothelium, secreting synovia-like fluid, binds them together and forms a veritable joint. Treatment is carried out on the same lines as for non-union, the pseudarthrosis being excised before the ends are fixed in apposition. Absorption of Callus.—From various causes, especially attacks of such diseases as scurvy, pyamiia, or any of the exanthemata, well-formed callus may be softened and absorbed. This may occur weeks, or even months, after union has taken place. Tumours of Callus.—Tumours, such as chondromata and sarcomata, are liable to occur in callus, or at the seat of old fractures, but the evidence so far is inconclusive as to the causal relationship of the injury to the new growth.