DISEASES OF JOINTS. 616 be laid up for weeks or months, and may finally be crippled in one or in several joints. The treatment—besides that of the urethral disease or of the ophthalmia—consists in rest until all pain and sensitiveness have disappeared. Salicylates or iodides may relieve suffering, but are not curative. The joint is immobilised by means of a splint, or by cotton wool and an elastic bandage. Extension is employed in the case of the hip. During the acute stages, great relief may bej obtained from very hot baths, to which turpentine and black soap may be added. Konig recommends the use of tincture of iodine to the extent of blistering. In the persistent dry form the hot-air bath, or Bier’s method by venous congestion, may be employed. In hydrops, when the fluid persists, the joint should be tapped, the fluid withdrawn, and a 1 per cent, solution of protargol injected. The purulent form is to be treated by incision and drainage. After all symptoms have settled down, but not till then, for fear of exciting relapse or metastasis, the joint may be massaged and exercised. Stiffness from adhesions is most intractable, and may, in spite of every attention, terminate in ankylosis, which must be dealt with on general principles. Ankylosis of the elbow is best treated by excision of the joint. Tuberculous Diseases. Tuberculous diseases of joints result from bacillary infection of the synovial membrane, or of the marrow of one of the adjacent bones under conditions similar to those which have been described as occurring in tuberculous diseases of bone. From the anatomical point of view they may be divided into those in which the disease originates in the synovial membrane, and those in which it originates in one of the adjacent bones. The relative frequency of these two types varies with the age of the patient and with the joint affected. In children the number of cases originating in the bones is approximately three times as great as those originating in the synovial membrane, while in adults the disease most frequently originates in the synovial membrane. As regards the joint affected, the maximum frequency of osseous lesions is found in the hip—in the pro- portion of five osseous to one synovial (Krause) ; in the knee, the proportion is about equal (Konig). In the other large joints the proportion is about equal. The predominance of bone