THE LYMPHATICS. 296 become involuted and are transformed into fat. In the event of a sub- sequent lactation or of a cancer appearing in the breast later in life, the glands are again developed. Glands which have been removed by operation are readily re-formed, and after some time the newly formed glands are not distinguishable from the original ones. This depends on the fact that lymphatic glands, though apparently complicated, are really very simple in structure, and require nothing for their develop- ment or re-formation which is not present in any loose connective tissue. The necessary elements are lymphatic vessels with the connective tissue surrounding them, and blood-vessels. The leucocytes are brought both by the lymph-vessels and by the blood, and they become entangled in the meshes of the connective tissue. Anatomical Distribution of Glands.—The more important groups of glands, and the areas which they drain, in the head and neck and in the upper and lower extremities, are as follows :— Head and Neck. — The parotid or pre-auricular glands lie beneath the parotid fascia in front of the ear, and some are partly embedded in the substance of the parotid gland. They drain the parts about the temple, cheek, eyelids, and auricle. The occipital gland is situated over the origin of the trapezius from the superior curved line. It drains the top and back of the head. The mastoid or posterior auricular glands lie over the mastoid process. They drain the side of the head and auricle. These three groups pour their lymph into the cervical glands. The submaxillary—two to six in number—lie along the lower border of the jaw from the symphysis to the angle, the posterior ones being closely connected with the submaxillary salivary gland. They receive lymph from the face, lips, floor of the mouth, gums, teeth, anterior part of tongue, and the alse nasi, and from the pre-auricular glands. The lymph passes from them into the deeper cervical glands. The submental gland lies in the middle line between the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles, and receives lymph from the lips. The supra-hyoid lies a little farther back, immediately above the hyoid bone, and receives lymph from the tongue. The external jugular glands lie along the external jugular vein. They are not always present. They receive lymph from the occipital and mastoid glands and from the auricle. The sterno- mastoid glands—glandulae concatinatae—form a chain along the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, some of them lying beneath the muscle. They are commonly enlarged in constitutional syphilis. The internal jugular glands, commonly called the deep cervical,—from six to twenty in number,—form a continuous chain along the internal jugular vein, beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. They drain the various groups of glands which lie nearer the surface, also the interior of the skull, larynx, trachea, thyroid, and lower part of the pharynx. They pour their lymph into the main lymphatic trunks at the root of the neck. Belonging to this group is one large gland which lies behind the posterior belly of the digastric, and rests in the angle between the internal jugular and common facial veins. It is commonly enlarged in affections of the tonsil and posterior part of the tongue. Belonging to the same group are three or four glands which lie entirely under cover of the upper end of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and surround the spinal accessory nerve before it perforates the muscle. The supra-clavicular glands lie in the posterior triangle, above the clavicle. They receive lymph from the lowest cervical glands, from the upper part of the chest wall, and from the highest axillary glands. They are frequently infected in cancer of the breast, occasionally also in cancer of the