DISEASES OF JOINTS. 648 exaggerated movement or twist. In the free state it is alleged to be capable of continued growth, deriving the necessary nutriment from the surrounding fluid. The size and number of the bodies vary indefinitely. Single specimens have been known to attain the size of the patella. The smaller varieties may number considerably over a hundred. A rarer type of loose body is met with in arthritis deformans, when a portion of the lipping of one of the articular margins is detached by injury. It may also be mentioned that in Charcot’s disease large loose bodies composed of bone may be formed in relation to the capsular and other ligaments, and can be made to grate upon one another. The clinical features in this group of organised loose bodies are mainly those of the disease which has given rise to them, and it is exceptional to meet with definite symptoms from impaction of the body between the articular surfaces. Treatment is to be directed towards the primary disease in the joint, as well as to the removal of the loose bodies. Loose Bodies in Joints which are other- ivise Healthy. — These constitute the majority of cases causing the classical symptoms of loose body and calling for operative treatment. They are met with chiefly in the knee and elbow of healthy males under the age of thirty. The complaint may be of vague pains in the joint which are usually ascribed to rheumatism, of occasional cracking on movement, or of impairment of function, and usually an inability to extend or flex the joint completely. In many cases a clear account is obtained of the characteristic symptoms which arise when the body is impacted between the articular or other closely applied surfaces of the joint. These are the sudden onset of intense sickening pain, with loss of power in the limb and locking of the joint, followed by effusion and other accom- paniments of a severe sprain. On some movement of the joint the body may be disengaged, the locking disappears, and recovery takes place as after an ordinary sjirain or twist. Similar attacks maj recur at irregular intervals during a period of many years. On examining the joint it is usually found to contain fluid, and there may be points of special tenderness corresponding to the ligaments which have been sprained. The patient himself Fig. 218.—Loose Bodies from Knee-joint. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)