184 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. a day or two of each other,—because once a chancre has reached the stage of induration it is no longer possible to produce other chancres by any subsequent inoculation. The duration of the hard chancre depends very much upon whether it is treated or not. In cases left to nature it may persist for many weeks, and may still be recognisable when, at a later period, constitutional symptoms make their appearance. The formation of a visible scar is rather the exception than the rule. Unless the sore has been irritated and has partaken of the character of an open ulcer with purulent discharge, or has sloughed, there is no permanent scar; hence in examining patients with a doubtful history of syphilis, little reliance can be placed on the presence or absence of a scar on the penis. Infection of the adjacent lymphatic vessels and glands is usually found to have taken place by the time the primary sore has acquired its characteristic induration. Several of the glands along Poupart’s ligament, on one or on both sides, become enlarged and indurated; they are rarely sensitive unless the primary sore is inflamed. As when palpated they feel like shot under the skin, the term bullet-bubo has been applied to them. The glands remain freely movable, and the enlargement and in- duration usually persist after the sore has healed. Their presence may be useful in clearing up the diagnosis in cases w'here the primary sore has been atypical or has been overlooked. They never undergo suppuration unless pyogenic infection be super- added. The lymphatic vessels on the dorsum of the penis proceeding from the sore to the affected glands may participate in the induration, and may be felt as fine cords beneath the skin. Phagedcena as a complication of primary syphilis is really a form of moist gangrene, due to a local septic infection and attended with rapid destruction of tissue. It is most frequently met with as a complication of concealed chancres, especially those which are situated far back under a tight prepuce. A foul-smelling, blood-stained discharge escapes from the preputial orifice ; there may be a good deal of pain, and the patient is ill and out of sorts. The prepuce on one aspect may become of a dusky red or bluish colour and finally slough, exposing the glans. The loss of tissue may be limited to the prepuce or may involve the glans and body of the penis, and haemorrhage may occur from the erosion of the walls of blood-vessels. An interesting fact in relation to phagedsena is the frequent immunity of the adjacent lymphatic glands—that is to say, there is rarely any bubo, and there may be no subsequent manifestations of constitutional syphilis.