INNOCENT CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOURS. 185 that during their development they remain hidden below the mucous membrane and give little or no evidence of their existence. There then succeeds, usually between the twentieth and twenty-fifth years, an eruptive stage, which is often attended with suppuration, and this may be the means of drawing attention to the tumour. Following Bland Sutton, we may distinguish several varieties of odontoma according to the part of the tooth-germ concerned in their formation. Epithelial odontomata are derived from persistent portions of the epithelium of the enamel organ, and constitute multilocular cystic tumours which are chiefly met with in the lower jaw. The cystic spaces of the tumour contain a brownish glairy fluid. These tumours have been described by Eve as multilocular cystic epithelial tumours of the jaw. The follicular odontoma, formerly known as a dentigerous cyst, is derived from the distension of a tooth follicle. It con- stitutes a cyst which contains a viscid fluid, and an imperfectly- formed tooth is often found embedded in its wall. The cyst usually forms in relation to one of the permanent molars, and may attain considerable dimensions. The fibrous odontoma is the result of an overgrowth of the fibrous tissue surrounding the tooth sac, which encapsulates -the tooth and prevents its eruption. The thickened tooth sac is usually mistaken for a fibrous tumour until after removal the tooth is recognised in its interior. Composite Odontomata.—This is a convenient term to apply to certain hard dental tumours which are met with in the jaws, and consist of enamel, dentine, and cement. They are to be regarded as being derived from an abnormal growth of all the elements of a tooth germ, or of two or more tooth germs, indiscriminately fused with one another. They may appear in childhood, and form smooth, unyielding tumours, often of considerable size, replacing the corresponding permanent teeth. Many examples of this variety of odontoma, which have been removed from the nasal cavities or from the antrum, have been erroneously re- garded as osteomata. They may cause a purulent discharge, and in some cases have been spontaneously extruded after sloughing of the overlying soft parts. On section, the tumour is usually laminated, and is seen to consist mainly of dentine with a partial covering of enamel and cement. Diagnosis.—Odontomata are often only diagnosed after operation. When attended with suppuration the condition has been mistaken for disease of the bone. Fibrous odontomata