373 TEN O-SYN OYITIS. which are attached to the tendon andt move with it. They may be merely unsightly, or they may interfere with the use of the tendons. Recurrent attacks of inflammation sometimes occur. We have removed gouty masses on account of one or other of these indications, with satisfactory results. Suppurative Teno - synovitis. — This form usually follows upon infected wounds of the fingers—especially of the thumb or little finger—and is a frequent sequel to whitlow. It may also follow amputation of the fingers. Once the infection has gained access to the sheath, it tends to spread, and may reach the palm or even the forearm, being then associated with cellulitis. There is considerable fever, pain, and swelling. Pus frequently forms. In moderately acute cases the tendon and its sheath become covered with granulations, which subse- quently lead to the formation of firm adhesions; while in very acute cases the tendon generally sloughs. Pus may burst into the cellular tissue outside the sheath, and the suppuration may spread to neighbouring sheaths or to adjacent bones or joints— for example, those of the wrist. The treatment consists in early incision of the sheath. Several incisions are usually required, and drainage-tubes are then introduced. As soon as the inflammation has subsided, active and passive movements are to be employed in order to prevent the formation of adhesions between the tendon and its sheath. If the tendon sloughs, the dead portion should be removed, as its separation by nature is extremely slow. The treatment of whitlow has been already described. Gonorrhoeal Teno-synovitis. — This is by no means rare, especially in the tendon sheaths about the ankle. It may occur in a mild form, with pain, impairment of movement, and oedema, and sometimes an elongated, fluctuating swelling forms, the result of serous effusion into the sheath. In the more severe variety the skin is red, and the swelling partakes of the characters of a phlegmon with threatening suppuration. While the sheath may be filled with pus, the tendon rarely sloughs. This condition may alternate with a gonorrhoeal affection of one of the large joints. It usually subsides under rest and soothing- applications, but is liable to relapse. The suppurative form should be incised and drained. Tuberculous Disease of Tendon Sheaths.—This is a compara- tively common affection, and is analogous to tuberculous disease of the synovial membrane of joints. It may originate in the sheath, or may spread to it from disease in an adjacent bone. The commonest form is that in which the synovial sheath is