REPAIR, 2 or remove such extraneous influences as tend to interfere with natural reparative processes, it is essential that at the outset we should clearly understand the natural process of repair in order that our efforts may be directed in harmony therewith. Process of Repair. The Ideal Process of Repair: Healing by Primary Union. —The ideal process of natural repair can best be studied as it occurs in a clean-cut wound of the integument, uncomplicated by loss of tissue or by the presence of foreign substances, and more particularly of disease-producing micro-organisms. Such a wound, in virtue of the absence of organisms, is said to be aseptic, and furnishes the most favourable conditions possible for the reparative process. Formation of Granulation Tissue.—The passage of the knife through the tissues is immediately followed by an oozing of blood from all the divided vessels, which soon coagulates on the cut surfaces. If the wound be now closed, the narrow space between its edges is occupied by blood-clot, which consists of red and white corpuscles mixed with a quantity of fibrin, and which forms a temporary uniting medium between the divided surfaces. In the course of a few days the capillaries of the part adjacent to the wound begin to dilate, and throw out minute buds and fine processes which bridge the gap, and so form a firmer, but still temporary, connection between the two sides. Each bud begins as a small accumulation of granular protoplasm in the wall of the capillary, and gradually elongates into a filament containing a nucleus. This filament either joins with a neighbouring capillary or with a similar filament, and in time these become hollow and are filled with blood from the vessels which gave them origin. In this way a series of young capillary loops is formed, the spaces between which are filled by large, irregular, nucleated cells, derived from the proliferation of the fixed connective tissue cells of the part, and from the endothelial lining of the newly formed vessels. As these cells are concerned in the production of fibrous tissue they are known as fibroblasts. Large multi-nucleated giant cells may also be found amongst the fibroblasts, especially if any foreign body, such as a silk ligature, is embedded in the tissues. Wandering leucocytes, too, are present in the spaces between the capillary loops, but take no direct part in the formation of the new tissue. Their function seems to be the removal of the red corpuscles and fibrin of the original blood-clot, and this