444 INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. they are drawn apart,—is partly due to the action of the serratus magnus and teres major muscles, and partly depends on the direction of the force. Movement is restricted and painful. Union is usually rapid and good, and although displacement often persists, the function of the limb is unimpaired. Treatment.—As these fractures are usually complicated by other injuries, especially of the thorax, and are accompanied by severe shock, it is nearly always necessary to confine the patient to bed. It is usually sufficient to fix the arm and shoulder to the chest wall by a firm binder, or strips of adhesive plaster, in the position which admits of the most complete apposition of fragments. This retentive apparatus is employed for about three weeks, after which the patient is allowed to use his arm. After the first week the bandages are removed daily to admit of the parts being massaged. Fracture of the surgical neck of the scapula, although a rare accident, is of considerable clinical importance, as it is liable to be mistaken for a dislocation of the shoulder. The line of fracture runs through the suprascapular notch downwards and outwards to the lower margin of the glenoid, so that the glenoid and the coracoid process are separated from the rest of the bone. The coraco-acromial and coraco-clavicular ligaments are usually widely torn, and the detached fragment, along with the head of the humerus, sinks into the axilla, causing a flattening of the shoulder, and leaving a depression below the projecting acromion. The arm is lengthened by about an inch. By supporting the arm the deformity is at once reduced, but recurs as soon as the support is withdrawn. Crepitus is usually detected on carrying out this manipulation; and the coracoid process is found to move with the arm and not with the scapula. By these tests this injury is distinguished from a dislocation. A partial fracture carrying away the lower part of the glenoid cavity sometimes simulates a sub-glenoid dislocation. This is, however, a very rare injury. The treatment is the same as for fracture of the middle third of the clavicle; the elbow being well supported by a sling. Passive movement and massage are employed from the first, to avoid stiffness of the shoulder; and the retentive apparatus should be kept on for about four weeks. Fracture of the Acromion Process. — In considering this fracture, reference must be made to a condition frequently met with, in which the epiphysial portion of the acromion is found to be separate from the body of the process. This is by some