BACTERIAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. 103 out the sides so as to give the organism a spindle-shaped out- line. Other pathogenic organisms are often present and aid it in its action. Clinical Features.—The disease has been defined as “ a spreading inflammatory oedema attended with emphysema, and ultimately followed by gangrene of the skin and subjacent parts.” At the bedside it is difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish it from acute traumatic gangrene. Both follow on the same kinds of injury and run an exceedingly rapid course. In malignant oedema, however, the incidence of the disease is mainly on the superficial parts, which become livid, indurated, oedematous, and emphysematous, and soon die. Bui he form on the skin, and the tissues have “a peculiar heavy but not putrid odour.” The general constitutional effects of the disease are extremely severe, and death may ensue within a few hours. The treatment is the same as that of acute traumatic gangrene, and the prognosis is even less hopeful. In animals immunity can be produced by repeated injections of sterilised cultures or of the filtered serum of animals which have died of the disease. Cancrum Oris or Noma.—This disease is believed to be due to a specific bacillus, which occurs in long delicate rods, and is chiefly found at the margin of the gangrenous area. It is most prone to attack unhealthy children from two to five years of age, especially during their convalescence from such diseases as measles, scarlet fever, or typhoid, but may attack adults when debilitated. It is most common in the mouth, but some- times occurs on the vulva. In the mouth it begins as an ulcerative stomatitis, more especially affecting the gums or inner aspect of the cheek. The child lies prostrated, and from the open mouth foul-smelling saliva, streaked with blood, escapes. The face is of an ashy-grey colour, the lips dark-red and swollen. On the inner aspect of the cheek is a deeply-ulcerated surface, with sloughy shreds of dark-brown or black tissue covering its base. The edges are irregular, firm, and swollen, and the'surrounding mucous membrane is inflamed and oedematous. In the course of a few hours a dark spot appears on the outer aspect of the cheek and rapidly increases in size. Towards the centre it is black, shading off through blue and grey into a dark-red inflamed area which extends over all the cheek. The tissue implicated is at first firm and indurated, but as it loses its vitality it becomes doughy and sodden. Finally a slough forms, perforating the cheek. Meanwhile the process spreads inside the mouth, so that the