563 ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. with which the disease originates at the ossifying junction renders it advisable that the bone should be opened in this region in the first instance by means of a small trephine or gouge. If pus is found, additional openings may be made according to the extent of the lesion in the marrow, and these may be converted into one open gutter. The immediate resection of the diseased shaft is rarely called for. It is better, as a rule, to wait, because one cannot prophesy the extent of the necrosis and more may be removed than is necessary. The shaft may, however, be resected with advantage when the suppuration is very abundant, and when the bone is extensively bared and appears likely to die. If the epiphysis is bathed in pus and extensively separated, it may be necessary to remove it. Amputation of the limb, which was at one time a frequent resource in suppurative osteomyelitis, is now very rarely called for. It is reserved for grave cases in which life is endangered from general infection, or where the limb is likely to be useless— as, for example, when several joints are involved, when there is separation and displacement at the epiphysial junction, and when the whole shaft is dying or dead and there is no appearance of a new case. Flat bones, such as the skull or ilium, must be trephined early, because there may be suppuration on both aspects of the bone. In the os calcis, patella, and similar bones, interference must be early, in order to save the adjacent joint. In the vertebrae, treatment is directed to the evacuation and drainage of the abscess. Treatment of the Necrosis.—When the patient comes under observation after the acute symptoms have disappeared, treat- ment may be required for the sequelae of the disease. So long as dead bone remains in position, so long will there be suppura- tion from the granulations lining the cavity in which it lies, and a discharge of pus externally through the sinuses. The dead bone may be evident to the eye, but it is usually only recognised on passing a probe down a sinus. It is not easy from external examination alone to determine the size, character, or number of the sequestra, or to be certain of their mobility. As regards surgical interference, the general rule is to wait until the sequestrum is separated. In premature operations for necrosis diseased portions may be left behind, or an unnecessary amount of bone may be removed, and subsequent repair interfered with. While waiting for separation of the sequestrum, drainage should be improved, and the septic