442 INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. manipulations for the particular dislocation are then carried out, great care being taken that no undue force is employed. Should these measures fail, the question of operation must then be considered in the light of the patient’s age, general condition and occupation, and of the usefulness of the affected limb. If operation be deemed advisable, a few days should be allowed to elapse to permit of the parts recovering from the effects of the manipulations, as septic infection is favoured by the presence of torn or ecchyinosed tissues. The joint is freely exposed, the capsule divided, the head of the bone freed and returned to the glenoid cavity. This is often so exceedingly difficult that it may be necessary to resect the head of the bone and aim at the formation of a new joint, an operation which usually yields excellent results. Habitual or Recurrent Dislocation.—Cases are occasionally met with in which the shoulder-joint shows a marked tendency to be dislocated from causes altogether insufficient to produce displacement under ordinary circumstances. This condition is usually met with in young women, and in some cases at least appears to be due to too early and too free movement of the joint after an ordinary dislocation, so that the capsule is stretched and remains lax. The condition also occurs with considerable frequency in epileptics; and in them it is generally found that the head of the bone is deficient, either as a result of fracture or disease; that the muscles which naturally support the joint are atrophied or torn • and that the capsule is unduly lax. The facility and frequency with which dislocation occurs render the limb comparatively useless, and keep the patient in a constant state of apprehension. The treatment consists in preventing the patient making the particular movements which tend to produce the dislocation. These are chiefly movements of hyper-abduction and overhead movements, such as are made, for example, in swimming or in arranging the hair. We have found an apparatus consisting of a belt applied round the thorax, and fixed to another round the upper arm by a band which passes above the axillary fold of the ■ dress, useful in restraining these movements. Massage, electricity, and movements against resistance are employed, if necessary, to strengthen the weak muscles. If, after a prolonged trial, these measures fail, it may be advisable to tighten up the lax capsule by an open operation. Sprains of the shoulder-joint are comparatively rare be- cause of the wide range of movement of which it is capable. The whole region becomes swollen and tender to pressure, the