DISLOCATIONS IN REGION OF ANKLE. 543 Fractures of the metatarsals and phalanges usually result from direct violence, crushing the foot and severely damaging the soft parts. When simple, these injuries are often overlooked on account of the difficulty of eliciting the signs of fracture, owing to the swelling which accompanies them. The use of the Rontgen rays has shown that certain painful conditions in the foot following comparatively slight injuries are due to undetected fractures of metatarsals or phalanges. These injuries are best treated in a rigid moulded splint. Compound fractures are more commonly met with, and are to be treated on the same principles as govern such injuries elsewhere. A fracture of the base of the fifth metatarsal has been described by Jones of Liverpool. It is produced by the patient coming down forcibly on the outer edge of the foot while the foot is inverted and the heel raised—as, for example, in dancing. There is a localised swelling over the base of the fifth metatarsal, and pain when the patient puts weight on the foot. There is no crepitus or deformity. The fracture is readily recognised by the Rontgen rays. It is treated by massage and movement. Dislocations in the Region of the Ankle. Dislocations of the Ankle-joint.—In describing dislocations of the astragalus from the tibio-fibular socket, the varieties are named according to the direction in which the foot passes— backward, forward, inward, outward, or upward. All of them may be complete, but are more frequently incomplete, and they are all liable to become compound, either from tearing of the skin at the time of the injury, or by its sloughing at a later period. Although as a rule there is little difficulty in effecting reduction by manipulation, these injuries are liable to be followed by stiffness and impaired usefulness of the joint. The backward dislocation is the most common, and results from extreme plantar flexion of the foot, wedging the astragalus between the tibia and fibula, as from a fall backwards while the foot is fixed. The lateral ligaments are torn, and one or both malleoli may be broken, or the posterior part of the articular edge of the tibia chipped off. The foot appears shortened, the heel is unduly prominent behind, and the lower ends of the tibia and fibula project in front,