NEURO-ARTHROPATHIES. 641 After repeated hemorrhages the joint becomes uniformly swollen from the deposit and subsequent organisation of fibrin on the synovial membrane. As the swelling of the joint is associated with wasting of muscles, flexion, and stiffness, the resemblance to white swelling is very close—so much so, indeed, that a mistake in diagnosis has been made and the joint subjected to operation with disastrous results. The treatment in the case of a recent haemorrhage consists in absolute rest, the application of cold, and of elastic compression. After an interval, measures should be adopted to promote the absorption of blood and the prevention of stiffness and flexion ; these include gentle massage, passive movements, and extension with the weight and pulley. Chloride of calcium may be ad- ministered internally with the object of preventing a recurrence of the haemorrhage. Joint Diseases associated with Lesions op the Nervous System : Neuro-Arthropathies ; Spinal Arthro- pathies ; Charcot’s Disease. In the absence of any proof of the existence of special trophic nerves distributed to joints, the diseases under consideration are to be regarded as related to a disturbance of the sensory nerves which pass from the joints to the spinal cord, whereby they are cut off from the reflex vasomotor influence which is necessary for their proper nutrition and for their capacity of recuperating from the effects of injury. The joints present a diminished resistance to trauma and other external influences, very similar to that exhibited by the skin in its liability to pressure sores, perforating ulcer, and other trophic disturbances. It may be said, therefore, that while the nerve lesion prepares the way for the joint disease, its onset and progress are largely dependent upon external factors, of which trauma is the most important. Lesions of the Peripheral Nerves.—In the hand, and more rarely in the foot, when one or other of the main nerve trunks has been divided or compressed, the joints become swollen and painful, and may afterwards become stiff and deformed. Bony ankylosis has been observed in exceptional cases. Joint lesions are very rare in affections of the spinal cord, such as myelitis, progressive muscular atrophy, infantile paralysis, insular sclerosis, and in traumatic lesions, but are not uncommon in locomotor ataxia and syringomyelia. The occurrence of joint lesions in locomotor ataxia (tabes dorsalis) was first described by Charcot—hence the term VOL. I—41