453 CHAPTER XXIII. INJURIES IN THE REGION OF THE ELBOW AND FOREARM. Surgical Anatomy — Examination of injured elbow — Fractures of Lower End of Humerus: Supra-condylar; Inter-condylar; Separa- tion of epiphysis ; Fracture of either condyle alone ; Fracture of either epicondyle alone—Fractures of Upper End of Ulna : Olecranon; Coronoid—Fractures of Upper End of Radius: Head; Neck; Separation of epiphysis—Dislocations of Elbow: Both hones; Ulna alone; Radius alone—Fractures of Forearm: Both hones; Radius alone ; Ulna alone. The injuries met with in the region of the elbow-joint include the various fractures of the lower end of the humerus, and upper ends of the bones of the forearm, including the olecranon process ; and dislocations and sprains of the elbow-joint. The differential diagnosis is often exceedingly difficult, on account of the great swelling and tension which rapidly supervene on most of these injuries, the pain caused by manipulating the parts, and the difficulty of determining with certainty whether movement is taking place at the joint or near it. Surgical Anatomy.—The internal epicondyle of the humerus is more readily felt through the skin than the external. They lie practically on the same level. A line joining the two epicondyles behind, passes just above the tip of the olecranon process when the arm is fully extended. On flexing the joint the tip of the olecranon gradually passes to the distal side of this line. The head of the radius can be felt to rotate during pronation and supination in the dimple which exists on the back of the elbow just below the external condyle. The coronoid process may be detected on making deep pressure in the hollow in front of the joint. The upper arm forms with the fully extended and supinated forearm an obtuse angle, opening outward—the “ carrying angle.” This angle is usually more marked in women, in harmony with the greater width of the female pelvis. The ulnar nerve lies in the hollow between the olecranon and the internal condyle, and the median nerve passes over the front of the joint, with the brachial artery and biceps tendon to its