14 CONDITIONS INTERFERING WITH REPAIR, toxaemia, or bacterial intoxication. In addition to this, certain bacteria produce toxins which give rise to definite and distinct groups of symptoms—such as the convulsions of tetanus, or the paralyses which follow diphtheria. Local lesions also, of an inflammatory, suppurative, or ulcera- tive character, result from the action of certain organisms and their products, as in the case of tuberculosis, typhoid, anthrax and diphtheria. Death of Bacteria. — Under certain circumstances it would appear that the accumulation of the toxic products of bacterial action tends to interfere with the continued life and growth of the organisms themselves, and in this way the natural cure of certain diseases is brought about. Outside the body bacteria may be killed by starvation, by want of moisture, by being sub- jected to high temperature, and by the action of certain chemical agents, of which carbolic acid and the perchloride and biniodide of mercury are the most powerful. Immunity.—It has long been known that some individuals are insusceptible to infection by certain diseases, from which they are said to enjoy a natural immunity. It is also well estab- lished in the case of many acute diseases—it is probably true of all—that one attack protects the patient, for a time at least, from a second attack. This is known as an acquired immunity. Numerous attempts have been made to explain these facts, but it must at once be admitted that no one of them is as yet entirely convincing. The opinion of Pasteur that the necessary pabulum in the blood for the organisms becomes exhausted, and the view that the bacteria themselves produce substances inimical to their continued growth or subsequent reappearance, are equally insuffi- cient. Metchnikoff’s theory of phagocytosis, while it carries us further, does not afford a complete explanation of the phenomena. According to Metchnikoff, the phagocytes—leucocytes and con- nective-tissue corpuscles—have the power of taking into their interior the invading organisms, and so prevent the formation of their toxins. From the fact that this ingestion process goes on most actively in immunised animals it would appear that phagocytosis is rather a result than the cause of immunity. At the same time many facts have been established, which, if they do not constitute proof of any one theory, have at least resulted in certain highly useful and practical conclusions. The chief of these is that immunity from certain diseases may be produced by artificial inoculation with the products of the organisms which cause them. Artificial immunity may be induced in one of two ways—(a)