DISEASES OF BONE. 578 characterised by the formation of granulation tissue in the periosteum or marrow, either in the form of a circumscribed gumma or of a diffuse gummatous infiltration. The frame- work of the bone is rarefied in the area immediately involved, and condensed in the parts beyond. If the gummatous tissue degenerates and breaks down, and especially if the overlying skin is perforated and septic infection is superadded, the bone disintegrates and exhibits the condition known as syphilitic caries ; sometimes the bone dies in visible portions, constituting syphilitic necrosis. Syphi- litic sequestra are heavier and denser than normal bone, and usually separate very slowly. The bones specially affected by gum- matous disease are the skull, the septum of the nose, the nasal bones, palate, femur, tibia, and the bones of the forearm. In relation to the skull, gummata may form in the pericranium, diploe, or dura mater. Isolated gummata often result in characteristic depressions or in actual perforation of the calvaria. Multiple gummata tend to fuse with each other at their margins, giving the appearance of a combination of circles sometimes sur- centre, and cutting it off If the overlying skin is destroyed and septic infection be superadded, such an isolated area of bone is apt to die and furnish a sequestrum; the separation of the dead bone is extremely slow, partly from the want of vascularity in the sclerosed bone round about, and partly from the density of the sequestrum. In exceptional cases the necrosis may involve the entire vertical plate of the frontal bone. In the septum of the nose, the nasal bones, and the palate, the gummatous granulation tissue infiltrates the periosteum diffusely, eating into the bone with which it is in contact; it then softens and ulcerates on the mucous surface, and so becomes complicated Fig. 192.—Syphilitic Disease of Skull, showing areas of necrosis in process of separation. (In Mr. Annandale’s collection.) rounding an area of bone in the from its blood-supply (Fig. 192).