SYPHILITIC DISEASES. 631 the cure of tuberculous joint disease sometimes partakes of the characters of an arthrectomy, sometimes of an excision, but in many cases neither of these terms would accurately describe the operation which best meets the requirements of the case. A formal excision is more often employed in the knee and elbow than in other joints—modified in the case of children, in view of the functional importance of the epiphysial junctions concerned. It is essential that cases subjected to operation should be kept under supervision for several years, in case of relapse of the disease, to ensure movements of the joint being carried out when the joint is intended to be movable, and to prevent deformities and abnormal attitudes when it is intended to be rigid. Massage, douching, electricity, and exercises promote the recovery of function. When the patient is able to resume the use of the limb, the wasting of muscles and the retardation of the growth of the limb are likely to be recovered from. Treatment of deformities resulting from tuberculous joint disease by operation has almost entirely replaced the former attempts by forcible reduction. The contracted soft parts are divided, and the bone is divided or resected where there is undesirable osseous ankylosis. The treatment of relapse or recrudescence is carried out on the same lines as for the original disease, and should be had recourse to as soon as it is recognised. Amputation of a limb for tuberculous joint disease is becoming one of the rare operations in surgery. It is only employed where recovery is otherwise hopeless. The general health and age of the patient and the occurrence of local and general septic complications are the chief determining factors. Amputation should never be performed unless it secures a complete removal of the disease both in the bones and in the soft parts. Other things being equal, there is less hesitation in having recourse to amputation in the lower than in the upper limb. Syphilitic Diseases of Joints. Although comparatively rare, it is probable that the frequency of syphilitic affections of joints has been underestimated, many cases being incorrectly diagnosed. As in tuberculosis, they may occur primarily in the joint structures, or may be secondary to disease in one of the adjacent bones. In acquired syphilis joint affections may occur during the secondary or tertiary period of the disease. In the secondary stage the disease may assume the form of