TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. 283 the sac is pressed against the artery, and the artery slightly kinked. The limb below the aneurysm is bandaged, and the flexed attitude is maintained for several hours. Reid’s Method by Elastic Bandage.—In aneurysms of the limbs the principle of compression may be applied after the method of Reid. An elastic bandage is firmly applied from the fingers or toes to just below the aneurysm. It is lightly applied as it passes over the swelling, and again tightened above. As the circulation through the limb is thus completely arrested, the bandage must not be left on for more than an hour, for fear of inducing gangrene. As the bandage is being removed the artery should be controlled by digital pressure to prevent a sudden inflow of blood disturbing the clot which may have formed. This pressure should be maintained for some hours. In view of the uncertainty of the results, the discomfort to the patient, and the trouble involved in carrying out these various methods of compression, the application of a ligature— which is merely another way of carrying out the same principle —is usually preferable. Other Methods of Treatment.—Various methods have been employed to induce coagulation by the introduction into the sac of foreign bodies. Of these the safest and most satisfactory are Macewen’s acupuncture or “ needling ” method, electrolysis as advocated by John Duncan, and the Moore-Corradi method. These procedures are specially indicated in internal aneurysms, and in external aneurysms—such as gluteal, sciatic, or vertebral aneurysms—which are so situated that the methods already described are rendered impracticable. Macewen’s method consists in passing one or more fine, highly tempered steel needles into the aneurysm, with the object of scarifying the inner surface of the sac. The needles are made to touch the opposite wall of the sac, and the pulsation of the aneurysm imparts the necessary movement to them. The blood coagulates on the rough surface produced, and the clot thus formed increases in size till it may fill the sac of the aneurysm. As much of the inner aspect of the sac as can be reached should be scarified, to increase the area of clot formation and to render the clot uniformly thick. The needles may be left in position for some hours, the projecting ends being surrounded with sterile gauze. Electrolysis is applied to an aneurysm in the same way as to a naevus. The results, however, are not so satisfactory, the clot formed showing a tendency to become reabsorbed after temporarily effecting an improvement. The results seem to be best when the