THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 258 temperature usually rises one or two degrees. There is marked swelling and tenderness along the line of the affected vein, and the skin over it is a dull-red or purple colour. The swollen vein may be felt as a firm cord, with bead-like enlargements in the position of the valves. The patient experiences a feeling of stiffness and tightness through the limb. There is often con- siderable cedematous swelling of the leg and foot, especially when the limb is in the dependent position. The acute symptoms pass off in a few days, but the swelling and tender- ness of the vein and the oedema of the limb may last for many weeks. When the deep veins—iliac, femoral, popliteal—are involved there is usually great swelling of the whole limb, which is of a firm, almost “ wooden ” consistence, and of a pale-white colour. This is most often seen in puerperal women, and is known as phlegmasia alba dolens. The treatment consists in placing the patient at absolute rest with the foot of the bed raised on blocks ten or twelve inches high and the limb fixed by sand-bags or splints. It is necessary to avoid handling the parts, lest the clot be disturbed and embolism occur. Warm antiseptic fomentations (1 in 40 carbolic) covered with a thick layer of cotton wool, and changed at long intervals,—say twice in the twenty-four hours,—are useful in soothing the pain and reducing the swelling. To avoid frequent movement of the limb the dressings should be kept in position by means of a many-tailed rather than a roller bandage. When the danger of embolism is past, douching and gentle massage may be employed to disperse the oedema ; and when the patient gets up he should wear a supporting elastic bandage. The general treatment varies with the condition of the patient. When the phlebitis is a complication of varicose veins, these should be treated by operation, as recurrence of the inflamma- tion is liable to take place. The suppurative form usually begins as a peri-phlebitis arising in connection with some septic focus in the adjacent tissues. The elements of the vessel wall are destroyed by suppuration, and the thrombus in its lumen soon becomes infected with pyogenic bacteria and undergoes suppuration. In some cases the organisms reach the thrombus directly from the blood-stream, in others from infected ligatures or instruments—as, for example, in operations for varicose veins or haemorrhoids. Portions of the softened thrombus are very liable to become detached and to enter the circulating blood, in which they are