TUBERCULOSIS. 142 The swelling may attain a considerable size without the patient being aware of its existence, and, as a matter of fact, it is often discovered accidentally. There is an absence of the ordinary signs of inflammation ; but if the patient is under observation, and a record kept of the daily temperature, a slight rise may be noted in the evening during the development and progress of the abscess. There is frequently a quiescent stage of the tuberculous abscess, which is not at- tended with any rise of temperature. According to its situation and mode of origin, the abscess varies in size from a small cherry to a cavity con- taining several pints of pus. The shape of the abscess varies; it is usually that of a flattened sphere, but it may present pockets or bur- rows running in various directions. Sometimes the abscess is hour-glass or dumb-bell shaped; this is well illustrated in the region of the groin in disease of the spine or pelvis, where there may be one large sac occupying the venter ilii, and a smaller one in the thigh, the two communicating by a narrow channel under Poupart’s ligament. By press- ing with the fingers the pus may be displaced from one compartment to the other. Occasionally the progress Fig. 26.—A young woman, of the abscess is arrested, and it may showing (1) a Cold Abscess remain stationary for an indefinite of the Back; (2) Tubercu- pelqotp The usual course of events, Neck subsequent to Disease however, is that the abscess pro - in the Glands. gresses slowly, and finally reaches a free surface — usually the skin. As it does so there may be some pain, redness, and local elevation of temperature. Fluctuation becomes more and more evident and superficial, and the skin becomes livid and finally gives way. If the case is left to nature, the discharge of pus continues, and the track opening on the skin surface remains as a sinus. The persistence of suppuration is due to the presence in the wall of the abscess and of the sinus, of tubercle bacilli and tuberculous granulation tissue, which, so long as they remain, continue to furnish discharge, and so prevent healing. Sooner or later