FRACTURES OF UPPER END OF HUMERUS. 449 nature is overlooked. Pressure on the axillary vessels and nerves lias in some instances led to gangrene of the arm. Treatment.—This injury is treated on the same general lines as fracture of the surgical neck, but the details are usually more difficult to carry out, on account of the shortness of the upper fragment, the extensive laceration of soft parts which usually occurs, and the restlessness and intractability of the patient. The difficulty is greatest when the separation is complete or the lesion compound. General anaesthesia is almost always necessary to secure satisfactory reduction, and retention is often only possible if the patient is confined to bed and an extension apparatus applied. Operative treatment is more frequently called for than in fracture of the surgical neck. In some cases it is possible to replace the fragments and fix them in position by pegs or wire ; more frequently resection of the upper end of the diaphysis is necessary before they can be approximated ; and in some cases it has even been found necessary to remove the epiphysis. Fractures of the Head, Anatomical Neck, and Tuberosities of Humerus.—These fractures are met with as accompaniments of dislocations of the shoulder, and as results of gunshot wounds, blows, or falls. In sub-coracoid dislocations the head of the humerus is often indented by coming in contact with the anterior edge of the glenoid cavity. The anatomical neck may be fractured by a direct blow on the shoulder in an old person. In a few rare cases the fracture is entirely intra-capsular, the head of the bone remaining loose in the cavity of the joint. As a rule, however, the fracture passes through the anatomical neck only on the inner side, diverging into the tuberosities externally. In some cases there is impaction, and in others comminution of the fragments. The use of the X-rays has shown that in many cases of severe contusion of the shoulder, followed by prolonged stiffness, the anatomical neck has been fractured. The tuberosities may be implicated in other fractures in this region, and either of them may be separated by muscular or by direct violence. Clinically all these injuries are difficult to diagnose with accuracy, and in many cases it is impossible to go further than to say that a fracture exists above the level of the surgical neck. Fracture of the anatomical neck is attended with little deformity beyond slight flattening of the shoulder and shortening of the upper arm. When the great tuberosity is torn off, considerable VOL. I—29