INJURIES OF BONES. 406 of fractures apply, equally to epiphysial separations, and the special points will be described later. Repair op Injuries of Bone. The essential steps of the reparative process in fractures, osteotomies, and resections of bone resemble each other so closely that it is convenient to consider them together. In a simple fracture the periosteum and the marrow are usually torn at the same time as the bone is broken. Bleeding therefore occurs around and between the fragments, and a blood-clot is formed. This clot is soon permeated by newly formed blood- vessels, by leucocytes and fibroblasts, the latter being derived from proliferation of the cells of the marrow and periosteum. The granulation tissue thus formed resembles in every particular that described in the repair of other tissues, except that the fibroblasts, being the offspring of cells which normally form bone, assume the functions of osteoblasts, and proceed to the formation of new bone. The bone may be formed either by a direct conversion of the fibrous tissue into osseous tissue, the osteoblasts arranging themselves concentrically in the recesses of the capillary loops, and secreting a homogeneous matrix in which lime-salts are speedily deposited; or there may be an intermediate stage of cartilage formation, as occurs so extensively in the normal development of bone in the foetus. The newly formed bone is at first arranged in little masses or in the form of rods which unite with each other to form a network of spongy bone, the meshes of which contain marrow. The reparative material, consisting of granulation tissue in the process of conversion into bone is called callus, on account of its hard and unyielding character. In a fracture of a long bone, that which surrounds the fragments is called the external or ensheathmg callus, and may be likened to the mass of solder which surrounds the junction of pipes in plumber-work; that which occupies the position of the medullary canal is called the internal or medullary callus ; and that which intervenes between the fragments and maintains the continuity of the cortical compact tissue of the shaft of the original bone is called the intermediate callus. This intermediate callus is the only portion of the reparative material which is permanent, the external and internal callus being only temporary, and being reabsorbed through the agency of giant cells as in normal ossification. Detached fragments or splinters of bone may be incorporated in the callus and made use of in repair, or they may be absorbed.