15 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY. either by injecting into an animal a series of non-lethal doses of an organism or its toxins ; or (b) by injecting the serum of an animal highly immunised by the previous method into a second animal. The latter is the principle on which the modern anti- toxin method of treatment is based, and it may act either against specific toxins, as in the case of the anti-diphtheric and the anti-tetanus sera (antitoxic sera), or against specific organ- isms, as in the anti-streptococcic serum (anti-microbic sera). The antitoxic serum is produced by a process of which the following are the essential steps : — (1) a powerful toxin is obtained from artificial cultures of a highly virulent organism. (2) The power of this toxin is estimated by experimental injec- tions into animals of known weight, until a standard of toxicity is obtained; (3) a large animal, for example, the horse, after being rendered immune by gradually increasing doses of this toxin, is bled aseptically, and the serum after separating is ready for use, 0'5 per cent of carbolic acid being added to prevent decomposition. (4) By experiments on animals the immunising value (“unit of immunity”) of this serum is then obtained, and the clinical dose determined. Clinical Use of Antitoxic Sera.—Each antitoxic serum has its own appropriate dose depending upon the value of its unit of immunity. Every precaution must be taken to prevent organ- ismal contamination of the serum or of the apparatus by means of which it is injected. Syringes are so made that they can be sterilised by boiling. The best situations for injection are under the skin of the abdomen, the thorax, or the buttock, and the skin at the seat of puncture should be previously purified. If the bulk of the full dose is large, it should be divided and injected into different parts of the body, not more than 20 c.c. being injected at one place. Bacteriological Diagnosis. — For purposes of diagnosis various facts regarding the morphology and life-history of bacteria are made use of. Thus by means of the microscope the general histological characters may be studied after staining with certain aniline dyes. Again, different organisms vary in their behaviour on such artificial culture-media as gelatin, agar- agar, bouillon, potato, etc., with regard to the rapidity and direction of growth; the colour and smell of the growing colonies; and the effect these have upon the medium in which they grow, some species evolving gases, others changing the chemical reaction of the medium. Variations also occur de- pending on the temperature at which the organisms are incubated, the presence or absence of oxygen, and other like conditions