705 GENU VARUM. invariably bilateral and of rachitic origin (Fig. 244). It is frequently associated with bowdegs. The tibia takes a greater share in its production than the femur. Although an ungainly deformity, it is much less frequently the source of complaint than knock-knee, because it does not interfere with locomotion —as a matter of fact, the subjects of it, although short in stature, are unusually sturdy on their legs. Treatment is carried out on the same lines as in genu valgum. If an operation is required to straighten the limbs, the tibia should be divided below the knee in the first instance. In adolescents it may also be necessary to divide the fibula. If by this the deformity is not corrected, the femur should be divided above the condyles. It may even be necessary to divide the shafts of the tibia and fibula, especially where there is bow-leg as well. This should be performed, however, at a subsequent operation. Congenital Deficiencies of the Bones of the Leg.—The tibia may be partly or completely absent. In either case the leg is short and stunted, the knee is flexed, the foot occupies the position of extreme equino-varus, and the limb is useless. The exact nature of the defect is demonstrated by the Rontgen rays. When the upper end of the tibia is absent, the fibula articulates with the external condyle of the femur. The operative treat- ment is difficult; it aims at correcting the flexion at the knee, the equino-varus of the foot, and substituting the fibula for the absent tibia. The deficiency of the upper end may be com- pensated for by implanting the head of the fibula between the condyles of the femur, and that at the lower end by splitting the fibula so as to form a socket for the astragalus. If the lower end of the tibia is present, it may be prepared as a socket for the fibula after cutting this bone across. If an operation fails or is inapplicable, the deformed leg may be amputated to allow of the patient using an artificial limb. The fibula may be partly or completely absent. The clinical appearances depend upon the condition of the tibia. When the tibia is normal, the most notable feature is the absence of the outer ankle bone, and the extreme valgus attitude of the foot. More commonly the tibia presents a sharp forward bend just below its middle, and the overlying skin presents a dimple or scar-like depression. This has usually been regarded as an intra-uterine fracture of the tibia, but the observations of Hofla negative this view. Both the bend of the bone and the de- pression on the skin would appear to be due to pressure exercised upon the leg from without by means of an amniotic band or VOL. 1—45