238 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. sufficiently to enable it to be purified, and to permit of tlie damaged vessel being ligatured above and below the puncture. In some cases it may be possible to suture the opening in the vessel wall. When circumstances prevent this treatment being carried out, the bleeding may be arrested by making firm pressure over the wound with a pad. This procedure, how- ever, is liable to be followed by the formation of a traumatic aneurysm. Incised Wounds.—We here refer only to such incised wounds as partially divide the vessel wall. Longitudinal incised wounds show little tendency to gape, and are, therefore, not attended with much bleeding. They usually heal rapidly, but, like punctured wounds, are liable to be followed by the formation of a traumatic aneurysm. When the incision in the vessel wall is oblique or transverse, however, the retraction of the muscular coat causes the opening to gape, with the result that there is profuse haemorrhage, which, even in comparatively small arteries, may prove dangerous. When the associated wound in the soft parts is valvular a traumatic aneurysm may develop. An incompletely divided artery should be ligatured above and below the wound and divided between the ligatures. Large trunks-—such as the external iliac, the femoral, the common carotid, the brachial, and the popliteal—have been successfully sutured after having been partially divided, usually in the course of an operation. Fine silk or catgut stitches are passed through the adventitia and media after the method of Lembert, a thin, round needle being employed. Part of the sheath of the vessel or of an adjacent fascia should be stitched over the line of sutures in the vessel wall. If septic infection has been excluded there is little risk of thrombosis or secondary haemorrhage. Gunshot wounds of blood-vessels have been already referred to (p. 214). Injuries of Yeins. Veins are subject to the same forms of injury as arteries, and the results are in most respects alike in both, such varia- tions as occur being dependent partly on the difference in their anatomical structure, and partly on the conditions of the circulation through them. Subcutaneous rupture of veins occurs under the same condi- tions as the corresponding injury of arteries, and more particularly in association with fractures and in the reduction