415 TRAUMATIC DISLOCATIONS. and arrangement of its ligaments ; (3) the support it receives from muscles or tendons placed in relation to it ; and (4) the relative stability of adjacent structures. While all these factors contribute to the strength of a given joint, one or other of them usually predominates, so that certain joints are osseously strong, others are ligamentously strong, while a few depend chiefly upon adjacent muscles for their stability. The hip and elbow are the best examples of joints deriving then- strength mainly from the architectural arrangement of the constituent bones. These joints are dislocated only by extreme degrees of violence, and not infrequently—especially in the elbow—portions of the bones are fractured before the articular surfaces are separated. The wrist, the carpal, the tarsal, and the clavicular joints, on the other hand, depend for their stability almost entirely on the strength of their ligaments. These joints are rarely dislocated, but as the main incidence of the violence falls on the ligaments they are very frequently sprained. The knee also is a ligamentously strong joint, and is further strengthened by its intra-articular ligaments. The shoulder is the typical example of a joint depending for its security chiefly upon the muscles and tendons passing over it, and hence the frequency with which it is dislocated. At the same time the great mobility of the scapula and clavicle materially increase the stability of the shoulder-joint. It is probable that the tendons passing in relation to the knee, ankle, and wrist materially add to the stability of these joints. The proximity of an easily fractured bone also contributes to prevent dislocation of certain joints—for example, fracture of the clavicle prevents an impinging force expending itself on the slioulder-joint; and the frequency of Colles’ fracture of the radius, and of Pott’s fracture of the fibula, doubtless accounts to some extent for the rarity of dis- location of the wrist and ankle joints respective^. The immunity from dislocation which the joints of young subjects enjoy is partly due to the ease with which the adjacent epiphyses are separated. The mechanical axiom that “what is gained in movement is lost in stability” is true of joints, those joints which have the widest range of movement being the most frequently dislocated. Causes.—The majority of dislocations are the result of indirect violence, the more movable bone acting as a lever, on a fulcrum furnished by the natural check to movement in the form of ligament, bone, or muscle. In this way most disloca- tions of the shoulder, hip, and elbow are produced. At the moment the violence is applied the muscles are relaxed, or otherwise taken at a disadvantage, so that the joint is for the time being deprived of their support. The joint is moved beyond its physiological range, and the end of one of the bones brought to bear upon the ligaments, tears them, and passes through the rent thus made. The muscles then contract reflexly, and pull the head of the bone into an-unnatural position outside the capsule. The position assumed will depend upon such factors as the direction of the force, the shape of the joint, the position of the limb at the time of the accident, and the relative