102 GANGRENE. feeble, rapid, and irregular. Unless promptly treated by amputation, death usually follows within thirty-six or forty- eight hours. Even early operation does not always avert the fatal issue, because the quantity of toxin absorbed and its extreme virulence are often more than even a robust subject can outlive. Prophylaxis.-—-Strenuous efforts must be made to purify thoroughly all such wounds as are contaminated by earth, street dust, stable refuse, or other forms of gross dirt. The scissors should be freely used to remove badly bruised or torn tissue, and no attempt should be made to close the wound by stitches. Rather should it be kept open with drainage-tubes or iodoform gauze or worsted inserted into its corners and crevices to ensure free drainage. As the organisms associated with this condi- tion are mostly anaerobic, the use of peroxide of hydrogen is indicated. Treatment.—For acute gangrene no treatment short of amputation is of any avail, and the sooner this is done the greater is the hope of saving the patient. The limb must be amputated well beyond the gangrenous area, through a part where there is good reason to believe that the main artery is unobstructed, and where the tissues are neither bruised, lacerated, nor oedematous. Thorough antiseptic pre- paration of the region selected, and stringent precautions to avoid discharge from the already gangrenous area reach- ing the operation wound, are of the utmost importance. An assistant or nurse, who is to take no other part in the operation, is told off to carry out this preliminary purification; to wrap the part to be removed in carbolised towels; and to hold the limb during the operation. When the disease has spread so high that amputation above it is impossible, the dead part may be removed, and the surface of the stump sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen and then sponged over with pure carbolic acid. Anti-streptococcic serum has apparently proved of service in a certain number of cases. The patient must be freely stimulated after the operation, and fed with nutritious fluid food. Malignant (Edema.—This form of acute spreading gangrene has been shown to be due to a specific organism, the bacillus of malignant oedema, which is found in garden soil, dung, and various putrefying animal substances. It is anaerobic, and occurs as long, thick rods with somewhat rounded ends and several laterally-placed flagella. Spores, having a very high power of resistance, form in the centre of the rod, and bulge