INJURIES. •218 It must be observed, however, that burns met with at the bedside always illustrate more than one of these degrees. The deeper forms are always associated with those less deep, and the clinical picture is made up of the combined characters of all. A burn is classified in terms of its most severe portion. It is also to be remarked that the extent and severity of a burn usually prove to be greater than at first sight appears. Burns of the first degree are associated with erythema of the skin, due to hypersemia of its blood-vessels, and result from scorching by flame, from contact with solids or fluids below 212° F., or from exposure to the sun’s rays. They are charac- terised clinically by acute pain, redness, transitory swelling from oozing of serum into the tissues, and subsequent des- quamation. Burns of the Second Degree— Vesication of'the Skin.—These are characterised by the occurrence of vesicles or blisters which are scattered over the hypersemic area, and contain a clear yellowish or brownish fluid. On removing the raised epidermis the con- gested and highly-sensitive papillae of the skin are exposed. Unna has found that pyogenic bacteria are invariably present in these blisters. Burns of the second degree leave no per- manent scar but a persistent discoloration often results. In rare instances the burned area may become the seat of keloid. Burns of Third Degree—Partial Destruction of the True Skin. — The epidermis and papillae are destroyed in patches, leaving hard, dry, and insensitive sloughs of a yellow or black colour. The pain in these burns is intense, but passes off during the first or second day, to return again, however, when, about the end of a week, the sloughs separate and expose the nerve filaments of the underlying skin. Granulations spring up to fill the gap, and are rapidly covered by epithelium, derived partly from the margins and partly from the remains of skin glands which have not been completely destroyed. These latter appear on the surface of the granula- tions as small bluish islets which gradually increase in size, become of a greyish-white colour, and ultimately blend with one another and with the edges. The resulting cicatrix may be slightly depressed, but other-wise exhibits little tendency to con- traction and deformity. Burns of Fourth Degree—Total Destruction of the True Skin.—These follow the prolonged application of any form of intense heat. Large, black, dry eschars are formed, surrounded by a zone of intense congestion (Fig. 40). As the cutaneous nerves are completely destroyed pain is not severe. Septic