469 FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. pronator radii teres, its upper fragment may be supinated by the biceps and supinator brevis, while the lower fragment remains in the usual semi-prone position. If union takes place in this position the power of complete supination is perma- nently lost. The usual symptoms of fracture are present, and there is seldom any difficulty in diagnosis. The prognosis must be guarded, especially with regard to the preservation of pronation and supination. These move- ments may be interfered with if union takes place in a bad position with angular or rotatory deformity of one or both bones, or by excessive callus formation leading to locking of the bones. Persistent angular deformity of the forearm is also liable to result, either from failure to correct the displacement primarily, or from subsequent bending due to ill-applied splints or slings. Want of union, or the formation of a false joint in one or both bones, is sometimes met with, and seriously impairs the useful- ness of the limb. A considerable number of cases of gangrene of the limb after simple fracture of the forearm are on record. This is sometimes attributable to damage inflicted upon the blood-vessels by the fractured bones, or to the force which caused the fracture, but is oftener due to the application of a roller bandage underneath the splints strangulating the limb, to injudiciously applied pads, or to too tight bandaging over the splints. In uncomplicated cases union takes place in from three to four weeks. Treatment.—To ensure accurate reduction and coaptation a general ansesthetic is usually necessary. In the greenstick variety the bones must be forcibly straightened, the fracture being rendered complete, if necessary, for this purpose. The most convenient apparatus for the retention of the fracture consists of Gooch splints, cut so as to overlap the forearm by about half an inch on each side, to avoid lateral compression of the forearm whereby the fractured ends are made to encroach upon the interosseous space. The dorsal splint is usually made to extend from the olecranon to the knuckles, and the palmar one from the bend of the elbow to the flexure in the middle of the palm, a piece being cut out to avoid pressure on the ball of the thumb (Fig. 120). The splints are padded, and applied with the wooden side next the limb, so that they form two sides of a box, the other sides being formed by the retainin bandage. The splints are applied with the elbow flexed to P crq