PREVENTION OF WOUND-INFECTION. 31 epithelium. The nails should first be cut down till there is no sulcus between the nail edge and the pulp of the finger in which organisms may lodge. The hands are then thoroughly washed in hot running water and scrubbed with a nail-brush which has been previously sterilised by boiling, and kept in a 1-1000 solution of corrosive sublimate. They are next washed in 85 per cent alcohol, and the excess of alcohol removed by rinsing in sterilised water. Finally, they are rubbed with wet sterilised gauze. The whole profess occupies about ten minutes. On account of the difficulty of rendering the hands surgically pure, many surgeons recommend the wearing of cotton gloves, originally introduced by Mikulicz, while operating. It is necessary to change the gloves frequently during the course of a prolonged operation, because when they become moist with blood or other fluids they are permeable to the skin secretions, and organisms from the folds and ducts of the skin which have escaped the pre- paratory cleansing may pass through the meshes of the cotton and so reach the wound. By Kocher the gloves are chiefly used in ligaturing the blood-vessels and inserting sutures, with a view to preventing the catgut or silk being contaminated by coming into contact with the surgeon’s hands. Preparation of the Skin of the Patient.—In the purification of the skin of the patient before operation, reliance is chiefly to be placed in the mechanical removal of dirt and grease by the same means as are taken for the cleansing of the surgeon’s hands. Hair-covered parts should be shaved. The skin is then dehydrated by washing with alcohol, and this is followed by 1 in 1000 sublimate or biniodide solution. For some hours before the operation the part is covered by a moist compress of 1 in 60 carbolic. In children a compress of 1 per cent formalin left on for twenty-four hours is safer than carbolic solution, which is apt to be absorbed. Immediately before the operation the skin is purified in the same way as the surgeon’s hands. If any acne pustules or septic sinuses are present, they should be destroyed or purified by means of the thermo-cautery or pure carbolic acid, after the patient is anaesthetised. Instruments which are not damaged by heat must be boiled in a fish-kettle or other suitable steriliser for fifteen minutes in soda solution or lysol. Just before the operation begins they are removed in the tray of the steriliser and placed on a sterilised towel within reach of the surgeon or his assistant. If a special assistant is employed to look after the instruments, he should protect his hands by gloves after having washed them thoroughly. Knives and instruments which are liable to