176 SYPHILIS. been really acquired at or soon after birth and is not of the inherited type. There is general agreement that the subjects of inherited syphilis cannot transmit the disease by inheritance to their offspring, and that although they very rarely acquire the disease de novo, it is quite possible for them to do so when exposed to infection in the ordinary way. Prognosis of Inherited Syphilis.—Although responsible for a large, but apparently diminishing, mortality in infancy, the subjects of inherited syphilis may grow up to be as strong and healthy as their neighbours. It is quite the exception to meet with a succession or persistence of the more severe gummatous lesions described as occurring in the skin, in the nose and throat, and in the bones. Hutchinson insists on the fact that there is very little bad health in the general population which can be attributed to inherited syphilis. Treatment.—The prevention of inherited syphilis has been already considered in relation to the question of the marriage of patients who have acquired the disease. It should be added with regard to the mother that she should take mercury during pregnancy if she has recently suffered from syphilis or if several previous pregnancies have resulted in abortion or in early death of the child (Fournier). The mercury should be given in small doses during the whole time of pregnancy. As regards the infant, it should, if possible, be nursed by its mother, and failing this it should be fed by hand. On the first appearance of syphilitic manifestations it should be brought under the influence of mercury. This is best given as grey powder in half or one grain doses thrice daily : it may be mixed with powdered sugar, or, if digestive derangements arise, may be combined with bismuth or soda. As a rule the grey powder is remarkably well borne by infants, and if they continue to thrive under it, it should be given for from three to six months after all symptoms have disappeared. If the internal administration of mercury does not suit the infant, it may be replaced by a modified inunction. The dilute oleate of mercury is rubbed into the sides of the chest and abdomen, or is applied on the flannel binder twice or thrice weekly. The local lesions are treated on the same lines as in the acquired disease. The general health should be improved in every possible direction; considerable benefit may be derived from the use of cod-liver oil, and from prepara- tions containing iron and calcium. The gummatous lesions are treated on the same lines as in the acquired disease, but it should be pointed out that in inherited syphilis they are frequently