INNOCENT AND MALIGNANT TUMOURS. 179 and lie dormant until they are excited into active growth and give rise to a tumour. This method of origin is illustrated by the development of dermoids from sequestrated portions of the epidermis. Among the local factors concerned in the development of tumours, reference must be made to the influence of irritation and inflammation. These are probably important agents in the causation of many of the tumours met with in the skin and in mucous membranes—for example, cancer of the skin, of the lip, and of the tongue. The part played by a definite injury is doubtful. It not infrequently happens that the development of a tumour is preceded by an injury of the part in which it grows, but it does not necessarily follow that the injury and the tumour are related as cause and effect. It is possible that an injury may stimulate into active growth undifferentiated tissue elements or “ rests,” and so determine the growth of a tumour, or that it may alter the characters of a tumour which already exists, causing it to grow more rapidly. The view that the development of tumours is determined by micro-organisms, which has attracted so much attention in recent years, is still under discussion and investigation. The popular belief that there is some constitutional peculiarity concerned in the causation of tumours is largely based on the fact that certain forms of new growth—for example, cancer—are known to occur with undue frequency in certain families. Some innocent tumours—particularly multiple osteomata and lipomata —are hereditary in the same sense as congenital deformities, such as supernumerary or webbed fingers, and may appear in members of the same family through several generations. Innocent and Malignant Tumours. For clinical purposes tumours are arbitrarily divided into two great classes—the innocent and the malignant. The outstanding difference between these two classes is that the evil effects of innocent tumours are merely local and depend for their severity on the environment of the growth, while malignant tumours wherever situated, in addition to producing local effects, injure the general health of the patient and ultimately cause his death. Innocent, benign, or simple tumours present a close structural resemblance to the normal tissues of the body. They grow slowly, and are usually definitely circumscribed by a fibrous capsule. They are easily enucleated from their capsule, and they do not tend to recur after removal. In their growth they