RICKETS. 587 are often abnormally mobile and the limbs may be twisted about in abnormal directions, and the knee may be hyperextended (igenu recurvatum). In Older Children who are ahle to walk.—The most important deformities met with at this age occur in the spine, pelvis, and lower extremities, and result from arrest of growth and from yielding of the softened bones under the weight of the body. Scoliosis is the usual type of spinal curvature, and in extreme cases may lead to a pronounced form of hump-back. The pelvis may simply remain small, or it may be contracted or flattened in the sagittal plane ; when the bones are unusually soft the acetabular portions are pushed inwards and the pelvis assumes the shape of a trefoil, as in the malacia of adult women. In the lower extremities the shaft of the femur is curved forwards and outwards, the bones of the leg outwards as in bow - leg, or forwards, or forwards and outwards just above the ankle. The deformities at the knee (genu valgum and genu varum) and at the hip (coxa vara) will be described with deformities. Clinical Features.—Although rickets may be met with at or soon after birth, it is usually not until the child is three or four months old that the disease manifests itself, and sometimes not until the second year. The mother notices that the child per- spires excessively during sleep, especially about the head, it is restless and throws off the clothes, is disinclined to be moved, and cries unless very gently handled. Its muscles become soft and flabby, and it is liable to attacks of diarrhoea and of bronchial catarrh. Dentition is delayed, and the teeth are apt to appear in the wrong order. The child is late in learning to walk, and easily unlearns it. On examination there is no difficulty in recognising the changes in the skeleton which have been already described. The cranium is most often affected in young infants, the spine, thorax, and arms in those a little older, and the lower extremities in children in whom the disease has developed com- paratively late. The abdomen is prominent, partly from flatulent distension of the bowels, partly from downward displacement of the liver which is sometimes enlarged, and from weakness of the belly walls ; it appears larger from contrast with the contracted chest. The spleen may be enlarged. The weakness of the muscles of the trunk and limbs may be so pronounced as to excite the suspicion of a lesion of the spinal cord ; and there may be an increased excitability of the central nervous system, shown by the occurrence of laryngismus stridulus or of general convulsions. Rickety children present little resistance to infective diseases,