302 THE LYMPHATICS. with an exploring needle it yields lymph instead of blood. It may also resemble a congenital lipoma, especially that growing from the periosteum, and the differential diagnosis is rarely completed until the swelling is punctured or explored by operation. The cystic lymphangioma presents all the features of a cystic tumour. It is most often met with in the neck, springing from beneath the deep fascia, and projecting either in front of or behind the sterno-mastoid. It may attain a very large size, in which case the cyst wall may be so thin as to be translucent. It is also known under the names of hydrocele of the neck and congenital cystic hygroma. When it occurs on the floor of the mouth, it constitutes one form of ranula. It is also met with in the axilla (Fig. 53). These swellings are distinguished from dermoids by their having thinner walls, and in being less definitely circumscribed. A remarkable feature is the tendency they present to attacks of inflammation, which are usually followed by shrinkage and disappearance of the swelling. Sometimes the cystic variety is converted into an abscess—another, although less desirable method of cure. Those situated in the neck are most liable to become inflamed, probably because of pyogenic infection being brought to them by lymphatic vessels from the scalp, ear, or throat. The frequency of spontaneous cure explains the rarity of such cysts after puberty. Treatment.—The cavernous lymphangioma may be left alone, or may be subjected to electrolysis or excision. Complete excision is rarely possible, because of the want of definition and encapsulation. The cystic form may be injected with iodine or tapped and drained, or it may be excised. Diseases of Lymphatic Glands. Lymphadenitis.—Inflammation of lymphatic glands usually results from the absorption of an irritant, usually bacterial or toxic, brought to the glands by the afferent lymphatics. These vessels may share in the inflammation and be the seat of lymphangitis, or they may show no evidence of the passage of the irritant. It is exceptional for the irritant to be carried to the gland in the blood-stream. Strain or other form of trauma is sometimes blamed for the onset of lymphadenitis, especially in the glands of the groin, but it is usually possible to discover some source of pyogenic infection which is responsible for the mischief, or to obtain a history of some antecedent affection such as gonorrhoea. It is