SYPHILIS. 152 Diagnosis.—The differential diagnosis necessitates the con- sideration of the soft sore, soft chancre, or chancroid, which is also a common form of venereal disease, especially in men. It has nothing to do with syphilis, only it occurs in the same situation as the hard sore, and is acquired in the same way. Soft sores are always contracted by direct contact from another individual. There is reason to believe that women may be the carriers of the poison without themselves actually suffering from soft sores. They belong to the class of septic diseases, and result from infection with a virulent pus-forming bacillus, first described by Ducrey. The incubation period is a short one of from two to five days. The sores are most often situated in the vicinity of the fnenum of the prepuce. They commence as pustules which are rapidly converted into small, acutely-inflamed ulcers with sharply-cut, irregular margins, and an abundant yellow purulent discharge. They are devoid of the characteristic in- duration of syphilis ; they are painful and nearly always multiple, reproducing themselves in successive crops by auto-inoculation. Soft sores are frequently complicated with phimosis and balanitis, and occasionally with phagedama. They frequently lead to infection of the glands in the groin, and the resulting bubo is very different from that associated with primary syphilis. It is ill-defined, painful, and very tender; the overlying skin which is infiltrated becomes adherent and red, and suppuration takes place either in the form of separate foci in the interior of the individual glands, or around them, so that on incision the glands may be found lying bathed in pus. If the suppuration is left to nature it may cause considerable undermining of the skin before the pus bursts externally. The buboes associated with soft sore are probably the result of infection with the same bacillus as is found in the sore itself. Soft sores heal rapidly when kept thoroughly clean. They may be touched with bluestone or lightly dusted with a powder consisting of one part iodoform and three parts boracic acid. The sore is then covered with a gauze dressing kept in position by drawing the prepuce over it, or by a few turns of a narrow bandage or strip of plaster. If the sores tend to spread or to give rise to fresh ones in their vicinity, they should be touched with pure carbolic acid. If there is phimosis with balanitis, the prepuce must either be washed out at frequent intervals or removed by circumcision; in the latter case bluestone should be rubbed into the raw' surface made at the operation. When the glands in the groin become inflamed the patient must be ■■onfined to bed and a carbolic or lead and opium fomentation