387 FRACTURES. external violence or muscular strain, it follows that individual fractures conform more or less closely to a particular type. Thus the “ typical fracture ” of the clavicle resulting from in- direct violence occurs in the middle third of the bone and is oblique (Fig. 87); while direct violence generally produces a transverse fracture near the outer end of the bone. The typical fracture of the bones of the leg caused by direct force is trans- verse, and occurs in the lower third ; while indirect violence produces an oblique fracture of the tibia low down, and of the fibula higher up (Fig. 166). Clinical Varieties of Fractures.—The most important sub- division of fractures is that into simple and compound. In a simple or subcutaneous fracture there is no communica- tion, directly or indirectly, between the broken ends of the bone and the external air. In a compound or open fracture, on the other hand, such a communication exists, and, by furnishing a means of entrance for bacteria, adds materially to the gravity of the injury. A simple fracture may be complicated by the existence of a wound of the soft parts, which, however, does not actually com- municate with the broken bone. Fractures, whether simple or compound, fall into other clinical groups, according to (1) the degree of damage done to the bone, (2) the direction of the break, and (3) the relative position of the fragments. (1) According to the Degree of Damage done to the Bone.— Thus a fracture may be incomplete—for example, in greenstick fractures which occur only in young persons—usually below the age of twelve—while the bones are still soft and flexible. They result from forcible bending of the bone, the osseous tissue on the convexity of the curve giving way, while that on the con- cavity is compressed. The clavicle, radius, and ulna are the bones which most frequently suffer in this way (Fig. 119). Fissures may occur on the flat bones of the skull, the pelvic bones, or the scapula ; or in association with other fractures in long bones (Fig. 82), when they often run into joint surfaces. Clinically they can only be recognised when compound. De- pressions or indentations sometimes occur on long bones, but are more common in the bones of the skull. The fractured portion of bone may be broken up into several pieces, constituting a comminuted fracture. This usually results from severe degrees of direct violence, such as are sustained in railway or machinery accidents, from gunshot wounds, or from very forcible bending.