SARCOMA. 601 their normal characters; or they may become oedematous, and the subcutaneous venous network may become evident through the skin. The local elevation of temperature over the tumour, which may amount to two degrees or more, is a point of diagnostic importance. The adjacent joint usually remains intact, but its movements may be impaired from the mere bulk of the tumour, from effusion, or from portions of the tumour tissue growing towards and into the cavity of the joint. When the overlying soft parts are invaded, they become matted to each other and adherent to the skin, which is thinned, stretched, and finally sloughs. The tumour tissue then protrudes, fungates, and bleeds. These changes are sometimes hastened by puncture or incision of the swelling made for purposes of diagnosis. Pathological fracture may be an early manifestation of the disease, especially if it involves the shaft of the femur or humerus; it follows slight violence, and is unattended with much ecchymosis or swelling. The fracture very rarely consolidates, although there is often an attempt at union by the formation of cartilaginous callus. Suppuration may take place in the soft parts over the tumour, especially when an exploratory puncture has been made without antiseptic precautions. Enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands does not necessarily imply that they have become infected with sarcoma, for the enlargement may dis- appear after removal of the primary growth. Actual infection of the glands may occur, however. As the tumour progresses there is evening pyrexia, the patient emaciates, is worn out with pain, want of sleep, and superadded septic infection, and finally succumbs, with or without evidences of secondary growths. When they occur the secondary growths are most frequently met with in the lung or pleura; but they may develop in any of the organs or in other bones, or may be generalised throughout the body. The diagnosis of sarcoma of bone must be made at an early stage of the disease, in order to obtain a reasonable prospect of cure by operation. At the present day chief reliance is to be placed on information gained by examination with the X-rays and by exploratory incision, in skiagraphy chief attention is to be paid to any alteration in the contour and density of shadow of the affected bone. Exploratory incision is to be supplemented by microscopical examination of the suspected tissue. The lesions likely to be confused with sarcoma are chronic inflam- matory conditions of bone, whether staphylococcal, syphilitic,