FRACTURES OF LOWER END OF HUMERUS. 455 Clinical Features.—The elbow is flexed at an angle of 120° or 130°, and the forearm, held semi-pronated, is supported by the other hand. The olecranon projects behind, but the mutual relations of the bony points of the elbow are unaltered. The lower end of the upper fragment may be felt in front above the level of the joint, as a rough and sharp projection which some- times pierces the soft parts and renders the fracture compound. The joint movements are normal, but unnatural mobility may be detected above the level of the joint. The displacement is readily reduced by manipulation, but is usually reproduced when the support is withdrawn. The upper arm is shortened to the extent of about half an inch. Great swelling around the seat of fracture rapidly ensues, and crepitus and localised tenderness may be elicited. In rare cases the obliquity of the fracture is downward and backward, and the lower fragment is displaced forward. The inter-condylar fracture is a combination of the supra-condylar with a vertical split running through the articular surface, and so implicating the joint (Fig. 107). The condyles are thus separated from one another as well as from the shaft by a T- or Y-shaped cleft. As such fractures usually result from severe forms of direct violence, they are often comminuted and compound. In addition to the signs of supra-condylar fracture, the cavity of the joint is filled with blood. The condyles may be felt to move upon one another, and coarse crepitus, which has been likened to the feeling of a bag of beans, may be elicited if the fragments are comminuted. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the humerus is a comparatively frequent injury in children of three or four years of age. It may occur up to the thirteenth or fourteenth year, but beyond that age the lesion is usually a combination of separated epiphysis with true fracture. This lesion is produced by the same forms of violence as cause supra-condylar fracture. If the periosteum is not torn there is little or no displacement, but as a rule the clinical features closely resemble those of transverse fracture above the condyles. In separation of the Fig. 107. — Inter-condylar Fracture of Lower End of Humerus, from a crush between butters, in a man aet. 19.