CLINICAL FEATURES OF ANEURYSM. 275 between the coats of the vessel—sometimes between the intima and media, but usually into the substance of the media—and so form a cul-de-sac in the substance of the vessel wall. This is spoken of as a dissecting aneurysm. It is more common in women than in men, and occurs in very feeble subjects. It usually originates in the aorta, and may spread widely—upwards into the carotids or downwards as far as the iliacs. Sometimes the blood finds its way into the lumen of the vessel again by bursting through a weakened spot, or it may burrow right through the middle and outer coats, causing the aneurysm to become diffused. Clinical Features of Aneurysm. -Surgically the sacculated is by far the most important variety of aneurysm. The fusiform variety occurs chiefly in arteries which are inaccessible alike for diagnosis and treatment. When it occurs in more superficial arteries it is recognised by the shape and position of the pulsatile swelling. Its progress is usually so slow, it gives rise to so few symptoms, and is attended with so little risk, that even if diagnosed no active interference is as a rule called for. The treatment is entirely constitutional. The dissecting aneurysm also is seldom diagnosed during life, and no special treatment is available. We shall, therefore, confine our attention here to the sacculated, variety. The outstanding clinical feature is the existence in the line of an artery of a more or less globular swelling, which pulsates, and with each pulsation expands. The expansion is detected by observing that when both hands are placed over the swelling they are separated with each beat of the heart. If the main artery be compressed on the cardiac side of the swelling, the pulsation is arrested and the tumour diminishes and becomes less tense. It may be still further reduced in size by making- gentle pressure over it so as to empty it of fluid blood. On allowing the blood again to flow through the artery, after one or two beats of the heart the tumour fills up and the expansile pulsation returns. In most cases a distinct thrill is systolic murmur may be heard with the stethoscope. It is to be borne in mind that occasionally, when the interchange of blood between an aneurysm and the artery from which it arises is small, pulsation and bruit may be very slight or even absent. This is also the case when the sac contains a considerable quantity of clot. When it becomes filled with clot (consolidated aneurysm) these signs completely disappear, and the clinical