GENU KECURVATUM. G99 are Hail-like ancl permit of lateral movements. The treatment is more satisfactory in unilateral cases, and consists in flexing the joint to a right angle under an anmsthetic, and maintaining this attitude by means of plaster of Paris or splints until it is rvell established. The most common acquired form is the result of infantile paralysis, and will be described with the paralytic deformities. Genu recurvatum may be met with in rickets as the result of a backward bend of the tibia immediately below its upper epiphysis—sometimes combined with an exaggerated forward curve of the femur. If there is no prospect of spontaneous rectification, the upper end of the tibia should be divided with the osteotome, and the limb straightened. This deformity may result also from fracture or from separa- tion of one of the epiphyses in the region of the knee, or from cicatricial contraction of the quadriceps. As a result of bone and joint disease, it is chiefly met with in neuro-arthropathies when the knee has become disorganised and flail-like. Paralytic Deformities of the Knee.—These are commonly the result of infantile paralysis. When all the muscles acting on the knee are paralysed, the joint may be so flail-like that the patient is unable to stand without the aid of a crutch, or when the weight of the body is put on the limb it assumes the attitude of genu recurvatum. The treatment for the flail-joint is the use of a rigid apparatus or the operation of arthrodesis. When the quadriceps is completely paralysed, and the flexors are function- ally active, the tendency is towards contracture of the knee in the flexed position. This is to be combated by weight extension, forcible straightening, or open division of the shortened structures in the ham. In the event of failure by these means the femur should be divided above the condyles, and the limb put up in the attitude of slight hyperextension, as this will afford the most reliable support in the upright posture. When the quadriceps is only partially paralysed the limb acquires the attitude of genu recurvatum. The patient is obliged to maintain the joint in the position of extreme extension because he finds that the least degree of flexion results in the limb giving way under him. In course of time the posterior ligament becomes stretched, and the joint becomes hyperextended. The treatment consists in wearing an apparatus which ensures rigidity of the joint, or in transplanting the sartorius and tensor fascise femoris into the aponeurosis of the quadriceps extensor, so as to compensate for the loss of power in this muscle. In extreme cases it may be better to perform arthrodesis.