DISEASES OF JOINTS. 618 being arranged in two layers—the outer layer composed of more fully-formed connective or fibrous tissue, while the inner con- sists of embryonic tissue, usually permeated with miliary and other tubercles. On opening the joint these tubercles may be seen on the free surface of the synovial membrane, or the surface may be covered with a thin layer of fibrinous or caseous tissue, and a similar material may occupy the cavity of the joint. Where there is greater resistance on the part of the tissues, there is active formation of young connective tissue circumscribing or encapsulating the tubercles, so that they remain embedded in the substance of the synovial membrane, and are only seen on cutting into it. The new tissue formed in relation to the synovial membrane tends to be projected into the cavity of the joint, filling up its pouches and recesses, and spreading over the surface of the articular cartilages like ivy growing over a wall (Fig. 230). Wherever the synovial tissue covers the cartilage it becomes adherent to and fused with it, as covered cartilage always under- goes a retrograde metaplasia into ordinary connective tissue. The morbid process may be arrested at this stage, and may cure with fibrous adhesions between the opposing articular surfaces, or it may progress, in which case further changes occur which result in destruction of the articular cartilages and exposure of the subjacent bone. The synovial tissue covering the cartilage may at first present no evidence of the presence of tubercle, but in time it acquires the characters of a tuberculous infiltration and exhibits aggressive qualities. It then causes pitting and perforation of the cartilage, makes its way through it, and often spreads widely between it and the subjacent bone, so as to separate the cartilage, sometimes in portions of considerable size. These are the changes commonly spoken of as ulceration of cartilage. The cartilage is destroyed more rapidly and extensively when it overlies a focus in the bone, and the latter being then exposed in the joint, contributes to the progress of the disease. Changes in the bone may precede or follow upon destruction of the articular cartilage. These consist in tuberculous infiltra- tion of the marrow in the surface cancelli, and breaking up of the spongy framework of the bone into minute irregular frag- ments. This disintegration of the bone is known as caries. When the destructive changes in the articular surfaces are very pronounced, and when at the same time there is an absence of caseation and suppuration, the condition is called caries sicca. The mutual pressure of articular surfaces against one another