TREATMENT OF ULCERS. 83 acid, after which an antiseptic dressing is applied, and changed daily till healthy granulations appear. When these are slow to form, the sore may be stimulated by a dressing of boracic lint wrung out of red lotion and covered with a layer of gutta-percha tissue. So soon as the ulcer assumes the characters of a healing sore, it should be covered with Thiersch skin - grafts, which form a much better cicatrix than is left when the ulcer is allowed to heal without such aid. A more radical and very successful method of treatment consists in excising the whole ulcer and grafting the raw sui-face left. Ambulatory Treatment. — When the circumstances of the patient forbid his lying up in bed the healing of the ulcer will be much delayed. He should be instructed to take every possible opportunity of placing the limb in an elevated position; and must constantly wear a firm bandage of elastic webbing. This webbing is porous and admits of evaporation of the skin and wound secretions—an advantage it has over Martin’s rubber bandage. The bandage should extend from the toes to well above the knee, and should always be applied while the patient is in the recumbent position with the leg elevated, preferably before getting out of bed in the morning. Additional support is given to the veins if the bandage is applied as a figure-of-eight, after the method suggested by Heron-Watson. Unna’s bandage—a bandage stiffened with gelatine—is useful, but somewhat inconvenient for the class of patients who usually suffer from this condition. An inflamed ulcer is treated by rest, elevation, and the application of moist antiseptic and soothing dressings. Ichthyol ointment spread on gauze and applied to the surrounding parts is very soothing. The phagedenic ulcer is simply an aggravated form of the inflamed variety produced by some virulent organism or poison, and calls for more energetic treatment to arrest its spread, which is often rapid and destructive. The whole of the affected surface may be touched with the actual cautery at a white heat, or the surface may be painted with pure carbolic acid and a dressing of iodoform gauze applied. The irritable state of an ulcer may depend upon constitu- tional neurotic tendencies, uterine irregularities, or upon a gouty diathesis, and in treatment these must be counteracted. Locally the most satisfactory treatment is complete excision and subsequent skin-grafting. Failing this, the use of the