ARTERITIS. 255 characteristic of acute inflammation and suppuration take place in the tissues of the vessel wall, and are attended—especially in the smaller vessels—with the formation of a thrombus in the lumen. The breaking down of the wall of a vessel so affected is the chief cause of secondary haemorrhage. Sometimes the vessel ruptures into an abscess cavity, and dangerous bleeding may occur when the abscess is opened or allowed to burst. When the inflammation stops short of suppuration the softening of the vessel wall may lead to aneurysmal dilatation This occurs in embolic arteritis, and is frequently associated with disease of the valves of the heart. It is not uncommon in children, and explains many of the cases of aneurysm met with in young subjects. Syphilitic Arteritis.—The inflammation of arteries associated with syphilis results in marked thickening of the tunica intima, whereby the lumen of the vessel becomes greatly narrowed, or, it may be, even obliterated—hence the term endarteritis obliterans. The middle coat usually escapes, but the tunica adventitia is generally thickened. These changes are best seen in the smaller vessels of the brain and of the abdominal viscera, and they cause serious interference with the nutrition of the parts supplied by the affected arteries. When they occur in large trunks they are liable to lead to the formation of an aneurysm by diminishing the elasticity of the vessel wall. Changes in the arterial walls closely resembling those of syphilitic arteritis are sometimes met with in tuberculous lesions. Atheroma.—This name is applied to certain changes which occur in the deeper layers of the tunica intima whereby an increased development of young fibrous tissue takes place. In course of time this new tissue undergoes degeneration—at first usually of a fatty nature, but progressing in the direction of calcification. When this degeneration ensues, lime salts are deposited in the young fibrous tissue, and calcareous plates or rings form, sometimes over a considerable area of the vessel wall. The endothelium over these plates often disappears, leaving them exposed to the blood-stream, whereby they favour the occurrence of thrombosis. Changes of a similar kind sometimes occur in the middle coat, the lime salts being deposited among the muscle fibres in concentric rings. The primary cause of atheroma is not definitely known, but its almost constant occurrence in the aged, to a greater or less degree, suggests that it is of the nature of a senile degeneration.