ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. 163 manifestations, especially those which approach in character the lesions of the tertiary period and do not yield to mercury alone, such as lesions in the skin, throat, and nervous system. The iodide of potassium or sodium is given in five to fifteen grain doses thrice daily, either in solution along with the bichloride of mercury, or separately in the form of tablets. When iodides are given to a patient who has been taking a course of mercury, their effects must be carefully watched, as the iodides liberate mercury which has accumulated in an in- soluble form in the tissues, and salivation may result. After the termination of a twelve months’ course of mercury, and when all secondary manifestations have disappeared, French authorities recommend a two to three months’ course of the iodides alone. Treatment of the Local Manifestations. — The shin lesio?is are treated on the same lines as similar eruptions of other origin, by combating septic infection, and the removal of crusts and scabs. As local applications, preparations of mercury are usually selected, notably the ointments of the red oxide of mercury, ammoniated mercury, or oleate of mercury (5 per cent.), or the mercurial plaster as introduced by Unna. In the treatment of condylomata the greatest attention must be paid to cleanliness and dryness. After washing and drying the affected patches, they are dusted with a powder consisting of equal parts of calomel and carbonate of zinc; and opposed skin surfaces, such as the nates or labia, are separated by sublimate wool. In the ulcers of later secondary syphilis, crusts are got rid of in the first instance by the application of a boracic poultice or other form of wet dressing, after which a portion of lint or gauze cut to the size of the ulcer and soaked in black wash is applied and covered with oil-silk. If the ulcer tends to spread in area or in depth, it should be scraped with a sharp spoon, and painted over with pure carbolic acid or the acid nitrate of mercury. In the lesions of the mouth and throat the best local applica- tion is a solution of chromic acid,—ten grains to the ounce,— painted on with a brush once daily or every alternate day. In deep phagedenic ulcers of the throat the patient should gargle frequently with chlorine water or with perchloride of mercury (1 in 2000); if the ulcer continues to spread it should be painted with the acid nitrate of mercury. In the treatment of iritis the eyes are shaded from the light and completely rested, and atropin is dropped into the eye until the pupil is well dilated, in order to prevent adhesions. If there is much pain a blister may be applied to the temple.