DIFFUSE CELLULITIS AND SUPPURATION. 55 cases the virulence of the toxins prevents reaction taking place, and leucocytosis is absent. The local manifestations vary with the relation of the seat of the inflammation to the surface. When the superficial cellular tissue is involved, the skin assumes a dark bluish-red colour, is swollen, cedematous, and the seat of burning pain. To the touch it is firm, hot, and tender. When the primary focus is in the deeper tissues, the general constitutional disturbance is aggravated, while the local signs are delayed, and only become prominent when pus forms and approaches the surface. It is not uncommon for blebs containing dark serous fluid to form on the skin. The inflammation frequently spreads along the line of the main lymphatic vessels of the part (septic lymphangitis), and may reach the lymphatic glands (septic lymphadenitis). With the formation of pus the skin becomes soft and boggy at several points, and eventually breaks, giving exit to a small quantity of thick, grumous discharge. Sometimes several small collections under the skin fuse, and a distinct abscess is formed, in which fluctuation can be detected. Occasionally gases are evolved in the tissues, giving rise to emphysema. It is very common for portions of fascia, ligaments, or tendons to slough, and this may often be recognised clinically by a peculiar crunching or grating sensation transmitted to the finger on making firm pressure on the part. Unless evacuated by incision, the pus, travelling along the lines of least resistance, tends to point at several places on the surface, or to open into joints or other cavities. Prognosis.—It is in cases of diffuse suppurative cellulitis that septiccemia occurs in its most aggravated forms. The toxins of the streptococci are exceedingly virulent, and induce local death of tissue so rapidly that the protective emigration of leucocytes fails to take place. The passage of masses of free cocci in the lymphatics, or of septic emboli in the blood vessels, not infrequently leads to the formation of pycemic abscesses in vital organs, such as the brain, lungs, liver, kidneys, or other viscera. Haemorrhage from suppurative perforation of large arterial or venous trunks may take place and prove dangerous to life. Treatment.—The treatment of diffuse cellulitis is early and free incision of the affected area. It is not necessary, nor even advisable, to wait until there is distinct evidence of pus formation before using the knife, as incision will limit, or may even prevent, suppuration. If one incision does not command the whole area involved, others must be made, care being taken