ULCERATION AND ULCERS. 82 In many cases marked benefit lias followed treatment by the X-rays. The healing of such sores is often slow and tedious, and experience shows that frequent changes in the dressings employed are often beneficial. The Syphilitic Ulcer. — No ulcerative process responds so readily to medicinal treatment as the syphilitic ulcer does to full doses of iodide of potassium and mercury, and the local application of black wash. When the ulceration has lasted for a long time, however, and is widespread and deep, the duration of treatment is materially shortened by a thorough scraping with the sharp spoon. Treatment in relation to the Condition of the Ulcer.-— Ulcers in a Weak Condition. — If the weak condition of the ulcer be due to amend a or kidney disease, these affections must first be treated. Locally, the imperfect granulations should be scraped away, and some stimulating agent, such as sulphate of zinc in the form of red lotion, applied to the raw surface till healthy granulations form. When the condition has resulted from the prolonged use of moist dressings, these must be stopped, the redundant granula- tions clipped away with scissors, the surface rubbed with silver nitrate or sulphate of copper (blue-stone), and dry dressings applied. When the ulcer has assumed the characters of a healing sore, Thiersch grafts may be applied to hasten cicatrisation. Ulcers in a callous condition call for treatment in three directions—(1) The venous return must be facilitated by eleva- tion of the limb and massage. (2) The induration of the surrounding parts must be got rid of before contraction of the sore is possible. For this purpose the free application of blisters, as first recommended by Syme, leaves little to be desired. Liquor epispasticus painted over the parts, or a large fly-blister (emplastrum cantharidis) applied all round the ulcer, speedily disperses the inflammatory products which cause the induration. Pressure applied by imbricated strips of adhesive plaster or by elastic bandages is less satisfactory and more troublesome than Syme’s method. (3) The septic element in the ulcer must be eliminated. When the ulcer is very foul, relays of charcoal poultices (three parts of linseed meal to one of charcoal), main- tained for thirty-six to forty-eight hours, are useful as a pre- liminary step. The base of the ulcer and the thickened edges should then be freely scraped with a sharp spoon, and the resulting raw surface sponged over with undiluted carbolic