DISEASES OF JOINTS. 626 through the obturator nerve. The pain is aggravated by move- ment, and in the case of the joints of the lower extremity the patient limps in walking. The movements of the joint are restricted or abolished. Wasting of muscles is more marked than in the early stage of white swelling. Very commonly the limb assumes an abnormal attitude as a result of the contraction of particular groups of muscles. In the more advanced stages, other signs may make their appearance, such as starting pains, the formation of abscess and of sinuses, displacement, or even dislocation of the bones. Under an anaesthetic the joint may be found to be completely disorganised, with destruction of ligaments, abnormal mobility, and grating of the articular surfaces. Caries sicca is the name given by Volkmann to a very chronic form of tuberculous arthritis, which is chiefly met with in the shoulder and hip between the ages of fifteen and thirty-five. There is an entire absence of swelling, a characteristic wasting of all the structures in the vicinity of the joint, and the bony prominences—such as the acromion and coracoid in the case of the shoulder, and the trochanter at the hip—stand out prominently. Passive movements are restricted and are attended with severe pain. The general health usually remains unim- paired in spite of the long duration of the disease. Suppuration is exceptional, and when it occurs is usually associated with the presence of a sequestrum. Influence of tuberculous Joint Disease on the General Health. —Experience shows that tuberculous joint disease may be com- patible with the appearance of good health. As a rule, however, the general health suffers, the appetite is impaired, the patient is easily tired and complains of failure of strength, and there may be considerable loss of flesh. Tuberculous disease of the lung is very frequent in the case of adults, and may be present when the joint disease begins, or may appear later. In the case of children acute miliary tuberculosis may occur, and is usually rapidly fatal; it sometimes follows on comparatively trivial operations, and the clinical features are frequently those of tuberculous meningitis. A considerable number die from exhaustion with the phenomena of hectic fever. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis is usually easy in typical cases. We should not be misled by the patient being up in years or by his appearance of good health. A history of tuberculosis in the family, or of other tuberculous lesions in the patient, an