DISLOCATIONS IN REGION OF ANKLE. 545 The after treatment of dislocations of the ankle consists in applying massage to the foot and ankle, and keeping the leg on a pillow between sandbags. After all swelling has been dis- persed, a splint is applied to prevent backward displacement of the heel. In compound dislocations which have become infected primary amputation may be indicated, but in young and healthy subjects an attempt should be made to save the foot. Dislocation of the astragalus from its articula- tions with the bones of the leg above and the os calcis and scaphoid below, is a comparatively common injury, and results from a violent wrench of the foot. It may be incomplete or complete When the foot is plantar-flexed at the moment of injury the displacement is generally forward with a tendency outward. The astragalus comes to rest on the external cuneiform and cuboid bones, the foot being adducted, inverted, and displaced bodily inward. In a large proportion of cases the dislocation is com- pound, more or less of the astragalus being- forced through the skin of the dorsum of the foot (Fig. 177). When the foot is dorsi-Hexed at the moment of injury the displacement is backward, but this is very rare, as are also lateral dislocations, and dislocation by rotation, in which the astragalus is rotated in its socket. In all these injuries the head of the astragalus loses its normal relationship with the malleoli. Treatment.—An attempt should be made to reduce the dislocation under anaesthesia, the limb being placed in the same position as for reduction of dislocations of the ankle. While traction is made upon the foot, an assistant presses directly on the displaced bone and endeavours to manipulate it into position. This usually succeeds in incomplete dislocations, but it not infrequently fails in those which are complete, and in this case it is best to excise the astragalus. In most cases of compound dislocations also the bone should be removed. The after treatment is carried out on the same lines as for dislocations of the ankle. Sub - astragaloid Dislocation.—In this dislocation, which VOL. I—35 Fig. 177.—Compound Dislocation of the Astragalus. (Dr. Wm. Stewart's case.)