550 DISEASES OF BONE. that a portion of bone which has been completely detached from its surroundings—for example, a trephine circle, or a flap of bone detached with the saw, or the loose fragments in a compound fracture—may unite if replaced in position, and may after an interval present a surface which is absolutely intact, while at its margins it is firmly and permanently incorporated with the surrounding bone. Embedded foreign bodies, on the other hand, such as ivory pegs or decalcified bone, exhibit, on removal after a sufficient interval, evidence in the shape of worm-eaten depressions and perforations of having been eroded. Transplanted living bone retains its vitality, not only when embedded in bone-forming tissues, but also when embedded in the soft parts, as is evidenced by the result of operations in which bone has been transplanted to form a new bridge to the nose. DISEASES OF BONE. Definition of Terms.—Any inflammatory process which affects the periosteum is spoken of as pei iostitis; while the term osteomyelitis is employed when the inflammation occurs in the marrow. In using these terms, however, it should be re- membered that they only indicate the seat of the morbid process, but give no information regarding its nature. This is conveyed by prefixing such qualifying adjectives as pyogenic, tuberculous, or syphilitic to the terms periostitis or osteo- myelitis. The term ostitis is intended to convey the idea of an inflammatory process in bone apart from periostitis or osteomyelitis; but as it is doubtful if this ever occurs, we abstain from using the term. The term epiphysitis has been applied to an inflammatory process in two distinct situations— namely, the ossifying nucleus in the epiphysis and the ossifying junction between the epiphysial cartilage and the diaphysis. We shall restrict the term to inflammation in the first of these situations. Inflammation at the ossifying junction is included under the term osteomyelitis. The term rarefying ostitis has been employed to indicate any inflammatory process in the marrow which is attended by an excessive absorption of the rigid framework of bone, whereby it becomes looser in arrangement or more spongy than it was before. It is to be regarded as an accompaniment or as a result of different diseased conditions in the marrow, rather than as a separate entity. The term caries is employed to indicate any diseased process associated with a crumbling away of the framework of a bone. It may be considered as the equivalent of the term