TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. 571 The lesions included in this group have become much rarer since the introduction of Listeriau surgery. The common lesion is exclusively or mainly an osteomyelitis, which commences and is always most intense at the site first infected—that is, in the marrow exposed in the wound. The marrow presents the changes which characterise ordinary septic or suppurative inflammation. In the case of amputation stumps, fungat- ing granulations may protrude from the sawn end of the bone, and if necrosis takes place, the sequestrum is annular, affecting the cross section of the bone at the saw line, or tubular, extending up the shaft, and tapering off above. The periosteum is more easily detached, is thicker than normal, and is usually actively engaged in forming new bone. In the macerated specimen, the new bone may present a characteristic coral-like appearance, and may be perforated by cloacae (Fig. 185). Like other septic infections, it may terminate in pyaemia, as a result of septic phlebitis in the marrow. The clinical features are those of ordinary pyogenic infection ; the bone lesion does not impart to these any special character ; it may not even be recognised unless the bone affected is exposed to view, either from the nature of the lesion in the soft parts, or when these are opened in the course of an operation. In the case of a stump, healing does not take place until the sequestrum is thrown off or is removed by surgical means. In compound fractures, if one or other of the fragments dies and forms a sequestrum, it is apt to be walled in by new bone, and the sinuses which result may continue to discharge for many years. Even after healing has taken place, the tendency to relapse is a prominent feature of osteomyelitis, especially when associated with compound fractures and gunshot injuries. Months or years afterwards, and either without apparent cause or after some extra strain of the limb or exposure to cold and wet, the bone may become painful and tender, and the soft parts over it inflamed. The symptoms may subside under rest and elevation of the limb and the application of an antiseptic compress, or an abscess may form and burst with comparatively little suffering. The contents may be clear yellow serum or a watery pus— sometimes a small spicule of dead bone may be discharged. Phosphorus necrosis is the name given to a disease of the jaws met with in those engaged in the manufacture of matches from yellow phosphorus. It will be described along with diseases of the jaws. Tuberculous Diseases. The tuberculous diseases of bones result from infection of the marrow or periosteum by tubercle bacilli conveyed through the arteries. They are characterised by their insidious onset and slow progress, and by the frequency with which they are located in the marrow of the short and flat bones, and in the ends of the long bones. This localisation explains the frequency with which tuberculous disease spreads to adjacent joints. The comparative rarity of lesions in the shafts of the long bones in tuberculosis is in marked contrast to what is met with in pyo- genic and syphilitic diseases. Tuberculous disease of bone is exceedingly rare as a primary