385 FRACTURES. occurrence of multiple fractures, which usually heal with con- siderable deformity. Rickets and scurvy may be attended with a similar fragility of the bones. In the early stages of osteo- malacia, while the bones still contain some mineral matter, fractures are readily produced • but later, when they have become completely decalcified, the bones simply bend. Osteo-myelitis, tuberculous and syphilitic disease, and certain tumours, especially those which grow in the interior of bones, may predispose to fracture. Indeed, it is not unusual for the sudden breaking of the bone to be the first intimation of the existence of a tumour. Intra-uterine fractures and fractures occurring during birth are usually associated with some form of external violence, but it is believed that in the majority of cases the foetus is the subject of some constitutional disease, such as rickets or syphilis, which weakens the bones. Traumatic Fractures. Traumatic fractures are usually the result of a severe force acting from without, although sometimes they are produced by powerful muscular contraction. When the bone gives way at the point of impact of the force, the violence is said to be direct, and a “ fracture by compression ” results, the line of fracture being as a rule trans- verse. The soft parts overlying the fracture are more or less damaged according to the weight and shape of the impinging body. Fracture of both bones of the leg from the passage of a wheel over the limb, fracture of the shaft of the ulna in warding off a stroke aimed at the head, and fracture of a rib from a kick, are common illustrative examples of fractures by direct violence. When the force is transmitted to the seat of fracture from a distance, the violence is said to be indirect, and the bone is broken by “torsion” or by “bending.” In such cases the bone gives way at its weakest point, and the line of fracture, tends to be oblique. Thus both bones of the leg are frequently broken by a person jumping from a height and landing on the feet, the tibia breaking in its lower third, and the fibula at a higher level. Fracture of the clavicle in its middle third, or of the radius at its lower end, from a fall on the outstretched hand, are common accidents produced by indirect violence. The ribs also may be broken by indirect violence, as when the chest is crushed antero-posteriorly, the bones bending beyond VOL. I—25