450 INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. anteroposterior broadening of the shoulder may be recognised by grasping the region of the tuberosities between the finger and thumb. Crepitus may be elicited on rotating the humerus. At the same time it will be recognised that the tuberosity does not move with the shaft. There is no shortening of the limb as the shaft remains intact. Firm union, with considerable formation of callus and some broadening of the shoulder, usually results, but the usefulness of the joint is not necessarily impaired. There may, however, be prolonged stiffness, and impaired movement from adhesions; or pain and crackling in the joint may result from arthritic changes of the nature of arthritis deformans. Treatment.—These fractures may be treated by a shoulder- cap, sling, and rectangular splint. Massage and movement should be commenced within a few days of the injury, to avoid stiffness of the shoulder. Operative treatment is seldom called for. Fracture of the Shaft of the Humerus. Fractures occurring in the shaft of the humerus, between the surgical neck and the base of the condyles, may, for con- venience of description, be divided into those above, and those below, the level of the deltoid insertion—the majority being in the latter situation. Direct violence is the most common cause of these fractures, but they may occur from a fall on the elbow or hand ; and a considerable number of cases are on record where the bone has been broken by muscular action,—as in throwing a cricket- ball. Twisting forms of violence may produce spiral fractures (Fig. 81). The fracture is usually transverse in children and in cases where it is due to muscular action. In adults, and when due to external violence, on the other hand, it is usually oblique, the fragments overriding one another and causing shortening of the limb. The displacement depends largely on the direction of the force and the line of the fracture, but to a certain extent also on the action of muscles attached to the fragments. Thus, in fractures above the insertion of the deltoid the upper frag- ment is usually dragged inward by the muscles inserted into the bicipital groove, while the lower is tilted out by the deltoid. When the break is below the deltoid insertion the displace- ment of the fragments is reversed. Undue mobility, deformity, crepitus, and the other signs of fracture are evident, and the