498 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. fragments remain interlocked, the fracture is of the impacted variety; otherwise it is spoken of as non-impacted. Clinical Features.—A] though this fracture is most commonly met with in strong adults, it may also occur in the aged. [The outer aspect of the hip shows marks of bruising, and there is always severe pain and a considerable degree of shock. There is generally marked eversion of the limb, with shortening, which, in most cases, is evident immediately after the accident, and is due to the lower fragment being drawn up by the muscles inserted into the great trochanter and upper end of the shaft. In some cases the shortening does not appear for some time after the injury. On applying the various tests the great trochanter is found displaced upwards, and there is a marked antero-posterior broadening of the trochanteric region of the hip, especially in the impacted form of fracture, and the ilio-tibial band is relaxed. On pressing the fingers into the outer part of Scarpa’s triangle, a bony mass consisting of the broken fragments may be felt, and is tender on pressure. In non-impacted cases unnatural mobility with crepitus may be elicited. Impaction, by masking the symptoms, adds materially to the difficulty of diagnosis. Prognosis.—The risks to life in the aged are similar to those of intra-capsular fracture. In youths and healthy adults the chief danger lies in shortening of the limb, resulting in impaired usefulness. In children it may give rise to coxa vara. Bony union is the rule, as the vascularity of the fragments is but little interfered with. There is always, however, considerable thickening due to displaced fragments and callus in the region of the trochanter, and in unsuccessfully treated cases there is a varying degree of shortening and eversion of the limb. In cases where the outer fragment lies in front of the inner there is permanent inversion. Fracture of the great trochanter may occur from direct violence. When fractured alone, the trochanter is displaced by the gluteal muscles, causing broadening of the outer aspect of the hip. In young persons the epiphysis of the great trochanter may be separated, but this is very rare. These injuries are treated on the same lines as fractures of the neck. Treatment.—In treating a fracture of the neck of the femur it is necessary to consider the age and general condition of the patient; whether the fracture is impacted or not; and the site of the fracture—whether in the narrow part of the neck or at its base. “ The first indication is to save life, the second to get