600 DISEASES OF BONE. there radiate into the outer softer parts of the tumour, spicules, needles and plates of a similar bone-like material. The peripheral portion consists of softer sarcomatous tissue, which invades the overlying soft parts; the articular cartilage long resists destruction, and pathological fracture is exceptional. Secondary growths are chiefly met with in the lungs, the metastasis taking place through the veins. These ossifying sarcomata are most often met with in the femur and tibia, less frequently in the humerus, skull, pelvis, and jaws. In the long bones they may grow from the shaft, while the chondro-sarcomata more often originate in the extremities. Sometimes they are multiple, several tumours appear- ing simultaneously or one shortly after another. Clinical Features.—Sarcomata are usu- ally met with before the age of thirty, and are comparatively common in children. Males are more liable than females in the proportion of two to one. The symptoms consist in the appear- ance of a tumour connected with a bone, which steadily increases in size. It may be on one aspect or may surround the bone, and when it occurs at the end of a long bone the swelling frequently assumes the characteristic shape of a leg of mutton (Fig. 205). Its surface may be uniform or bossed, and its consistence varies with its situation, whether central or periosteal, with its structure, and with the changes which it has undergone. The coexistence of solid and fluctuating areas is character- istic. On firm pressure fine crepitation may be felt from crushing of the delicate framework of new bone, or in central tumours there may be parchment-like or egg-shell crackling from yielding of the thin, unresisting shell under the pressure of the fingers. The swelling may pulsate, and a bruit may be heard over it. The patient often complains of pain, which is aggra- vated by exertion, and which is worst at night. The pain is said to be more severe in central tumours before they erupt on the periosteal surface. The soft parts over the tumour may for a long time preserve