DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 676 as a result of the disappearance of the head of the femur. There may be considerable formation of new bone, giving rise to lai’ge tumour-like masses in relation to the capsular ligament and the muscles surrounding the joint. The treatment consists in protecting and supporting the joint. When the affection is unilateral, advantage may be derived from a Thomas’ or other form of splint, along with a patten and crutches; in bilateral cases, from the use of crutches alone. Hysterical affections of the hip resemble those met with in other joints. | The Knee-Joint. The knee is more often the seat of disease than any other joint in the body. The synovial membrane of the knee extends beneath the quadriceps extensor as a cul-de-sac, which either communicates with the subcrural bursa, or with it forms one continuous cavity (Fig. 232). When the joint is distended with fluid this upper pouch bulges above and on either side of the patella, and this bone is “ floated ” off the condyles of the femur. When there is only a small amount of fluid in the knee it is most easily recognised while the patient stands with his feet together and the trunk bent forwards at the hip-joints. The com- plete relaxation of the quadriceps allows the fluid to bulge above and on each side of the patella, where its presence is readily detected, especially on comparison with the joint of the other side. On account of the great extent of the synovial membrane, serous effusion may accumulate in the joint with great rapidity, as a result either of injury or disease. The villous processes and fringes may take on an exaggerated growth, and give rise to pedunculated and other forms of loose body. The bursse in the popliteal space, and especially that between the semi-membranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, as well as the subcrural bursa, frequently communicate with the synovial cavity of the knee. The epiphyses at the knee are chiefly responsible for the growth in length of the lower extremity, and are late in uniting with their respective shafts. Serious shortening of the limb, therefore, may result if their functions are interfered with by disease or injury. The epiphysial cartilages lie beyond the limits of the synovial cavity, so that infective lesions at the ossifying junctions are less likely to spread to the joint than is