5 GO DISEASES OF BONE. Pathological dislocation has been chiefly observed at the hip, and it may or may not be associated with suppuration in the joint. Curious combinations are sometimes met with, such as suppurative osteomyelitis in the shaft of the femur on one side, and dislocation of the hip without suppuration on the other. In some cases the multiplicity of the lesions in the bones and joints imparts to the disease features which are those of pyaemia. The occurrence of septic endocarditis, as indicated by alterations in the heart sounds and the development of murmurs, may cause widespread infective embolism, and metastatic suppura- tion in the internal organs as well as in the bones and joints. The secondary suppurations are liable to be overlooked unless carefully sought for, as they are rarely attended with much pain. In these graver forms of osteomyelitis, the patient may be dull and listless, or_restless and talkative, or he may be actually Fig. 183.—Thickening and Multiple Sinuses resulting from Acute Osteomyelitis of Tibia, in a girl set. 12. delirious. The tongue is dry and coated, the lips and teeth are covered with sordes, the motions are constipated, or they may be loose and offensive, and may be passed involuntarily. The temperature is remittent and very irregular, the pulse is small and rapid, and the urine is scanty and may contain blood and albumin. The skin may show erythematous and purpuric rashes, bleeding may take place from the nose and mouth, bed- sores may form over the sacrum, the belly may be swollen and sensitive, and the patient may cry out as in meningitis. Death usually takes place within a few da} s of the onset of the illness. Sequelae of Acute Suppurative Osteomyelitis.—The patient may not apply for treatment until the acute stage has passed off and sinuses have formed. These sinuses have rigid edges which are usually depressed and adherent to the subjacent bone. They tend to be persistent, and generally imply the presence of a sequestrum. In the pelvis, the sequestrum has been known to make its way into the bladder, and give rise to the symptoms of stone.