THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 262 The amount of discomfort caused by varicose veins bears no direct proportion to the degree of varicosity. It depends rather upon the degree of pressure in the veins, as is shown by the fact that it is relieved by elevation of the limb. When the main trunk of the internal saphena is implicated, its valves being incompetent the pressure in tire vein is high and the patient suffers a good deal of pain and discomfort. When, on the con- trary, the upper part of the saphena and its valves are intact, and only the more distal veins are involved, the pressure is low and the symptoms are less severe, or may even be absent. The usual complaint is of a sense of weight and fulness in the limb, sometimes accompanied by actual pain after pro- longed standing or walking. Belief is at once obtained by raising the limb. Cramp- like pains are often associated with varix of the deep veins. The dilated and tortuous vein can be readily seen and felt. Bead-like swellings are sometimes to be detected in cases of long standing over the position of the valves, and on running the fingers along the course of the vessel a firm ridge, due to periphlebitis, may often be detected on each side of the vein. When the limb is cedematous, the outline of the veins is often obscured, but they can be identified on palpa- tion as gutter-like tracks. When large veins are implicated, a dis- tinct impulse on coughing may sometimes be seen to pass down as far as the knee; and if the vessel be sharply percussed a fluid wave may be detected passing both up and down the vein. If the patient be placed on a couch and the limb elevated the veins are emptied, and if pressure be then made over the region of the saphenous opening and the patient allowed to stand up, they do not fill again until the pressure is removed, and then the blood rapidly rushes in from above. The most marked dilatation usually occurs on the inner side of the limb, between the middle of the thigh and the middle of the calf, the arrangement of the veins showing great variety. There are usually oire or more bunches of enlarged and Fig. 46.—Extensive Yarix of Loth Legs, with small Varicose Ulcer over Left Internal Malleolus.