THE LYMPHATICS. 304 that they usually disappear on removing the peripheral source of irritation. Treatment.—Having removed the original source of infection, the treatment applicable to the glands varies according to the nature and degree of the inflammation. Rest and soothing applications are indicated in the early stage of inflammation. Glycerine and belladonna, or the oleate of mercury ointment, is useful in indolent enlargements ; lead and opium or carbolic fomentations in the more acute forms of lymphadenitis. If suppuration has taken place and is confined to the glands, as in the groin, each focus should be attacked with the knife, spoon, and pure carbolic acid, or the whole chain of glands may be excised. If, on the other hand, there is a large peri-glandular abscess, as is often the case in the neck and axilla, this should be opened—preferably by Hilton’s method. The opening should be enlarged to admit the finger and allow of the removal of any glands which have not completely broken down, and which probably contain other foci of suppuration. If the suppurative bubo associated with soft chancre be simply incised, the tendency is towards the formation of an inflamed ulcer resembling the original sore. It is better, therefore, to excise the gland along with the infiltrated and undermined skin, unless there is already a considerable abscess, in which case it should be incised, scraped, painted with pure carbolic acid, and packed with iodoform worsted. Tuberculous Disease of Glands.—This is a disease of great frequency and importance. The tubercle bacilli usually gain access to the glands through the afferent lymphatic vessels which are infected through some lesion of the mucous or skin surface in the area drained by them. It is possible, however, that the organisms are sometimes carried to the glands by the blood- stream. The tuberculous infection may supervene in glands which are already enlarged as a result of chronic septic irritation, or in glands which are otherwise healthy. While any of the glands in the body may be affected, the disease is most often met with in the groups of cervical glands which derive their lymph from the mouth, nose, throat, ear, and scalp. The appearance of the glands on section varies with the stage of the disease. In the earliest stages the gland is enlarged, it may be to many times its natural size, is normal in colour, and firm in consistence. On microscopical examination there is evidence of tuberculous infection in the shape of bacilli and of characteristic giant and epithelioid cells. At a later stage the gland tissue is studded with yellow caseating foci which tend to