338 THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. horny layer of the epidermis where it has been exposed to prolonged friction and pressure. They occur on the fingers and hand as a result of certain occupations and sports, but are most common under the balls of the toes or heel. A bursa may form beneath the callosity, and if it becomes inflamed may cause considerable suffering. The treatment of callosities on the foot consists in removing pressure by wearing properly fitting boots and in applying a circular pad over the callosity. In addition, after soaking in hot water, the overgrown horny layer may be pared away with a knife, and the part painted once daily with a saturated solution of salicylic acid in flexile collodion. Corns.—A corn is a localised overgrowth of the horny layer of the epidermis which grows downwards, pressing upon and displacing the sensitive papillae of the corium. Corns are due to the prolonged friction and pressure of ill-fitting boots, and are chiefly met with on the toes. The central downgrowtli or “ corn ” is usually hard, dry, and white • but it may be sodden from moisture, as in “ soft corns ” between the toes. A bursa may form beneath the corn, and if inflamed constitutes one form of bunion. When suppuration takes place in relation to a corn, it is very painful and disabling, and may prove the starting- point of lymphangitis. The suffering which attends ordinary corns varies with the weather and climate. The treatment consists in the wearing of properly fitting boots and stockings, and in removing the corn. This is done after the manner of chiropodists by digging out the corn by suitably shaped knives; a more radically curative procedure is to excise, under local anaesthesia, the portion of skin containing the corn and the underlying bursa. The majority of so-called corn solvents consist of a solution of salicylic acid in collodion; if this is painted on daily the epidermis dies and is thus more easily pared away. The unskilful paring of corns on the toes may determine the occurrence of senile gangrene in those who are predisposed to this disease by atheromatous arteries. Chilblain. — Chilblain or erythema pernio is a vascular disturbance resulting from the alternate action of cold and heat on the distal parts of the body. Chilblains are chiefly met with on the fingers and toes in children and amemic girls. In the mild forms there is a sensation of burning and itching, the part rapidly becomes swollen, of a dusky-red colour, and the skin tense and shiny. In more severe cases the burning and itching are attended with pain, and the skin becomes of a violet or wine-red colour. There is a third degree, closely