118 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. progress, the severity of its symptoms, and its all but universally fatal issue in spite of treatment, death taking place in from one to four days. Chronic Tetanus.—The difference between this and acute tetanus is mainly one of degree. Its incubation period is longer, it is more slow and insidious in its progress, and it never reaches the same degree of severity. Trismus is the most marked and constant form of spasm; and while the trunk muscles may be involved, those of respiration as a rule escape. Every additional day the patient lives adds to the probability of his ultimate recovery. When the disease does prove fatal it is from exhaustion, and not from respiratory or cardiac spasm. The usual duration is from six to ten weeks. Trismus.—This term is used to denote a form of tetanic spasm limited to the muscles of mastication. It is really a mild form of chronic tetanus, and the prognosis is good. It must be diagnosed clinically from inflammatory lesions of the pharynx and alveoli of the jaws, and from affections of the temporo-maxillary articulation. Tetanus Neonatorum is a form of tetanus occurring in infants of about a week old. Infection takes place through the umbilicus, and manifests itself clinically by spasms of the muscles of mastication. It is almost invariably fatal within a few days. Head or Cephalic Tetanus.—This is a peculiar variety of traumatic tetanus which follows injuries to the head. It is characterised by the occurrence, on the same side as the head injury, of more or less complete paralysis of the facial muscles supplied by the seventh nerve, with trismus and other tetanic symptoms, varying in severity throughout the body. The paralysis of the facial nerve fibres is believed to be due to a selective action of one of the tetanus toxins on the nerve centre in the medulla, as well as a local action on the peripheral nerve endings. In head tetanus the muscles of deglutition are often specially involved—hence the name tetanus hydrophohicus. The prognosis is on the whole grave. Differential Diagnosis. — There is little difficulty, as a rule, in diagnosing a case of fulminating tetanus, but there are several conditions with which it may occasionally be confused. Strychnine poisoning—Here the spasms come on immediately after the patient has taken a toxic dose of the drug; they are tonic in character but the muscles are relaxed during the fits; the muscles of the jaws usually escape, whilst those of the hands are involved. If the dose is not lethal the spasms soon