610 DISEASES OF JOINTS. Errors of Development. — These include congenital dis- locations and other deformities of intra-uterine origin, such as abnormal laxity of joints, absence, displacement, or defective growth of one or other of the essential constituents of a joint. The more important of these are described along with deformities. DISEASES OF JOINTS.*] Bacterial Diseases.—In the great majority of bacterial diseases the organisms are carried to the joint in the blood-stream. They may lodge in the first instance either in the synovial membrane or in one of the adjacent bones, whence the disease subsequently spreads to the structures of the joint. Bacterial diseases resulting from infection of a penetrating wound are comparatively rare. Pyogenic Diseases. The commoner pyogenic diseases are the result of infection of one or other of the joint structures with staphylococci or streptococci, which may be demonstrated in the exudation into the joint and in the substance of the synovial membrane. The mode of infection is the same as in the pyogenic diseases of bone. The localisation of the infection in a particular joint is determined by injury, exposure to cold, antecedent disease of the joint, or other factors whose nature is not always apparent. A distinction may be made between those diseases in which the organisms involve articular structures from the outset, and those in which the initial lodgment is in one of the adjacent bones. The former are more often met with in adults, and are illustrated by the joint suppurations in pyaemia. The latter are more frequent in children, and are illustrated by the well-known “acute arthritis of infants,” in which the joint lesion owes its origin to an osteomyelitis in one of the adjacent bones. The clinical features vary with the gravity of the infection. The disease may assume the form of an acute serous synovitis, which may recover, may become chronic, or may relapse after apparent cure. This relapsing or intermittent synovitis or hydrops has been shown to depend in certain cases on chronic staphylo- coccal disease of one of the adjacent bones, the treatment of which is essential for permanent recovery. It closely resembles that of gonorrhoeal or tuberculous origin.