621 TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. during childhood and youth. The wrist and shoulder are rarely affected in children. Clinical Features.—These vary with the different anatomical forms of the disease, with the joint affected, and with the indi- vidual tendencies of the patient. The symptoms do not always correspond with the nature and severity of the local lesions, and it is not uncommon to find, when the joint is exposed by operation, that the disease is much more extensive than might have been inferred from the clinical features. The onset is usually insidious, its exact date being difficult to determine, so that it is often misstated by the patient. Sometimes the disease is ushered in with fever and with pains in several joints. This was described by John Duncan under the title, “Tuberculous arthritic fever.” It is liable to be mistaken for rheumatic fever, from which, however, it may usually be dis- tinguished by the absence of any real migration from joint to joint, by the absence of sweating, of visceral complications, and of benefit from salicylates. The initial local symptoms may be those associated with the presence of a focus in the neighbouring bone, perhaps causing neuralgic pains in the joint, or weakness, tiredness, stiffness, and inability to use the limb, the symptoms improving with rest and being aggravated by exertion. It is rarely possible by external examination to recognise deep-seated osseous foci in the vicinity of joints; but if they are near the surface in a superficial bone—such as the head of the tibia—there may be local thickening of the periosteum, oedema, pain, and tenderness on pressure and on percussion. Large foci may be revealed by the X-rays. The patient may not be seen until an abscess or a sinus has formed. In exceptional cases, tuberculous joint disease follows an acute course resembling that of the pyogenic arthritis of infants. This has been observed, especially in the knee, in very young children, the lesion being in the synovial membrane, and being- attended with an accumulation of pus in the joint. If promptly treated by incision and drainage recovery is rapid, and free movement of the joint may be preserved. The onset and early stages of tuberculous disease, however, are more often insidious, and are attended with so few symptoms that the disease may have obtained a considerable hold before it attracts definite notice. It is not uncommon for patients or their friends to attribute the disease to injury, as it often becomes more active after excessive use of the limb or some slight trauma. The symptoms may subside under rest, only to relapse again