PATHOLOGICAL DISLOCATIONS. 421 all cases. Rather must each case be decided on its own merits, due consideration being had to the risks which attend this line of treatment. The chief of these are rupture of large blood- vessels or nerves which have formed adhesions with the displaced bone, or have become shortened in adaptation to the altered shape or length of the limb; tearing of muscles or tendons, or even of the skin ; and fracture of the bone, especially in old people; and in the young, separation of epiphyses. Before carrying out the manipulations appropriate to the particular dislocation, all adhesions must first be carefully broken down; and during the proceedings no undue force is to be employed. It is sometimes found that the displacement is very prone to recur, even after reduction has been successfully accomplished. When reduction by manipulation is inadvisable or has been unsuccessful, the question of operation arises. In this connection it is to be borne in mind that even with an open wound the replacement of the bone is often by no means easy. If septic complications arise they are often disastrous in their results. In many cases reduction can only be effected after excision of the head of the bone, and this often leads to ankylosis, which seriously impairs the usefulness of the limb. Before deciding to operate, therefore, the surgeon has to consider such points as the degree of discomfort, deformity, and impaired function resulting from the condition, the occupation of the patient and his age. Habitual or recurrent dislocation occurs in the shoulder, and will be described with the injuries of that joint. Pathological Dislocations.—Joints may become dislocated in the course of certain diseases. These pathological dislocations fall into three groups : (1) those due to gradual stretching of the capsular and other ligaments weakened by inflammatory and suppurative processes, such as sometimes follow on typhoid, scarlet fever or diphtheria, and in pyaemia; (2) those due to destructive changes in the ligaments and bones—typically seen in tuberculous arthritis and in Charcot’s disease ; (3) those due to deformities such as result from altered lines of pressure in paralysed limbs, or from changes in the shape of the bones such as occur in arthritis deformans. Pathological dislocations are usually incomplete at first, and gradually tend to become more marked as the disease progresses, until eventually the displacement is complete. Their prevention and treatment will be considered with the diseases which give rise to them.