60.3 SECONDARY CANCER. number of these tumours are of the nature of cavernous erectile tumours dating from a congenital angioma. The majority would appear to be the result of changes in an already-existing tumour — sarcoma, endothelioma, or myeloma. The tumour tissue largely or entirely disappears, while the vessels and vascular spaces undergo a remarkable development. The dis- appearance of the tumour tissue may be the result of a large haemorrhage within the unyielding shell of bone. The tumour may come to be represented by one large blood-containing space communicating with the arteries of the limb; the walls of the space consist of the remains of the original tumour—plus a shell of bone of varying thickness. The most common seats of the condition are the lower end of the femur, the upper end of the tibia, and the pelvic bones. The clinical features are those of a pulsating tumour of slow development. The tumour may attain such dimensions that it no longer suggests to the observer that it originates inside the bone, unless he is able to recognise the parchment or egg-shell crackling on forcibly pressing it with the fingers. As in true aneurysms, pulsation and bruit disappear on compression of the main artery above. Treatment.—In malignant cases involving the bones of the limbs amputation is indicated ; in the pelvis operative treatment is usually out of the question. When there is reason to believe that the tumour is innocent one may consider the possibility of a conservative operation, resembling that known as the old opera- tion for true aneurysm. There are cases on record in which ligature of the main artery of the limb has resulted in permanent cure. Secondary Tumours of Bone.—These include all varieties of tumours which are capable of occurring by metastasis, and those which spread to the bone by direct contiguity. Metastatic Tumours.—Secondary cancer is a comparatively common disease in bone. Its characters depend on the nature of the primary growth from which it arises. The soft forms grow rapidly, and are characterised by eating away of the bone. In slowly growing forms there may be considerable formation of an imperfectly organised bone, often deficient in lime salts ; this condition may be widely diffused throughout the skeleton, and has been described as cancerous osteomalacia. Secondary cancer of bone may not reveal itself clinically at all, or it may cause pains in the affected bones, or may suddenly attract notice by the occurrence of pathological fracture—as, for example, in the shaft of the femur or humerus. In the vertebrae it is attended with