140 TUBERCULOSIS. the bacilli prevail, the infection tends to spread into the tissues surrounding those originally infected ; more and more tuberculous granulation tissue is formed. Finally the tuber- culous tissue breaks down and liquefies, resulting in the forma- tion of a cold abscess. In their struggle with the tissues, tubercle bacilli receive considerable support and assistance from the presence of pyogenic organisms. A tuberculous infection may exhibit its aggressive qualities in a more serious form by sending off detachments of bacilli, which are carried by the lymphatics to the nearest glands, or by the blood-stream to more distant, and it may be to all, parts of the body. When the infection is thus generalised, the condition is called “general tuberculosis.” Considering the extraordinary frequency of localised forms of surgical tuberculosis, general dissemination of the disease is very rare. The clinical features of surgical tuberculosis vary with the situation, distribution, and nature of the lesion. The onset of the disease is usually attended with impairment of the general health and vigour. It is a common observation that the patient has been losing flesh and is not taking the usual quantity of food. The more advanced symptoms — fever, sweating, and emaciation—are to be ascribed to the absorption and distribution throughout the system of the toxic products, not only of the tubercle bacilli, but also of other, and especially of pyogenic organisms, with which, in its later stages, the tuberculous infection is often complicated. The general treatment consists in combating the adverse influences which have been mentioned as increasing the liability to tuberculous infection. Within recent years the value of the “ open-air ” treatment has been widely recognised. The diet must be a liberal one, and should include those articles which are at the same time nourishing and easily digested, especially proteids and fats; milk obtained from a reliable source is one of the best. When the ordinary nourishment taken is insufficient, it may be supplemented by such articles as malt extract, stout, and cod-liver oil. The last is especially beneficial in patients who do not take enough fat in other forms. It is noteworthy that many tuberculous patients show an aversion to fat in any form. Cod-liver oil should be given in small quantities until the patient becomes accustomed to it. When the oil continues to be distasteful or to disagree in the pure state, one or other of the emulsified forms may be substituted. The general health may be benefited by the administration of tonics—such, for example, as the syrup of the iodide of iron. The local