582 DISEASES OF BONE. pure carbolic acid, and after restoring the parts to their normal position the cavity is stuffed with iodoform gauze or worsted. Lesions of the Bones in Inherited Syphilis.—The bones are more often affected in the inherited than in the acquired disease. The syphilitic lesions met with in infancy—epiphysitis, bossing of the skull, and craniotabes—have been described in the chapter on inherited syphilis. The lesions of the bones in the later stages correspond to those of the tertiary period of the acquired disease. Inasmuch as they involve bones engaged in active growth, however, and as they occur at the ossifying junctions as well as in the shafts of the bones, they may interfere with the growth of the bones affected. The inherited lesions are not nearly so amenable to the influence of iodides as those of the acquired form. They may persist, or may come and go over periods of many years, with the result that in a long bone, such as the tibia, the external appearances and architectural arrangement may be profoundly altered. The most evident feature may be that the anterior edge of the tibia is flattened, or that the shaft is curved forwards as well as thickened and lengthened, constituting what is known as the “ sabre-blade ” deformity. There may also be one or more depressed scars adherent to the subjacent bone, resulting from antecedent gummata. Syphilitic dactylitis is a characteristic lesion which is chiefly met with in children. It is not common in acquired syphilis. It may affect any of the fingers, toes, metacarpals, or metatarsals, but is commonest in the first phalanx of the index finger or thumb. Several fingers and toes may be attacked at the same time or in succession. Anatomically the lesion consists in a gummatous infiltration of the soft parts surrounding the phalanx, or a gummatous osteomyelitis, or in a combination of these. The segment of finger affected becomes the seat of a swelling which is more evident on the dorsum than on the palm. Accord- ing to the distribution and extent of the disease the swelling may be acorn-shaped, fusiform, or cylindrical. It is firm and elastic, and but slightly painful or tender. The movements of the finger are impaired, especially if the joints are involved. In its early stages the disease is amenable to anti-syjihilitic treatment, and may completely recover. If untreated, the degenerated gummatous tissue tends to approach the surface, the skin becomes thin and purple, and gives way, often on the lateral aspect of the finger, leaving a sinus. The disintegrated bone may crumble away and escape in the discharge, but the formation of a visible sequestrum is ex-