194 TUMOURS. overlying skin or mucous membrane gives way an ulcer is formed. The margins of a cancerous ulcer are made up of tumour tissue which has not broken down. They are irregular, usually nodularly thickened or indurated ; sometimes they are raised and crater-like. The floor of the ulcer is smooth and glazed or occupied by necrosed tissue, and the discharge is watery and blood-stained, and as the result of putrefactive changes may become offensive. Haemorrhage is rarely a prominent feature, but the discharge of blood may constitute a symptom of con- siderable importance in cancer of internal organs. Regarding the causes of cancer, much attention has been directed in recent years to its possible origin from infection with micro-parasites. Although there are many facts in favour of this theory, nothing conclusive has as yet been proved regarding it. There are a number of conditions which favour the development of cancer, such as inheritance, age, environ- ment, prolonged irritation, and many others. These cannot, however, be regarded as essential causes of cancer; some other factor would appear to be required, but what that factor is still remains unknown. The prognosis largely depends on the particular variety of cancer and on its situation. Certain varieties—such as the atrophic cancer of the breast which occurs in old people, and certain forms of cancer in the rectum—are so indolent in their progress that they can scarcely be said to shorten life; while others—such as the softer varieties of mammary cancer occurring in young women—are among the most malignant of tumours. The mode in which cancer causes death depends to a large extent upon the situation of the tumour. In the gullet or stomach, for example, it usually causes death by starvation; in the larynx or thyroid, by suffocation ; in the intestine, by obstruction of the bowels; in the uterus, prostate, and bladder, by haemorrhage, or by implication of the ureters and kidneys. Independently of their situation, however, those tumours fre- quently cause death by giving rise to a progressive impairment of health known as the cancerous cachexia, a condition which is due to the continued absorption of poisonous products from the tumour. The patient loses appetite, becomes emaciated, pale, and feverish, and gradually loses strength until he dies, apparently from exhaustion. Treatment.—The only treatment of cancer that affords a prospect of cure is removal by surgical measures. “If carcino- matous disease is to be rooted out, its mode of spread by means of the lymphatic vessels must be borne in mind, and as this