INHERITED SYPHILIS. 173 ance of the osseous tissue is influenced by the pressure of the head on the pillow. It is entirely recovered from as the child improves in health. Between the ages of three and six months, certain other phenomena may be observed, such as effusion into the joints, especially the knees; iritis, in one or in both eyes—a condition which, however, is liable to be overlooked; and enlargement of the spleen and of the liver. In the majority of cases the child recovers from these early manifestations, especially when efficiently treated with mercury, and may enjoy an indefinite period of good health. On the other hand, when it attains the age of two to four years it may begin to manifest lesions, which, from their being for the most part gummatous in character, are regarded as correspond- ing to the tertiary period of acquired syphilis. In unfavourable cases the infant fails in health from day to day, its cry is hoarse and feeble, its capacity for sucking diminishes, it becomes emaci- ated and dies of exhaustion. The Later or Gummatous Lesions of Inherited Syphilis.—These may occur in relation to the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, especially of the legs, as gummata which tend to ulcerate; or in the form of a spreading gummatous ^ infiltration of the skin, which when it gj.un boyj tlie‘ sul> ulcerates constitutes what has been called jeet of Inherited Sy- syphilitic lupus, and may leave disfiguring philis. scars, especially when occurring on the (Mr. Scot-Skirving’s case.) face. Ulceration of the palate and throat is sometimes most destructive in character, and in the nose, where it may be associated with putrid discharge from the nos- trils,—ozsena,—is liable to produce the most unsightly deformity. The entire palatal portions of the upper jaws, the vomer, turbinate and other bones bounding the nasal and oral cavities may ultimately disappear, so that on looking into the mouth the base of the skull is readily seen. Gummatous disease is also frequently observed in the flat bones of the skull (Fig. 31), in the bones of the hand as syphilitic dactylitis, and in the bones of the forearm and leg. When the tibia is affected the disease is frequently bilateral, and may assume the form of gummatous ulcers and sinuses. In later years the tibia may present altera- tions in shape resulting from antecedent gummatous disease—for