272 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. is performed in the same way as for naevus. The positive pole is placed in the centre of the tumour, while the negative is introduced into the main affluents one after another. ANEURYSM. An aneurysm is a sac communicating with an artery, and containing fluid or coagulated blood. Two types of aneurysm are met with—the pathological or spontaneous aneurysm, and the traumatic aneurysm. It is convenient to describe in this section also certain conditions in which there is an abnormal communication between an artery and a vein—arterio-venous aneurysm. Pathological Aneurysm. In this class are included such aneurysms as are produced by gradual dilatation of an artery, resulting from weakening of its coats, combined, in most cases, with a loss of elasticity in the walls and a marked increase in the arterial tension. The terms “ spontaneous ” and “ idiopathic,” commonly applied to aneurysms of this class, are singularly inappropriate in view of the distinct pathological agencies at work in their production. In the majority of cases of pathological aneurysm the weakening of the artery and the diminution of the normal elasticity of its wall are due to atheroma. The recoil of the affected part of the vessel during diastole of the heart is diminished, and the increased vascular tension leads to gradual dilatation of the affected segment of the artery. In other cases the vessel wall is softened by arteritis— especially the embolic form—so that it yields before the pressure of the blood. Repeated and sudden raising of the arterial tension, as a result, for example, of violent muscular efforts or of frequent excessive indulgence in alcohol, plays an important part in the causation of aneurysm. These factors probably explain the comparative frequency of aneurysm in those who follow such arduous occupations as soldiers, sailors, dock-labourers, andnavvies. In these classes the condition usually manifests itself between the ages of thirty and fifty—that is, when the vessels are beginning to degenerate, although the heart is still vigorous and the individuals are hard at work. The comparative immunity of women may also be explained by the less severe muscular