439 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. inwards by dropping the hand (Fig. 101), and the bone gradually glides into the socket. In a certain number of cases reduction, can be effected by hyper- abduction with extension at the shoulder. The patient is laid upon a firm mattress, and the scapula fixed by making pressure on the acromion, while the arm is slowly and steadily extended, and raised from the side till it is well above the head. In some cases the head of the humerus spontaneously slips into its socket; in others it may be manipulated into position by pressure from the axilla. This method is best adapted to recent cases, as in those of long standing the axillary vessels are liable to be stretched or torn. The method of reduction by traction on the arm with the heel in the axilla has deservedly fallen into disrepute as being- one which largely depends for its success on sheer force. After Treatment.—After reduction the part is gently massaged for ten or fifteen minutes, a layer of wool is placed in the axilla, the forearm is supported by a sling, and the arm fixed to the side by a circular bandage. Massage is carried out daily. Movement of the shoulder, in every direction except that of abduction, may be commenced on the third or fourth day. The restraining apparatus may be dispensed with at the end of a fortnight or three weeks, and by the end of a month the patient should be advised to use the arm freely. The sub-clavicular dislocation is to be looked upon as an exaggerated form of the sub-coracoid rather than as a separate variety. It is produced by the same mechanism, but the violence is greater, and the resulting lesions are correspondingly severe. The head passes farther in under cover of the pectoralis minor, resting under the clavicle against the serratus magnus and chest wall. The ordinary clinical features are usually so marked that they leave no doubt as to the diagnosis. The outline of the head of the humerus is visible through the skin in its abnormal position, and the shortening of the limb is more marked than in the sub- coracoid variety. The treatment is the same for both varieties. Sub-glenoid dislocation is less frequently met with than the sub-coracoid variety, and almost always results from forcible abduction of the arm. The head of the humerus passes out through a small rent in the lower and inner portion of the capsule, and rests against the anterior edge of the triangular surface immediately below the glenoid cavity, supported behind by the long head of the triceps, and in front by the subscapularis muscle. It is readily felt in the axilla. All the tendons in relation to the upper end of the humerus are stretched or torn,