THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 284 needle is made to scratch the wall of the sac—a combination of “ needling ” and galvano-puncture. The Moore-Corradi method consists in introducing through the wall of the aneurysm a hollow insulated needle, through the lumen of which from ten to twenty feet of highly drawn silver or other wire is passed into the sac, where it coils up into an open meshwork. The positive pole of a galvanic battery is attached to the wire, while the negative pole is placed over the patient’s back. A current, varying in strength from twenty to seventy milliamperes, is allowed to flow for about an hour. The hollow needle is then withdrawn, but the wire is left in situ. The results are somewhat similar to those obtained by needling and by electrolysis, but the clot formed on the large coil of wire is more extensive. Subcutaneous Injections of Gelatin.—This method of treating inoperable cases of sacculated aneurysm is still on its trial. It is based on the fact that a solution of gelatin introduced into the circulation increases the coagulability of the blood. Three or four ounces of a two per cent, solution of white gelatin in sterilised water, at a temperature of about 100° F., are injected into the subcutaneous tissue of the abdomen every two, three, or four days. In the course of a fortnight or three weeks improve- ment begins. The clot which forms is liable to soften and be absorbed, but a repetition of injections has in several cases established a permanent cure. In rare cases amputation is the only treatment which offers a prospect of saving life. It is chiefly indicated in cases com- plicated by suppuration, by secondary hamiorrliage after excision or ligature, or by gangrene. Amputation beyond the aneurysm has been performed as a means of arresting the blood-flow through the sac, and so effecting a cure—for example, amputation at the shoulder for subclavian aneurysm (Fergusson). Traumatic Aneurysm. The essential difference between a pathological and a traumatic aneurysm is that the latter is produced by some form of injury which divides all the coats of the artery. The walls of the injured vessel are usually healthy, but they form no part of the sac of the aneurysm. The sac consists of the condensed and thickened soft tissues which surround the artery, together with a variable amount of laminated clot. The injury to the artery may be of the nature of a sub-