INJURIES OF WRIST AND HAND. 478 met with, except as a complication of fracture of the lower end of the radius, or in association with sub-luxation of the head of the radius. The head of the ulna usually passes backward, less frequently forward, and but rarely towards the ulnar side. In children the commonest cause is lifting the child by the hand, and the displacement, as a rule, is only partial. In adults it may result from forcible efforts at pronation or supination, as in wringing clothes, or from direct violence, the separation being frequently complete and sometimes compound. The head of the ulna forms a prominence on the dorsal or palmar aspect of the wrist, according to the direction in which it passes, and there is an undue depression on the opposite aspect of the joint. The hand is generally pronated, the rotatory movements at the wrist being restricted and painful, while flexion and extension are comparatively free. When uncom- plicated the dislocation is easily recognised, but when com- plicated Avith fracture it is apt to be overlooked. Reduction is readily effected by making direct pressure on the displaced bone and manipulating the joint, especially in the direction of supina- tion. Dislocations at the radio-carpal joint are, in comparison with Colies’ fracture, extremely rare. They are often complicated by fractures of the lower ends of the bones of the forearm; are attended by great tearing of the ligaments and displacement of tendons; and are frequently compound. The carpus may be displaced backward or forward, and the separation is usually complete. It is not uncommon for the articular edge of the radius towards which the carpus passes to be chipped off. Backward dislocation is much the commoner, and results from severe forms of violence, such as a fall from a height on the palm while the hand is dorsi-flexed and abducted. It may also be produced by violent rotation of the wrist. The clinical appearances closely simulate those of Colles’ fracture, or separation of the lower radial epiphysis, but the unnatural projections, both in front and behind, are lower down, and end more abruptly (Fig. 127). The hand is more flexed, and the palm is shortened. The styloid processes retain their normal relations to one another, but that of the radius is nearer Fig. 127.—Backward Dislocation at Radio- Carpal Articulation, in a man aet. 24, from a fall of 15 feet, landing on tack of knuckles.