636 DISEASES OF JOINTS. with the changes resulting from advancing years—is singularly inappropriate as applied to a disease which may be met with in childhood. Arbuthnot Lane’s suggestion that the lesions under consideration are the result of trauma, while ingenious and in- structive, can scarcely be accepted as applicable to all cases. It is easier, however, to express negative opinions in regard to arthritis deformans than to formulate positive views which are of real value. Morbid Anatomy.—The articular cartilage at first presents a fibrillated appearance. Being of feeble vitality, it is gradually worn away as a result of the movements of the joint until the subjacent bone is exposed. At the margins of the articular sur- faces, where the'synovial membrane and cartilage meet, there is an active pro- liferation of cartilage, resulting in nodular proj ections—ecchondroses—which have been compared to the droppings from a candle. These tend to be converted into bone, and the ossification thus started may extend into the capsular ligament, thereby adding to the articular margins a collar or “lip” of new bone, and also into other ligaments and into the insertions of tendons, giving rise to outgrowths of bone — osteophytes or spurious exostoses (Fig. 210). The changes which take place within the articular area subsequent to the dis- appearance of the cartilage vary in different types of the disease. When rarefaction of bone is the predomi- nant feature, the enlarged medullary spaces are opened into by the wearing away of the surface layer, and the bone then presents an erroded, worm-eaten appearance. In the course of time there may be considerable disappearance of bone and consequent alteration in shape and size,—a change which is well illustrated in the progressive enlargement of the acetabulum which takes place in certain cases of arthritis deformans of the hip. On the other hand, when the bone is condensed and sclerosed, it becomes smooth and polished as a result of the movements of the joint. When this change is very pronounced the appearance may be like that of ivory or porcelain; it is often described as “ eburna- Fig. 210.—Arthritis De- formans of Elbow. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)