467 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. weeks, to allow of union of the torn ligaments and to prevent recurrence. In old-standing cases, to obtain a useful joint, resection of the head of the radius is often necessary. Sub-luxation of the head of the radius, or “ dislocation by elongation,” is a comparatively common injury in children between the ages of two and six. It almost invariably results from the child being lifted or dragged by the hand or forearm. The traction and torsion thus put upon the radius causes the front part of its head to pass out of the orbicular ligament, the edge of which slips between the bones. The person holding the child may feel a click at the moment of displacement. The child complains of pain in the region of the elbow; the arm at once becomes useless, and is held flexed, midway between pronation and supination. All movements are painful, but especially movements in the direction of supination. The deformity is slight, but the head of the radius may be unduly prominent in front. From the way in which the injury is produced the wrist also is often swollen, being injured at the same time, and in some cases the patient is brought to the surgeon on account of the condition of the wrist. Treatment.—Spontaneous reduction frecpiently takes place, the function of the arm being at once completely restored. In other cases it is necessary, under anaesthesia, to manipulate the head of the bone into position. This is usually easily done by flexing the elbow, making slight traction on the forearm, and alternately pronating and supinating it. A few days’ massage is all that is necessary, the joint in the intervals being kept ar rest in a splint and sling. Sprains of the elbow are comparatively common as a result of a fall on the hand or a twist of the forearm. The point of maximum tenderness is usually over the radio-humeral joint, the external lateral and orbicular ligaments being those most frequently stretched or torn. Effusion takes place into the synovial cavity, and a soft, puffy swelling Alls up the natural hollows about the joint. The bony points about the elbow retain their normal relationship to one another—a feature which aids in determining the diagnosis between a sprain and a dislocation or fracture in this region. In children it is often very difficult to distinguish between a sprain and the partial separation of an epiphysis. Sprains of the elbow are treated on the same lines as similar lesions elsewhere—by massage and movement. The condition known as tennis elbow is character-