584 DISEASES OF BONE. rarely unites, and is therefore usually associated with loss of power and considerable shortening and deformity. On the occurrence of suppura- tion the disease becomes more active, and abscesses may form in the overlying soft parts and in the adjacent joint. In the vertebral column hydatids give rise to angular deformity and paraplegia. In the pelvis there is usually great enlargement of the bones, and when sup- puration occurs it is apt to infect the liip-joint and to terminate fatally. Wherever situated, the disease is very rarely diagnosed before operation, being usually mistaken for central tumour, gumma, tuberculosis, or abscess of hone. Examination with the X-rays is helpful. The treatment consists in thorough eradication of the parasite by operation. The bone is laid open and scraped or resected according to the extent of the disease. In advanced cases, complicated with spon- taneous fracture and with suppuration, amputation affords the best chance of recovery. The lesions in the bones resulting from actinomycosis and from mycetoma have been sufficiently described with these diseases. TROPHIC DISEASES OF BONE. These include rickets, scurvy-rickets, osteomalacia, osteitis deformans, fragilitas ossium, and certain lesions met with in diseases of the nervous system. Rickets. Rickets or rachitis is a constitutional disease associated with disturbance of the nutrition, and attended with characteristic changes in the skeleton. The disease is most common and most severe among the children of the poorer classes in large cities, who are improperly fed and are brought up in unhealthy sur- roundings. There is evidence to show that the most important factor in the causation of rickets is the administration of food deficient in animal fat, proteids, and salts of lime, or which contains these in such a form that they are not readily assimi- lated. The occurrence of the disease is rendered more likely and its features are exaggerated by imperfect oxygenation of the blood as the result of a deficiency of fresh air and sunlight, and by other conditions which tend to lower the general health. Pathological Anatomy.—The bone lesions are of considerable surgical importance. The most striking feature is the softness (malacia) of the bones due to the excessive absorption of osseous tissue and the formation of an imperfectly calcified tissue at the various sites of ossification. The affected portions of the skeleton lose their rigidity, so that the bones bend under the weight of the body, the traction of muscles, and from the influence of