583 HYDATID DISEASE OF BONE. ceptional. Loss of bone may result in shortening and deformity of the finger. The differential diagnosis from tuberculous dac- tylitis has been described with that disease. Chondroma of the phalanges is recognised by the hardness and definition of the tumour, and by the appearances seen with the X-rays. The treatment of the bone lesions of inherited syphilis is carried out on lines similar to those recommended in the acquired disease. In view of the comparative inefficacy of iodides, most benefit results from improvement of the general health by country or seaside air, by nourishing food, and the administration of cod liver oil, iron and arsenic. When the gummatous lesions are persistent and destructive it may be necessary to remove the diseased tissues by surgical means. Hydatid Disease of Bone. This rare disease in bone has been chiefly studied by Gangolphe in France and by Targett in this country. It results from the lodgment of the embryos of the teenia echinococcus, which are con- veyed to the marrow by the blood-stream. In contrast to what is usually observed in hydatids of internal organs such as the liver, the cysts found in bones are extremely small, usually about the size of a pin-head, and they are found in enormous numbers diffusely scattered throughout the marrow. The formation of brood capsules and of scolices is exceptional, and hooklets are rarely found. The parts of the skeleton most often affected are the articular ends of the long bones, and especially the upper end of the tibia, the bodies of the vertebrae, and the bones of the pelvis. The localisation of the parasite frequently appears to be determined by injury. As the cysts in the marrow increase in number and in size, the frame- work of the bone is gradually absorbed, and there result excavations or cavities containing the hydatids. The marrow and spongy bone first dis- appear, after which the compact tissue becomes thin and perforated. The periosteum forms little new bone. The bone gradually becomes expanded and increased in girth, and pathological fracture may result, or the cysts may escape through perforations into the surrounding cellular tissue, and when thus freed from confinement may attain con- siderable dimensions. Suppuration from superadded pyogenic infection is a frequent complication, and is a serious aggravation of the disease, as it may be attended with extensive necrosis of remaining portions of the framework of the bone, and may lead to infection and disorganisa- tion of the adjacent joint. The clinical features may be so ill-defined that pathological fracture is the first indication of the disease. The patient may complain, over a long period, of deep-seated pains ; which, however, are never so severe as in a central abscess of bone. In superficial bones, such as the tibia, there may be some enlargement, and it may be possible to recognise egg- shell crackling, or unequal consistence of the bone, it being hard in some parts, and doughy and elastic in others where the shell has been absorbed. The disease may pursue an indolent course during months or years until some complication occurs, such as fracture or suppuration. The fracture