645 HYSTERICAL JOINT AFFECTIONS. generative organs, or may result from an involuntary imitation of the symptoms of organic joint disease presented by another patient. It is characteristic that the features develop abruptly without sufficient cause, that they are exaggerated and wanting in harmony with one another, and that they do not correspond with the typical features of any of the known forms of organic disease. In some cases the only complaint is of severe neuralgic pains; more often these are associated with excessive tender- ness, and with impairment of the functions of the joint. On examination the joint presents a normal appearance, but the skin over it is remarkably sensitive. A light touch is more likely to excite pain than deep and firm pressure. Stiffness is a variable feature—in some cases amounting to absolute rigidity, so that no ordinary force will elicit movement. It is characteristic of this, as of other neuroses, that the symptoms come and go without apparent cause. When the patient’s attention is diverted, the pain and stiffness may disappear. There is never any actual swelling of the joint, although there may be an appearance of this from wasting of the muscles above and below. If the joint is kept rigid for long periods, secondary contracture may occur—in the knee with flexion, in the hip with flexion and adduction. Attempts at movement may then cause cracking. Months or even years may elapse without any further develop- ments taking place. The diagnosis is often a matter of considerable difficulty, and the condition must not be mistaken for such organic lesions.as a tuberculous or pyogenic focus in the bone close to a joint, which may cause vague neuralgic pains for long periods before rupturing into the articulation. Examination of the joint under chloroform or the use of the Rbntgen rays may assist in difficult cases, but it is on record that an experienced surgeon has been obliged to perform an exploratory operation in order to make a definite diagnosis. The greatest difficulty is met with in the knee and hip, where the condition may closely simulate tuberculous disease. The local treatment consists chiefly in improving the nutrition of the affected limb by means of massage, baths, and electricity. Splints are to be avoided. In refractory cases considerable benefit may follow the application of Corrigan’s button or the actual cautery. The general condition of the patient must be treated on the same lines as in other neuroses. The Weir- Mitchell treatment may prove of great service. It consists in secluding the patient from her friends and relatives, placing her