TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. 279 formation of a clot in the sac; and to obtain a permanent occlusion of the portion of the artery from which the aneurysm springs, without at the same time seriously endangering the nutrition of the parts beyond. General constitutional treatment effects certain of these objects, while others are attained by local measures. Constitutional Treatment.—All forms of local treatment must be supplemented by general measures which tend to reduce the arterial tension and to diminish the force of the heart’s action. The patient must be kept in bed at absolute rest—muscular effort being as far as possible avoided. A low, dry, and non-stimulating diet is indicated, the quantity being gradually reduced till it is just sufficient to satisfy the patient and to maintain his nutrition. Saline purges or even venesection may be employed to reduce the vascular tension. The benefit derived from the administration of potassium iodide administered in full doses, as first recommended by George W. Balfour, probably depends on its depressing action on the heart. Pain or restlessness may call for the use of moderate doses of opium. Local Treatment. — The constitutional treatment above described is only to be looked upon as accessory to local measures, such as excision of the sac, ligature of the artery, compression of the artery, or the induction of coagulation in the sac by the introduction of foreign bodies, by which alone the permanent occlusion of the artery and the obliteration of the sac can be effected. Excision of the Aneurysm.—Where it is available this is the most radical and the most certain method of treatment. Originally practised by Antyllus (a.d. 300)—hence the name “ old operation ” by which it is sometimes known — this pro- cedure was revived by Syme, and has been widely practised by Annandale and others. In the neck and in other situations where a tourniquet cannot be employed, the sac must be incised, and a finger quickly passed into the lumen of the artery so as to plug it and prevent bleeding, while the clots are being turned out and the ligatures applied. The risk from haemorrhage renders this one of the most formidable operations of surgery. In the limbs the circulation is controlled by a tourniquet— preferably that of Petit which can be rapidly slackened and tightened—as may be necessary. The aneurysm is freely exposed, and, after the vessel has been ligatured above and below, the sac is opened and the clots turned out. The sac