DERMOIDS. 197 epithelium, supported by a firm membrane of connective tissue —dermoid cyst. The cavity is filled with a turbid fluid con- taining desquamated epithelium, fat droplets, cliolesterin crystals, and detached hairs. Delicate hairs may also be found projecting from the epithelial lining of the cyst. Dermoids occur on the trunk in situations where the lateral halves of the body coalesce during development, but they are more commonly met with on the face and neck in the situation of the various clefts and fissures of the embryo. Faulty coalescence of the cutaneous covering of the back occurs most frequently over the lower sacral vertebrae, giving rise to small congenital recesses, known as post-anal dimples and coccygeal sinuses. These recesses are lined with skin, which is furnished with hairs, sebaceous and sweat glands. If the external orifice becomes oc- eluded, there results a dermoid cyst. Dermoids originating from embryonic canals and passages, which normally disappear before birth, are illustrated by those related to the thyro-glossal duct (lingual dermoids), the post-anal gut (rectal and post-rectal dermoids), and the branchial clefts (branchial dermoids). Dermoids occurring in the ovary—- ovarian dermoids—take the form of unilocular or multilocular cysts, the wall of which contains skin, mucous membrane, hair follicles, sebaceous, sweat, and mucous glands, nails, teeth, nipples, and mammary glands, all of these being products of the epiblastic layer of the embryo (Fig. 35). The cavity of the cyst usually contains a pultaceous mixture of shed epithelium, fluid fat anil hair. If the cyst ruptures, the epithelial elements are diffused over the peritoneum, and may give rise to secondary dermoids. Clinical Features.—Although dermoids are of congenital origin, they are rarely evident at birth, and may not give rise to visible tumours until puberty, when the skin and its append- ages become more active, or even not till adult life. Super- ficial dermoids, such as those met with at the outer angle of the orbit, form rounded, definitely-limited tumours, over which the skin is freely movable. They are usually adherent to the Fig. 35.—Dermoid Cyst of Ovary showing Teeth in its Interior.