494 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. Fractures of the Neck. It has long been customary to divide fractures of the neck Oj the femur into two groups—“ intra-” and “ extra-capsular ” ; but inasmuch as in a considerable proportion of cases the line of fracture falls partly within and partly without the capsule, this classification is wanting in accuracy. It is more correct to divide these fractures into (1) those occurring through the narrow part of the neck, which are nearly always purely intra- capsular; and (2) those occurring through the base of the neck, in which the line of fracture lies inside the capsule in front, but outside of it behind. It is of considerable clinical importance to distinguish between fractures in these two positions. The first group occurs almost exclusively in old persons from slight forms of in- direct violence, and is very liable, on ac- count of the feeble vascular supply to the upper fragment, to be followed by absorption of the neck, which delays or may even entirely prevent union. The second group usu- ally occurs in robust adults, and results from severe forms of violence applied directly to the trochanter. In this group firm osseous union usually takes place. Fracture of the Narrow Part of the Neck or Intra- capsular Fracture.—It was formerly believed that this fracture was exceedingly rare in children, but by the use of the X-rays and from the study of the condition known as coxa vara, it has been shown that it occurs with considerable frequency. In children the fracture is of the greenstick variety, and the patient is often able to use the limb within a few days of the injury. This injury, however, is most frequently met with in elderly persons, especially in women, and is usually produced by com- paratively slight forms of indirect violence—such, for example, as result from the foot catching on the edge of a carpet, a stumble in walking, or missing a step in going down stairs. Fig. 141.—Fracture through Narrow Part of Neck of Femur. On surface view and on section. The neck of the hone has undergone absorption.