PYOGENIC DISEASES OF BONE. 565 into contact. These procedures, designed to promote the healing of bone cavities, may be carried out at the same time as the sequestrum is removed, or after an interval. Serous or Albuminous Osteomyelitis and Periostitis.—This is a mild or benign form of the acute disease. The virulence of the infecting agent being attenuated, the inflammatory exudation is serous in character, and shows no tendency to end in suppuration. The periosteal element predominates, and death of bone is exceptional. It is nearly always localised, and there are neither multiple lesions nor metastases. It is characterised by symptoms similar to those met with in suppurative osteomyelitis ; the fever, however, subsides rapidly, and the local phenomena of inflammation are not severe. The amount of periosteal exudation is considerable in comparison with the mildness of the general symptoms. As the condition is liable to be mistaken for a blood cyst or a cold abscess, the diagnosis is not usually made until the swelling is incised, and there escapes a variable quantity of a transparent, amber-coloured fluid, like synovia, in which there may be oil droplets from the marrow. In cases following directly on injury, there may be a good deal of blood mixed with the exudation. The treatment consists in incision and drainage. Growth Fever (Fievre de croissance) is a condition described by French authors, which is of the nature of osteomyelitis, but is unattended with exudation, suppuration or necrosis, and results in an exaggerated growth in length of the bones affected. It may be the explanation of the condition popularly known in this country as “growing pains” and that form of “ rheumatism ” which is often met with in the lower limbs of children and adolescents. It is regarded by most observers as an attenuated form of staphy- lococcal osteomyelitis. Attention is usually directed to it by the remarkable stimulus which the growth of the skeleton may receive in young subjects, especially during or shortly after an acute illness, such as typhoid fever. Clinically, two types may be recognised according to the presence o1' absence of fever. In the non-febrile form the child complains of vague evanescent pains, and of feeling tired, and he is disinclined to go about. After a walk or other exertion he may complain of more severe pain in the limbs, sometimes referred to the joints. The pains may disappear after a night’s rest, may last for several days, or they may come and go over a considerable period. Recovery with increase in stature is the rule. In the febrile form the child is evidently ill, has no appetite, is weary and disinclined to get up, has pains in the head, and in the region of the joints of the limbs. At times, and especially in the evening, the skin is hot and burning, and the temperature may rise considerably. The illness may be sudden and acute, and may last for two or three days, or may be milder and more prolonged, and there may be several relapses within twelve months. The increase in stature may amount to as much as from four to six inches in a year. In the diagnosis reliance is to be placed chiefly on the occurrence of variable attacks of fever with pains and tenderness at the epiphysial junctions. It may be mistaken for typhoid and other fevers, tuberculous meningitis, and tuberculous diseases of bones and joints. Growth fever is less common than any of these. Localised forms at the hip and in the spine may be mistaken for tuberculosis.