BURSITIS. 379 adjacent inflammation—for example, from suppuration in a joint or in the cellular tissue; but it usually results from an infected wound implicating the bursa, or the skin and subcutaneous tissue over it. It is most frequently met with in the olecranon bursa after a fall on the point of the elbow, and may run a very acute course. There is redness of the skin, great swelling and oedema of the arm, and if untreated the septic process may transgress the wall of the bursa, invade the surrounding cellular tissue, and spread up and down the limb. The condition may simulate erysipelas. The corresponding affection in the pre- patellar bursa may also assume serious proportions. Treatment is conducted on general principles. Tuberculous disease of bursre closely resembles that of tendon sheaths. It may occur as an independent affection, or may be associated with tuberculous disease in an adjacent bone or joint. It is chiefly met with in the prepatellar and subdeltoid bursae, or in one of the bursae over the great trochanter. The clinical features are those of an indolent hydrops, with or without melon-seed bodies, or of uniform thickening of the wall of the bursa, which sometimes breaks down into a cold abscess and gives rise to persistent sinuses. The best treatment is to excise the affected bursa, or, where this is impracticable, to lay it freely open, remove the softened tuberculous tissue with the sharp spoon, and treat the resulting cavity by the open method. Syphilitic disease is rarely recognised except in the form of bursal and peri-bursal gummata in front of the knee-joint. Tumours of bursae include the fibroma, the myxoma, the myeloma or giant-celled tumour, and various forms of sarcoma. They present the same clinical features, and are treated on the same lines, as similar tumours elsewhere. Diseases of Individual Bursae.—In the upper extremity the olecranon bursa is that most frequently affected. The enlargement usually results from friction and pressure, and is known as the “miner’s” or “student’s elbow.” The subdeltoid bursa may be distended with fluid and melon-seed bodies— especially as a result of tubeyculous disease—constituting a prominent swelling on the outer aspect of the shoulder. Mention should also be made of the bursa underneath the tendon of the subscapularis muscle, disease of which causes impairment of the movements, and alteration in the attitude of the shoulder; and of the adventitious bursa which forms over the acromion process in porters and others who carry weights on the shoulder. In the lower extremity a large number of normal and