135 METHODS OF INFECTION. “ The great multiplying ground of tubercle bacilli is the animal body, and tuberculous tissues and secretions containing the bacilli are the chief, if not the only means by which the disease is spread. The bacilli leave the body in large numbers in the sputum of phthisical patients, and when the sputum becomes dried and pulverised they are set free in the air. Their presence in the air of rooms containing consumptive patients has been repeatedly demonstrated. So far as the human subject is concerned, the great means of disseminating the bacilli in the outer world is dried phthisical sputum. Another possible source of infection, especially in children, is the milk of cows affected with tuberculosis of the udder.” 1 In marked contrast to what obtains in the infective diseases which have been already described, tuberculosis rarely results from the infection of a wound of the external surface of the body. In exceptional instances, however, this does occur, and in illustration of the fact may be cited the case of a servant girl who cut her finger with a broken spittoon containing the sputum of her consumptive master ; the wound subsequently showed evidence of tuberculous infection, which ultimately spread up along the lymphatic vessels of the arm. Pathologists, too, whose hands are frequently exposed to the contact of tuber- culous tissues and pus, are liable to suffer from a form of tuberculosis of the skin of the finger, known as anatomical tubercle. Slight wounds of the feet in children who go about barefoot in towns sometimes become infected with tubercle. Operation wounds made with instruments contaminated with tuberculous material have also been known to become infected. It is highly probable that the common form of tuberculosis of the skin known as “lupus” arises by direct infection from without. In the vast majority of cases the tubercle bacillus gains entrance to the body by way of the internal mucous surfaces, the organisms being either inhaled or swallowed. The respiratory mucous membrane, from the nose and mouth to the terminations of the air tubes in the lungs, is constantly exposed to infection by the inhalation of air laden with dust and other minute particles to which the virus is adherent. The existence of inflammation, or of some superficial lesion of these mucous surfaces, favours the entrance of the bacilli into the tissues, whence they pass by way of the lymphatic vessels to the glands. The glands most frequently infected in this way are the cervical glands, and those within the cavity of the chest -—particularly the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. 1 Muir and Ritchie, “Manual of Bacteriology,” 3rd edition, 1902.