732 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. with. The treatment consists in reducing the dislocation by manipulation, or, if this fail, by operation. Paralytic Deformities of the Shoulder—Paralytic Disloca- tion.—The muscles in the region of the shoulder may have their innervation interfered with as a result of various conditions, of which infantile paralysis and injuries of the brachial plexus at birth are the most important. The capsular ligament of the slioulder-joint being no longer kept tense by the scapular muscles —especially the deltoid and external rotators—becomes relaxed, and is stretched by the weight of the arm. The appearances are characteristic. The muscles of the shoulder are wasted, the acromion is prominent, and between it and the upper end of the humerus there is a marked hollow into which one or more fingers may be inserted. The arm hangs flaccid by the side and may be moved in a flail-like fashion in all directions, the patient having very little control over it. The treatment consists in fixing the upper arm to the trunk by some form of apparatus, or in bringing about by operative means—arthrodesis—a close fibrous union between the humerus and glenoid, so that the movements of the scapula may be communicated to the upper arm and thus enable the patient to execute purpose-like move- ments. Congenital Dislocations at the Elbow.—The head of the radius may be dislocated forwards, backwards or outwards— usually in association with imperfect development of the outer condyle of the humerus. As the displaced head of the bone interferes with the movements at the elbow-joint, the best treat- ment is to excise it. Congenital dislocation of both bones of the forearm is extremely rare. Cubitus Valgus and Cubitus Varus.—When the normal arm hangs by the side with the palm of the hand directed forwards, the forearm and upper arm form an angle which is open out- wards—this is known as the “carrying angle”; it is usually more marked in women in association with the greater breadth of the pelvis. When this angle is exaggerated the attitude is described as one of cubitus valgus (Fig. 109). This deformity may be acquired as a result of rickets, but more commonly it is due to a fracture of the external condyle of the humerus, in which the separated fragment has been displaced upwards. Sometimes it is of congenital origin and is associated with great slackness of the ligaments. Cubitus varus (Fig. 108) is the reverse of cubitus valgus. It is more common, and is nearly always a result of fracture of the lower end of the humerus or separation of the epiphysis and