370 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. Ossification in the adductor longus was first described by Billroth under the name of “ rider’s bone.” It is believed to be due to bruising and partial rupture of the muscle, and has been observed chiefly in cavalry soldiers. It causes little inconvenience, and is usually discovered accidentally as an induration in the substance of the muscle. Ossification in the left deltoid and pectoral muscles has been observed in foot-soldiers in the German army, and has secured the name of “ drill-bone.” Lastly, there is the interesting generalised disease—pro- gressive ossifying myositis—in which the muscles, tendons, and fascim throughout the body are converted into bone. It affects almost exclusively the male sex, and is sometimes associ- ated with congenital deformities of the fingers and toes. It usually begins in childhood or youth, sometimes after an injury, sometimes without any apparent cause. The muscles of the back, especially the trapezius and latissimus, are the first to be affected. They may become swollen and tender, or the initial complaint may be of limitation of movement. On examination the bony nodules are seen and felt, and may be shown in skia- grams. As time goes on these bony nodules increase in number and size, and tend to become fused together into larger masses. The spine becomes rigid, the head is bent forward, the hips are flexed, and abduction and other movements of the arms limited. The disease progresses by fits and starts until all the striped muscles of the body may be ossified, and all movements, even those of the jaws, may be abolished. It is generally fatal within ten or twelve years from its onset, death usually resulting from pulmonary complications. There is no means of arresting the disease, and treatment is restricted to improving the general health, and to the removal of any mass of bone which interferes with an important movement. The bone found in muscle is derived from its connective- tissue framework, and the muscle fibres themselves undergo atrophy and absorption. The bone is spongy in character, and its development takes place along similar lines to those normally observed in the periosteum. Tumours of Muscle.—With the exception of certain rare congenital varieties, such as the rhabdomyoma, tumours of muscle grow from the connective-tissue framework and not from the muscle fibres. Innocent tumours, such as the fibroma, lipoma, angioma, and neuro-fibroma, are very rare. Malignant tumours may be primary in the muscle, or may result from extension from adjacent growths—for example, implication of