646 DISEASES OF JOINTS. in charge of a nurse, and paying special attention to feeding. Innocent tumours of the synovial membrane are rarely re- cognised as distinct from the overgrowths which occur in chronic forms of joint disease, such as arthritis deformans. Sarcoma of the synovial membrane has been met with chiefly in the knee, and has nearly always been mistaken for synovial tuberculosis. Cases are recorded in which a localised sarcoma of the synovial membrane has given rise to the symptoms of loose body. The treatment consists in free removal of the infected tissues. Cysts of joints constitute an ill-defined group which includes ganglia formed in relation to the capsular ligament. Cystic distension of bursae which communicate with the joint is most often met with in relation to the knee in cases of long-standing hydrops. It has been maintained that similar cystic swellings may result from the hernial protrusion of the synovial membrane between the stretched fibres of the capsular ligament, and the name “ Baker’s cysts ” has been applied to these, after Morrant Baker, who first described them. In the majority of cases cysts in relation to joints give rise to little inconvenience and may be left alone. If interfered with at all they should be excised. While there is probably no more controversial subject in surgical pathology than the origin and nature of loose bodies in forward. It is convenient to group them anatomically into two classes : those composed of fibrin, and those composed of organ- ised connective tissue. Fibrinous Loose Bodies (corpora oryzoidea).—These are homogeneous or concentrically laminated masses of fibrin, some- times resembling rice grains, melon seeds, or adhesive wafers, sometimes quite irregular in shape. Usually they are present in large numbers, but sometimes they are solitary and may then attain considerable dimensions. They are not peculiar to joints, for they are met with in tendon sheaths and bursae, and their origin from synovial membrane may be accepted as proved. They occur in tuberculosis, arthritis deformans, or Charcot’s Complete recovery is the rule. Tumours and Cysts. Loose Bodies. joints, their clinical aspects and treatment are clear and straight-