THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 240 large vein is opened and fails to collapse on account of the rigidity of its walls, its incorporation in a dense fascia, or from traction being made upon it. If a vein be thus held open the negative pressure in the vessel during inspiration sucks air into the right side of the heart. This is accompanied by a peculiar hissing or gurgling sound, and with the next expiration some frothy blood leaves the wound in the vessel wall. The patient instantly becomes pale, the pupils dilate, respiration becomes laboured, and, although the heart may continue to beat forcibly, the peripheral pulse is .weak, and may even be imperceptible. On auscultating the heart a churning sound may be heard. Death may result in a few minutes; or the heart may slowly regain its power and recovery take place. These symptoms have been attributed (1) to the collection of air in the right side of the heart, so that the right ventricle has no blood on which to contract, and the pulmonary circulation is therefore stopped ; (2) to the passage of air into the pulmonary vessels (air embolism), interfering with the circulation in the lungs and preventing the entrance of fresh blood into the left side of the heart; and (3) to the passage of air emboli to the cerebral blood-vessels. Prevention.—In all operations in the “ dangerous area ”—as the region of the root of the neck is called in this connection— great care must be taken not to notch or cut across any vein before it has been secured by forceps, and to apply ligatures securely and at once. Deep wounds in this region should be kept filled with an aseptic fluid, such as normal salt solution. Immediately a cut is recognised in a vein, a finger should be placed over the vein on the cardiac side of the wound, and kept there until the vessel is secured by forceps and ligatured. Treatment.—Little can be done after the air has actually entered the vein beyond endeavouring to keep up the heart’s action by hypodermic injections of ether or strychnine, alcoholic enemata, and mustard or hot cloths over the chest. The head at the same time should be lowered to prevent syncope. Attempts to withdraw the air by suction, and the employment of artificial respiration have proved futile, and are, by some, considered dangerous. Repair of Blood-Vessels, and the Natural Arrest of Haemorrhage. These processes are so intimately related to one another that it is advisable to consider them together.