THE HIP-JOINT. 669 anaesthesia this is readily accomplished in the majority of cases by manipulation ; but if the tendons and fascire are so contracted that this is impossible they should be divided. To ensure absolute rest in the attitude of extension and slight abduction, additional means may be necessary in restless children : a long splint may be applied on the sound side, and a heavy sand-bag on the affected side ; or, better still, a double long splint and cross-bar. The long splint on the affected side is made with a hinge opposite the liip-joint, to permit of vary- ing the degree of abduction. If there is any tendency to rotation, it may be prevented by strips of strong adhesive plaster, wrapped round the thigh in a direction opposed to that of the rotation, and fixed to the long splint or sand-bag. Ambulant Treatment.—Treatment by extension and the long splint should be continued until pain, tenderness, and muscular contraction have disappeared, and the limb has been brought into the attitude of slight abduction. The joint must be kept at rest, and the affected limb is not allowed to touch the ground. In children who are unable to use crutches, a double Thomas’ splint, a Phelp’s box, a Bonnet’s wire cuirass, or plaster of Paris is employed. By using any of these appliances the child is con- verted into a rigid object, callable of being carried about from one room to another or into the open air. Personally, we have obtained the best results from the double Thomas’ splint, like that used for spinal disease, which extends from the occiput to the feet. When the patient is able to use crutches, the affected limb is prevented from touching the ground by fixing a patten to the sole of the boot on the sound side. The liip-joint is kept rigid in the abducted position by a Thomas’ or a Taylor’s splint, or by a case of plaster of Paris. The plaster is used chiefly in hospital out-patients who cannot be kept under continual supervision. It may be strengthened by broad strips of aluminium, and should be renewed at intervals of from six weeks to three months. The treatment is continued for some time after all symptoms have disappeared. The duration of treatment varies from six months to two years. If at any time there is a return of active symptoms, the patient must again lie up with extension applied to the limb. Counter-irritation by means of the actual cautery may give considerable relief where there is much pain in the persistent hip disease of adults. It is applied over the great trochanter. Treatment of Abscess.—The early recognition and prompt treatment of abscess before it has spread widely or is threaten-