539 POTT’S FRACTURE. of Paris case, that it can be removed daily to permit of massage and movement being carried out. This is a point of great practical importance, because if massage and movement be neglected not only does union take place more slowly, but the persistent stiffness of the ankle and oedema of the leg and foot which ensue prolong the period of the patient’s incapacity, and endanger the functional usefulness of the limb. It is in cases of this kind that the ambulatory method of treatment yields its best results. When, in the course of two or three days, the swelling has subsided, a plaster of Paris case (Fig. 171) is applied in such a way that when the patient walks the weight is trans- mitted from the tuberosities of the tibia through the plaster case to the ground, no weight being borne by the bones at the seat of fracture. This is done as follows :—A boracic lint bandage is applied to the limb as far as the knee, and protecting pads or rings of wool are placed over the tuberosities of the tibia, the head of the fibula, and the malleoli. A pad of wool about three inches thick is then placed under the sole of the foot and fixed in position by a plaster of Paris bandage, which is carried up the limb in the usual way. The case is made specially strong on the sole, around the ankle, along the sides of the leg, and at the bearing-point at the head of the tibia. After the plaster has thoroughly set, the patient is allowed to walk about with a stick, crutches being unnecessary. In the course of three weeks the plaster case may be removed and the limb massaged. It is usually found that the movements of the ankle are scarcely interfered with, and the patient is generally able to resume work within a month of the accident. When there is marked eversion of the foot it is sometimes necessary to reduce the deformity under chloroform, and if it tends to recur this may be prevented by Dupuytrevh splint (Fig. 172). This splint, which is the same shape as Liston’s long-splint, but on a smaller scale, is applied to the inner side Fig. 172.—Dupuytren’s Splint applied to correct eversion of foot.