667 THE HIP-JOINT. difficult to differentiate from hip disease. In sarcoma the movements at the joint are less restricted. Skiagrams may give definite information. The recognition of egg-shell crackling or of pulsation is only possible in the advanced stages of sarcoma, and is therefore of little value in diagnosis. The diagnosis from other diseases of the hip-joint is difficult only in exceptional cases. In traumatic effusion into the joint, the symptoms follow directly upon an injury, are more definite from the first, and rapidly improve under rest. Pyogenic affections of the hip, resulting from staphylococcal osteomyelitis of the neck of the femur, from typhoid, or from gonorrhoea, may raise difficulties in diagnosis, especially when they are subacute and do not go the length of suppuration. There is usually, however, some pyrexia and greater tenderness, and pyogenic lesions may be present elsewhere in the body. Charcot’s disease and arthritis deformans usually occur under conditions which render any confusion with hip disease unlikely. In arthritis deformans there is less restriction of the movements at the joint, and these are accompanied by a sensation of rough- ness or crepitation. In hysterical affections of the hip, while there may be the typical attitude and rigidity of tuberculous disease, it is usually possible, when the patient’s attention is distracted, to elicit movement at the joint or to alter the attitude of the limb. Prognosis.—The prognosis in hip disease is more serious than in tuberculosis of other joints, excepting only those of the spine. While recovery may take place at any stage and even in the most unlikely cases, it becomes less probable the longer the disease has been left untreated. In the initial stage recovery may be attended with a certain range of movement; but when the disease has advanced to the stage of destruction of the articular surfaces, the joint is liable to become ankylosed, and its usefulness will depend upon the attitude of the limb and the degree of shortening. The average shortening amounts to from one and a half to two inches, but it may attain to as much as six inches. The formation of abscess, especially within the pelvis, is a serious complication. The prognosis is most unfavourable where there are gross lesions of the bones, and infected sinuses, especially in adults who are the subjects of tuberculosis elsewhere. Statistics show that formerly the mortality from hip disease varied from ten per cent in cases of dry arthritis, to forty per cent in cases with abscess; but the risks from abscess have been much reduced in recent years.