FRACTURES. 395 disappointment, but may even form a ground for actions for malpraxis. The character, direction, and extent of the fracture influence the prognosis, the best results usually following single and transverse breaks, while those which are multiple, comminuted, or oblique unite less rapidly and satisfactorily. Fibrous union is a common result in fractures of the neck of the femur in very old people. A similar result may follow at any age in fracture of the patella, of the olecranon, coronoid, and coracoid processes—a prospect of which the patient should be duly warned. Impairment of growth and eventual shortening of the limb may result from involvement of an epiphysis in young persons (Fig. 105). Stiffness of joints is liable to follow fractures implicating articular surfaces, or to result from chronic arthritic changes occurring during the period the limb is confined in splints. True osseous ankylosis is not a common sequel of simple fractures, but locking of joints from the mechanical impediment produced by the union of imperfectly reduced fragments, or from masses of callus, is not uncommon, especially in the region of the elbow. Wasting of the muscles from disuse, and oedema of the limb, which is slow to disappear, often delay the complete restoration to usefulness. Delayed union, want of union, and the formation of false joints will be referred to later. Treatment.—It may be accepted as an axiom in the treatment of fractures that the earlier it is begun the better. Immediately after the accident the muscles offer less resistance to the replace- ment of the fragments than they do after having for some time been irritated into contraction by the pressure of rough bony spicules. The swelling of the soft tissues, due to effusion of blood and serum, is also less; and time has not permitted of adhesions forming between torn tissues, or the organisation of effused products. Without entering into the question of first aid in cases of fracture, it may be said that every care must be taken during the transport of the patient that no further damage is done to the broken limb. To this end the part must be secured in the best form of extemporised splint which the ingenuity of the surgeon and the surroundings of the patient can furnish, the apparatus being so designed as to control not only the broken fragments, but also the joints above and below the fracture. When the ordinary method of removing the clothes involves