GANGKENE. 96 its bifurcation usually extends as far as the lower third of the forearm. Treatment.—The general treatment of embolic gangrene is the same as that for the senile form, which will be described in the next section. When amputation is indicated it must be performed sufficiently high to ensure a free vascular supply to the flaps. Senile Gangrene.—Senile gangrene is the commonest example of local death produced by a gradual diminution in the quantity of arterial blood passing through the parts, as a result of atheroma or other chronic disease of the vessels leading to diminution of their calibre. It is the most typical example of the dry type of gangrene. As the term indicates, it occurs in old persons; but the patient’s age is to be reckoned by the con- dition of his arteries rather than by the number of his years (Fig. 19). Thus the vessels of a comparatively young man who has suffered from syphilis and been addicted to alcohol are more liable to athero - matous degeneration lead- ing to this form of gan- grene than are those of a much older man who has lived a regular and ab - stemious life. This form of gangrene is much more common in men than in women. It must clearly be understood that any form of gangrene may occur in old persons, the term senile being here restricted to that variety which results from atheroma. Clinical Features.—The commonest seat of the disease is in the toes, especially the great toe, whence it spreads up the foot to the heel, or even to the leg. Although not necessarily traumatic in origin, there is often a history of some slight injury preceding its onset. The vitality of the tissues is so low that the balance between life and death may be turned by the most trivial injury, such as a cut while paring a toe-nail or a corn, a blister caused by an ill-fitting shoe or the contact of a hot-bottle. In some cases the actual gangrene is determined by thrombosis of the popliteal or tibial arteries, which are already narrowed by atheroma. Fio. 19.—Senile Gangrene in a man, ret. 48, whose Arteries were extremely atheromatous.