398 INJURIES OF RONES. and gentle massage is applied by the surgeon. The parts on the proximal side of the injured area are first gently stroked upwards to empty the veins and lymphatics, and to disperse the effused blood and serum. The rubbing process is then applied to the swollen area, and gradually extended down over the seat of the fracture and into the parts beyond. In this way the circulation through the damaged segment of the limb is improved, the veins are emptied of blood, and the removal of effused fluids is stimulated. The neighbouring joints are gently moved, and the patient is encouraged to contract the muscles voluntarily, care being taken all the while that the broken ends of the bone are not displaced. After the rubbing has been continued for from fifteen to twenty minutes, the limb is placed in a comfortable position, and retained there by pillows, sand-bags, or, if found more convenient, by a light form of movable splint. In fixing the limb in position it is necessary to avoid constricting it in any way that will interfere with the circulation. The massage is repeated every day, the sittings being gradually extended to twenty or thirty minutes, while the rubbing and the movements are carried out more energetically as time proceeds. The patient is encouraged at each sitting to move his joints voluntarily and against resistance. After an interval varying with the nature of the fracture all retentive appliances may be removed, but the massage should be con- tinued until consolidation of the callus is complete. The value of this procedure is greatest in fractures in the vicinity of joints, particularly the elbow, ankle, wrist, and knee. Not only is pain diminished, the formation of bony callus promoted and union thereby hastened, but the prolonged crippling stiffness which so often follows after immobilisation in splints is avoided by the dispersion of effusion and oedema and the prevention of adhesions. The risk of redisplacement of fragments is exceedingly slight, and is only to be feared in oblique fractures in the shafts of long bones, such as the humerus, femur, or bones of the leg ; but even in these situations, by careful fixation of the broken ends while the massage and movements are being carried on, any such ill effects can usually be obviated. Want of union, so far from being a special risk attending this method of treatment, is less liable to occur, if ordinary precautions be taken, than when splints alone are employed. Splints and other Appliances.—The less complicated and specialised splints are the better. The appropriate splints for individual fractures