634 DISEASES OF JOINTS. The other joints of the foot, the lingers, wrist, ankle, and knee may be also attacked. The clinical features are very characteristic. There is a sudden onset, during the early hours of the morning, of excruciating pain, the joint becoming swollen, red, and puffy, with engorgement of the veins. The hrst attack may be completely recovered from, but with repeated outbreaks the joint undergoes permanent alterations, becoming stiff, deformed, and in some cases ankylosed. The hands or feet may become seriously crippled, especially when the tendon sheaths and bursae also are affected (Fig. 209). The local treatment consists in applying soothing applications to the affected joint while the symptoms are acute; later— massage, douching and movement are indicated. Constitutional rheumatic rest upon the following | facts :—That it often follows upon acute articular rheumatism ; that it may show exacerbations or relapses which are attended with pyrexia and are relieved by salicylates; that it is met with in patients who present a family history of acute rheumatism or inflammation of serous mem- branes ; and that there may be a history of chorea, erythema nodosum, rheumatic nodules, or other evidences of rheumatism. It is usually poly-articular. It may be met with in childhood and youth as well as in adult life. The primary changes in the affected joints almost exclusively involve the synovial membrane, the ligaments, the surrounding tendon sheaths, and bursae. They consist in cellular infiltration and exudation, resulting in the formation of new connective tissue, which encroaches on the cavity of the joint and gives rise to adhesions. This newly formed connective tissue tends to contract, causing deformity and stiffness. The articular cartilages may be transformed into connective tissue with consequent fibrous ankylosis. The bones treatment must also be employed, and a visit to one of the reputed spas is beneficial. / \ L Fig. 209.—Gouty Arthritis of Joints of Fingers with chalk stones. Chronic Rheumatism. —This term is applied to an ill-defined affection of joints which is remarkable for the amount of suffering to which it may give rise, and the great disturbance in the functions of the joint which may result from it. Its claims to be called