465 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. In a few rare cases diverging dislocations have been met with, the radius and ulna passing away from one another, either antero- posteriorly or laterally. Treatment.—The chief obstacles to reduction in the backward and lateral dislocations are the spasmodic contraction of the muscles passing over the joint, and sometimes the hitching of the coronoid process against the edge of the olecranon fossa. In recent cases reduction can usually be effected with com- parative ease if the patient be seated on a chair, while the surgeon grasps the humerus and wrist, and places his knee in the bend of the elbow. The limb is first fully extended, or even hyper-extended, to relax the triceps and free the coronoid process. Traction is next made in opposite directions upon the forearm and upper arm, the surgeon’s knee meanwhile making pressure, in a backward direction, upon the lower end of the humerus. The joint is then slowly Hexed, and the bones slip into position, often with a distinct snap. If the patient be anaesthetised these manipulations must be adapted to the recumbent position. When some days have elapsed before reduction is attempted, adhesions must be broken down by flexing, extending, and laterally moving the joint, under an anaesthetic, before the manipulations are carried out. The limb is flexed to rather less than a right angle, fixed in a posterior moulded splint, and supported by a sling. Massage and movement are commenced in a day or two, and the splint is worn for two or three weeks. Fracture of the coronoid process predisposes to recurrence of the dislocation; when this complication exists, therefore, the limb should be fixed at an acute angle, and movements postponed for a fortnight. Massage, however, may be carried out after the first few days. If fracture of the olecranon process complicates the dis- location, after reduction, the limb must be treated in the extended position, with an anterior splint and extension as already described. Comminuted and compound injuries usually call for operative treatment, the fractured bones being wired after reduction of the dislocation, or the loose fragments removed. The forward dislocation is reduced by fully flexing the elbow, and then pushing the bones of the forearm backward, while the humerus is pulled forward. Old-standing Dislocations.—It is seldom possible to reduce by manipulation a dislocation of the elbow which has remained displaced for five or six weeks, especially when it has been VOL. I—30