CHONDROMA. 595 maturity. They are chiefly met with at the ends of the long bones which possess the most active epiphyses—that is, in the region of the knee and at the shoulder and wrist. When they originate from the ossifying junction of a long bone they may migrate along the shaft as the latter increases in length. They may also grow from flat bones, such as the scapula and pelvis. They are often symmetrical, and vary in size from a hazel-nut to a foetal head. Diffuse Osteoma, Leontiasis Ossea.—This rare disease was de- scribed by Virchow, and named leontiasis ossea because of the peculiar disfigurement. It usually commences in young adults, who are otherwise in good health, as a diffuse overgrowth of the upper jaws. These bones are enlarged in all directions and project as prominent bosses on the face, and the nasal fossae, maxillary and frontal sinuses become filled up with bone, which also encroaches on the orbital cavities. In addition to the hideous deformity the patient may complain of blocking of the nose, loss of smell, and protrusion of the eyes, sometimes resulting in blindness. The malar and frontal bones are usually involved, and in extreme cases the diffuse overgrowth may spread to the entire vault of the skull and to the lower jaw. The base of the skull is usually exempt. The disease is of very slow progress and may become arrested ; life may be prolonged for many years, or may be terminated by brain troubles or other intercurrent affections. In certain cases it may be possible to remove some of the more aggressive of the bony masses. A remarkable form of unilateral hypertrophy and diffuse osteoma of the skull has been observed by Jonathan Hutchinson and Alexis Thomson following very accurately the distribution of the fifth nerve on one side. Chondroma.—Cartilaginous tumours grow from the shafts of the long bones, or from the scapula, ilium, ribs, or jaws. They usually project from the periosteal surface of the bone, and may attain an enormous size. Or they may grow in the interior of a bone, the so-called enchondroma. The cartilage composing the tumour frequently undergoes myxomatous degeneration, resulting in softening of the cartilage into a glairy, semifluid jelly, and if this change takes place throughout the tumour it may present the appearances of a cyst. On the other hand, the cartilage may become harder from calcification or conversion into bone. The most important transition of all is that into sarcoma, the so-called malignant chondroma or chondro - sarcoma; it is associated with the acquisition of greater vegetative activity, so that it may recur on removal, and parts of it may be carried off in the blood-