PREVENTION OF WOUND-INFECTION. 27 of the time is being frustrated, in our great hospitals, and even in those most recently built. The risk of blood poisoning is now the one opprobrium of surgery.” To the genius of Lord Lister we owe it that this opprobrium is now removed. In 1867 he began to put into practice the method he had devised for preventing and counteracting the septic process, which he had convinced himself depended upon the action of bacteria. Carbolic acid was the first antiseptic agent he employed, and by its use in compound fractures he soon obtained results such as had never before been attained. The principle was applied to other conditions witli like success, and so profoundly has it affected the whole aspect of surgical pathology that many of the septic diseases with which the older surgeons had to deal are now all but unknown. Means taken to prevent Infection of Wounds.—The avenues by which septic agents may gain access to surgical wounds are so numerous and so wide, that it requires the greatest care and the most watchful attention on the part of the surgeon to guard them all. It is only by constant practice and patient attention to technical details, in the operat- ing-room and at the bedside, that the carrying out of surgical manipulations in such a way as to avoid bacterial infection will become an instinctive act and a second nature. It is only possible here to indicate the chief directions in which danger lies, and to describe the means most generally adopted to meet the danger. To prevent septic infection it is essential that everything which comes into contact with a wound should be thoroughly sterilised or disinfected. The two chief agencies at our disposal for this purpose are heat and chemical antiseptics. Sterilisation by Heat.—The most reliable, and at the same time the most convenient and generally applicable means of sterilisation is by heat. All bacteria and spores are completely destroyed by being subjected for fifteen minutes to compressed circulating steam at a temperature of 130° to 145° C. ( = 266° to 293° F.). The articles to be sterilised are enclosed in a perforated tin casket, which is placed in a specially constructed steriliser, such as that of Schimmelbusch. This apparatus is so arranged that the steam circulates under a pressure of from two to three atmospheres, and permeates everything contained in it. Objects so sterilised remain dry. This method is specially suitable for appliances which are not damaged by steam, such, for example, as gauze swabs, towels, aprons, cotton gloves, and metal instruments.