TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. 625 develops gradually and painlessly, obliterating the bony promi- nences by filling up the natural hollows (Fig. 220). It appears greater to the eye than is borne out by measurement, being thrown into relief by the wasting of the muscles above and below the joint. In the early stage the swelling is elastic, doughy, and non-sensitive, and corresponds very accurately to the super- ficial area of the synovial membrane involved. At this stage there is comparatively little complaint on the part of the patient, for the articular surfaces and ligaments are still intact. There may be a feeling of weight in the limb, and in the case of the knee and ankle the patient may tire on walking and drag the leg with more or less of a limp. The movements of the joint are painless, although usually somewhat limited in range. The disability is increased by use and exertion, but for a time at any rate improves under rest. As the disease progresses the signs and symptoms slowly become more marked. The skin over the joint becomes tense and hot, the swelling, which was at first firm and elastic, may show areas of softening, and later of fluctuation; and a cold abscess may form and produce one or more sinuses by bursting through the skin (Fig. 234). The wasting of muscles increases, the joint becomes more rigid as the articular cartilages become affected, and the attitude of flexion is very commonly assumed, more especially in the case of the knee. Starting pains at night indicate destructive changes in the articular surfaces. The final condition tends to be one of disorganisation of the joint, with septic sinuses and deformity. Tuberculous Arthritis.—It is convenient to group under this heading those cases of tuberculous joint disease in which the early and outstanding clinical features are the result of implication of the articular surfaces. Although, as already indicated, these symptoms commonly develop in the later stages of white swelling, it is a matter of everyday experience that symptoms of implication of the articular surfaces may be the first evidence of tuberculous joint infection, and may exist without white swelling or any other clinical sign of disease in the synovial membrane. These remarks specially apply to such deeply-seated joints as the hip, shoulder, and spine. The recognition of this form of tuberculous joint disease depends rather upon inferences founded upon certain symptoms and signs than upon direct examination of the joint itself. The patient complains of pain in the joint affected, or refers it to some other part which shares the same nervous supply; for example, in hip disease the pain is often referred to the knee VOL. I—40