16 CONDITIONS INTERFERING WITH REPAIR. Lastly, by inoculation in animals of different species and in different tissues, information valuable for the purpose of diagnosis may be obtained. Pyogenic Bacteria. From the point of view of the practical surgeon the most important varieties of micro-organisms are those which cause inflammation and suppuration —the pyogenic bacteria. This group includes a great many species, and these are so widely distributed that they are to be met with under all conditions of everyday life. The nature of the inflammatory and suppurative processes will be considered in detail later; suffice it here to say that they are brought about by the action of one or other of the organisms which we have now to consider. It is found that the staphylococci which cluster into groups tend to produce localised lesions; while the chain-forms—- streptococci—give rise to diffuse, spreading conditions. Many varieties of pyogenic bacteria have now been differentiated, the best known being the staphylococcus aureus, the streptococcus, and the bacillus coli communis. Staphylococcus Aureus.—This is the commonest organism found in localised inflammatory and suppurative conditions. It varies greatly in its virulence, being found in such widely different conditions as skin pustules, boils, carbuncles, and some acute inflammations of bone. It occurs in grape-like clusters as fission of the individual cells takes place irregularly. It grows very readily at the body temperature in artificial media, such as gelatin, which it liquefies, the organisms forming an orange yellow deposit at the bottom of the tube—hence the term aureus. It is of high vitality and resists more prolonged exposure to high temperatures than most non-sporing bacteria. It is widely distributed, and occurs in all situations where dust is present. It is found on the skin, in the mouth, and in other situations. The other pyogenic staphylococci are of less importance. The staphylococcus albus is much less common than the aureus, but has the same properties and characters, save that its growth on artificial media assumes a white colour. It is the common cause of stitch abscesses, the skin being its normal habitat. Streptococcus Pyogenes.—This organism, although it gives rise to more dangerous conditions than the staphylococcus, has less resisting power and therefore dies off more rapidly. Its