FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. 525 patella to be refractured by a fall within a month or two of a previous fracture. Treatment.—The best method of treating a fracture of the patella is still sub judice. It is probably true that the best functional results are most speedily obtained by operative measures. The laceration of the lateral aponeurosis, the tilting of the fragments, and the interposition of the torn periosteum between the fragments, can in no other way be rectified with certainty. The operation, however, should only be undertaken by those who are thoroughly familiar with wound technique, and who have every means at their disposal for carrying it out. Operative Treatment.—Before performing the operation, the skin in the region of the knee must be carefully purified, the delay of one or two days thus entailed being, in our opinion, no disadvantage. A vertical or semilunar incision, with its convexity upwards, is made through the skin and fascia, and the fragments freely exposed. All blood-clot is removed from the joint, the peri- osteum is reflected from between the fragments, and any clot or loose portions of bone lying between them removed. The fragments are then approximated by suturing the bone directly with silver wire, chromic gut, or fishing gut, after drilling holes obliquely to avoid piercing the articular cartilage. Where the fracture is comminuted, or the bone liable to be split up in the drilling process, the sutures may be applied circum- ferentially round the patella so as to draw the fragments into apposition. These sutures pass through the quadriceps tendon above and the ligamentum patellae below, keeping as near to the bone as possible. Whichever method is adopted, the periosteum should be stitched over the fracture, and the tear in the apo- neurosis closed with fine catgut sutures. Drainage is not neces- sary. The limb is fixed on a suitable splint. So soon as the wound is healed—in a week or ten days—the splint may be removed, and massage and movement of the limb commenced, and the patient may be allowed to move his limb in bed. When silver wire sutures are used, he may be allowed up with sticks or crutches in a month after the operation, but when less rigid materials are used it is necessary to keep him in bed longer. Subcutaneous operations are preferred by some ; but as these measures are no safer than open operations, and are less certain, we prefer the latter. Non-operative Treatment.—When there is no displacement, as in vertical fractures, or in transverse fractures not accom-