NEURITIS. 321 muscles are wasted and weak, and are subject to convulsive twitchings. There are also trophic disturbances. It is rare to have complete sensory and motor paralysis. The disease is commonest in the nerves of the upper extremity, and the hand is often crippled and useless. Treatment.—Any constitutional condition which predisposes to neuritis,/such as gout or syphilis, must receive appropriate treatment. / The symptoms may be relieved by rest and by soothing applications such as belladonna or menthol, by the use of hot air and electric baths, and in obstinate cases by blistering or by the application of Corrigan’s button. When such treat- ment fails the nerve may be stretched, or in the case of a purely sensory trunk a portion may be excised. Local causes such as involvement of the nerve in a scar or in adhesions may afford indications for operative treatment. Multiple Peripheral Neuritis.—Although this disease mainly comes under the cognisance of the physician, it may be attended with phenomena which call for surgical interference. It may result from a number of causes, acting alone or in combination. In this country it is most commonly due to alcoholism, but it may result from chronic poisoning with lead or arsenic, or from bacterial infections and intoxications such as occur in diphtheria, gonorrhoea, syphilis, leprosy, typhoid, influenza, beri-beri, and many other diseases. It is usually widely and symmetrically distributed throughout the peripheral nerves, but the distribution frequently varies with the cause—the alcoholic form, for example, mainly affecting the legs, the diphtheric form the soft palate and pharynx, and that associated with lead-poisoning chiefly the arms. The essential lesion is a degeneration of the conducting fibres of the affected nerves, and the prominent symptoms are the result of this. The sensory phenomena include numbness and tingling, especially in the fingers and toes, and pain and tenderness along the nerves ; complete anaesthesia is rare. The motor phenomena include weakness or actual paralysis of muscles, with wasting, loss of the tendon reflexes, and, in advanced cases, the reaction of degeneration. In alcoholic neuritis there is great tenderness of the muscles. When the legs are affected the patient may be unable to walk, and the toes may droop and the heel be drawn up, resulting in one variety of pes equino - varus. Pressure sores and perforating ulcers are the most important trophic phenomena. Apart from the medical treatment—which includes the use of remedies directed towards the cause of the neuritis, and for the VOL. 1—21