THE LYMPHATICS. 306 capsule of the gland and infects the cellular tissue. The cervical fascia is perforated, and a cold abscess, often much larger than the gland from which it took origin, forms between the fascia and the overlying skin. The further stages—undermining of skin and external rupture, with the formation of ulcers and sinuses—have been described with tuberculous abscess. The ulcers and sinuses may persist indefinitely, or may heal up for a time and then break out afresh; and sometimes the skin becomes the seat of tuberculous disease, which may spread like lupus, especially in the submaxillary region, until it eventually extends from ear to ear. Healing may finally take place, but the resulting scars are extremely unsightly, being puckered or bridled, or even highly coloured and hypertrophied like keloid. While the disease is most com- mon in childhood and youth, it may be met with even in ad- vanced life. Although commonly associated with depraved health and unhealthy surroundings, it may affect those who are appa- rently robust and in affluent cir- cumstances. Diagnosis. — Tuberculous dis- ease is differentiated from the glandular enlargement which re- sults from septic irritation by its persistence after all sources of of Tuberculous Cervical Glands, irritation have been removed. It is rarely possible to differentiate tuberculous disease from lymphadenoma and from lymphosarcoma at a stage when a positive diagnosis would be of real value, unless a gland is excised and submitted to microscopical examination. The subsequent progress usually clears up the diagnosis. Signs of liquefaction and suppuration in the glands indicate the tuberculous nature of the disease. Glandular enlargement from secondary cancer may closely simulate tuberculosis,—especially when the cancerous glands have undergone liquefaction,—but is to be differentiated by its association with cancer in the mouth, throat, or other adjacent part, and by the early induration and fixation of the glands affected. Cold abscess resulting from tuberculous glands is to be