SUPPURATION. 66 injury, but may appear any time thereafter. The first sign is a violent rigor lasting for perhaps half an hour, during which time the temperature rises to 103°, 104°, or 105° F. In the course of an hour it begins to fall again, and the patient breaks into a profuse sweat. The temperature may fall several degrees, but seldom reaches the normal. In a few days there is a second rigor with rise of temperature, and another remission, and such attacks may be repeated at diminishing intervals during the course of the illness (Figs. 4 and 5). In severe cases the disease proves fatal in ten days or a fortnight, but it often runs a much longer course, lasting for weeks or even months. The pulse tends to remain abnormally rapid even when the temperature falls nearly to normal. Anorexia, nausea, vomiting, profuse diarrhoea, and marked emaciation indicate the gastro- intestinal derangement. Erythematous, vesicular, or pustular rashes often occur. The seat of the secondary abscesses deter- mines the other symptoms. Jaundice accompanies abscess of the liver ; the signs of pleurisy and empyema follow infection of the pleura; haemoptysis with signs of pneumonia is associated with secondary abscesses in the lungs; and albuminuria with blood casts in the urine indicate infection of the kidney. Meningitis and sinus thrombosis give rise to cerebral symptoms; and in- volvement of synovial membranes to those of suppuration in joints. Secondary infection of the parotid gland frequently occurs and gives rise to a suppurative parotitis. This condition is associated with severe pain, gradually extending from behind the angle of the jaw on to the face. There is also swelling over the gland, and eventually suppuration and sloughing of the gland tissue and overlying skin. Secondary abscesses in the lymphatic glands, subcutaneous tissue, or joints are often very insidious and painless in their development, so that they may only be discovered by the swelling which results. When the pus is evacuated, healing often takes place with remarkable rapidity, and with little interference with function. Prognosis.—While the prognosis in acute pyaemia is always grave, it is much less hopeless than it once was, a considerable proportion of the patients recovering. In the acute cases death is due to toxaemia, and in those that are chronic, to exhaustion and waxy disease following on prolonged suppuration. Treatment.—The rational treatment is in the first place to arrest the dissemination of the infective material from the primary source of infection. In some cases an attempt may be