411 CHAPTER XXL INJURIES OF JOINTS. Surgical Anatomy—Injuries: Contusions; 1 Founds; Sprains; Dis- locations—Traumatic Dislocations: Causes; Varieties; Clinical features; Treatment — Compound dislocations — Old-standing dis- locations. Surgical Anatomy.—The function of a joint is to permit of the movement of one bone upon another. The articular surfaces of the bones are covered with a thin layer of hyaline cartilage, and they are retained in close apposition by the tension of ligaments and of the muscles surrounding the joint. The capsular ligament surrounds the ends of the bones in the form of a tube, and is directly continuous with the periosteum. The capsular ligament is lined by synovial membrane, which at the line of attachment of the capsule is reflected on to the ends of the bones and becomes continuous with the articular cartilage. The common origin of bone, cartilage, periosteum, and synovial membrane from one parent tissue of the embryo, accounts for the readi- ness with which any one of these tissues may be converted into another under traumatic or pathological influences. The synovial membrane invests intra-articular ligaments, and is projected into the interior of the joint in the form of loose folds wherever the articulating surfaces are not in immediate contact. The surface of the synovial membrane is covered with minute processes or villi, which in diseased conditions may become the seat of hypertrophy. The synovial fluid owes its lubricating quality to mucin, which appears to be derived from the solution of the endothelial cells on the free surface of the membrane. The opposing surfaces of a joint being always in accurate contact, the so-called cavity is only a potential one. If fluid is poured out into the joint, the synovial membrane and capsule are put upon the stretch, causing dis- comfort or actual pain, which is partly relieved by slightly flexing the joint. If the fluid distension continues, the ligaments elongate and the joint becomes unstable. Joints derive an abundant blood-supply through the articular arteries. The lymphatics, which take origin in the superficial layers of the synovial membrane, pass to efferent vessels which run in the inter- muscular and other connective-tissue planes of the limb. The nerve- supply is chiefly derived from the nerves which supply the muscles acting on the joint and the skin over it.