ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. 159 irregular, sharp-cornered teeth. At a later period, and in those who are broken down in health from intemperance or other causes, a more serious form of ulceration may be met with in the throat similar to that occurring in the skin. Rapidly- spreading, penetrating ulcers, almost phagedamic in character, may make their appearance on the soft palate and pillars of the fauces, and may lead to great destruction of tissue and subse- quent deformity. In the bones there may be congestive lesions analogous to those met with in the skin and mucous membranes, which assume the clinical features of an evanescent periostitis, the patient complaining of nocturnal pains over the frontal bone, sternum, tibiae and ulnae, and localised tenderness on tapping over these bones. These lesions never suppurate, and usually disappear without leaving any trace of their existence; they may, however, result in localised periosteal thickenings or nodes which remain painful and tender on pressure. They readily yield to antisyphilitic treatment. The patient may complain of pain and sensitiveness in one or more joints without there being any visible organic changes to account for them; or a condition of serous synovitis or hydrops, sometimes called syphilitic rheumatism, may ensue. This is chiefly met with in the knee, and may be bilateral. The Affections of the Eyes, although fortunately rare, are of great importance because of the serious results which may follow if they are not recognised and treated. Iritis is the commonest of these, and may occur in one or in both eyes, one after the other, from three to eight months after infection. The patient complains of impairment of sight and discomfort in the eye, and of frontal or supraorbital pain. The eye waters and is hyper- sensitive to light, the iris is discoloured and reacts sluggishly, and there is a zone of ciliary congestion around the cornea. The appearance of minute white nodules or flakes of lymph at the margin of the pupil is especially characteristic of syphilitic iritis. When adhesions have formed between the iris and the structures in relation to it, the pupil dilates irregularly under atropin. Although complete recovery is to be expected under early and energetic treatment, if neglected, iritis may result in occlusion of the pupil and permanent impairment or loss of sight. The other lesions of the eye are much rarer, and can only be discovered on ophthalmoscopic examination. Choroiditis occurs in patches, and leaves areas of a white or grey colour surrounded by black pigment. Unless these patches occur in the vicinity of the optic disc they give rise to no symptoms. Neuro-retinitis,