INJURIES OF WRIST AND HAND. 486 Dislocation forward at this joint is rare. It results from forced flexion of the thumb with abduction, tearing the posterior and internal lateral ligaments. The deformity is characteristic : the rounded head of the metacarpal projecting behind the level of the joint, while the base of the phalanx forms a prominence among the muscles of the thenar eminence. The phalanges may be rotated outward or inward. Reduction is easily effected by making traction on the phalanges and carrying out movements of flexion and extension. The deformity, however, is very liable to be reproduced unless a retentive apparatus is securely applied. Lateral dislocations of the thumb are very rare. Dislocation of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the fingers may be backward or forward. They are less common than those of the thumb, but present the same general characters. In the backward variety the same difficulty in reduction as is met with in the corresponding dislocation of the thumb sometimes occurs, and is to be dealt with on the same principles. Inter-phalangeal Dislocations.—The middle and the ungual phalanges may be displaced backwards, forwards, or laterally. The clinical features are characteristic, and the diagnosis, as well as reduction, is easy. These dislocations are very frequently compound. Persistent flexion of the terminal phalanx of the thumb or fingers (drop or mallet finger) may result from violence applied to the end of the digit /when in the extended position—as, for example, in attempting to catch a cricket ball. The terminal phalanx is flexed towards the palm, and the patient is unable to extend it voluntarily, although there is no difficulty in carrying out passive movements at the joint. This condition is of the nature of a sprain, and is usually ascribed to stretching or tear- ing of the insertion of the tendon of the long extensor. The treatment consists in applying a short splint secured by a few turns of adhesive plaster to control the affected joint. Massage and movement should be employed daily after the first week. Tubby has successfully shortened the stretched tendinous expansion by an open operation.