734 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. to displace the carpus towards the palm, while the lower ends of the bones of the forearm project on the dorsum. The usefulness of the hand is greatly impaired. In treating this condition the patient must give up her occupation for a time and persevere with a course of massage, electricity and exercises. Congenital dislocation of the wrist is excessively rare. Deformities of the Fingers.—Congenital dislocations of various forms are met with, but are of little clinical importance as they interfere but slightly with the usefulness of the finger concerned. Congenital lateral deviation of the phalanges is more un- sightly than disabling; it is chiefly met with in the thumb, in which the terminal phalanx may deviate to the radial or to the ulnar side. The deviation disappears on flexion. Congenital contraction of the fingers is comparatively common. Fig. 261.—Congenital Contraction of Ring and Little Fingers. It is an inherited deformity, and is often met with in several members of the same family. It most frequently affects the little or the ring and little fingers (Fig. 261). The second and third phalanges are flexed towards the palm while the first phalanx is dorsi-flexed, this being the reverse of what is observed in Dupuytren’s contraction. The affection is usually disregarded in infancy and childhood as being of no importance. Its etio- logy is not known. In the first stage the deformity is easily corrected by the child wearing a light splint fixed with strips of plaster, or a piece of whalebone or steel inside the finger of a glove. At a later stage, tense bands of fascia on the palmar aspect may require to be divided subcutaneously before it is possible to extend the finger. A retentive splint must be worn for a long period, at first night and day, and later during the night only. Dupuytren’s Contraction.—This is an acquired deformity resulting from contraction of the palmar fascia and its digital prolongations. It is rare in childhood and youth, but is common