THE HIP-JOINT. 673 clinical features closely resemble those of congenital dislocation, and it may be impossible to distinguish between them unless an accurate history is obtainable. Treatment.—The limb is extended by means of the weight and pulley, and kept at rest with the single or double long splint, or by means of sandbags. If there is evidence of suppuration the joint should be explored by an anterior incision inclining down- wards and inwards from the anterior superior iliac spine; a posterior opening may be made for drainage. In children it is remarkable how completely the joint may recover if the pus is promptly evacuated. If there is dislocation of the femur, it should be reduced by manipulation with or without preliminary extension ; it has been successful in about one-half of the cases in which it has been attempted. Preliminary tenotomy of the shortened tendons may be required in some cases. Where reduction by manipulation is impossible, the joint structures should be exposed by one or other of the methods employed in excising the joint, and the head of the bone, if present, is replaced in the acetabulum ; in theabsence of the head, the neck should be fixed against the socket, thereby diminishing shortening at the expense of mobility. Chronic Rheumatism. The clinical features of chronic rheumatism of the hip are similar to those observed in other joints. Progressive stiffness and deformity, associated with con- tracture of the soft parts and fibrous ankylosis of the joint, are the outstanding features. The patient often becomes a helpless cripple. Arthritis Deformans. —This disease is comparatively common at the hip, either as a monarticular affection or simultaneously with disease of other joints. The changes in the joint are characteristic of the dry form of the disease, and affect chiefly the cartilages and bones; the synovial changes which are so prominent in the knee are here of little importance. The atrophy and wearing away of the articular surfaces are accompanied by a new formation of cartilage and bone around their margins. The head of the femur may acquire the shape of a helmet, or mushroom, or limpet shell. From absorption taking place in the neck of the femur, the head may come to be sessile at the base of the neck, and may occupy a level considerably below that of the great trochanter (Fig. 227). These changes may extend to the upper part of the shaft of the femur, and result in curving of the shaft and neck, suggesting a resemblance to a point of interrogation. The acetabulum may “ wander ” backwards and upwards, as in tuberculous disease. VOL. I—43