355 CANCER. Diagnosis.—Lupus is the disease most often mistaken for rodent cancer. Lupus usually begins earlier in life, it presents the apple-jelly nodules, and it lacks the rounded, elevated border. Doubtful cases should be treated as rodent cancer. Syphilitic lesions progress more rapidly and also lack the characteristic margin. The differentiation from squamous epithelioma is not as a rule difficult, but is of considerable importance, as the latter affection, from its tendency to spread by the lymphatics, is dangerous to life. Treatment.—In rodent cancers of limited size—say less than one inch in diameter—free excision is the most rapid and certain method of treatment. The edges of the gap are brought together with sutures, or the raw surface covered with a Thiersch graft. If the patient objects to a cutting operation, the growth is best destroyed by means of a paste of arsenious acid. If the cancer already covers an extensive area of the face, or has invaded the cavity of the orbit or nose, removal of the growth by knife or cautery is unsatisfactory, and re- course should be had to the Rontgen rays. effect of the Rontgen rays ^ . , ° . / Fig. 69.—Rodent Cancer of fifteen years IS soon silOAA n by the 111- duration, which has destroyed contents growth of healthy epi- of Orbit, thelium from the surround- (Mr. j M cotteriii's case.) ing skin, so that healing is promoted, and at the same time the pain and discharge are much lessened. Plastic operations—for example, the formation of a new nose—may be required to remedy deformities resulting from the disease. Melanotic Cancer.—Under this head are included all new growths of the skin which contain an excess of melanin pigment. Many of these were formerly described as melanotic sarcoma. They nearly always originate in a pigmented mole which has been subjected to irritation. The primary growth may remain so small that its presence is not even suspected, or it may increase in size, ulcerate, and fungate through the skin. The amount of pigment varies : when small in amount the growth is