PES EQUINUS. 715 overlooked. In average cases the heel is raised off the ground, and the foot rests on the balls of the toes. In extreme cases, and especially where the extensors are completely paralysed, the toes may be flexed towards the sole, and the foot rests on the dorsum. The patient suffers from painful corns and callosities, and from inflammation in the newly-formed bursae. When unilateral, if the affected limb is longer, the patient compensates for this by flexing the knee and throwing the limb outwards in walking. In severe cases, especially where both limbs are affected, the patient may be entirely dependent on crutches. The astragalus projects on the dorsum, the anterior part of its trochlear surface escapes from the tibio-fibular socket, and the os calcis is drawn up so that it comes into contact with the bones of the leg. Shortening of the soft parts affects chiefly the muscles inserted into the tendo Achillis, the posterior ligament and posterior parts of the lateral ligaments of the ankle. The fasciae, liga- ments and muscles of the sole of the foot are also shortened. The flexors of the toes, the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus are shortened to a less degree. Treatment.—Of all the deformities of the foot, pes equinus is the one most easily rectified. The treatment is conducted on the same lines as in talipes equino-varus. In recent cases a great deal may be done by regular manipulations, massage, exer- cises and electricity, and by the wearing of some corrective splint or apparatus between times. In cases of paralysis limited to the extensors their function may be restored by transplantation of the peroneus longus or the tibialis posticus. In well-marked cases it is necessary to divide the shortened structures, and especially the tendo Achillis. Instead of cutting this straight across, it should be divided as follows. The tenotomy knife is introduced on one side of the tendon close to its insertion, and is made to cut half-way across it. The knife is again introduced one inch higher up on the opposite side of the tendon, and is made to cut across the other half. On forcible extension the tendon readily yields to the desired extent. The deformity is then forcibly corrected and the limb encased in plaster. The excessive arching of the foot (pes cavus) and the clawing of the toes usually disappear when the equinus is corrected, but it may be necessary to divide the extensor tendons, especially that of the great toe, and also the plantar fascia. In aggravated cases of long standing the bones must be attacked, as, for example, by excising the astragalus. Arthrodesis