TUBERCULOUS LUPUS. 345 ment is called for, in all cases it is rarely curative, and local measures are required to eradicate what is after all a purely local disease. Numerous methods are employed for the local treatment of lupus, and much difference of opinion exists as to the relative merits of the different methods. When the disease is confined to a very limited area the most rapid and certain cure is ob- tained by excision. The whole thickness of skin is removed throughout and beyond the area affected; the edges of the gap are brought together by sutures, or the raw surface is covered with a Thiersch graft. On the covered parts of the body excision may be employed, even when the disease involves an extensive area. When lupus covers a wide area of the face, as is so commonly the case in hospital practice, there is great difficulty in bringing about a cure. - In recent years the therapeutic effects obtained by exposure to different forms of rays have been em- ployed with so much success in this group of cases that they have superseded the older methods of scraping away the diseased tissue with the sharp spoon, or destroying it with the cautery or with chemical agents. The ray treatment includes the use of luminous, Rontgen or other rays, and possesses the advantage of being comparatively painless and of being followed by the least amount of scarring and deformity. The light treatment, introduced by Finsen of Copenhagen, consists in concentrating sunlight, or, in its absence, the electric arc light, by means of apparatus which cuts off the heat rays, so that the blue, violet, and ultra-violet rays are allowed to act upon the diseased tissue. This is followed by an inflammatory reaction in the adjoining tissues, which results in the destruction of the tubercle bacilli. The disadvantages of the method are the small area which can be subjected to the rays at each exposure, so that the treatment is very prolonged ; a large area may require hundreds of exposures. The Rontgen ray treatment consists in exposing the diseased area to the rays from a Crookes’ tube of about six inches spark, for ten to fifteen minutes daily, at a distance of from four to five inches from the tube. The healthy skin is protected by a sheet of lead foil, from which a piece is cut out corresponding to the diseased area. After a variable number of exposures inflammatory reaction takes place, and experience is required to control the effects within the desired limits. The duration of treatment is usually shorter than by the Finsen method. The rays given off from the recently discovered element,