162 SYPHILIS. Inunction is troublesome, and requires great perseverance and care, but it has the advantage of bringing the patient rapidly under the influence of mercury without irritating the bowels. It is specially valuable in severe forms of syphilis, in phagedsenic chancres for example, or in cases where time has been already lost and the patient first seeks advice for an iritis or other late lesion; it is also of value in most cases of cerebral syphilis, in syphilis appearing after marriage, and in cases where the symptoms persist in spite of the administration of mercury by the mouth. When the patient suffers from gastric catarrh, and this is aggravated by mercury given by the mouth, recourse may be had to inunction. (3) By Intramuscular Injection.—This consists in introducing the drug by means of a hypodermic syringe into the substance of the gluteal muscles. The skin of the patient, and the instrument must be sterilised. The preparation usually em- ployed is the perchloride of mercury in | to ^ gr. doses dissolved in glycerin and water, and the injection is made once or twice a week. This method has been found useful by army surgeons who cannot rely on the men taking pills, and as the injection is only made at intervals of several days, the patient need not be admitted into hospital. Unless, however, the dose is regulated with great accuracy, mercurial poisoning may result, with, it may be, serious consequences. (4) The Calomel Vapour Bath (fumigation), which was formerly much employed in the treatment of cases with persistent skin lesions, has practically been given up. (5) The Merco-lint Bib or Apron is the name given to a felt- like fabric which is fashioned in the shape of a bib and contains finely-divided metallic mercury in its meshes. When worn next the skin the mercury evaporates and is believed to be inhaled by the patient as well as absorbed by the skin. It is not so well adapted for the rapid introduction of mercury into the system as the administration by the mouth or by inunction, but it is a convenient and efficient method of keeping the patient under the influence of the drug for prolonged periods. It may be worn constantly or only during the night. The anterior bib, which is shaped like a chest-protector, may be supplemented by a second one, worn over the back. As the amount of mercury absorbed is liable to vary, the patient should be kept under medical supervision. Iodides in Secondary'Syphilis.-—-While generally recognised as being of little or no use at the beginning of the secondary stage, iodides are of great value in the treatment of the later