DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. 519 inward variety the outer condyle forms a prominence, with a depression over the head of the tibia and fibula ; in the outward, the bones of the leg project outward, the depression being above them. Treatment.—If the patient is fully anaesthetised reduction can usually be effected by manipulating the bones into position while traction is made on the leg and counter-traction on the thigh, with the knee in the flexed position. These dislocations differ from most others in that no special manipulations are necessary to restore the displaced bone to its place, and that reduction does not take place with a distinct snap. In antero-posterior dislocations the limb should be flexed and placed on a pillow, movement and massage being employed from the first. The patient is usually able to walk about within a month. In lateral dislocations there is at first considerable tendency to re-displacement, and it is therefore necessary to secure the joint in a box splint for about fourteen days, after which massage and movement are employed. It is usually about six weeks before the patient can use the limb with freedom. In compound dislocations, and in these complicated by injury to the popliteal vessels, the question of amputation has to be considered. Dislocation of the Superior Tibio-Fibular Articulation.— This joint may be dislocated by twisting forms of violence applied to the foot or leg, or by forcible contraction of the biceps muscle. The displacement may be forward or backward, and the head of the fibula can be felt in its new position with the prominent tendon of the biceps attached to it. The move- ments of the knee are quite free, but the patient is unable to walk on account of pain. Reduction and retention are, as a rule, easy, and the ultimate result of treatment satisfactory. We have frequently met with this injury accompanying com- pound fractures of both bones of the leg resulting from railway and similar accidents. By applying direct pressure over the displaced bone, with the knee flexed, the dislocation is easily reduced. It is kept in position by a few strips of plaster, a firm bandage or a light rigid splint, such as poroplastic or Croft’s plaster of Paris splint. Very rarely the fibula is separated from the tibia at both ends (total dislocation) and displaced upwards. Bennett of Dublin has pointed out that in some individuals the upper end of