INHERITED SYPHILIS. 175 there may develop deafness, which is usually bilateral and may become absolute. It is believed to be the result of gummatous changes affecting the nerves of the internal ear. Diagnosis of Inherited Syphilis.—When there is a typical rash and marked snuffles there is no difficulty in recognising syphilis. Where, however, the rash is scanty or is obscured by coexisting eczema, most reliance should be placed on the dis- tribution of the eruption, on the brown stains which are left after it has passed off, on the presence of condylomata, and of Assuring and scarring at the angles of the mouth. The history of the mother relative to repeated miscarriages and still-born children may afford confirmatory evidence. In doubtful cases the diagnosis may be aided by noting the therapeutic effects of grey powder, which, in syphilitic infants usually effects a marked and rapid improvement in the symptoms and in the general health. While a considerable number of syphilitic children grow up without showing any trace of their syphilitic inheritance, the majority retain throughout life one or more of the following characteristics, which may therefore be described as permanent signs of the inherited disease :—Dwarfing of stature from inter- ference with growth at the epiphysial junctions ; the forehead low and vertical, and the parietal and frontal eminences unduly prominent; the bridge of the nose sunken and rounded ; radiat- ing scars at the angles of the mouth (Fig. 28); perforation or destruction of the hard palate; Hutchinson’s teeth; opacities of the cornea from antecedent keratitis ; alterations in the fundus oculi from choroiditis ; deafness ; depressed scars or nodes on the bones from previous gummata; “ sabre-blade ” or other deformity of the tibiae. The Contagiousness of Inherited Syp>hilis.—In 1837 Colles of Dublin stated his belief that while a syphilitic infant may convey the disease to a healthy wet nurse, it is incapable of infecting its own mother if nursed by her, even although she may never have shown any symptoms of the disease and the mouth and lips of the infant present unmistakable evidences of syphilis. This doctrine, which is known as Colles’ laiv, is generally accepted in spite of the alleged occurrence of occasional excep- tions. The older the child the less risk there is of its com- municating the disease to others, until eventually the tendency dies out altogether, as it does in the tertiary period of acquired syphilis. It should be added, however, that the contagiousness of inherited syphilis is denied by some observers, who affirm that when syphilitic infants prove contagious the disease has