390 INJURIES OF BONES. both of the fragments will be displaced. Gravity, acting chiefly upon the distal fragment, also plays a part in determining the displacement—for example, in fractures of the thigh or of the bones of the leg—where the lower segment of the limb rolls outwards (Fig. 142), and in fractures of the shaft of the clavicle where the weight of the arm carries the shoulder downwards, forwards, and inwards (Fig. 88). After the break has taken | dace and the causal force has ceased to act, displacement may be produced by the rough handling of those who render first aid, the careless or improper application of splints or bandages, or by the weight of the bedclothes. In certain situations the contraction of unopposed, or of un- equally opposed, groups of muscles plays an important part in determining the displacement. For example, the ilio-psoas tends to tilt the u] iper fragment forward and outward in fracture immediately below the lesser trochanter of the femur (Fig. 148), the muscles of the calf pull the lower fragment back towards the popliteal space in supra-condylar fracture of the femur, and the muscles inserted into the bicipital groove adduct the upper fragment in fracture of the humerus above the deltoid insertion. Clinical Features of Simple Fractures.—In the first place, the history of the accident should be carefully investigated, special attention being paid to the nature of the violence— whether a blow, a twist, a wrench, or a crush, and whether the violence was directly or indirectly applied. The degree of the violence may often be judged approximately from the instrument inflicting it—whether, for example, a fist, a stick, a cart wheel, or a piece of heavy machinery. The position of the limb at the time of the injury ; whether the muscles were braced to meet the blow or were lax and taken unawares; and the patient’s sensations at the moment, such as his feeling something snap or tear, may all furnish useful information. Signs oj Fracture.—The most characteristic signs of fracture are unnatural mobility, deformity, and crepitus. Unnatural mobility—that is, movement between two segments of a limb at a place where movement does not normally occur —may be evident when the/patient makes attempts to use his limb, or may only be elicited when the fragments are seized and moved in opposite directions or rotated. Deformity, or the part being “out of drawing” in comparison with the normal side (Figs. 167 and 170), varies with the site and direction of the break, and depends upon the degree of displacement between the fragments. Crepitus is the name applied to the peculiar