122 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. for our best hope of averting the onset of symptoms. “ It may now be taken as established that a grave responsibility rests on those concerned if a person bitten by a mad animal is not subjected to the Pasteur treat- ment ” (Muir and Ritchie). This method is based on the fact that the long incubation period of the disease admits of the patient being inoculated with a modified virus producing a mild attack, which protects him from the natural disease— on the same principle as vaccination for small-pox. Treatment.—When the symptoms have once developed they can only be palliated. The patient must be kept absolutely quiet and free from all sources of irritation. The spasms may be diminished by means of chloral and bromides, or by chloroform inhalation. There is great diffi- culty in feeding the jmtient, and all nourishment and stimulants may require to be administered per rectum. Anthrax. Anthrax is a comparatively rare bacterial disease com- municable to man from certain of the lower animals, such as sheep, oxen, horses, deer, and other herbivora. In animals it is characterised by symptoms of acute general septic poisoning, and, from the fact that it produces a marked enlargement of the spleen, is known in veterinary surgery as “ splenic fever.” The bacillus anthracis, to the action of which the disease has been proved to be due, is the largest of the known pathogenic bacteria. It occurs in long chains made up of numerous bacilli, each measuring from 6 to 8 fx in length. The organisms are found in enormous numbers throughout the bodies of animals which have died of anthrax, and are readily recognised and cultivated. Sporulation only takes place outside the body, probably because free oxygen is necessary to the process. In the spore- free condition, the organisms are readily destroyed by ordinary germicides, such as heat, dryness, chemicals, or by the gastric juice. The spores, on the other hand, have a high degree of resistance. Not only do they remain viable in the dry state for long periods, even up to a year, but they survive boiling for five minutes, and must be subjected to dry heat at 140° C. for several hours before they are destroyed ; nor are they affected by the gastric juice. Clinical Varieties of Anthrax.—In man, anthrax may mani- fest itself in one of three clinical forms. It may be transmitted by means of spores or bacilli directly from a diseased animal to those who, by their occupation or otherwise, are brought into contact with it—for example, shepherds, butchers, veterinary surgeons, or hide-porters. The path of infection is usually through an abrasion of the skin,