344 THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. In the course of years large tracts of the face and neck may become affected. From the lips it may spread on to the gum and palate, giving to the mucous membrane the appearance of a raised, bright-red, papillary or villous surface. The teeth may become loose and fall out when the disease affects the gums. On parts of the body other than the face the disease is even more chronic, and is often attended with a considerable produc- tion of dense fibrous tissue—the so-called fibroid lupus; there are very few tubercle nodules, and the disease has little tendency to spread or to destroy parts. Sometimes it is attended with a warty thickening of the epidermis—lupus verrucosus. In the fingers and toes it may be attended with progressive destruction of tissue like that observed in certain forms of leprosy, and from the resulting loss of portions of the digits it has been called lupus mutilans. In the lower extremity a remarkable form of the disease is sometimes met with to which the term lupus elephantiasis has been applied. It usually commences as an ordinary lupus of the toes or dorsum of the foot, from which the tuberculous infection spreads to the lymphatic vessels, and the limb as a whole becomes enormously swollen and unshapely (Fig. 65). Finally, a long-standing lupus, especially on the cheek, may become the seat of epithelioma, usually of the exuberant or cauli- flower type, which presents little tendency to infect the lymphatics. The diagnosis of lupus is founded on the recognition of the apple-jelly nodules, on the chronic progress and long duration, and the central scarring with peripheral extension of the disease. On the face it is most liable to be confused with syphilis and with rodent cancer. The syphilitic lesion belongs to the tertiary pei’iod, and although presenting a superficial resemblance to tuberculosis its progress is much more rapid, so that within a few months it may involve an area of skin as wide as would be affected by lupus in as many years. Further, it readily yields to anti-syphilitic treatment. In the rare cases of tertiary syphilis in which the nose is destroyed it will be noticed that the bones have suffered most, whereas in lupus the destruction of tissue chiefly involves the soft parts of the tip of the nose. Kodent cancer is very liable to be mistaken for lupus, because it may affect the same parts of the face, it is equally chronic, and may partially heal. It begins later in life, however, the margin of the ulcer is more sharply defined, and often presents a “ rolled ” appearance (Figs. 67 and 68). The treatment of lupus varies with its situation, its extent, and the stage at which it is met. Although general treat-