59-1- DISEASES OF BONE. spongy structure they are also described as cancellous or spongy exostoses. Exostoses are usually rounded or mushroom-shaped tumours of limited size; they may be either sessile or pedunculated, and their free surface may be smooth or nodulated. Carti- laginous exostoses in the vicinity of joints may be invested with a synovial sac or bursa—the so-called exostosis bursa,ta. The bursa may be derived from the synovial membrane of the adjacent joint with which its cavity sometimes communicates, or it may be of adventitious origin. When such a bursa is distended with fluid it may prevent the recognition of the underlying exostosis. Clinically, the osteoma is met with as a hard, indolent tumour growing from a bone. It is usually discovered accidentally, unless it presses injuriously on adjacent structures. Its special features vary with its situation. In the orbit it displaces the eyeball; in the nasal fossae and in the external auditory meatus it causes obstruction, which may be attended with ulceration and discharge; in the vicinity of a joint it may interfere with movement; on the inner side of the knee it may prevent grasp- ing of the saddle in riding. When growing from the dorsal aspect of the terminal phalanx of the great toe—a common situation—it displaces the nail and may project through its matrix at the top of the toe, while the soft parts over it may be ulcerated from pressure. When it presses on the nerves of a limb it causes pains, cramps, and other nerve symptoms. The diagnosis of osteoma is to be made from its long dura- tion and slow growth, its situation, its hardness, and by the shadow which it presents when examined with the X-rays. Treatment.—An osteoma which does not cause symptoms may be left alone. If causing symptoms, they are removed by dividing the neck or base of the tumour with a strong chisel, care being taken to remove the whole of the overlying cartilage. The dense varieties met with in the bones of the skull present greater difficulties; if it is necessary to remove them, the base or neck of the tumour is perforated in many directions with highly tempered drills rotated by some form of mechanical engine, the division of the bone being completed with the chisel. The multiple exostoses met with in childhood and youth are ossified chondromata. They are of congenital origin and are often inherited. They may interfere with the growth of the skeleton as a whole, or with that of the bone affected; they themselves usually cease growing when the skeleton reaches