THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 280 is then dissected away, any vessels coming off from it ligatured, and if the vein is adherent to it, as is frequently the case, a portion of that vessel may be removed with the sac. Ex- perience proves that the removal of a limited portion of both artery and vein at the same time is seldom followed by gangrene, so long as infection is excluded. This method of treatment is particularly suitable to all forms of sacculated aneurysm of the limbs, so long as they are tolerably circumscribed and free from complications. It has also been successfully practised in subclavian, carotid, and external iliac aneurysms. This operation is not appropriate to cases in which there is advanced atheroma of the artery above and below the sac. When the aneurysm has become diffused it may be impossible to excise the sac completely. In such cases the vessel may be ligatured, either before or after opening the sac and clearing out the clots, and the empty sac left to contract and heal, which it usually does satisfactorily. When there is difficulty, on account of adhesions, in applying the ligature to the artery after opening and emptying the sac a bougie may be passed into the lumen of the vessel and the ligature thrown round it with the aid of an aneurysm needle, the bougie being withdrawn as the ligature is tightened (Annandale). This manoeuvre may be repeated at the distal end. Fusiform aneurysm, unless very limited and slowly progressing, is less suitable for treatment by excision. Ligature of the Artery.—The principle of this operation is to arrest, or so far to diminish, the flow of blood through the aneurysmal part of the artery that coagulation takes place in the sac and the clot spreads to the artery and occludes it. The ligature may be applied on the cardiac side of the aneurysm, either immediately above the sac (Anel’s operation, 1710) or at some distance above (John Hunter, 1785). On the other hand, one or more branches may be ligatured on the distal side of the aneurysm, so as totally to arrest the flow through the sac (Brasdor’s operation, 1760)—for example, for aneurysm of the proximal end of the common carotid the vessel may be ligatured near its bifurcation. The distal operation may also be performed, merely to diminish the quantity of blood passing through the affected artery without completely stopping the stream (Wardrop’s operation, 1825) — for example, for innominate aneurysm the common carotid and third part of the subclavian may be ligatured, the branches of the first part of the subclavian being left pervious.