ANEURYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES. 289 ing is liable to press on the vagus, recurrent laryngeal and sympathetic nerves, on the air-passages, and on the oesophagus, giving rise to symptoms referable to such pressure. There may be cerebral symptoms from interference with the vascular supply of the brain. Aneurysm near the origin of the common carotid has to be diagnosed from subclavian, innominate, and aortic aneurysm, and from other swellings—solid or fluid—met with in the neck. It is often difficult to determine with precision the trunk from which an aneurysm at the root of the neck originates, and not infrequently more than one vessel shares in the dilatation. A careful consideration of the position in which the swelling first appeared, of the direction in which it has progressed, of its pressure effects, and of the condition of the pulses beyond, may help in distinguishing between aortic, innominate, carotid, and subclavian aneurysms. In some cases skiagraphy is of assistance in diagnosis. Tumours of the thyroid, enlarged lymphatic glands, and fatty and sarcomatous tumours can usually be distinguished from aneurysm by the history of the swelling and by careful physical examination. Cystic tumours and abscesses in the neck are sometimes more difficult to differentiate on account of the apparently expansile character of the pulsation trans- mitted to them. The fact that compression of the vessel does not affect the size and tension of these fluid swellings is useful in distinguishing them. Treatment.—-Digital compression of the vessel against the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra—the “ carotid tubercle ”—has been successfully employed in the treatment of aneurysm near the bifurcation. Proximal ligature in the case of high aneurysms, or distal ligature in those situated at the root of the neck, is more certain. The old operation is probably the best method of treatment, especially in aneurysms of trau- matic origin. The external carotid and the cervical portion of the internal carotid are seldom the primary seat of aneurysm formation, although they are liable to be implicated by the upward spread of an aneurysm at the bifurcation of the common carotid. In addition to the ordinary signs of aneurysm, the clinical mani- festations are chiefly referable to pressure on the pharynx and larynx, and on the hypoglossal nerve. When the hypo- glossal nerve is implicated, the corresponding side of the tongue is paralysed. Aneurysm of the internal carotid is of special importance on account of the way in which it bulges into the VOL. I—19