SYPHILIS. 156 small, retention is almost unknown, and the patient need have little fear of a stricture in the future. Secondary Syphilis.—The following description of secondary syphilis is based on the average course of the disease as observed in patients who are not treated with mercury. The onset of constitutional symptoms occurs from two to three months after the original infection, and the manifestations are to be regarded as the result of the entrance of the virus into the general circulation, so that it is carried to all parts of the body. The period during which the patient is liable to suffer from secondary symptoms varies indefinitely, but may be stated generally as being from six months to two years. In some cases the general health of the patient is not dis- turbed ; in others he is feverish and out of sorts, loses appetite, becomes pale and anaemic, complains of lassitude, incapacity for exertion, headache, and pains in the bones, especially at night. There is usually a marked degree of leucocytosis. The lymphatic glands accessible to palpation, such as those in the neck, axilla, and at the elbow, become enlarged and slightly tender. The hair comes out, and eruptions appear on the skin and mucous membranes. Sore throat and certain affections of the eyes are common. The Skin Affections are among the earliest and most constant evidences of secondary syphilis. Individually they resemble similar eruptions from other causes, and present no single characteristic feature by which their origin may be recognised. Syphilis does, however, impress upon them certain general characters, which, taken collectively, stamp them as “ specific.” Thus they are frequently, and sometimes to a marked degree, symmetrical; several types of eruption may be present at the same time; there is little itching or discomfort so that un- observant patients may not be aware of their existence; they usually present a serpiginous outline and a dull-red or coppery coloration which has been likened to that of the lean of raw ham; they exhibit a predilection for the flexor aspects of the limbs, and for those parts of the forehead and neck which are close to the roots of the hair; they tend to pass off spontane- ously, especially the earlier ones; and they disappear rapidly under treatment by mercury. Varieties of Syphilitic Skin Eruptions.—Roseola is one of the commonest of the early rashes, and, being merely a hyperaemia or congestion of the skin, is usually very evanescent. It assumes the form of small circular spots or macules of a dusky rose colour not unlike the eruption of measles, and as