725 HALLUX VALGUS. should be removed through a dorsal incision running parallel with the tendon of the long extensor. Hallux Valgus and Bunion.—Hallux valgus, is that deformity in which the great toe is abducted, so that it deviates outwards from the line of the first metatarsal, and comes to lie on the top of, or beneath, the second toe (Fig. 255). The head of the first metatarsal projects on the inner border of the foot, and, as a result of the pressure of the boot, an adventitious bursa is formed which, when thickened by chronic inflammation, con- stitutes a prominent swelling or bunion. It is a very common affection in civilised, and especially in urban communities, and it reaches its acme of development in adult women. It may occur on one or on both sides, and it may be associated with flat-foot. The deformity is of very slow development, and is usually attri- buted to the wearing of improperly made boots. The boot which favours the occurrence of hallux valgus is one which is too short and which has pointed toes, with the apex in the middle line of the foot instead of being in line with the great toe. The pressure of the boot displaces the great toe into the valgus position, especially if a high heel is worn, as the toes are then driven forwards into the apex of the boot. A faulty method of putting the foot to the ground in walking is an important factor in the production of hallux valgus. This consists in bearing unduly on the inner side of the ball of the great toe, and in pointing the foot outwards. Once the great toe is abducted by the pressure of the boot, the deformity is increased by this method of walking. Examination of the joint in pronounced cases shows that the base of the first phalanx is displaced on to the outer aspect of the head of the first metatarsal, and the exposed head of the latter frequently shows changes like those met with in arthritis deformans, and is often the seat of periosteal overgrowth, some- times amounting to an exostosis. Arthritis deformans is rarely the cause of hallux valgus, but may follow upon it. The distal end of the first metatarsal is displaced inwards, broadening the tread of the foot, and in severe cases its shaft is rotated on its long axis, so that its dorsal surface looks inwards; the great Pig. 255.—Doable Hallux Valgus.