85 SKIN-GRAFTING. down after the grafts have united, leaving a raw ring round the newly-formed cicatrix. Oozing can be stopped by pads of sterilised gauze saturated with peroxide of hydrogen (10 volumes strength), and after the bleeding has ceased the excess of per- oxide solution is washed away by a copious yet gentle stream of tepid saline solution. In some cases pressure with a pad of sterilised gauze is sufficient to arrest the oozing, a layer of oiled silk having been placed next the wound to prevent the gauze adhering and starting the bleeding afresh when the gauze is removed. The part from which the grafts are taken should be disinfected as for any other operation. Methods of Grafting.—The various grafting procedures which have been suggested and practised fall into three groups: epithelium - sowing ; epithelium - grafting ; and skin- grafting proper. By epithelium sowing is meant the scattering over a granulat- ing sore of free epithelial cells obtained by scraping the surface of some other part of the body. A certain proportion of the cells thus planted live and grow and so help the healing process. They at the same time seem to promote the growth of the marginal epithelium. The resulting cicatrix, however, is thin and unstable, and is so liable to break down that this method is not to be recommended. Several different procedures, all of which involve the trans- plantation of tangible portions of epithelium, are included under the term epithelium-grafting. Of these the methods of Reverdin, Lusk, and Thiersch are the most useful. In Reverdirts method a portion of the patient’s skin is raised with the point of a needle, and a piece about the size of a split pea removed with a razor or a pair of scissors curved on the flat. The graft, which consists of the epidermis and the superficial layers of the rete niucosum, is then cut into fragments not bigger than a pin-head, and these are planted over the surface. As each of these fragments has only a potential growth of about half an inch in diameter, it is advisable to place them so that the edges of the adjacent epithelial islets which form will touch one another, and to plant them near the edge of the ulcer, in order that the grafted epithelium may blend with that of the margin and so consolidate the cicatrix. Unless this is done granulations grow up between the islets and often destroy them. The prepuce removed from a healthy child by circum- cision may be used for Reverdin grafting. The dressing consists of imbricated pieces of oiled-silk pro-