TENOSYNOVITIS. 375 is influenced by the general condition of the patient and the existence of tuberculous lesions elsewhere in the body. The treatment is conducted on the same lines as for a cold abscess. The distended sheath is laid open, the contents evacuated, the wall scraped and swabbed out with pure carbolic acid, and the wound closed. In the common flexor sheaths of the palm an attempt may be made to cure the condition by removing the contents through a small incision and filling the cavity with iodoform emulsion. Movement of the fingers is an important element in the after treatment. A less common form of tuberculous disease is that in which the sheath becomes the seat of a diffuse tuberculous thickening, not unlike the white swelling met with in joints, and with a similar tendency to caseation. There is an absence of fluid and of melon-seed bodies. A painless swelling of an elastic and tumour-like character forms in relation to the tendon sheath. It is hour-glass-shaped in the common flexor sheath of the palm, elongated or sausage-shaped in the extensors of the wrist and in the tendons at the ankle. Although resembling the previous form in being slow in progress and of long duration, it is more liable to result in invasion of the tendons and interference with their functions. It is also more liable to break down and lead to the formation of abscesses and sinuses, and in our experience is more often associated with disease in the adjacent bone or joint. In the peronei tendons, for example, it may be associated with, and result from, disease of the fibula or of the ankle-joint. The diagnosis is easy as a rule, but the local appearances closely resemble those of innocent tumours of tendon sheaths. Treatment.—Excision of the affected sheath is the only satis- factory treatment. The whole of the diseased area must be exposed by free incision of the overlying soft parts; the sheath is then carefully isolated from the surrounding tissues and cut across above and below. Any tuberculous tissue on the tendon itself is removed with a sharp spoon. Associated bone or joint lesions are dealt with at the same time. In the after treatment the functions of the tendons must be preserved by active and passive movements. Syphilitic Affections of Tendon Sheaths.—These closely re- semble the syphilitic affections of the synovial membrane of joints. During the secondary period the lesion usually consists in effusion into the sheath; gummata are met with during the tertiary period. Tumours of Tendon Sheaths.—Innocent tumours are very