312 CHAPTER XVI. THE NERVES. Anatomy—Wounds of Nerves : Changes in nerves after division ; Repair and its modifications ; Clinical features ; Primary and second- ary suture — Subcutaneous Injuries of Nerves — Diseases: Neuritis; Tumours—Surgery of the individual nerves: Brachial neuralgia ; Sciatica ; Trigeminal neuralgia. Anatomy.—A nerve trunk is made up of a variable number of bundles of nerve fibres surrounded and supported by a framework of connective tissue. The nerve fibres are chiefly of the medullated type, and they run without interruption from a nerve cell or “neuron” in the brain or spinal cord to their peripheral terminations in muscle, skin, and secretory glands. Each nerve fibre consists of a number of nerve fibrils collected into a central bundle—the axis cylinder—which is surrounded by an envelope, known as the neurilemma or sheath of Schwann. Between the neuri- lemma and the axis cylinder is the medullated sheath composed of a fatty substance known as myelin. This medullated sheath is interrupted at the nodes of Ranvier, and in each internode is a nucleus lying between the myelin and the neurilemma. The axis cylinder is the essential conducting structure of the nerve, while the neurilemma and the myelin act as insulating agents. The axis cylinder depends for its nutrition on the central neuron with which it is connected, and from which it originally developed. The connective-tissue framework of a nerve trunk consists of the perineurium, or general sheath, which surrounds all the bundles ; the epineurium, surrounding individual groups of bundles ; and the endo- neurium, a delicate connective tissue separating the individual nerve fibres. The blood-vessels and lymphatics run in these connective-tissue sheaths. Injuries of Nerves. Nerves are liable to be injured in various ways : thus they may be cut or torn across, bruised, compressed, stretched, or torn away from their connections with the spinal cord. Com- plete division is a common result of accidental wounds, especially