THE LYMPHATICS. 300 In addition to serving as channels for the conveyance of bacterial infection, lymphatic vessels frequently convey the cells of malignant tumours, and especially cancer, from the seat of primary growth to the nearest lymphatic glands. This fact is of great importance in relation to the operative treatment of cancer. Lymphangiectasis is a dilated or varicose condition of lymphatic vessels. It is sometimes met with as a congenital condition in the tongue and lips, and it may be acquired as the result of any condition which is attended with extensive obliteration or blocking of the main lymphatic trunks. The most important type of lymphangiectasis is that resulting from the presence of filarite in the vessels, and which is chiefly observed in the groin, spermatic cord, and scrotum. Filarial disease in the lymphatics of the groin appears as a soft, doughy swelling, varying in size from a walnut to a cocoa-nut, which may partly disappear on pressure and on lying down. There may be no other symptoms, or the patient may give a history of feverish attacks during which the swelling becomes painful and tender. These attacks may show a remarkable periodicity, and each may be followed by an increase in the size of the swelling. The swelling may be continued along the inguinal canal into the abdomen, or down the spermatic cord into the scrotum. On dissection the swelling is found to be made up of dilated, tortuous, and thickened lymphatic vessels, in which the parent worm is sometimes found, and of greatly enlarged lymphatic glands which have become converted into a tough, spongy tissue, the spaces of which are filled with lymph. The fluid in the dilated vessels is either clear or turbid, in the latter case resembling chyle. The affection is frequently bilateral, and may be associated with lymph scrotum, with elephantiasis, and with chyluria. The diagnosis is to be made from other swellings in the groin, such as hernia, lipoma, or cystic pouching of the saphena vein. It is aided by obtaining the history that the patient has lived in the tropics, and by finding the embryo of the filaria sanguinis hominis in the blood. Treatment.—This is influenced by whether the disease is limited to the groin or scrotum, or whether it is generalised throughout the body. Opinion is divided as to the advantages of excision, even in the localised disease. While on the one hand it may bring about a permanent cure, especially if the adult worms are found in the dilated lymphatics which are