INJURIES. 365 of plaster. At the end of three weeks massage and exercises are employed. Sometimes the displacement occurs apart from a definite injury. Whenever the foot is everted the tendon of the peroneus longus is liable to be jerked forwards out of its groove, some- times with an audible snap. The patient is pained and disabled until the tendon is replaced. Reduction is easy, but the dis- placement tends to recur at frequent intervals. Under these conditions an incision should be made over the tendon; if the sheath is merely slack or is torn, it is tightened up or closed with catgut sutures; or an artificial sheath is made by raising up a quadrilateral flap of periosteum from the outer aspect of the fibula, and stitching it over the tendon. Similarly the tibialis posticus may be displaced over the internal malleolus as a result of inversion of the foot. The long tendon of the biceps may be dislocated outwards or inwards—usually inwards—as a result of violent or of repeated rotation movements of the upper arm, such as are performed in wringing clothes. The patient is aware of the displacement taking place, and is unable to extend the forearm until the displaced tendon has been reduced by abducting the arm. In recurrent cases the patient may be able to dislocate the tendon at will, and in such cases the disability is so inconsiderable that there is rarely any occasion for interference. Wounds of Muscles and Tendons.—Accidentally inflicted wounds of muscles are to be treated on the same lines as wounds of other soft structures. After thorough disinfection they should be stitched with catgut. If they are allowed to retract or if the wound suppurates, the ends are united by scar tissue and may become fixed to bone or other adjacent structures. In the limbs this may interfere with the functions of the muscle : in the abdominal wall the scar tissue may stretch and yield, and so favour the development of a ventral hernia. Tendons may be cut across accidentally, especially in those wounds so commonly met with above the wrist. It is essential that the ends should be carefully sutured to each other, and as the upper end is retracted the original wound may require to be enlarged in an upward direction. When primary suture has been omitted, or has failed in consequence of suppuration, the separated ends of the tendon become adherent to adjacent structures, and the function of the associated muscle is impaired or lost. Under these conditions the operation of secondary suture is indicated. A free incision is necessary in order to discover and isolate the ends of the tendon ; if the interval is too