580 DISEASES OF RONE. tlie secondary period, and are described as boring—as if a gimlet were being driven into the bone. They are worst at night, sometimes preventing sleep, and have been ascribed to the compression of the nerves as they pass through the sclerosed Haversian canals. The occurrence of a smooth circumscribed swelling is charac- teristic of the periosteal gumma. The centre is soft and elastic, the margins firm and hard, and they shade off into the surround- ing bone. The swelling may disappear entirely, or a densely hard node may remain at the site of the gumma. In other cases the gumma softens in its centre, the skin becomes adherent, thin and red, and finally gives way. The opening in the skin persists as a sinus, or develops into the typical syphilitic ulcer with ir- regular, crescentic margins; in either case a probe reveals the presence of carious bone or of a sequestrum. The general health may be impaired as a result of superadded pyogenic infection and the absorption of toxins, and waxy degeneration in the viscera may ultimately be induced. A central gumma in a long bone may not reveal its presence unless it gives rise to pathological frac- ture, invades an adjacent joint, or erupts through the shell of the bone and reaches the periosteal surface. The X-rays are often useful in the recognition of syphilitic lesions of bones. In the skull the presence of gummatous disease gives rise to certain special features. Where, for example, there is consider- able new formation on the internal surface of the skull there may be pressure on the brain giving rise to headache, Jacksonian epilepsy, or paralysis, according to the seat of the gumma. At the base of the skull it may press upon the cranial nerves, especially at their points of exit, and give rise to symptoms of irritation or paralysis in their areas of distribution. Where a gumma has burst on the skin surface, and there is super- added pyogenic infection, there may not only be persistent Fin. 195.—Gummatous Disease of Tibife in a boy aet. 10, the sub- ject of inherited syphilis.