418 INJURIES OF JOINTS. tion of the same joint. As the morbid anatomy of different examples of a particular dislocation varies but little, the appropriate manipulations are best studied regionally. In general terms, however, it may be said here that the main impediments to reduction are the contraction of the muscles acting upon the displaced bone; the entanglement of the bone among tendons or ligamentous bands which fix it in its abnormal position; and the rent in the capsule being small or valvular, so that it forms an obstacle to the bone re-entering the socket. Muscular contraction is best overcome by the administration of a general anaesthetic, and in all but the simplest cases this should unhesitatingly be given to ensure rapid, accurate, and painless reduction. Failing this, however, the muscles may be wearied out by the surgeon making steady and prolonged traction on the limb, while an assistant makes counter-extension on the pi’oximal segment of the joint. Advantage may also be taken of such muscular relaxation as occurs when the patient becomes faint, or when his attention is diverted from the injured part, to carry out the manipulations necessary to restore the bone to its normal position. The appropriate manoeuvres for disengaging the head of the bone from tendons, ligaments, or bony processes with which it may be entangled, will be suggested by a consideration of the anatomy of the particular joint involved. It cannot be urged too strongly that any mechanical apparatus in the form of pulleys, levers, or fulcra is only to be used in exceptional cases and with the greatest care and caution. In reducing a dislocation no amount of physical force will compensate for a want of anatomical knowledge. All tugging, twisting, or wrenching movements are to be studiously avoided, as they are liable to cause damage to blood-vessels, nerves, or other soft parts, or even—and especially in old people—to fracture one of the bones concerned. The after treatment consists in fixing the joint till the rent in the capsule heals—which it does very rapidly. Much benefit is gained by the systematic use of massage after the reduction of a dislocation. Before any restraining apparatus is applied the whole region around the joint should be gently stroked in a centripetal direction for fifteen or twenty minutes; and this is to be repeated daily, each sitting lasting for from twenty minutes to half an hour. Movement of the joint is carried out in every direction, except that which tends to bring the head of the bone against the injured part of the capsule, from