FRACTURES. 391 grating or clicking which may be heard or felt when the fractured surfaces are rubbed against one another. The presence of these three signs in association is sufficient to prove the existence of a fracture, but the absence of one or more of them does not negative this diagnosis. There are certain fallacies to be guarded against. For example, a fracture may exist and yet unnatural mobility may not be present, because the bones are impacted into one another, or because the fracture is an incomplete one. Again, the extreme tension of the swollen soft tissues overlying the fracture may prevent the recognition of movement between the fragments. Deformity also may be wanting under various conditions—as, for instance, when there is no displacement of the fragments. Similarly, crepitus may be absent when impaction exists, when the frag- ments completely override one another, or are separated by an interval, or when soft tissues, such as torn periosteum or muscle, are interposed between them. A sensation closely resembling crepitus may be felt over a large extravasation of blood, over effusions into tendon sheaths, and over joints in certain chronic diseases. The rubbing of the dislocated end of a bone against the fibrous tissues amongst which it lies, and the crackling of air in subcutaneous emphysema, also closely simulate the crepitus of fracture. It is not advisable to be very diligent in eliciting these signs at the bedside, partly because of the pain caused by the manipulations, and partly because vigorous handling may do harm by converting a simple into a compound fracture, by undoing impaction, or by producing displacement which does not already exist. It is often necessary for purposes of diagnosis to administer a general anaesthetic, particularly in injuries of deeply placed bones and in the vicinity of joints. Before doing so, the appliances necessary for the treatment 6f the injury should be made ready, in order that the fracture may be reduced and set before the patient regains consciousness. Radiography in the Diagnosis of Fractures.—While radiography is of inestimable value in the diagnosis of many fractures and other injuries, particularly in the vicinity of joints, the student is warned against relying too implicitly on the evidence it seems to afford. No radiogram should be accepted which has not been taken either by or under the direct supervision of a medical man. A radiogram is not a photograph of the object exposed to the X-rays, but merely a picture of its shadow. As the rays emanate from a single point in the vacuum tube, and as they are not, like the sun’s rays, approximately parallel, the shadows they cast are necessarily distorted.