403 SEPARATION OF EPIPHYSES. septic infection. In this connection it should be borne in mind that the damage to soft tissues is always wider in extent than appears from external examination. Amputation may be called for later to arrest spreading septic processes, osteo-myelitis, or gangrene; to prevent exhaustion from prolonged suppuration and septic absorption ; or on account of secondary haemorrhage. SEPARATION OF EPIPHYSES. It is only within the last twenty years that the subject of the separation of epiphyses (or, as they are sometimes called, diastases x) has received its due share of attention, and even yet these injuries are often mistaken for fractures or dislocations. Surgical Anatomy.—At birth the diaphyses, or shafts of the long bones, are completely ossified, while nearly all the epiphyses are cartilaginous. As ossification begins at different dates, and progresses with varying rapidity in the different epiphyses, the date at which each unites with its diaphysis to form the adult bone also varies. It is useful to remember that, in the upper extremity, the epiphyses in the regions of the shoulder and wrist, and, in the lower extremity, those in the region of the knee, are the latest to unite ; and that it is in these situations that growth in length of the bone goes on longest and most actively. Injuries of these epiphyses, therefore, are most liable to lead to interference,with the growth of the limb. An epiphysis is nourished from the articular arteries and through the vessels of the periosteum covering it. Pathological Separation of Epiphyses. — There are certain pathological conditions, such as rickets, scurvy, congenital syphi- lis, tubercle, suppurative conditions, and tumour growths, which render separation of epiphyses liable to occur from injuries altogether insufficient to produce such lesions under normal conditions. It is interesting to note that the epiphyses are no more liable to be separated in paralytic limbs than in those with a healthy nerve-supply. Traumatic Separations.—Speaking generally, it may be said that injuries which in an adult would be liable to produce 1 The term “ diastasis ” has been employed in different senses by different writers.