664 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. usually unable to leave his bed; his sleep is disturbed by startings of the limb, and the rigidity of the joint and the wasting of the muscles are very marked. Elevation of the temperature is exceptional. It may rise slightly after examina- tion of the limb, or after a railway journey, or from abscess formation. Marked elevation of the temperature, apart from septic complications, usually indicates the development of tubercle elsewhere, or of general tuberculosis. Abscess Formation in Hip Disease.—The formation of abscess is not related to any particular stage. It may occur before there is any deformity, or it may be deferred until the disease has apparently recovered. Its site and direction of spread are influenced by its seat of origin and by the anatomical arrange- ment of the parts. Abscesses which appear in the thigh usually originate in the cavity of the joint; less frequently they are peri-articular. They may point in front of or behind the joint. The anterior abscess usually comes to the surface on one or other side of the psoas muscle. From the resistance offered by the fascia lata, the pus may gravitate down the thigh before perforating the fascia and pointing. In connection with these anterior abscesses, it occasionally happens that when they have opened and become septic the femoral vessels may be eroded, leading to serious, and it may be fatal haemorrhage. The posterior abscess develops in the gluteal region, and may make its way to the surface through the gluteus maximus, more often it points at the lower border of this muscle in the region of the great trochanter, or it may gravitate down the thigh. The abscesses which form within the pelvis originate either in connection with the acetabulum or in relation to the psoas muscle where it passes in front of the joint. Those which are directly connected with disease of the acetabulum may remain localised to the lateral wall of the pelvis, or may spread back- wards towards the hollow of the sacrum. They may open into the bladder or rectum, or they may ascend into the iliac fossa and point above Poupart’s ligament, or descend towards the ischio-rectal fossa. The abscess which develops in relation to the psoas muscle may be shaped like an hour-glass, one sac occupying the iliac fossa, the other filling up the adductor region of the thigh, the two sacs communicating with each other through a narrow neck beneath Poupart’s ligament. !So long as the skin is unbroken the abscess is usually un- attended with fever or pain. The clinical importance of abscess formation lies in the fact that if the abscess bursts externally