224 INJURIES. or to the action of the X-rays themselves. It would appear that they only follow exposure to electric discharges emanating from a Crooke’s tube ; that the patient experiences no sensation of electric shock or of heat; and that prolonged or repeated exposure is usually necessary to their production. Two distinct varieties of burn are recognised—an erythe- matous form, resembling a superficial burn; and an ulcerative and sloughing form, corresponding to a burn of the third or fourth degree. The erythematous form is usually met with on the back of the hands and fingers of those who rvork with the Rbntgen apparatus, but occasionally occurs in patients who have been subjected to the rays for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes. The first symptom is the appearance of a red patch on the skin, attended with itching, but devoid of pain. This seldom appears sooner than two or three weeks after the exposure. The skin becomes dry, tends to crack, and finally desquamates. The hairs are lost and the nails become brittle. The sense of touch is sometimes impaired. The condition is very persistent, and usually lasts for several months. It disappears spontaneously, but is very liable to recur if the parts be again exposed to the influence of the rays. Sometimes the hair is without any other lesion; it may begin to grow again in a few weeks, or the loss may be permanent. The ulcerative form is met with in patients subjected to the rays for a prolonged period, and usually begins within a week of the exposure, although in some cases the first signs have been delayed for two or three weeks. The onset is marked by redness of the skin and slight pain. In a few days a blister containing sero-purulent fluid rises, and after bursting leaves a raw surface which is extremely painful. A slough slowly forms and gradually increases in size, spreading through the deep fascia and exposing the muscle. The prominent features of this form are the extreme slowness with which the sloughs separate,—sometimes a process of several months’ duration,—and the severity of the pain, which usually calls for the administration of opiates. The raw surface left after the separation of the slough is very slow to heal, and during the process fresh patches of necrosis may appear. The treatment consists in purifying the part with a mild antiseptic, such as boracic lotion, and the use of non-irritating protective dressings. When granulations have appeared the application of Thiersch grafts greatly expedites healing. Electrical burns usually occur in those who are engaged in