200 TUMOURS. the interval between the femur and tibia, most often on the outer aspect of the joint in front of the tendon of the biceps. The swelling, which may attain the size of half a walnut, is tense and hard when the knee is extended, and becomes softer and more prominent when it is flexed. They are chiefly met with in young adult males who follow laborious occupations or who indulge in athletics. They may cause stiffness, discomfort, and impairment in the use of the limb. Ganglionic cysts are met with in other situations than those described, but they are so rare as not to require separate mention. Ganglia are to be diagnosed by their situation and physical character’s; bursar, synovial cysts, and new growths are the swellings most likely to be mistaken for them. The diagnosis is sometimes only cleared up by evacuating their clear, jelly-like contents. Pathological Anatomy.—On dissection the wall of the cyst is found to consist of dense fibrous tissue closely adherent to or fused with the surrounding tissues. A ganglion cannot be shelled out like a sebaceous cyst. There is no endothelial lining, and the fibrous tissue of the wall is in immediate contact with the colloid material in the interior. The microscopical appear- ances give the impression that the colloid material is derived by a process of degeneration from the surrounding fibrous connective tissue. In the region of the knee the ganglion is usually multilocular, and consists of a meshwork of fibrous tissue, the meshes of which are occupied by colloid material. It is often stated that a ganglion originates from a hernial protrusion of the synovial membrane of a joint or tendon sheath into the surrounding tissues. We have not been able to demonstrate any communication between the cavity of the cyst and that of an adjacent tendon sheath or joint. It is possible, however, that the cyst may originate from a minute portion of synovial membrane being protruded and strangulated so that it becomes disconnected from that to which it originally belonged; it may then degenerate and give rise to colloid material, which accumulates and forms a cyst. Ledderhose and others regard ganglia as entirely new formations in the peri-articular tissues, resulting from colloid degeneration of ordinary connective tissue, at first in numerous small areas which later fuse to form a ganglion. Ganglia are probably, therefore, of the nature of degeneration cysts. Treatment.—If a ganglion is causing deformity or disability, it is most easily got rid of by an aseptic modification of the