680 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. onset and progress are gradual, the chief complaint being of stiffness and swelling, which are worse after exertion. Some- times there are symptoms of loose body, such as occasional locking of the joint with pain, and inability to extend the limb : but the locking is easily disengaged, and the movements are free again. The patient may give a history of several years’ partial and intermittent disability, with lameness and occasional locking, although he may have been able to go about or even to continue his occupation. The joint exhibits a moderate degree of hydrops. When this has subsided under rest it may be possible to feel ill- defined cords, or tufts or nodular masses, and to grasp between the fingers those in the supra-patellar pouch. There is little wasting of muscles, and it is quite exceptional to observe any symptoms of implication of the articular surfaces or the formation of a cold abscess. On opening the joint there may escape fluid and loose bodies similar to those described under hydrops, and if the finger is introduced into the cavity the upper pouch may be felt to be occupied by fringes or polypoidal processes derived from the synovial membrane. The diagnosis is to be made from arthritis deformans, and in some cases from loose body of other than tuberculous origin. The treatment specially applicable to this type of tuberculous disease is to perform a partial arthrectomy, removing the affected synovial membrane. Cold abscess or empyema of the knee is a rare condition in which the joint becomes filled with pus. It usually results from a primary tuberculosis of the synovial membrane in those who are much reduced in health, and who are the subjects of tuberculosis elsewhere. While usually insidious in its develop- ment and progress, an acute form attended with fever may be met with in children. The treatment consists in evacuating the pus, and in filling the joint -with iodoform glycerin. In the absence of decided improvement, however, recourse must be had to arthrectomy. Diffuse Thickening of the Synovial Membrane—White Swell- ing.—When this type of disease originates in the synovial membrane and remains confined to it, the chief clinical feature is that of an indolent elastic swelling in the area of the joint. The swelling tapers off above and below, so that it acquires a fusiform shape, and it appears greater than it really is on account of wasting of the muscles. There is little impairment of movement. The patient limps slightly,