DISEASES OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 303 possible that gonococci may lie latent in the inguinal glands for long periods, and only give rise to lymphadenitis if the glands be subjected to injury. The term bubo is sometimes applied to an inflamed gland. The glands most frequently the seat of inflammation are those in the neck, axilla, and groin. The characters of the inflammation vary with the nature of the irritant giving rise to it. Sometimes it is mild and evanescent, as in the glandular enlargement in the neck which attends tonsillitis and certain other forms of sore throat. Some- times it is more persistent, as in the enlargement which may be associated with adenoids, hypertrophied tonsils, carious teeth, eczema of the scalp, and otorrhcea; and it is probable that this indolent enlargement predisposes to tuberculous infection. A similar enlargement is met with in the axilla in cases of chronic/ interstitial mastitis, and in the groin as a result of chronic irritation about the external genitals. Sorpetimes the inflammation is of a more acute character, and the tendency is towards the formation of an abscess. This is illustrated in the axillary glands inflamed as a result of infected wounds of the fingers, in the femoral glands in infected wounds or purulent blisters on the foot, in the inguinal glands in gonorrhoea and soft chancre, and in the cervical glands in the severer forms of sore throat associated with diphtheria and scarlet fever. The most acute glandular suppurations are those which result from infection with streptococci. Superficial glands, when inflamed and suppurating, become enlarged, tender, fixed, and matted to each other. In the glands of the groin the suppurative process is often remarkably sluggish. Purulent foci form in the interior of the individual glands, and some time may elapse before the pus erupts through their respective capsules. In the deeply placed cervical glands, especially in cases of streptococcal throat infections, the suppura- tion rapidly involves the surrounding cellular tissire, and the clinical features are those of an acute cellulitis and deeply seated abscess. When this is incised the necrosed glands may be found lying in the pus, and on bacteriological examination are found to be swarming with streptococci. In suppuration of the axillary glands, the abscess may be quite superficial, or it may be deeply placed beneath the strong fascia andi pectoral muscles, according to the group of glands involved. The diagnosis of septic lymphadenitis is usually easy. The indolent enlargements are not always to be distinguished, how- ever, from commencing tuberculous disease, except by the fact