THE KNEE-JOINT. 677 the case at the hip or shoulder, where the epiphyses lie partly or wholly within the joint. Deformed Attitudes in Knee-joint Disease. — The attitude most often assumed is that of flexion, with or without external rotation of the leg and foot. The occurrence of flexion is explained by its being the resting attitude of the joint, and that which affords most ease and comfort to the patient. Once the joint is flexed, the involuntary contraction of the flexor muscles maintains the attitude, and if the patient is able to use the limb in walking, the weight of the body is a powerful factor in increasing it. The external rotation of the leg is probably associated with contraction of the biceps muscle. Backward displacement of the tibia is chiefly met with in neglected cases of chronic disease of the knee when the patient has walked on the limb after it has become flexed. In certain cases genu valgum or abduction of the leg may be present along with a slight degree of flexion. The valgus attitude is associated with slight outward displacement of the patella, with prominence and apparent en- largement of the internal con- dyle, with depression of the pelvis on the diseased side and apparent lengthening of the limb. All these deformities are met with in their most typical forms in tuberculous disease of the knee in young subjects. Tuberculous Disease.—While especially common in child- hood and youth, tuberculous disease of the knee may occur at any period of life, and is not uncommon in patients over fifty. The frequency with which the disease originates in the synovial membrane and in the bones respectively would appear to lie about equal. When the synovial membrane is diseased, it tends to grow inwards over the articular surfaces. In the case of the femur this usually takes place from the lateral margins of the condyles at the level of the lower edge of the patella, often shutting off the supra-patellar pouch and fixing the knee-cap to the femur (Fig. 230). In the tibia and patella the synovial membrane grows in from the margins, diminishing the area of their articular surfaces. The ingrowth of synovial membrane may fill up the entire Fig. 230. — Tuberculous Synovial Membrane of Knee, spreading over articular surface of femur.'