18 CONDITIONS INTERFERING WITH REPAIR Other Pyogenic Bacteria.—It is not necessary to do more than name some of the other organisms which are known to be pyogenic, such as the bacillus pyocyaneus, which is found in green and blue pus; the micrococcus tetragenus; the gonococcus; actinomyces ; glanders bacillus, and the tubercle bacillus. Most of these will receive further mention in connection with the diseases to which they give rise. Leucocytosis.—Recent investigations have shown that most bacterial diseases, as well as certain other pathological conditions, are associated with an increase in the number of leucocytes per cubic millimetre in the blood of the peripheral vessels. This condition of the blood is known as leucocytosis, and is met with in nearly all the acute infective diseases, such, for example, as erysipelas, diphtheria, pneumonia, and scarlet fever. It is also present in acute pyogenic inflammatory affections, particularly in those attended with suppuration—for example, peritonitis, appendicitis, abscesses in joints and in internal organs. In gangrenous processes also, and in general septic poisonings, such as septicaemia and pyaemia, leucocytosis is present. In the final stages of malignant disease, and after a severe haemorrhage, the number of leuco- cytes is usually markedly increased. In these various affections it is chiefly the finely granular (neutrophile) po’.ymorpho-nuclear leucocytes which are in excess (ordinary leiccocytosis); although in some cases the eosinophile leucocytes also show a propor- tionate increase (eosinopliilia). The term lymphocytosis is applied when there is an increase in the number of circulating lymphocytes. The normal number of leucocytes per cubic millimetre varies in different individuals, and in the same individual under different condi- tions, from 5000 to 10,000. It is generally accepted that 7500 is a normal average, and that anything above 12,000 is to be considered as abnormal. When leucocytosis is present the number may range from 12,000 to 30,000 or even higher ; 40,000 is looked upon as a high degree of leucocytosis. The degree of leucocytosis is, as a rule, proportionate to the severity of the inflammatory affection and to the extent of the local lesion. It is to be borne in mind, however, that in very acute septic conditions the virulence of the toxins may prevent the leucocytes reacting, and leuco- cytosis may be absent. The absence of leucocytosis in a disease in which it is usually present is therefore to be looked upon as a grave omen, particularly when the general symptoms are severe. The leucocytosis begins soon after the infection manifests itself—for example, by shivering, rigor, or rise of temperature. The number of leucocytes rises somewhat rapidly, increases while the condition is progressing, and remains high during the febrile period, but there is no constant correspondence between the number of leucocytes and the height of the temperature. The arrest of the inflammation and its resolution are accompanied by a fall in the number of leucocytes, while the occurrence of suppuration is attended with a further increase in their number. In interpreting the “blood count” it is to be kept in mind that a physiological leucocytosis occurs within three or four hours of taking a meal, especially one rich in proteids, from 1500 to 2000 being added to the normal number (digestion leucocytosis). Dining the later months