109 ERYSIPELAS. and (4) towards the centre of the patch the skin has regained its normal appearance, no permanent structural change having- taken place. Clinical Features.—After an incubation period, which varies from fifteen to sixty hours, the patient complains of headache, pains in the back and limbs, loss of appetite, nausea, and, very frequently, vomiting. He has a chill or slight rigor, initiating a rise of temperature to 103°, 104°, or 105° F., and a full bounding pulse of about 100 (Fig. 3). The tongue is foul, the breath heavy, and, as a rule, the bowels are constipated. Around the seat of inoculation a diffuse red patch forms, varying in hue from a bright scarlet to a dull brick-red. The edges are slightly raised above the level of the surrounding skin, as may readily be recognised by gently stroking the part from the healthy towards the affected area. The skin is smooth, tense, glossy, and cedematous, with serous bulke here and there over it. The local temperature is raised, and there is a burning- sensation in the part, which is also tender to the touch, the most tender area being the actively-spreading zone which lies about half an inch beyond the red margin. The disease tends to spread spasmodically and irregularly, and the direction and extent of its progress may be recognised by mapping out the peripheral zone of tenderness. Red streaks appear along the lines of the main superficial lymphatic vessels, and the deep lymphatics may sometimes be palpated as firm, tender cords. The neighbouring glands, also, are generally enlarged and tender. The usual systemic symptoms associated with toxaemia are present—high temperature, gastro-intestinal disturbances, fre- quently albuminuria, and occasionally nocturnal delirium. Leu- cocytosis is usually present in well-marked cases, and increases while the erysipelas is spreading. The degree of leucocytosis furnishes a fairly accurate index of the severity of the condition. The disease lasts for from two or three days to as many weeks, and relapses are frequent. Spontaneous resolution usually takes place, but the disease may prove fatal from absorption of toxins, involvement of the brain or meninges, or from septicaemia. Clinical Varieties—Facial erysipelas is the commonest clinical variety, infection usually occurring through some slight abrasion in the region of the mouth or nose. From this point of origin the inflammation may spread all over the face and scalp as far back as the nape of the neck. It stops, however, at the chin, and never extends on to the front of the neck. There