DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 433 particularly in the direction of abduction above the level of the shoulder. Treatment.—Reduction is easily effected by bracing back the shoulders and employing manipulations to replace the bone in its socket; but retention is invariably difficult, and in many cases impossible, so that permanent deformity very commonly results, although the usefulness of the limb is seldom seriously impaired. Dislocation of the acromial end is best treated by placing an elastic pad, such as a Turkey sponge, over the outer end of the clavicle, and fixing it in this position by a few turns of elastic bandage carried over the shoulder and under the elbow. The forearm is placed in a sling, with the elbow well supported, and the arm is bound to the side by a circular bandage (Fig. 96). When redisplace- ment occurs, and the usefulness of the limb is impaired, the joint surfaces may be rawed and the bones wired, with a view to obtaining ankylosis. The sternal end may be kept in position by firmly bracing back the shoulders by a figure-of-eight bandage, or by padded handkerchiefs, and making- pressure over the displaced end of the bone with a large sponge pad or a few strips of adhesive plaster. The fore- arm is supported by a sling, and the arm fixed to the side. Imperfect re- ^6-—Treatment of duction interferes so little with the Acromial End of Clavicle. functions of the limb that operative measures are seldom required except for aesthetic reasons. It may be found useful to supplement these appliances by a shoulder-cap, especially in muscular or refractory patients. The patient should be confined to bed for a few days. Massage should be employed from the first, and the patient should be allowed to begin to move the arm by the end of a week.' Dislocations of the Shoulder. The shoulder is more frequently dislocated than all the other joints in the body taken together. This is explained by its exposed position, the wide range of movement of which it is capable, the length of the lever afforded by the humerus, and the VOL. I—28