12G BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. of a week, small, firm nodules, with an oeclematous, inflammatory base, appear, and are rapidly transformed into pustules. These may occur on the face and in the vicinity of joints, and may be mistaken for the eruption of small-pox. After breaking down, these pustules give rise to irregular, ulcerated surfaces, which by their confluence lead to extensive destruction of skin. Sometimes the nasal mucous membrane becomes affected and produces a discharge—at first watery, but later sanious and purulent. Necrosis of the bones of the nose may take place, in which case the discharge becomes peculiarly offensive. In nearly every case metastatic abscesses form in different parts of the body, such as the lungs, joints, or muscles. During the development of the disease the patient feels ill, complains of headache and pains in the limbs, the temperature rises to 104° or even to 106° F., and assumes a pysemic type. The pulse becomes rapid and weak. The tongue is dry and brown. There is profuse sweating, albuminuria, and often insomnia with delirium. Death may take place within a week, but more frequently occurs from exhaustion during the second or third week. Differential Diagnosis.—There is nothing characteristic as to the site of the primary lesion in man, and the condition may, during the early stages, be mistaken for a boil or carbuncle, for erysipelas, or for any of the other acute superficial inflammatory conditions. Later it may simulate acute articular rheumatism, or may manifest all the symptoms of acute septicaemia or pyaemia. The diagnosis is established by the isolation of the bacillus. The prophylaxis consists in thorough disinfection of any wound subjected to infection by contact with a diseased animal. Treatment.—Excision of the primary nodule, followed by cauterisation with a red-hot iron and sponging with pure carbolic acid, should be carried out if the disease is recognised early, or at any time, provided the condition is sufficiently limited to render complete removal practicable. When secondary abscesses form in accessible situations they must be incised, scraped, disinfected, and drained. The general treatment is carried out on the same lines as in other acute infective diseases. Chronic Glanders.—In the horse the chronic form of glanders is known as farcy. It follows infection through an abrasion of the skin, and involves chiefly the superficial lymphatic vessels and glands. The lymphatics become firm and nodular, con- stituting what the veterinarians call farcy pipes and farcy buds.