722 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. In cases of the second degree, where the attitude of the foot is beyond the control of the patient, he should be provided with special boots or with a metal plate inside the boot. The “flat- foot boot” is a strong, well-made lacing boot, with the heel and sole thickened on the inner side so that the foot is forced to rest on its outer border (James Miller, 1846). A metal plate inside the boot, known as Whitman’s Spring, is to be preferred to the rubber pads which were formerly employed. A plaster cast is taken of the sole while the foot is held in its proper position, and on this a metal plate, preferably of aluminium bronze, is modelled. This is covered with leather and inserted into the boot. The treatment described for cases of the first degree is carried out in addition. In cases of the third degree, in which the deformity does not yield to the preceding measures, the patient is anaisthetised, and the foot is forcibly moved in all directions so as to stretch the shortened ligaments and to break down adhesions. It is then rotated into the extreme varus position, and fixed in plaster of Paris or to a Dupuytren’s splint. The division of the tendo Achillis, and in some cases of the peronei tendons also, may facilitate the inversion of the foot. When in the course of three or four weeks the varus attitude has been secured, the treatment is continued as in the first and second degrees of the deformity. In cases of the fourth degree, in which the displacement and deformity of the bones constitute an insuperable bar to correction, some form of operative treatment is indicated. Among the numerous procedures recommended we would restrict the choice to one or other of the following:— Resection of a Wedge from the Astragalo-Scaphoid Joint (Ogston).—A longitudinal incision is made over the projecting head of the astragalus and the tuberosity of the scaphoid. These bones are cleared of soft parts, and the opposing articular surfaces are removed with the chisel in such a fashion that the astragalus is left convex and the scaphoid concave. The opposed articular surfaces of the scaphoid and internal cunei- form may also be removed. The foot is then forcibly inverted, and the cut bony surfaces are brought into contact and fixed by pegs. Supra-malleolar osteotomy of the tibia and fibula (Trendelen- burg) is equally efficient in allowing the foot to be inverted. After either operation the limb is encased in plaster, or put up in a Dupuytren splint. Spasmodic Flat-foot.—There are cases of flat-foot in which