CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF THE HIP. 693 flexing tlie tliigli and rotating it slightly inwards. If the flexed and slightly internally rotated limb is now abducted to the maximum degree—about 90°—the head of the femur glides over the posterior border of the acetabulum and enters the socket, often with an audible click and an appreciable vibration of the limb which indicate that the reduction has been accom- plished. After reduction, the abducted limb should be rotated outwards until the head of the femur bulges the soft parts in the fold of the groin. dThe limb must be maintained in the abducted position, otherwise the head tends to escape from the socket. This is secured by an accurately fitting plaster bandage, which includes the lower part of the trunk and the affected limb down to the knee. The first bandage is changed after ten or twelve weeks, and is then renewed at shorter intervals, the angle of abduction being diminished at each renewal until the limbs are nearly parallel. At the end of six months the bandage is given up, and massage and exercises are employed; slight abduction of the affected limb is secured by l’aising the sole of the sound limb one-half or three-quarters of an inch. In the event of failure to reduce the dislocation on the first attempt, the limb should be fixed in plaster in the attitude of abduction and eversion for fourteen days, and then another attempt made. In bilateral cases both dislocations should be reduced at one sitting if possible; the child is then put up in a plaster bandage with both thighs abducted and flexed to a right angle. The results obtained in a large series of cases show that reduction is successful in the great majority of children under six years of age. The younger the child the greater is the prospect of success. Although the above method of treatment does not always enable us to restore the condition to that of a normal hip, the functional results obtained are extremely satisfactory. Reduction by Open Operation.—This should be had recourse to in cases in which reduction has failed, or in which redislocation occurs. The operation consists in exposing the joint by a lateral or anterior incision, drawing aside the muscles, dividing the capsular ligament, displacing the head of the bone, enlarging and deepening the acetabulum by means of the gouge or sharp spoon, and replacing the head in the socket. Subcutaneous tenotomy of the adductor and hamstring tendons may be neces- sary. The best results are obtained when this operation is performed between the third and eighth years. In patients above the age of ten reduction is less likely to be