TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. 629 influence a latent tuberculous focus may be transformed into a cold abscess. In our opinion, however, this is no drawback, as the cold abscess is more amenable to iodoform treatment than the latent focus. The congestion should be persevered with, until a month or two after the joint disease appears to have been cured. The congestion should be suspended for two or three days after the injection of iodoform. The external application of iodine, or of mercurial ointment in the form of Scott’s dressing, are alternative methods of treatment to that by iodoform. The use of blisters and of the actual cautery has largely gone out of fashion, but they may be employed with benefit for the relief of pain when this is a prominent feature. Conservative treatment is only abandoned if improvement does not show itself after a thorough trial, or if the disease relapses after apparent cure. Operative Treatment.—The indications for operative inter- ference vary in different cases. Other things being equal, operation is more often performed in adults than in children, because after the age of twenty there is less prospect of spontaneous recovery, there is more tendency to relapse and for the tuberculous disease to invade the internal organs, and there is no fear of interfering with the growth of the bones. The state of the general health may necessitate operation as the most rapid method of removing the disease. The social status of the patient must be taken into account. The bread-winner, under existing social conditions, may be unable to give up his work for a sufficient time to give conservative measures a fair trial, and the children of the poor cannot always obtain the necessary attention. The local conditions which decide for or against operation are differently regarded by different surgeons, but it may be said in general terms that operative interference is indicated in cases where the disease continues to progress in spite of a fair trial of conservative measures; in cases unsuited for conservative treatment—that is to say, where there is dislocation, separation of epiphysis, or deformity incapable of being otherwise rectified; where there are sinuses with septic infection, and operation affords a reasonable prospect of getting rid of both the tuberculosis and the sepsis; and where the disease is associated with severe bone lesions or with infection of the lymphatics. Operative interference is also indicated in cases wdiere the result will be as good or better than that likely to be obtained by conservative measures, as is often the case in the knee and elbow. The nature of the operative interference varies with the