TUMOURS OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 3 J1 blood-forming organs in which there is a great increase in the number, and an alteration of the character of the leucocytes present in the blood. It may simulate lymphadenoma, because, in certain forms of the disease, the lymphatic glands, especially those in the neck, axilla, and groin, are greatly enlarged, and there is a gradual failure of health terminating in death. Tumours of Lymphatic Glands. Primary Tumours.—It is very doubtful if there exists an innocent lymphoma or simple hypertrophy of glands apart from the diseased conditions already described. The malignant lymphoma or lymphosarcoma, which cannot always be differentiated from lymphadenoma, may be regarded as a sarcoma starting in lymphatic glands. It appears in the neck, axilla, or mediastinum, as a rapidly growing tumour con- sisting of one or more enlarged glands with numerous satellites. As the tumour increases in size, the sarcomatous tissue erupts through the capsule of the glands, and infiltrates the surrounding tissues. The only treatment is early excision, but the results are most disappointing. Secondary Tumours.—Next to tuberculosis, secondary cancer is the most common and most important disease of lymphatic glands. It is met with in the neck in association with epitheli- oma of the lip, tongue, or throat. The glands form tumours of variable size, and are often larger than the primary growth, the characters of which they reproduce. The glands are at first hard and movable, but soon become fixed, and in time they soften, liquefy, and burst through the skin, forming foul, fungat- ing ulcers. A similar affection is met with in the groin from epithelioma of the penis, scrotum, or vulva. In cancer of the breast, the alfectiou of the axillary glands is an important complication. In pigmented or melanotic cancers of the skin, the glands are early infected and increase rapidly, so that when the primary growth is still of small size,—as, for example, on the sole of the foot,—the femoral glands may already constitute large pigmented tumours. The implication of the glands in other sites and varieties of cancer will be considered with regional surgery. Secondary sarcoma is seldom met with in glands except when the primary growth is situated in the tonsil, thyroid, or testicle.