SEPARATION OF EPIPHYSES. 405 periosteal attachment along the epiphysial line. In many cases a distinct, rounded, smooth, and regular ridge, caused by the projection of the diaphysis, can be felt (Fig. 156). The peculiar “ muffled ” nature of the crepitus is one of the most characteristic signs. The older the patient, and the further ossification has progressed, the more does the crepitus resemble that of an ordinary fracture. Of the subsidiary signs loss of poiver in the limb is one of the most constant; indeed, in young children it is sometimes the first, and may be the only sign which attracts attention. Pain and tenderness along the epiphysial line are valuable signs, particularly when the lesion is due to indirect or muscular violence and there is no bruising of soft parts. Localised swelling, accompanied by ecchymosis, is often marked; and the adjacent joint may be distended with fluid. As distinguishing this injury from a dislocation, it may be noted that in epiphysial separation the shortening is less, there is no jerk felt when the deformity is reduced, the tendency to re-displacement is greater, and the amount of relief given by reduction less than in dislocation. Below the age of twenty a separation is always the more likely injury, as dislocation, except in the elbow, is exceedingly rare before that age. The Rbntgen rays may help to clear up a doubtful diagnosis. Prognosis and Results.—Reunion in the great majority of cases takes place satisfactorily by the formation of callus in the spongy tissue of the diaphysis and on the inner surface of the periosteum. Non-union is exceedingly rare, if indeed it ever occurs. Deformity and impairment of movement at the adjacent joint may result from imperfect reduction, exuberant callus, or adhesions. Arrest of growth of the bone is a comparatively rare sequel to a separation which has been properly treated. When it occurs, it is due to diminished action at the epiphysial junction, and not to premature union of the diaphysis with the shaft. Angular deformity is liable to occur in the leg and forearm, when the growth of one of the bones is arrested after separation of its epiphysis, while the other continues to grow. Remote complications such as suppuration and tuberculosis are infrequent, and depend upon bacterial infection through the blood-stream. In spite of the favourable nature of the prognosis in general, the friends of the patient should be warned that a completely satisfactory result cannot always be relied upon. Treatment.—Thegeneral principles which govern the treatment