597 MYELOMA. In the treatment of chondromata it is necessary to remove the whole tumour, even although it appears to be innocent, and in periosteal growths, especially if they are pedunculated, this is comparatively easy. When an entire bone, such as the scapula or lower jaw, is involved, it is better to remove the bone or the greater part of it. In the case of central tumours the external shell of bone is to be removed over an area sufficient to allow of the enucleation of the tumour in the interior. It is sometimes better to resect the affected portion of bone, or have recourse to amputation, especially in the case of the fingers. Should there be any evidence of malignancy, early and high amputation is the procedure recommended. The chondromata met with at the ends of the long bones of the limbs, and which undergo ossification concurrently with the skeleton, have been described with the osteomata. Fibroma is chiefly met with as a periosteal growth from the bones in relation to the mouth and pharynx, the simple epulis of the alveolar margin and the naso-pharyngeal polypus being well-known examples. They may be vascular and cellular, showing all transitions to sarcoma; or they may be fibrous and undergo partial conversion into bone. Their diagnosis and treatment belong to the special regions in which they are met with. Myxoma, lipoma, and angioma of bone are all very rare. They may be periosteal or central. Their exact nature is seldom recognised until they are subjected to operative inter- ference. The myeloma or myeloid tumour was formerly classified with the sarcomata. Large giant cells, like those normally present in the marrow, form the chief elements of the tumour. These tumours usually present a brownish-red or chocolate colour, and on account of their vascularity are liable to haemorrhages, to pigmentation, and to the formation of blood cysts. Sometimes the arterial vessels are so dilated as to impart to the tumour an aneurysmal pulsation and bruit. The enlargement or “ expansion ” of the bone may result in the cortex being represented by a thin shell of bone, which may crackle on pressure. The tumour tissue in the interior may liquefy so as to form a single or a multilocular cyst. The myeloma is most often met with in adolescents in the bones in the region of the knee (Fig. 201); it grows slowly, without much pain, and may even become quiescent; it may be mistaken for disease in the knee-joint, or, if it pulsates, for popliteal aneurysm. Although occasionally capable of giving rise to secondary