GENU VALGUM. 703 other. The valgus attitude disappears on flexion of the knee as the result of simultaneous outward rotation of the limb at the hip. It is usually possible to hyperextend the knee, and in the extended position to rotate the leg out to a greater extent than is normal. In unilateral knock-knee the affected limb is a little shorter than its fellow, but the patient compensates for this by depressing the pelvis on the affected side. In many cases of the adolescent type the bones are large and coarse and badly formed, and there is frequently an obtuse or pointed spinous process projecting downwards from the inner tuberosity of the tibia. In bilateral adolescent knock-knee the patient abducts the thigh at each step and rotates the limb outwards at the hip, so as to allow the projecting knees to pass each other more easily, and to disguise the deformity. He usually supinates or inverts the foot, and turns the toes inwards, with the object of bringing the whole length of the outer border of the sole into contact with the ground. Flat-foot is the exception. The boots usually show evidence of the toes being turned in, and they are more worn along the outer than along the inner border of the sole and heel. Prognosis.—While there is some prospect of spontaneous recovery in children under six years, the usual tendency is for the deformity to increase until the skeleton reaches maturity at the age of eighteen or twenty. Treatment of Infantile Knock-knee.—The general treatment is directed towards curing the rickets. So long as this disease is active the child should not be allowed to stand or walk. The limbs should be strengthened by douching and massage twice daily, finishing on each occasion with manipulations which are directed to undoing the deformity. Of the numerous forms of apparatus devised for knock - knee, the simplest consists of a light padded splint applied on the outer side of each limb, extending from the iliac crest to three inches beyond the foot. The splint is fixed above and below by bandages, and the projecting knee is drawn towards it by a few turns of elastic wrebbing. In pronounced cases these splints are only removed for purposes of massage and bathing. In the mildest cases they are only worn when the child is indoors. A modified form of Thomas’ hip splint is efficacious, but requires careful supervision. A simpler plan of treatment, specially applicable to hospital out-patients, is to straighten the limbs as far as possible under chloroform and envelop them in plaster of Paris. The procedure is repeated at intervals of three weeks