CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. 97 It is common to find that the patient has complained of extraordinarily cold feet, with tingling and loss of feeling, or a peculiar sensation as if walking on cotton wool, for a long time before the onset of definite signs of gangrene. The first evidence of the death of the part varies in different cases. Sometimes a dark-blue spot appears on the inner side of the great toe and gradually increases in size ; or a blister con- taining blood-stained fluid may form. In other cases a small sore surrounded by a congested areola forms in relation to the nail and refuses to heal. Such “ sore-toes ” in old persons are always to be looked upon with suspicion and treated with the greatest care. There is often severe, deep-seated pain of a neuralgic character, with cramps in the limb, and these may persist long after a line of demarcation has formed, or even after the slough has separated. The dying part loses sensibility to touch and becomes cold and shrivelled. All the physical appearances and clinical symptoms associated with dry gangrene supervene, and the dead portion is thrown off by the formation of a line of demarcation. This is a very slow process, and is always attended with the risk of septic infection taking place. Should this occur, the temperature rises and other evidences of septic absorption appear. Prophylaxis.—The toes and feet of old people, the condition of whose circulation predisposes them to gangrene, should be specially protected from slight injuries such as may be received while paring nails, cutting corns, or wearing ill-fitting boots. They should also be warned of the risk of exposure to cold, the use of liot-bottles, anil of placing the feet near a strong fire. Treatment.—When there is evidence that gangrene has begun, the first indication is to prevent septic infection by thoroughly purifying th§ part with an efficient antiseptic, and after careful drying to wrap it in a thick layer of absorbent and antiseptic wool, retained in place by a loosely-applied bandage. A slight degree of elevation of the limb is an advantage, but it must not be sufficient to diminish the amount of blood entering the part. Hot-bottles are to be used with the utmost caution. As absolute dryness is essential, all ointments or other oily or greasy dressings are to be avoided, as they tend to prevent evaporation from the skin surface. Opium should be given freely to alleviate pain. Excessive stimulation is to be avoided, and the patient should be carefully dieted. Some surgeons advocate the expectant method of treatment, waiting for a line of demarcation to form and allowing the dead VOL. I—7