524 INJURIES IN REGION OF KNEE AND LEG. As a rule tliey are but slightly torn, so that the separation of the fragments does not exceed an inch. In other cases they are widely torn, and the contraction of the quadriceps muscle separates the fragments by three or four inches, and some- times causes tilting of the upper fragment. As the peri- osteum is usually torn at a level lower than the fracture, its free ends hang as a fringe from the upper fragment, and by getting between the broken ends may form a barrier to firm osseous union (Macewen). As the lower fragment is usually tilted forwards, it is often difficult to adjust the fragments accurately without an operation. Clinical Features.—The limb is at once rendered useless, especially for movements of extension, the patient being unable to lift his heel off the bed. The knee-joint is filled with blood and effusion, which sometimes extends into the bursa under the quadriceps. The two fragments can be detected, sepa- rated by an interval which admits of the finger being placed between them, and this is increased on Hexing the knee. On relax- ing the quadriceps the fragments may be approximated more or less completely, and pain and crepitus elicited on rubbing them together. There is usually considerable ecchymosis on the sides and back of the Fig. 161.—Fracture of knee. Prognosis.—In cases with little displace- ment, if the fragments be kept in perfect apposition osseous union may take place. In the great majority of cases, however, the (Anatomical Museum of union is fibrous. As time advances, the V6rSity °f EdiU' shortening of the quadriceps and the gradual stretching and thinning of the connecting fibrous band allow of wide separation of the fragments (Fig. 161), which to a variable extent interferes with the stability and functions of the limb. The upper fragment sometimes becomes attached to the front of the femur, and moves with it in extension, and the fibrous band between the two frag- ments gradually becomes stretched. With modern methods of treatment, complete restoration of function is usually attained within six or eight weeks. Previously the period of dis- ability was often much longer. It is not uncommon for the Patella, showing wide separation of frag- ments, which are united by a fibrous band.