573 TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. especially those in the region of the knee, from subperiosteal lipoma and from sarcoma. Most difficulty may be met with in relation to periosteal sarcoma, which is characterised, however, by its more rapid and continuous progress, by the severity and persistence of pain in spite of rest, by the absence of suppura- tion, and of any benefit from treat- ment. A rise of temperature in the evening is more likely to be present in cases of rapidly growing sarcoma than in tubercle, unless the latter is complicated with pyogenic infection or with phthisis. In difficult cases, recourse should be had to the X-rays and to exploratory incision, and, if necessary, to histological'and bacterio- logical examination of the diseased tissue. The early recognition of periosteal tuberculosis in the region of the articular ends of long bones is of the utmost importance, as the disease is very liable to spread to the adjacent joint. Treatment.—When the disease is progressive it is desirable that surgical interference should be had recourse to while the skin is still intact. It may be carried out by the injection of iodoform emulsion, or by open incision and removal of the infected tissues with the sharp spoon. In the case of the ribs it is more satisfactory to re- move the whole of the diseased portion of bone. If all the tubercle has been removed and the skin is healthy, the wound may be stitched up with the object of obtaining primary union; if not, the wound is treated by the open method. Tuberculous Osteomyelitis.—The majority of tuberculous lesions of the marrow tend to undergo caseation. In rare instances the caseated tissue liquefies and gives rise to a cyst or a cold abscess in the interior of the bone. The area involved by the disease sometimes becomes sclerosed, and may die, leading to the formation of a sequestrum which is Fig. 186.—Great Enlargement of Lower End of Humerus and Upper End of Ulna, the result of tuberculous osteo- myelitis. (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)