BOILS, 339 approaching frost-bite, in which the skin tends to blister and give way, leaving an indolent raw surface popularly known as a “broken chilblain.” The treatment consists in improving the general health and the circulation by brisk open-air exercise, nourishing food, cod- liver oil, and tonics. Woollen stockings and gloves should be worn in cold weather, and sudden changes of temperature avoided. The symptoms may be relieved by ichthyol ointment, glycerin and belladonna, or a mixture of Venice turpentine, castor oil, and collodion applied on lint which is wrapped round the toe. To broken chilblains balsam of Peru or resin ointment spread on muslin should be applied. Boils, Carbuncles, Abscesses of the Skin. — These result from infection with the staphylococcus aureus, which penetrates the orifices of the ducts of the skin under the influence of friction and pressure. That infection may take place in this way is demonstrated by the well-known experiment of Garre, who produced a crop of pustules and boils on his own forearm by rubbing in a culture of the yellow staphylococcus. A Boil results when the infection is located in a hair follicle or sebaceous gland. A hard, painful, conical swelling rapidly develops, and so long as the skin retains its normal appearance the term “blind boil” is applied. Usually, however, the skin becomes red, and after a time bursts, giving exit to a drop or two of thick pus. After an interval of from six to ten days a soft white slough is discharged, known as the “ core ” of the boil. This consists of the necrosed hair follicle and sebaceous gland, and when appropriately stained it is seen to swarm with cocci. After the separation of the core the boil heals, leaving a small depressed scar. Boils are most frequently met with on the back of the neck and on the buttocks, and on other parts where the skin is coarse and thick and is much exposed to friction and pressure. The occurrence of a number or a succession of boils is due to a spread of the original infection, the pus cocci from the original boil infecting adjacent hair follicles. The spread of boils may be unwittingly promoted by the use of a domestic poultice or the wearing of infected underclothing. While they are frequently met with in debilitated individuals, such as those suffering from diabetes or Bright’s disease, they also occur in those who enjoy vigorous health. They only prove dangerous to life when occurring in diabetic subjects. When they occur on the face there is a greater risk of lymphatic and general pyogenic infection. Boils may be differentiated