79 TREATMENT OF ULCERS. than the heart. These measures at the same time encourage the absorption of inflammatory exudation around the ulcer, and this may be aided by massage. In certain varieties of ulcers associated with altered trophic innervation, nerve-stretching has been employed with advantage. The use of elastic pressure or of strapping also accelerates the removal of exudation around ulcers, and so facilitates the contraction of the sore. The removal of all sources of irritation, such as unsuitable dressings, ill-fitting splints, irritating applications, and, above ► all, septic organisms and their products, is imperative. A septic ulcer must be thoroughly disinfected by washing not only the open surface, but also the skin for some distance around it, with an antiseptic lotion, such, for example, as lysol (1 in 100), to remove grease, and then with Lister’s strong solution or carbolic lotion (1 in 20). Hair-covered parts should be shaved. The raw surface should then be swabbed over with undiluted carbolic acid or sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen. If the granulations are oedematous and unhealthy, they may be removed with a sharp spoon. An antiseptic dressing is then applied, and changed daily till the wound assumes a healthy appearance. As the patient’s health is below par, good nourishing food, tonics, and general hygienic treatment are indicated. By paying attention to these general rules, and by employing certain special measures in different varieties of ulcers, the conditions of a healing sore will be obtained. Management of a Healing Sore.—Perhaps the best dressing to apply to a healing sore is a layer of Lister’s perforated oiled silk protective. This is made to cover the raw surface and the skin for about a quarter of an inch beyond the margins of the sore. Over this three or four thicknesses of sterilised gauze, wrung out of boracic lotion or sterilised water, are applied, and covered by a pad of antiseptic absorbent wool. A splint is ap- plied to ensure rest, and the part is elevated to avoid congestion. The dressing may be renewed every two or three days, and care must be taken to avoid any rough handling of the sore. Any discharge which lies on the surface should be removed by a gentle stream of lotion rather than by wiping. The area around the sore should be carefully cleansed before the fresh dressing is applied. In some cases healing goes on more rapidly under a dressing of weak boracic ointment (one quarter the strength of .the pharmacopoeial preparation).