DISEASES OF LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 299 is commonly met with in pathologists, butchers, and others who handle infective material. The inflammation chiefly affects the walls of the vessels and is attended with clotting of the lymph. There is also some degree of inflammation of the surrounding tissues—peri- lymphangitis. One or more abscesses may form along the course of the affected vessels, or a spreading cellulitis may supervene. The clinical features resemble those of other acute pyogenic infections. There are also wavy red lines running from the source of infection towards the nearest lymphatic glands. These correspond to the inflamed vessels, and are the seat of throbbing pain and tenderness. The associated glands are enlarged and painful. In -severe cases the symptoms may merge into those of septicaemia. When the deep lymphatics are involved, the superficial reel lines are absent and the limb is oedematous. In cases of extensive lymphangitis, especially where there are repeated attacks, the vessels may be obliterated and a persistent solid oedema result, constituting one of the varieties of elephantiasis. Treatment.—The primary source of infection is dealt with on the usual lines. The patient is confined to bed, and the affected limb is elevated on a pillow. The area in relation to the inflamed lymphatics is enveloped in a fomentation of weak car- bolic—1 in 60—or of lead and opium. If suppuration occurs, the pus must be evacuated. If the infection is due to the streptococcus pyogenes, the anti-streptococcic serum may be injected. When the inflammation has subsided, the limb is massaged and evenly bandaged to prevent oedema. Tuberculous Lymphangitis.—This is chiefly met with in relation to tuberculous lesions of the skin of the extremities, such as lupus, inoculation tubercle, and sinuses resulting from dactylitis. The infection spreads upwards along the superficial lymphatics, which become nodularly thickened, while at one or more points larger, peri-lymphangitic nodules, which tend to break down into abscesses and ulcers, may form. When the disease is ■widely distributed throughout the lymphatics, the limb may become swollen and hard—a condition illustrated by lupus elephantiasis. Treatment must be directed both to the original source of infection and to the diseased lymphatics. Syphilitic lymphangitis is observed chiefly in the vessels of the dorsum of the penis. These may be felt as indurated cords in some cases of primary syphilis.