670 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. ing to rupture externally, has greatly reduced the suffering and mortality from hip disease. The methods of treatment are the same as are employed in other joints. If an open operation is adopted, the opportunity may be taken of clearing out any extra-articular bone lesion at the same time. Operative interference is indicated—1. When the disease is progressing rapidly, or when it advances in spite of conservative treatment. 2. When the disease relapses after apparent cure, and is attended with suppuration. 3. When, along with evidence of persistence of the disease, there is a deformed attitude which does not yield to extension or correction under anaesthesia, or where there is dislocation of the head of the femur, or separation of its upper epiphysis. 4. When there is an abscess within the pelvis, or other evidence of disease of the acetabulum. 5. When there are septic sinuses and persistent discharge with symptoms of hectic and of waxy degeneration. These last are most unfavourable cases whether an operation is performed or not; at the same time, operation, if it is not too long delayed, may afford the only chance of recovery. 6. In adults who show no signs of recovery within a year from the onset of the disease. This indication specially refers to “ bread-winners,” in whom it is specially urgent that they should be able to resume work. In children there is no urgency for resuming active life, the prospects of spontaneous recovery are consider- able, and an operation may interfere with the subsequent growth of the limb. Nature of the Operative Interference.—As operation must often be undertaken without an accurate knowledge of the exact condition of matters within and around the joint, we are fre- quently unable to decide beforehand the extent of the operation which is required. Our object should be to expose the disease wherever situated, and to remove it with the least possible damage to the normal structures. The more open the method of operation the better, since more reliable information is obtained by inspec- tion than by palpation. These indications are best fulfilled by the operation devised by Kocher, which, by permitting of disloca- tion of the femur, affords free access to all parts of the joint. Tuberculous synovial membrane is removed in the usual way. If it should be found that the disease in the head of the bone is limited to the surface or to isolated areas, it may be got rid of with the spoon or gouge, thus preserving the head, which is returned into the acetabulum at the close of the operation. This procedure, which may be described as an arthrectomy, should be practised wherever possible. If, on the other hand,