INJURIES OF BONES. 400 plies of the bandage are required. In the course of half-an-hour the plaster should be thoroughly set. A plaster case can be readily removed after immersion for a short time in water. Croft's splint, or some modification of it, is perhaps the best form of movable plaster splint. It is made by accurately shaping two pieces of thoroughly shrunk house-flannel to each side of the limb, and immersing one of each pair in a solution of plaster of Paris of the consistence of thin cream, till the flannel is thoroughly impregnated. The dry pieces are placed next the skin, with the saturated pieces over them, and a coarse gauze bandage is then applied to fix them in position. After the plaster has set, if it is desired to remove the splint for the purpose of employing massage, the gauze bandage is cut along the front of the limb, and the splint opened out on the hinge formed by the posterior turns of the bandage. A splint similar to Croft’s, but much lighter, may be made of poroplastic felt fixed in position with an elastic webbing bandage. Formerly starch bandages were employed in place of the elastic bandage. Padding is an essential adjunct to all forms of splints. The whole part enclosed in the splint must be covered with a thick layer of soft and elastic material, such as cotton wool or lint. All hollows should he filled up, and all bony projections especially protected by rings of wadding so arranged as to take the pressure off the prominent point and distribute it on the surrounding parts. Opposing skin surfaces must always be separated by a layer of absorbent wool or boracic lint. A bandage should never be applied to the limb underneath the splints and [tads, as congestion or even gangrene may be induced thereby. Operative Treatment of Simple Fractures.—In certain cases of simple fracture it is found impossible to bring the fragments into accurate apposition or to retain them there. This may be due to the obliquity of the fracture—as, for example, in the bones of the leg; to the interlocking of fragments, as occurs frequently in epiphysial separations ; to the traction of powerful muscles on one of the fragments, as in fracture of the patella or olecranon ; or to the interposition of soft tissues between the broken ends. Under such circumstances it may be necessary to expose the fracture by operation, and after reducing it, to fix the fragments together by wires, pegs, or screws. Such opera- tions, however, are not to be undertaken lightly. They are often difficult, and if septic infection takes place the results may be disastrous. Compound Fractures. We have already seen that the characteristic feature of a compound fracture is the existence of an open wound leading down to the break in the bone. The wound may vary in size from a mere puncture to an extensive ragged tear of all the soft parts. In other particulars, such as the degree of damage to