95 CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. be allowed to heal by granulation, or may be covered by Thiersch skin-grafts. In the case of fingers or limbs it is not necessary to wait until spontaneous separation takes place, as this is often a very slow and tedious process. When a well-marked line of demarcation has formed, amputation may be performed just sufficiently far above it to enable suitable flaps to be made. The ends of stumps left after spontaneous separation of the gangrenous portion require to be trimmed, sufficient bone being removed to permit of the soft parts coming together. When infection causes moist gangrene, amputation must be performed at a higher level. Embolic Gangrene.—When the main artery of a part is suddenly occluded, whether by the impaction of an embolus or the formation of a thrombus in its lumen, or by the application of a ligature around it, unless the collateral circulation is suffici- ently free to maintain the vitality of the tissues, gangrene results. There is sudden pain at the site of impaction of the embolus, and the pulses beyond are lost. The limb becomes cold, numb, insensitive, and powerless. It is often pale at first—hence the term “ white gangrene ” sometimes applied to the early appear- ances, which closely resemble those presented by the limb of a corpse. If the part is aseptic it becomes shrivelled, and presents the ordinary features of dry gangrene. It is very liable, however, especially in the lower extremity, and where the veins also are obstructed, to become infected and to assume the characters of the moist type. The abdominal aorta may become suddenly occluded by an embolus, the obstruction extending into the iliacs and femorals, and inducing symmetrical gangrene of both extremities as high as Poupart’s ligament. Occlusion of the common femoral artery often results in gangrene of the limb as high as the middle or upper third of the thigh, especially if the vein be obstructed at the same time. When the superficial femoral or popliteal artery is ob- structed, the veins remaining pervious, the anastomosis through the profunda is sufficient to maintain the vascular supply, and gangrene does not necessarily follow. The rupture of a popliteal aneurysm, however, by compressing the vein and the articular vessels, usually determines gangrene. When an embolus becomes impacted at the bifurcation of the popliteal the gangrene which ensues usually spreads well up the leg. When the axillary artery is the seat of embolic impaction and gangrene ensues, the process usually reaches the middle of the upper arm. Gangrene following blocking of the brachial at