188 TUMOURS. muscular tissue which has become sequestrated during develop- ment. Glioma.—A glioma is a tumour composed of neuroglia. It is met with exclusively in the central nervous system, retina, and optic nerve. It is a slowly-growing, soft, ill-defined tumour which displaces the adjacent nerve centres and nerve tracts, and is liable to become the seat of haemorrhage and to give rise to pressure symptoms. The glioma of the retina tends to grow into the vitreous humour and to perforate the globe. It is usually of the nature of a glio-sarcoma and is highly malignant. Angioma, lymphangioma, neuroma, and lymphoma are described with the diseases of the individual tissues. Malignant Connective-tissue Tumours—Sarcomata. The term sarcoma is applied to any connective-tissue tumour which exhibits malignant characters. The essential structural feature is the predominance of the cellular elements over the intercellular substance or stroma, so that a sarcoma resembles the connective tissue of the embryo. The typical sarcoma consists chiefly of immature or embryonic connective tissue. While these tumours may grow from any of the connective tissues of the body they originate most frequently from fascia, intermuscular connective tissue, periosteum, bone-marrow, and skin. They form rounded or nodulated tumours which appear to be encapsulated, but the capsule merely consists of the con - densed surrounding tissues which usually contain sarcomatous elements, because of the tendency of the cells of the tumour to infiltrate the adjacent tissues. The consistence of the tumour depends on the nature and amount of the stroma, and on the presence of degenerative changes. The softer medullary forms of sarcoma are composed almost exclusively of cells; while the harder forms—such as the fibro-, chondro- and osteo-sarcoma— are provided with an abundant stroma and are relatively poor in cells. Degenerative changes may produce areas of softening or liquefaction which form cystic cavities in the interior of the tumour. The colour depends on the amount of blood in the tumour and on the results of degeneration. The blood-vessels constitute a prominent feature in sarcomata, and although some- times possessed of a definite wall, they are usually represented by mere chinks or spaces between the cells of the tumour. This peculiarity accounts for the facility with which haemorrhage takes place into the substance of the tumour, the persistence of