663 THE HIP-JOINT. to restore the normal parallelism of the limbs, and the knee on the affected side may cross the sound limb (Fig. 225). There is a deep groove at the junction of the perineum and thigh, and the pelvis may be tilted to such an extent that the lower ribs touch the iliac crest, and there is also great prominence of the trochanter. In the slighter degree of adduction, which is more often met with, the toes of the affected limb rest on the dorsum of the sound foot, as in a traumatic dislocation onto the dorsum ilii. As a result of the pressure of the carious articular surfaces against one another, the upper end of the femur is drawn gradually upwards and backwards within the socket. Examina- tion will then reveal the existence of a variable amount of actual shortening ; it will also be found that the trochanter is displaced above Nelaton’s line, and that it is nearer the middle line of the body, while above and behind the trochanter there is a prominent hard swelling corresponding to the margin of the enlarged acetabulum. At this stage there may be a combination of real and of apparent shortening amounting to several inches. In cases of long standing, retardation of growth of all the bones of the limb adds to the shortening. Shortening from dis- location will be referred to later. The most reasonable explanation of the attitudes assumed in hip disease is that given by Kdnig. If the patient walks without crutches, as he is usually able to do at an early stage of the disease, the attitude of abduction, eversion, and slight flexion enables him to save the limb to the utmost extent; on the other hand, if he uses a crutch, as he is obliged to do at a more advanced stage of the disease, he no longer uses the limb for support, but draws it upwards and inwards into the position of adduction, inversion, and greater flexion. Similarly, if he is confined to bed he lies on the sound side, and the affected limb sinks by gravity so as to lie over the normal one in the position of adduction, inversion, and flexion. Konig’s explanation accords with the fact that in the exceptional cases which begin with adduction and inversion we have usually to deal with a more severe type of the disease associated with grave osseous lesions —precisely those cases in which the patient is compelled from the outset to lie up or to adopt the use of crutches. Similarly the transition from the abducted to the adducted position is usually associated with such an aggravation of the symptoms that the patient is no longer able to walk without assistance. During the third stage the other signs and symptoms become more pronounced; the patient becomes pale and thin; he is