GONORRHOEAL AFFECTIONS. 615 Several clinical types may be differentiated. Tire mildest is a dry polyarthritis—resembling chronic rheumatism—which is sometimes trifling and evanescent, and, it may be, recurring with successive attacks of gonorrhoea. In other cases it is persistent and progressive, and results in partial or complete stiffening of the joints affected and permanent crippling of the patient. The commonest type takes the form of a chronic synovitis or hydrops, in which the joint—nearly always the knee on one or both sides—gradually fills with fluid of a serous or sero-fibrinous character. It may readily subside under rest and then relapse, or it may be very persistent and disabling. When recovery takes place it is usually complete. A more acute general arthritis may begin as such, or may follow on one of the milder forms of the disease. It is most often met with in the elbow. There is a sudden onset of severe pain, swelling, inability to use the limb, and considerable fever. The swelling may extend well beyond the limits of the joint, and may be associated with cedema of the soft parts. The skin is red and hot, and the adjacent tendon sheaths and bursse, especially at the ankle, wrist and knee, may be simultaneously involved. The tendency towards stiffness and ankylosis is considerable. The ankylosis, at first fibrous from close adhesions between the surfaces, may become bony, and may be associated with flexion or other deformity. A suppurative arthritis like that caused by ordinary pus microbes is met with. It may be the result of gonococcal infection alone or of a mixed infection. It is usually single, but may be multiple, and abscesses may form outside the joint. Fortunately it is rare, as it may endanger the joint, the limb, or even life itself. Recovery is usually attended with ankylosis. The diagnosis of gonorrhoeal affections of joints is often missed, because the existence of gonorrhoea is not suspected by the practitioner. The denial of the disease by the patient is not to be accepted, especially in the case of women, as they may be ignorant of its presence. The chief points in the differential diagnosis from acute rheumatism are, that the gonorrhoeal affection is usually monarticular and has little tendency to wander from joint to joint, and that its progress is not appreci- ably influenced by salicylates, although these drugs may relieve the pain. The prognosis should always be guarded, because the disease may prove very persistent or may relapse, and the patient may