76 ULCERATION AND ULCERS. which is one form of cancer of the skin, will be discussed with tumours of kthe skin. It will be pointed out later that certain inflammatory ulcers are liable to become the seat of malignant disease. B. Arrangement of Ulcers according to their Condition. —Having arrived at an opinion as to the cause of a given ulcer, and placed it in one or other of the preceding groups, the next question to ask one’s self is, “In what condition do I find it at the present moment ? ” For practical purposes it may be said that any ulcer is in one of three states—healing, stationary, or spreading; although it is not uncommon to find healing going on at one part while the ulcer is extending at another. The Healing Ulcer.—The process of healing in an ulcer has already been studied, and we have learned that it takes place by the formation of granulation tissue, which becomes converted into fibrous tissue, and is covered over by epithelium growing in from the adjacent skin edges. Those that are stationary—that is, neither healing nor spread- ing—may be in one of several conditions. The Weak Condition.—Any ulcer may get into a weak state from receiving a blood-supply which is defective either in quantity or in quality. The granulations on the base are small and smooth, and of a pale yellow or grey colour. The discharge is small in amount, and consists only of thin serum and a few pus cells. This dries on the edges and forms scabs which interfere with the growth of epithelium. Should the part become oedematous either from general causes, such as heart, kidney, or liver disease, or from local causes, such as varicose veins, the granulations share in the oedema, and a large quantity of thin, serous discharge escapes, but no healing takes place. The excessive use of moist dressings leads to a third variety of weak ulcer—namely, one in which the granulations become large, soft, pale, and flabby, projecting beyond the level of the skin and overlapping the edges, which become pale and sodden and cease to grow. This constitutes what is popularly known as “ proud flesh.” The same condition may arise when indura- tion around prevents contraction of the sore. The Callous Condition.—This condition is usually met with in ulcers on the lower third of the leg, and is often associated with the presence of varicose veins. The want of healing is mainly due to impeded venous return and to the oedematous and indurated condition of the parts around. This induration of