315 INJURIES OF NERVES, In bndses and contusions, haemorrhages take place into the connective-tissue sheaths, and certain of the damaged nerve fibres may undergo degeneration. Symptoms resulting from Division and Non-Union of a Nerve Trunk.—These necessarily vary with the functions of the affected nerve. We shall take as an example a mixed sensori-motor trunk, such as the median or musculo-spiral. Sensory Phenomena.—There is loss of sensibility to touch, pain, and temperature. The loss of sensation is often incom- plete, and the margins of the anmsthesic area are rarely sharply defined, and do not always correspond to the normal distribution of the nerve, doubtless because sensory impulses may be trans- mitted through collateral nerves. If the nerve is incompletely divided there may be pain and hyperesthesia, the pain being often referred to the terminal distribution of the nerve involved. Motor Phenomena.—There is immediate and complete loss of voluntary power in all the muscles supplied by the divided nerve. The muscles rapidly waste, and usually within three or four days they cease to react to the faradic current. They soon present the “ reaction of degeneration,” which consists in a loss of excitability to the faradic current, along with a reversal of the normal polar reactions. After a few weeks all electric excita- bility is lost. The paralysed muscles undergo fatty degenera- tion, which attains its maximum three or four months after the division of the nerve. Further changes may take place, and result in the transformation of the muscle into fibrous tissue, which may cause shortening and deformity known as 'paralytic contracture. Vasomotor Phenomena.— In the majority of cases there is an initial rise in the temperature of the part (2° to 3° F.), with redness and increased vascularity. This is followed by a fall in the local temperature, which may amount to 8° or 10° F., the parts becoming pale and cold. Sometimes the hyperemia resulting from vasomotor paralysis is more persistent, and is associated with swelling of the parts from oedema—the so-called angio-neurotic oedema. The vascularity varies with external influences, and in cold weather the parts present a bluish appearance. Trophic Phenomena.—Owing to the disappearance of the subcutaneous fat, the skin is generally smooth, thin, and glossy. It may be abnormally dry, and the sweat glands may to a great extent disappear. The hair is harsh, dry, and easily shed. The nails may become brittle and furrowed, or thick and curved.