THE KNEE-JOINT. 681 keeps the knee slightly flexed, and complains of tiredness and stiffness after exertion. As time goes on the disease tends to invade and destroy the articular surfaces, and gives rise to more severe symptoms. There is pain, which is readily excited by jarring of the limb or by any attempt at movement. There may be startings at night and interference with sleep. The joint is held rigid. If untreated, flexion becomes more pronounced,—it may be to a right angle, — the leg and foot are rotated outwards, and in children the tibia may be displaced backwards. The wasting of muscles continues, the part becomes hot to the touch, the swelling- increases, and may show areas of soften- ing or fluctuation from abscess forma- tion. White swelling is to be differentiated from peri-synovial gummata, from sar- coma of the lower end of the femur, and from bleeder’s knee. In the first of these the swelling is nodular and less uniform, and there may be tertiary ulcers or depressed scars in the neigh bourhood of the patella. In sarcoma the swelling is more marked on one or other side of the joint, it is uneven or nodular, it does not correspond to the shape of the synovial membrane, but may extend beyond the limits of the joint, and it involves the bone to „ „„„ T „„ . , a greater extent than is usual m cases ing of Syuovial Membrane of joint disease. Skiagrams may show 0f Knee (White Swelling), expansion of the bone in central tumours, or abundant new bone in cases of ossifying sarcoma. In difficult cases recourse should be had to exploratory incision. The diagnosis of bleeder’s knee is chiefly to be made from the history. Primary Tuberculous Disease in the Bones of the Knee.—So long as the foci are confined to the interior of the bone affected it is usually impossible to recognise their existence, unless they are of sufficient size to cause enlargement of the bone or to be recognisable in a skiagram. if the focus reaches the surface of the bone outside the limits of the synovial membrane there is tenderness on pressure, pain in walking, and probably a limp, and a cold abscess may