ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. 149 another. The primary stage is the only one which is constant as regards its local appearances and general symptoms. Wide variations are met with in the clinical manifestations of the secondary stage, and histologically there is no valid distinction to be drawn between the lesions of the secondary and tertiary stages. The 'primary period embraces the interval which elapses between the initial infection and the first constitutional mani- festations,—roughly from four to eight weeks,—and includes the period of incubation, the development of the primary sore, and the enlargement of the nearest lymphatic glands. The secondary period varies in duration from one to two years, during which time the patient is liable to suffer from constitutional manifestations which are for the most part super- ficial in character, affecting the skin and its appendages, the mucous membranes, and the lymphatic glands. The tertiary period has no time limit except that it follows upon the secondary, so that during the remainder of his life the patient is liable to suffer from constitutional manifestations which may affect the deeper tissues and internal organs as well as the skin and mucous membranes. Primary Syphilis.—The period of incubation represents the interval which elapses between the occurrence of infection and the appearance of the primary sore at the site of inoculation. Its limits may be stated as varying from two to six weeks, with an average of from twenty-one to twenty-eight days. While the disease is incubating, the patient retains his usual health and is quite unconscious of having contracted any disease. The Primary Sore.—The incubation period having elapsed, there appears at the site of inoculation a circumscribed area of inflammation, which in time becomes indurated, and which may or may not be attended with ulceration. The first appearance is that of a slight elevation or papule which, as it increases in size, presents a smooth and shiny surface. In the course of a week or ten days it usually becomes a circular or oval, sharply- defined sore, rarely larger than a quarter of an inch in diameter. The sore has an elevated border, a depressed centre, and an in- durated base, and exudes a scanty, thin, watery discharge. As a rule the patient suffers little or no discomfort, and may even be ignorant of the existence of a sore, unless it has been exposed to septic or mechanical irritation, in which case the ulceration may become a more prominent feature, the sore being more sensitive and yielding a sero-purulent discharge. It cannot be emphasised too strongly that the induration at the base of the