322 THE NERVES. relief of pain—measures must be taken to prevent deformity, especially when the legs are affected. The bed-clothes are sup- ported by a cage, and the feet maintained at right angles to the legs by sand-bags or splints. When the disease is subsiding the nutrition of the damaged nerves and muscles should be main- tained by massage, baths, passive movements, and the use of the galvanic current. NEUROMATA. Neuroma is a clinical term applied to all tumours, irrespective of their structure, which have their seat in nerves. Tumours which are composed of newly formed nerve tissue are spoken of as true neuromata; when ganglionic cells are present in addition to nerve fibres, the name ganglionic neuro- mata is applied. These tumours are very rare, and are chiefly met with in the main cords or abdominal plexuses of the sym- pathetic system of children or young adults. They may be solitary or multiple, circumscribed or diffused, and they are quite insensitive. Being usually innocent, their removal is only called for if they cause inconvenience. The false neuromata are merely connective-tissue overgrowths of the sheaths of nerves. This overgrowth may result in the formation of a circumscribed tumour, or may take the form of a diffuse neuro-fibromatosis. The circumscribed or solitary tumours grow from the sheaths of nerves which are otherwise healthy, and they may be innocent or malignant. The innocent forms are usually fibrous or myxomatous, and are definitely encapsulated. They may become cystic as a result of haemorrhage or of myxomatous degeneration. They grow very slowly, they are usually elliptical in shape, and the solid forms are rarely larger than a hazel nut. The nerve fibres may be spread out all round the tumour, or may run only on one side of it. When subcutaneous and related to the smaller un- named cutaneous nerves they are known as painful subcutaneous nochdes. These are chiefly met with in the lower extremities, and especially in women. They are remarkably sensitive, even gentle handling causing intense pain, which usually radiates to the periphery of the nerve affected. When related to deeper, named nerves trunks they are known as trunk neuromata. These are usually less sensitive than the “ subcutaneous nodule,” and they rarely give rise to motor symptoms unless when involving