696 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. bend of the neck of the bone, so that its angle is diminished from about 125° to about 60°, or this may be combined with a forward, or less frequently with a backward curving of the neck. In the majority of cases the neck presents a curve with the convexity upwards and forwards, while its lower border is greatly shortened, so that the head of the bone may come into contact with the lesser trochanter, and the shaft is adducted and rotated outwards. Less commonly the bend involves the epiphysial junction or the upper third of the shaft. The cause of the bending is the weight of the body acting on bone which has been softened by any disease such as rickets, osteomalacia, or osteomyelitis. Diagnosis.—The differential diagnosis between coxa vara and hip disease may present considerable difficulty. In hip disease the movements of the joint—especially the rotatory movements —are usually more restricted than in coxa vara. Skiagrams, although sometimes misleading, are often of great value. It is to be borne in mind that tuberculous disease of the joint, especially when it runs its course without suppuration, may give rise to the deformity of the upper end of the femur which constitutes coxa vara. The diagnosis from congenital dislocation of the hip can usually be made by the history, the examination of the joint and of its movements, and by the use of the Rontgen rays. Prognosis.—The deformity may at any time become arrested, but as a rule, in the absence of treatment, it tends to increase. Treatment.—In the early stages of the disease our efforts are directed towards the relief of pain and the prevention of deformity. The patient must either give up standing and walking, or must wear a Thomas’ knee splint to take the weight off the limb. Rest in bed, with extension of the limb, is often necessary. The general health should be improved by appropriate diet and medi- cines, and the muscles in the region of the hip should be massaged and exercised. Cycling may be beneficial after the pains and stiffness have disappeared. Where deformity is a prominent feature and seriously interferes with locomotion, improvement can be effected only by operation. This consists in an osteotomy either through or below the great trochanter, the bone being divided obliquely downwards and inwards. The limb is then put up in the abducted position, the adductor muscles being divided if necessary to allow of this. In extreme cases it has been found necessary to excise the upper end of the femur. The after treatment includes the use of massage and gymnastic exercises. Other Forms of Coxa Vara.—In the rickets of childhood coxa vara is very rare in comparison with other deformities of the