81 TREATMENT OF ULCERS. The perforating ulcer of the foot calls for special treatment. To avoid pressure on the sole of the foot, the patient must he confined to bed. As the main local obstacle to healing is the down-growth of epithelium along the sides of the ulcer, this must be removed by the knife or sharp spoon. The base also should be excised, and any bone which may have become involved should be gouged away so as to leave a healthy and vascular surface. The cavity thus formed is stuffed with iodo- form gauze and encouraged to heal from the bottom. After the ulcer is healed, the patient should wear in his boot a thick felt sole with a hole cut out opposite the situation of the cicatrix. When a joint has been opened into, the difficulty of thoroughly getting rid of all unhealthy and infected granulations is so great that amputation may be advisable; but it is to be remembered that the ulcer sometimes recurs in the stump when pressure is put upon it. Stretching of the plantar nerves has been successful in hastening the healing of perforating ulcers (Chipault). The treatment of any nervous disease or glycosuria which may coexist is, of course, indicated. The ulcer which forms in relation to callosities on the sole of the foot is treated by paring away all the thickened skin after softenfng it with soda fomentations, removing the unhealthy granulations, and applying stimulating dressings. Treatment of JJlcers due to Constitutional Causes.-—-When ulcers are associated with such constitutional diseases as diabetes, Bright’s disease, scurvy, or gout, these must be treated on general principles. Tuberculous and syphilitic patients must also receive the appropriate medicinal and dietetic treatment for their general conditions. The tuberculous ulcer calls for special local treatment. By means of knife, scissors, or sharp spoon, all foci of tuberculous disease, whether in the skin or in the deeper parts, must be freely removed, so as to leave a healthy surface from which granulations may spring up. Should the raw surface left be extensive and likely to result in an unsightly scar, much benefit may result from skin-grafting. In some cases the area involved is so extensive that the surgeon may hesitate to excise it bodily. The alternative is to clip or scrape away all grossly-diseased tissue and granula- tions, to slit up all sinuses, and then to purify everything with undiluted carbolic acid. Iodoform is held in high esteem as an agent which counteracts the tubercle bacillus and its products. VOL. 1—6