114 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. possible. So great has been the lowering of the mortality by its use that a serious responsibility rests upon the practitioner who fails to give his patient the benefit of this method of treatment. The initial dose should be a large one, certainly not less than 3000 units, and a further injection of 1500 units should be given in twelve hours if marked improvement does not take place. The earlier the injection, and the more concentrated the serum, the better are the results. Within twenty-four hours of the injection the local symptoms usually begin to subside, and the membrane separates and is thrown off. At the same time the temperature falls, the pulse becomes slower, and the general condition of the patient improves. Beyond certain erythematous and urticarial rashes and transient joint pains, which sometimes occur, no incon- venience attends the use of the serum. It may therefore be given with benefit and safety even while the diagnosis is still in doubt, or as a prophylactic measure in the case of those exposed to the disease—for example, in public schools. The general strength of the patient must be maintained by abundance of liquid food and stimulants. Difficulty of swallowing nourishment may be met by the use of a stomach tube passed either through the mouth or nose. When this is impracticable, nutrient enemata are called for. The introduction of the antitoxin treatment has greatly diminished the number of cases in which it becomes necessary to have recourse to intubation or tracheotomy on account of interference with respiration. Intubation consists in introducing through the mouth into the larynx a tube which allows the patient to breathe freely during the period while the membrane is becoming separated and thrown off. This is best done with the apparatus of O’Dwyer; but when this instrument is not available, a simple gum-elastic catheter with a terminal opening (as suggested by Macewen and Annandale) is equally efficient. In some cases the operation of tracheotomy is called for. Tetanus. Tetanus is a general disease resulting from the infection of a wound by a specific micro-organism, the bacillus tetani, and characterised by tonic contractions of one or more groups of muscles, with periodic exacerbations. Etiology and Morbid Anatomy.—The tetanus bacillus is a