TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS. 711 to deal not only with the contracted soft parts, but with changes in the bones, resulting from their having grown in the deformed attitude. The soft parts most requiring division are the tendo Achillis, the internal and posterior ligaments of the ankle, the plantar fascia, the calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments and the tibialis posticus tendon. The varus deformity may be corrected by laying the foot on its outer side on a padded triangular wooden block, and pressing forcibly on the anterior and posterior ends of the foot so as to undo the curve on its inner side and allow of abduction of the foot; this is usually attended with cracking as the shortened ligaments give way. The equinus is then corrected by forcibly dorsi-flexing the foot until the deformity is over- corrected. A plaster of Paris case is then applied to maintain the attitude of over-correction. Some surgeons prefer to correct the deformity in stages instead of at one sitting • in this case the equinus is left to the last. In older children the strength of the hands is usually insufficient and mechanical wrenches may be employed, such as those devised by Thomas, Bradford, or Lorenz. Inversion of the lower limbs as a whole may be corrected by fixing the feet to a board as already described. Operative Treatment. — This is usually required in cases which have been neglected in infancy. Phelps’ operation, which consists in open division of the soft parts on the inner aspect of the foot, is indicated in moderately severe cases of club-foot in which the bones are still to a large extent cartilaginous. Having rendered the foot bloodless, and having divided the tendo Achillis and posterior ligament of the ankle subcutaneously, a transverse incision is made across the inner, concave aspect of the foot opposite the astragalo-scaphoid joint, dividing everything down to the bone, the foot meanwhile being forcibly abducted, everted, and dorsi-flexed. The gaping wound is then closed by a flap of the redundant skin dissected up from the dorsum, and the foot is secured in the over-corrected attitude. Resection of a ivedge from the tarsus (Davies Colley, 1876) is reserved for the most severe cases in which the shape and rigidity of the bones absolutely prevent correction of the deformity. A curved incision is made on the outer side over the most prominent part of the convexity of the tarsus, the soft parts are separated and drawn aside, and by means of an osteo- tome a wedge of bone, sufficiently large to admit of over- correction of the deformity, is removed. The base of the wedge is on the outer aspect and includes part of the os calcis, cuboid and astragalus, while its apex is on the inner aspect of