647 LOOSE BODIES. disease, and their presence is almost invariably associated with an effusion of fluid into the joint. While they may result from the coagulation of fibrin-forming elements in the exudation, their occurrence in tuberculous hydrops would appear to be the result of coagulation necrosis or fibrinous degeneration of the surface layer of the diseased synovial membrane. However formed, their shape is the result of mechanical influences, and especially of the movements of the joint. Clinically, loose bodies composed of fibrin constitute an un- important addition to the features of the disease with which they are associated. They never give rise to the classical symptoms associated with the impaction of a loose body between the articular ends of the bones. Their presence may be recognised, especially in the knee, by the crepitating sensation imparted to the fingers when the bodies are moved to and fro in the fluid. The treatment is directed towards the disease underlying the hydrops. If it is desired, however, to empty the joint, a large trocar and cannula must be employed, otherwise the cannula is liable to become blocked with the bodies. Should this occur the con- tents of the joint should be evacu- ated by means of a suitable incision. Bodies composed of organised connective tissue—fatty, fibrous, cartilaginous, bony, or combinations of these—are met with either in association with some general disease of the joint or in joints which are otherwise healthy. Loose bodies composed of connective tissue or of its derivatives are comparatively common in arthritis deformans; they are also met with in certain rare forms of synovial tuberculosis and in Charcot’s disease. They result almost exclusively from hyper- trophic changes in the synovial fringes. They may consist of fat—for example, the arborescent lipoma; more commonly the connective-tissue cells of the fringes form fibrous tissue, cartilage, and bone in varying proportions and combinations, after the manner commonly observed in innocent new growths (Fig. 218). Like other hypertrophies on a free surface they tend to become polypoidal and pedunculated, and exhibit a limited range of move- ment. The pedicle or stalk may, however, give way and the body become free. In this condition it may wander about the joint, or lie snugly in one of its recesses until disturbed by some (V C2 9 • S3 __ cn rz & ^ a^LaMflb 0 9 9 0 . o SM C5 Fig. 217.—Melon-seed Bodies from Tuberculous Knee-joint.