SHOCK. 229 matters tlian his own condition,—as, for example, during the heat of a battle or in the excitement of a railway accident or a conflagration,—even severe injuries may be unattended by pain or shock at the time, although when the period of excitement is over the severity of the shock is all the greater. The same thing is observed in persons injured while under the influence of alcohol. Pathology. — The explanation of shock which most satis- factorily falls in with the clinical phenomena is that the symptoms result from a reflex paralysis of the vasomotor centre in the medulla, whereby the vascular tone, particularly that of the arteries, is lessened and the blood pressure falls. Most of the blood leaves the arteries and collects in the large venous trunks, especially those of the abdomen. There is thus produced an anmmia of the brain and of the superficial parts of the body. At the same time the right side of the heart becomes overloaded, and impeded in its action. Clinical Features.—The patient is in a state of great pros- tration. He is roused from his condition of indifference with difficulty, but answers questions intelligently, if only in a whisper. The face is pale, beads of sweat stand out on the brow, the features are drawn, the eyes sunken, and the cheeks hollow. The lips and ears are livid ; the skin of the body of a greyish colour, and cold and clammy. The pulse is rapid, fluttering, and often all but imperceptible at the wrist; the respiration is irregular, shallow, and sighing; and the temperature may fall to 96° F. or even lower. The mouth and tongue are parched, and the patient complains of thirst. There is little sensibility to pain, so that operations may be performed during shock under very mild anaesthesia. Except in very severe cases, shock tends towards recovery, the reaction, as it is called, being often ushered in by vomiting. The pulse becomes full and bounding ; the respiration deeper and more regular; the temperature rises to 100° F. or higher; the patient begins to take notice of his surroundings, and may complain of pain. In certain cases the symptoms of shock so closely resemble those resulting from septic absorption that it is difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish between them, and there can be little doubt that many deaths have been attributed to shock which were really due to acute septicaemia. The conditions formerly known as “ delayed shock ” and “ prostration with excitement ” are now generally recognised to be due to septic absorption. Question of Operating during Shock.—Most authorities agree