488 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. bones may be palpated through the skin, or by vaginal or rectal examination. The pubic portion of the pelvic ring is the most common seat of fracture. The bone gives way at its weakest points— namely, through the horizontal ramus of the pubes just in front of the pectineal eminence, and at the lower part of the descending ramus (Fig. 136). The intervening fragment of bone is isolated, and may be displaced. These fractures are frequently bilateral, and are often associated with separation of the opposite sacro- sometimes be felt on rectal or vaginal examination. As in all cases of pelvic fracture, shock is a prominent feature. The lateral and posterior aspects of the pelvic ring may be implicated either in association with pubic fractures or inde- pendently. Thus a fracture of the iliac bone may run into the great sciatic notch; or a vertical fracture of the sacrum or separation of the sacro-iliac joint may break the continuity of the pelvic brim. In rare cases these injuries are accompanied by damage to the intestines, the rectum, the sacral nerves, or the iliac blood-vessels. Treatment.—In all fractures of the pelvis it is of importance that the patient be moved and handled with the greatest possible care, lest fragments become displaced and injure the viscera. iliac joint, with longitudinal fracture of the sacrum (Fig. 138), or with other fractures of the pelvic bones. Injuries of the membranous urethra and bladder are fre- quent accompaniments of these fractures. Blood may escape from the meatus, pure or mixed with urine ; or blood and urine may be extravasated into the cellular tissue of the pelvis or perineum. Less commonly the rectum, vagina, or iliac blood- vessels are damaged. Fig. 136.—Fracture of Pelvis througli Horizontal and Descending Rami of Pubes. Localised tenderness at the seat of fracture, and pain re- ferred to that point on pressing together or separating the iliac crests, and mobility of the frag- ments with crepitus, are usually present. The fragments may