ANTHRAX. 123 and the primary manifestations are local, constituting what is known as the malignant pustule. In other cases the disease is contracted through the inhalation of the dried spores into the respiratory passages. This occurs oftenest in those who work amongst wool, fur, and rags, and an affection resembling an acute septic pneumonia of great virulence ensues. This affection is known as ■wool-sorter''s disease, and is almost universally fatal. There is reason to believe that infection may also take place by means of spores ingested into the alimentary canal in meat or milk derived from diseased animals, or in infected water. Acute and severe gastro-intestinal symptoms follow, and the mesenteric glands become greatly enlarged. Clinical Features of Malignant Pustule.— The clinical features of anthrax as it occurs in the respiratory and alimentary systems are chiefly of interest to the physician. We shall there- fore confine ourselves here to the consideration of the local lesion as it occurs in the skin—the malignant pustule. The point of infection of malignant pustule is usually on an uncovered part of the body, such as the face, hands, arms, or back of the neck, and the wound of infection may be exceed- ingly minute. After an incubation period varying from a few hours to three or four days, a small red nodule, surrounded by a reddish-blue bleb containing clear or blood-stained fluid, appears at the seat of inoculation. This is accompanied by a slight burning pain and intense itchiness. The bleb soon bursts and forms a black, dried scab, around which one or more rings of small vesicles form. Outside this the skin becomes indurated and swollen, and a widespread oedema occurs. When the seat of inoculation is in the vicinity of the neck, this oedema may implicate the larynx and lead to dangerous interference with respiration. The neighbouring lymphatic glands soon become enlarged and tender. The great danger in malignant pustule is the occurrence of general anthrax infection—anthracaemia. When this occurs it shows itself in the course of forty-eight to sixty hours in the form of fever, with a temperature of 102° to 104° F., severe general pains in the limbs, diarrhoea, heematuria, and great weakness. The patient is usually remarkably free from anxiety and distress, even when dangerously ill, and dies in the course of from five to eight days with symptoms of collapse. Profuse suppuration, with sloughing of considerable portions of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, may take place at the seat of the primary lesion.