148 SYPHILIS. who are then said to sutler from inherited syphilis. In the inherited disease there is no primary sore. The virus being disseminated throughout the body from the outset, the clinical manifestations are entirely constitutional. Acquired Syphilis. In the vast majority of cases infection takes place during the congress of the sexes. Delicate, easily-abraded surfaces are then brought into contact, and the discharge from lesions containing the virus is placed under favourable conditions for conveying the disease from one person to the other. In the male the possibility of infection taking place is increased if the virus is retained under cover of a long and tight prepuce, and if there be abrasions on the surface with which it comes in contact. The frequency with which infection takes place on the external genitals during sexual intercourse warrants syphilis being con- sidered a venereal disease, although there are other ways in which it may be contracted. Some of these imply direct contact—such, for example, as kissing, the digital examination of syphilitic patients by doctors or nurses, or infection of the surgeon’s fingers while operating upon a syphilitic patient. In suckling, a syphilitic wet nurse may infect a healthy infant, or a syphilitic infant may infect a healthy wet nurse. In other cases the infection is by indirect contact, the virus being conveyed through the medium of articles contaminated by a syphilitic patient—such, for example, as surgical instruments, tobacco pipes, wind instruments, table utensils, towels, or underclothing. Physiological secretions, such as saliva, milk, or tears, are not capable of communicating the disease unless contaminated by discharge from a syphilitic sore. While the saliva itself is innocuous, it can be and often is contaminated by the discharge from mucous patches or other syphilitic lesions in the mouth and throat, and is then a dangerous source of infection. Unless these extra-genital sources of infection are borne in mind, there is a danger of failing to recognise the primary sore of syphilis in unusual positions, such as the lip, finger, or nipple. Stages or Periods of Syphilis.—Following the teaching of llicord, it is customary to subdivide the life-history of syphilis into three periods or stages, referred to, for convenience, as primary, secondary, and tertiary. This subdivision is to some extent arbitrary and artificial, as the different stages overlap one another, and the lesions of one stage merge insensibly into those of