ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED ABSCESS. 51 tissue, which eventually fills the gap resulting from the destruc- tion of the original tissues. Epithelium covers the granulating surface and the scar is thus completed. The details of this pro- cess have already been described under repair. Clinical Features of an Acute Circumscribed Abscess.— The formation of an acute abscess is always preceded and accom- panied by the presence of inflammation, and the clinical char- acters of the two conditions are blended. Rigors, increased elevation of temperature, progressive leucocytosis, and sweating mark the transition between inflammation and suppuration. In some cases an increasing leucocytosis is the only available evidence that a suppurative process is spreading. On the other hand, if the toxaemia is intense the leucocytes may diminish in number and even fall below the normal. The local symptoms vary with the seat of the abscess. When it is situated superficially, for example, in the breast tissue, the affected area is hot, the redness of inflammation gives place to a dusky purple colour, with a pale, sometimes yellow, spot where the pus nears the surface. The swelling increases in size, the firm brawny centre becomes soft, projects as a cone beyond the level of the rest of the swollen area, and is usually surrounded by a zone of induration. By placing the fingers of one hand over a part of the swelling, and gently tapping or pressing at another part, a fluid wave may be detected in the softened area. This is known as fluctuation, and when present is a certain indication of the existence of fluid in the swelling. Its recognition, however, is by no means easy, and various fallacies are to be guarded against in applying this test clinically. When, for example, the walls of the abscess are thick and rigid, or when its contents are under excessive tension, the fluid wave cannot be elicited. On the other hand, a sensa- tion closely resembling true fluctuation may often be recognised on palpating oedematous tissues, certain soft solid tumours, such as vascular sarcomata, and in some cases of aneurysm. When pus has formed in deeper parts, and before it has reached the surface, oedema of the overlying skin is very fre- quently present, and the skin pits on pressure. With the formation of pus the continuous burning or boring pain of inflammation assumes a throbbing character, with occa- sional sharp, lancinating twinges. Should doubt remain as to the presence of pus, recourse may be had to the use of an explor- ing or aspirating needle, care being taken that the bore of the needle is wide enough to permit of the flow of pus through it. Differential Diagnosis of Acute Abscess.—A practical difficulty