708 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. Congenital talipes equino-varus is a very common malforma- tion (Fig. 246). It may be met with in several members of one family, and is sometimes associated with other congenital de- formities such as hare-lip or spina bifida. It is twice as common in the male as in the female, and is more frequently bilateral than unilateral. Its etiology is still a matter of conjecture. It may be pointed out, however, that the foetal foot is very easily moulded into abnormal attitudes by external pressure, such as might be exercised by the wall of the uterus. In a limited number of cases there are indications of such pressure over the bony prominences of the foot, in the shape of circumscribed scar-like areas in which the skin is atrophied. Pathological Anatomy.—In well-marked cases the long axis of the foot presents a concavity towards the inner side, the maximum point of the curve being op- posite the mid-tarsal joint. Only the outer border of the foot touches the ground when the patient at- tempts to stand, and the weight is borne on the base of the fifth metatarsal, the cuboid, and the greater process of the os calcis. The individual tar- sal bones, especially the astragalus and os calcis, are altered in shape as well as in their relations to one another and to the tibio-fibular socket. The scaphoid and cuboid are rotated inwards around the anterior ends of the astragalus and os calcis respectively, and the tubercle of the scaphoid comes to lie very close to the internal malleolus. The lower third of the tibia is rotated inwards on its long axis. Fig. 246.—Congenital Talipes Equino-varus in an Infant. The changes in the soft parts follow the general law that tissues which are relaxed become shortened, while those which are put on the stretch become lengthened. All the tissues on the inner, concave, side of the foot are shortened. The ligaments most affected are the internal lateral and the posterior ligaments of the ankle, and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. There is also shortening of the muscles inserted into the tendo Achillis,