559 ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. swelling does not appear at once, because the inflammation usually originates in the marrow. It appears earlier in super- ficial bones, such as the tibia, ulna, or clavicle, than in the femur or humerus. The swelling may be less evident to the eye than to the fingers, and is best appreciated by palpating the bone from the middle of its shaft towards its end. The maximum thickening of the bone and the tenderness corre- spond to the junction of the shaft with the epiphysis, and the swelling tails off gradually towards the diaphysis. As time goes on, there is diffuse redness of the skin, especially over superficial bones, such as the tibia. The swelling becomes elastic and yielding, and gives definite evidence of fluctuation. This stage may be reached at the end of twenty-four hours, or not for many days. When the affected bone is deeply seated,— as, for example, the upper end of the femur or humerus,—the swelling takes longer to develop and is ill-defined. Suppuration spreads towards the surface, until, at the end of from ten days to a fortnight, the swelling bursts and the pus escapes. The pus may contain blood and droplets of fat derived from the marrow, and in some cases minute particles of bone are present also. The presence of fat and bony particles in the pus may be of service in confirming the medullary origin of the suppuration. After the escape of the pus the fever usually remits and the pain and other symptoms are relieved. If an operation be performed, the periosteum is found to be lifted up from the bone by the pus, and the extent of the bare bone corresponds fairly accurately with the distribution of the lesion in the marrow. Sometimes there are perforations in the cortex of the bone through which the pus may be seen to escape. Local Complications.—The adjacent joint may be implicated, and exhibit symptoms which vary from those of a simple effusion to those of acute arthritis. The joint symptoms may account for little in the clinical picture, or may so predominate as to overshadow those of the bone lesion from which they originated,—in the latter case with the result that the suppura- tion in the bone is liable to be overlooked. Displacement of the epiphysis may take place insidiously, and reveal itself by an alteration in the attitude of the limb, which may resemble that of a dislocation. Complete separation is nearly always associated with suppuration in the adjacent joint. When pathological fracture of the shaft occurs, as it may do, from some muscular effort or strain of the limb, it is attended with the usual signs of fracture.