BKODIE’S ABSCESS. 567 hyperostosis and sclerosis with persistent and severe pain, relief may be afforded by the repeated application of blisters ; failing relief, the thickened periosteum should be incised, or the bone itself should be opened up with the chisel or trephine. In cases attended with suppura- tion, the swelling is incised and drained ; if there is a sequestrum, this should be removed. Circumscribed Abscess of Bone—‘‘Brodies Abscess.” —A circum- scribed abscess in the interior of a long bone is most often met with in youths or adults who have suffered from a previous attack of osteomyelitis. It therefore belongs to the relapsing type above described. Several years usually intervene between the original osteomyelitis and the onset of the symp- toms of abscess. The jmesence of scars which are depressed and adherent to the bone may afford proof that the primary disease was attended with suppuration. The patient may, however, be un- aware of having suffered from any previous disease in the bone, and it is quite possible that the attack may have been of so mild a character as to have escaped recognition. Morbid Anatomy. ■— The abscess is usually situated near one of the extremities of a long bone, probably because of the frequency with which staphylococcal osteomyelitis is located at the ossifying junction. The commonest situation is in the upper or lower end of the tibia, and next in frequency the lower end of the femur, the upper end and then the lower end of the humerus. Exceptional cases are met with, however, in which the abscess is situated in the middle of the shaft, and in which there are two or more abscesses quite separate from one another. At the site of the abscess the bone is usually enlarged and increased in girth ; its surface is uneven owing to the irregular formation of new bone by the periosteum. In some cases the bone is not only larger and heavier than the normal, but is also longer, and may be curved or otherwise misshapen as a result of the antecedent osteo- myelitis. On section of the shaft, the abscess is found to be definitely circumscribed and walled in by bone which is usually hard and dense. The of Surgeons, Edinburgh.) abscess is lined by a delicate membrane composed of granulation tissue. The staphylococcus aureus can usually be cultivated from the pus, which is of a greenish yellow colour. In a considerable proportion of cases, a sequestrum is found lying loose in the cavity. In addition to the sclerosis in the vicinity of the abscess, the whole shaft may be condensed, and the medullary canal obliterated. In size, the abscess varies from that of a pea to a walnut ; in exceptional cases it may attain the size of a cocoanut (Fig. 184). The adjacent joint may be implicated. There may be a sinus opening into the joint. More commonly there is an effusion of fluid into the joint, constituting one of the forms of relapsing or intermittent hydrops, or Fig. 184.—Enormous Enlargement of Upper End of Tibia from an Abscess iu the Interior. The cavity was large enough to contain 16J ounces of fluid. <Museum ofRoval College