FRACTURE OF THE SHAFT OF THE HUMERUS. 451 patient himself usually recognises that the bone is broken. Union takes place in from four to six weeks in adults, and in from three to four weeks in children. Delayed union, or want of union and the formation of a false joint, is more common in fractures of the middle of the shaft of the humerus than in any other long bone. This is largely due to the frequency with which soft structures pass between the ends of the bone. Arrest of growth in the bone from injury to the nutrient medullary artery is also said to have occurred. In fractures of the lower part of the shaft the musculo-spiral nerve is specially liable to be implicated. This may occur at the time of the injury, the nerve being contused by the force causing the fracture, or pressed upon by one or other of the fragments, or its fibres may be partially or completely torn across. Later it may become in- volved in callus, or damaged by the pressure of ill-fitting splints. Weakness or paralysis of the ex- tensors of the wrist and hand results, giving rise to the char- acteristic “wrist-drop.” The actions of the extensors should always be tested before applying splints, and each time the appa- ratus is removed or readjusted, to ensure that no undue pressure is being exerted on the nerve. In this way the practitioner will guard himself against actions for malpraxis should paralysis of the muscles ensue. The median and ulnar nerves may also be damaged. Treatment.—In treating a fracture of the shaft of the humerus the possibility of non-union should always be kept in mind. Reduction must be completely effected, by the aid of a general anaesthetic if necessary, care being taken that no soft tissue intervenes between the fragments. The appearances seen with the X-rays may yield information on this point. The local splint to control the fracture is applied in the form of a ferrule surrounding the bone. This may consist of several short, narrow pieces of wood secured by a bandage or strap and buckle ; or better, of two pieces of Gooch splinting cut as in Fig. 106, special provision being made for avoiding pressure on the con- dyles. The elbow is flexed to a right angle, the forearm being midway between pronation and supination, and the forearm is supported in a sling. For a few days the shoulder may be Fig. 106.-—Gooch Splints for Frac- ture of Shaft of Humerus.