DISLOCATIONS IN REGION OF THE WRIST. 479 to the thumb than it should be, and* the carpal bones are found to lie on a plane posterior to the styloids. The radius is not shortened. Unless the swelling is great the articular surfaces may be recognised by palpation. Dislocation forward may result from any form of forced flexion, such as a fall on the back of the hand, or from direct violence. The displaced carpus forms a marked projection on the palmar aspect of the wrist, and there is a corresponding depression on the dorsum. The attitude of the hand and fingers varies, but is usually one of flexion. In other respects it agrees with the dorsal variety. In both varieties reduction is readily effected by making traction on the hand, and at the same time pushing the carpus into position. A simple splint is worn for about a fortnight, movement and massage being employed from the first. Dislocation of Carpal Bones.—The two rows of carpal bones may be separated from one another, or any one of the individual bones may be displaced. These injuries result from severe forms of violence, and are very rare. Pain, deformity, and loss of function are the ordinary symptoms. The treatment consists in making direct pressure over the displaced bones, while traction is made on the hand, and the joints freely moved. Of these injuries the most frequently observed is a displacement of the head of the os magnum from the scaphoid and semilunar bones. On full flexion of the wrist the loose head of the os magnum forms a prominence on the dorsum of the wrist opposite the base of the third metacarpal, which temporarily disappears on extension or dorsi-flexion. By fixing the hand in this position for a week or ten days the function of the wrist is restored. The semilunar may be displaced forward by forcible dorsi- flexion of the hand, forming a swelling over the inferior radio-ulnar joint, under the flexor tendons. It is usually associated with loss of sensibility in the distribution of the ulnar nerve beyond. The only satisfactory treatment is removal of the bone. In a few cases the scaphoid has been displaced, and subse- quently replaced by operation. Separation of any of the other bones is extremely rare. Carpo-Metacarpal Dislocations.—Any or all of the meta- carpal bones may be separated from the carpus by forced movements of flexion or extension. The commonest displace- ment is backward. The thumb seems to suffer oftener than the other digits. These injuries, however, are so rare, and the