542 INJURIES IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. The os calcis is usually broken by a fall from a height, landing on the sole of the foot. Forcible contraction of the calf muscles may tear off the portion of the bone to which the tendo Achillis is attached. When the result of a fall on the foot the primary fracture is usually longitudinal, passing through the facets for the astragalus and cuboid, and from this various secondary fissures radiate, and the cancelled tissue is much crushed, so that the whole bone is flattened out. In spite of the great comminution of the bone it is often impossible to elicit crepitus, as the fragments are held together by the investing soft parts. In other cases the foot may feel like “ a bag of bones.” The lesion is often mistaken for a fracture of the lower end of the fibula, or is not diagnosed at all. The chief clinical feature is pain on movement of the foot, or on attempting to walk. The foot appears flat, and the hollows on either side of the tendo Achillis are filled up. In many cases there is a persistent tenderness in the foot which delays restoration of function. The injury may occur simultaneously in both feet. Separation of the posterior tubercle by forcible contraction of the tendo Achillis may result from a misstep, or from a fall on the ball of the foot. The separated fragment is pulled up for a distance of one or two inches, and the rough surface from which it has been torn may be recognised. The patient is often able to walk immediately after the accident, although with difficulty. Treatment.—In simple comminuted fractures the patient should be anaesthetised, and the foot moulded into position, special care being taken to restore the arch in order to avoid any tendency to flat foot. A plaster of Paris case or Croft’s splint is then applied, and the foot suspended in a cradle to relax the calf muscles. Massage and movements of the ankle and tarsal joints should be commenced within a few days to prevent stiffness. Compound fractures confined to the os calcis may be treated on conservative lines, but if associated with other injuries of the foot may necessitate amputation. When the posterior part of the bone is torn off by the tendo Achillis, a good functional result is usually obtained by relaxing the calf muscle and fixing the foot in the position of extreme plantar flexion with the knee flexed, but in some cases it may be advisable to peg the fragments, either through the skin or after exposing them by incision. The other hones of the tarsus are very rarely fractured separately.