622 DISEASES OF JOINTS. with use of the limb, and this may occur repeatedly. The milder forms of synovial tuberculosis may be entirely recovered from, but the more severe bone lesions tend to cause aggravated forms of joint disease which have little tendency to natural cure. The presence of bone lesions may be inferred from the mere per- sistence of the disease in spite of proper treatment. In addition to the ordinary symptoms of joint disease—such as pain, swelling, and heat—attention must be specially directed to the wasting of muscles, the impairment or loss of the normal movements of the joint, and the development of abnormal attitudes of the limb. Wasting of the muscles is a constant accompaniment of tuberculous joint disease. It is attributed partly to want of use, but chiefly to reflex interference with the trophic innervation of the muscles. It is especially well seen in the extensor and adductor muscles of the thigh in disease of the knee, and in the deltoid in disease of the shoulder. The affected muscles become soft and flaccid, they exhibit tremors on attempted movement, and their excitability to the faradic current is diminished. The muscular tissue may be largely replaced by fat. Impairment or loss of the normal movements varies in degree according to the nature and seat of the disease. In the early stages of synovial tuberculosis the movements may be merely restricted in range. When any of the joints of the lower extremity is affected there is usually a limp in walking. When the articular surfaces are involved all movements, whether active or passive, are usually abolished, and the condition presented is one of fixation or rigidity. This results from involuntary contraction of the muscles; it disappears under an anaesthetic, but returns on waking. The recognition of rigidity is of great diagnostic value, especially in deeply-seated joints such as the shoulder and hip, and in the spine. Abnormal attitudes of the limb may precede other symptoms of joint disease, but are more frequently of later development. In very indolent and mild cases they may be absent altogether. They occur earlier, and are more pronounced in cases in which pain and other irritative symptoms of articular disease are well marked. They are best illustrated by the attitudes assumed in disease of the hip'and knee. They are due to reflex or involuntary contraction of the muscles acting on the joint, with the object of placing it in the attitude of greatest ease. These attitudes disappear under chloroform unless secondary changes have occurred, causing contracture or ankylosis. With the lapse of time these attitudes not only become exaggerated, but may