SUPPURATION. 58 thence into the hand and forearm. All the local signs of inflam- mation are well marked, and there is considerable constitutional disturbance, the temperature often reaching 101° or 102° F. In more severe cases the main incidence of the disease is on the flexor tendons and their sheaths. The whole finger becomes red, painful, and swollen, the swelling spreading to the back of the hand, which becomes soft and puffy. The thick cuticle of the palm and the dense palmar fascia prevent swelling appearing on the front of the hand till pus is nearing the surface. On account of the anatomical arrangement of the tendon sheaths the process may spread into the forearm—directly in the case of the thumb and little finger, and after invading the palm in the case of the other fingers—and there give rise to a diffuse suppurative cellulitis with slouching of fasciaj and tendons (Fig. 10). Sometimes the excessive tension and virulent toxins induce actual gangrene of the distal part of a finger; and it is not uncommon for the joints about the wrist to be invaded. Impaired movement of the tendons and joints is a common sequel to this variety of cellulitis. The treatment consists in early and free incision, with the aid of a local anaesthetic, of the inflamed or suppurating areas, so as to obtain efficient drainage. During con - valescence passive movements and massage must be persever- ingly employed to prevent the formation of adhesions and resulting stiffness, and for this purpose a general anaesthetic (chloride of ethyl or nitrous oxide) is often necessary. In exceptional cases the process specially involves the bones, leading to necrosis, the formation of sinuses, and persistent suppuration. In such cases the joints are usually implicated also, and lateral mobility and grating are elicited on palpation. Recovery does not take place until the dead bone is removed, and the usefulness of the fingers is often seriously impaired by the joints remaining stiff. This may render amputation advisable when a stiff finger is likely to interfere with the patient’s occupation. Fig. 10.—Whitlow in Sheath of Flexor Tendon of Index Finger with Abscess spreading into Palm.