443 FRACTURED OF THE SCAPULA. point of maximum tenderness being over the front of the joint, just below the acromion process. Pain is also elicited when the head of the humerus is brought to bear on tie glenoid cavity, or when the ligaments or tendons are put upon the stretch by manipulating the arm. Contusions of the region of the shoulder, on the other hand, are exceedingly common. Diffuse extravasation of blood may take place in the subcutaneous tissue or in the substance of the deltoid, or a hsematoma may form either in the muscle or in the sub-deltoid bursa. The i^atient is often totally unable to abduct the arm at the shoulder-joint. These injuries are liable to be followed by prolonged pain and stiffness in the upper arm. The deltoid frequently undergoes considerable atrophy, and there is severe neuralgic pain in the circumflex nerve, especially marked in the region of the insertion of the deltoid. In both conditions improvement usually follows the employ- ment of massage and galvanism. Blistering is of value in some cases. Fractures of the Scapula. Fractures of the scapula may implicate the body, the surgical neck, the acromion, or the coracoid process. They are very rarely compound. Fracture of the Body.—Considering its exposed position, the body of the scapula is comparatively seldom fractured, doubtless because of its mobility, and the support it receives from the elastic ribs and soft muscular cushion on which it lies. It is most frequently broken by severe blows, crushes, and gunshot injuries. The scapula presents two natural arches—one longi- tudinal, the other transverse—and its outer and inner edges are supported by the chest wall and shoulder respectively. When the bone is crushed or struck, therefore, the force acts indirectly, and produces fracture by undoing its curves (E. H. Bennett). A main fissure usually runs transversely across the infra- spinous fossa, with secondary cracks radiating from it. In other cases the line of the primary fracture is longitudinal, passing through the spine and involving both fossse. The clinical features are often obscured by swelling of the overlying soft parts. Crepitus may sometimes be elicited by placing one hand firmly over the bone, and with the other moving the arm and shoulder. When the spine is implicated the fragments may be grasped through the skin and made to move upon one another. The displacement, which usually consists in overlapping of the fragments,—although sometimes