384 INJURIES OF BONES. When the skin is broken the condition approaches that of a compound fracture, and is treated on the same lines. Open Wounds of Bone of the incised and contused varieties are usually produced by cuts with sabres, axes, butcher’s knives, or scythes, or by circular saws. Punctured wounds are caused by bayonets, arrows, or other pointed instruments. They are all clinically equivalent to compound, incomplete fractures. FRACTURES. A fracture may be defined as a sudden and violent solution in the continuity of a bone. Pathological or Spontaneous Fractures. A pathological or spontaneous fracture has as its primary cause some definite pathological state of the bone, which permits of its giving way on the application of a force which would be quite insufficient to break a healthy bone. In many cases the force which happens to be applied merely hastens its complete severance. The following conditions may be mentioned as predisposing to pathological fracture. Atrophy of bone may proceed to such an extent in old people, or in those who for long periods have been bed-ridden, that the slightest violence suffices to determine a fracture. This most frequently occurs in the neck of the femur in old women, the mere exertion of turning in bed being sometimes sufficient to cause the break. Atrophy from the pressure of an aneurysm or a simple tumour may erode the whole thickness of a bone, or may thin it out to such an extent that very slight force is sufficient to break it. In general paralytics, and in patients in the advanced stages of locomotor ataxia and other chronic diseases of the nervous system, an eccentric atrophy of all the bones sometimes takes place, and may proceed so far that multiple fractures are induced by trifling causes. They occur painlessly, most frequently in the ribs or long bones of the limbs, and usually unite satisfactorily, although with an excessive amount of callus. Attendants and nurses must be warned against using force in handling such patients, as other- wise they may be unfairly blamed for causing these fractures. Fragilitas ossium is the name applied to a condition, often hereditary, and frequently met with in infants, in which all the bones of - the body are excessively fragile, and favour the