ANEURYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES. 293 growing soft sarcomata, especially of tlie pelvic bones, and enlarged lymphatic glands. Electrolysis or needling may be considered, but the method of treatment which has met with most success has been ligature of the common or external iliac, reached either by reflecting the peritoneum from off the iliac fossa (extra-peritoneal operation), or by going through the peritoneal cavity (trans-peritoneal operation). Gluteal and Sciatic Aneurysm.—It is only in their early stages that these aneurysms can be distinguished from one another. When they have increased so as to form a salient swelling in the buttock they closely resemble each other. The special symptoms to which they give rise are pain down the limb from pressure on the great sciatic nerve, and interference with the movements of the hip. The sciatic variety is specially liable to invade the cavity of the pelvis. Ligature of the internal iliac by the trans-peritoneal method is the/ most satisfactory method of treatment. These aneurysms are also suitable for treatment by needling or electrolysis. The old operation is difficult and dangerous, especially when the aneurysm has spread into the pelvis. Femoral Aneurysm.—Aneurysm of the femoral artery is usually traumatic in origin, and is more common in Scarpa’s triangle than in Hunter’s canal. Varicose aneurysm and aneurysmal varix are also met with in this situation. Any of the methods already described are available for their treatment —the operation of choice being ligature of the external iliac or the old operation. Aneurysm of the profunda femoris is distinguished from aneurysm of the main trunk by the fact that the pulses beyond are, in the former, unaffected, and by the normal artery being felt pulsating over or alongside of the sac. Popliteal Aneurysm. — Popliteal aneurysm is the most common surgical aneurysm met with in the body, and the condition is not uncommonly bilateral. It is generally due to disease in the artery, although repeated slight strains which are so liable to occur at the knee may play an important part in determining its formation. In former times it was very common in post-boys from the repeated flexion and extension of the knee in riding. The aneurysm is usually of the sacculated variety, and may spring from the front or from the back of the vessel. According to the direction of its growth it exerts pressure on the bones and ligaments of the joint, and sometimes opens into the articulation.