INJURIES OF LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 297 stomach. The retro-pharyngeal glands lie on each side of the middle line upon the rectus capitis anticus major muscle and in front of the prevertebral layer of the cervical fascia. When they,are infected with pus organisms or with tubercle bacilli they may lead to the formation of a retro-pharyngeal abscess. Upper Extremity.— The epi-troehlear and ante-cubital glands vary in number and in situation. That most commonly present lies about an inch and a half above the internal condyle. Other and smaller glands may lie along the internal bicipital sulcus or at the bend of the elbow. They drain the ulnar side of the hand and forearm, and pour their lymph into the axillary group. The epi-trochlear gland is often enlarged in syphilis. The axillary glands are arranged in three groups. A central group lie embedded in the axillary fascia, and are often related to an opening in it. A subscapular group lie along the line of the vessels of the subscapular vessels. A pectoral group lie behind the pectoralis minor, along the inner side of the axillary vein. The axillary glands receive lymph from the arm, mamma, and side of the chest, and pass it on into the lowest cervical glands and the main lymphatic trunk. Lower Extremity. — The popliteal glands include one superficial gland at the termination of the short saphenous vein, and several deeper ones in relation to the popliteal vessels. They receive lymph from the toes and foot, and transmit it to the inguinal glands. The femoral glands lie vertically along the upper part of the internal saphenous vein, and receive lymph from the leg and foot. From them the lymph passes to the deep inguinal and external iliac glands. The superficial inguinal glands lie along Poupart's ligament, and receive lymph from the external genitals, anus, perineum, buttock, and anterior abdominal wall. The lymph passes on to the deep inguinal and external iliac glands. The deep inguinal glands lie on the inner side of the femoral vein, and sometimes within the crural canal. They receive lymph from the deep lymphatics of the lower limb, and some of the efferent vessels from the femoral and superficial inguinal glands. The lymph then passes on through the crural canal to the external iliac glands. The glands of the thorax and abdomen will be considered with the surgery of these regions. Injuries of Lymphatic Vessels. Lymphatic vessels are divided in all wounds, and the lymph which escapes from them is added to any discharge which may be present. In the case of larger trunks the lymph may escape in considerable quantity as a colourless, watery fluid—lymphor- rhagia; and the opening through which it escapes is known as a lymphatic fistula. This has been chiefly observed after excision of the glands in the groin. When the lymphatic return from a limb has been seriously interfered with,—as, for example, when the axillary contents have been completely cleared out in operating for cancer of the breast,—a condition of lymphatic oedema may result, the arm becoming swollen, tight, and heavy. Wounds of the Thoracic Duct.—The thoracic duct usually opens at the angle formed by the junction of the left internal