FLAT-FOOT. 719 It is called static because the essential factor in its production is the weight of the body in the erect posture, and it is called adolescent because it most frequently develops between the ages of fourteen and twenty. It is chiefly met with in rapidly growing individuals with feeble muscles and long narrow feet, who, after leaving school, begin some occupation which entails much standing and walking —such as that of factory hands, message boys, or maid-servants. In order to continue standing for long periods the patient adopts an attitude which makes little demand on the muscles and throws nearly all the strain of the body weight on the ligaments and bones of the feet. This, which has been called by Annandale “the attitude of rest,” consists in standing with the limbs apart, the knees slightly flexed, the legs slightly rotated outwards at the knee, and the feet pronated with the toes pointing out- wards. In walking, the feet are similarly pro- nated and the toes are turned out. The most important local factors predisposing to flat-foot are weakness of those muscles of the Fig. 253.—Adolescent Flat-foot. foot which normally lend support to the ankle and to the tarsal arches, weakness of the ligaments of the foot, and softness of the tarsal bones. When these condi- tions are present and the patient adopts a faulty method of standing and walking, the tendons and ligaments are exposed to undue strain and become stretched, the bones are altered in shape and position, and flat-foot results. The head of the astragalus is displaced inwards and is pushed in between the os calcis and scaphoid, tending to separate them from one another, stretching the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament and causing the anterior part of the foot to be abducted. The plantar ligaments— especially the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid — at first become stretched and lengthened, and in course of time they become thicker and stronger (Hoffa). Clinical Features.—The usual complaint is of being easily tired and of pain in the feet after -walking or standing. In exceptional cases pain is entirely absent. There is usually more pain when the deformity is commencing than when it is fully developed. The pain of commencing flat-foot, before there is any loss of the arch, is liable to be wrongly ascribed to