316 THE NERVES. Skin eruptions, especially in the form of herpetic blisters, may occur, or there may be actual ulcers of the skin, especially in the winter months (Fig. 13). In aggravated cases the tips of the fingers may disappear from progressive ulceration, and in the sole of the foot the condition may assume the characters of the perforating ulcer. Arthropathies are occasionally met with, the joints becoming the seat of a painless effusion or hydrops, which is followed by fibrous thickening of the capsular and other ligaments, and terminates in stiffness and fibrous anky- losis. The fingers may be seriously crippled and deformed. The student must be prepared to meet with cases in which the symptoms fall far short of what might have been expected from the functions of the divided nerve. This is notably the case in the sciatic, where, in spite of the removal of a consider- able portion of the nerve, the motor and sensory disabilities are sometimes recovered from to the extent that the patient is able to walk without support Treatment of Divided Nerves.—The treatment consists in approximating the divided ends of the nerve and placing them under the most favourable conditions for repair. Primary Suture.—The reunion of a recently divided nerve is spoken of as primary suture, and for its success asepsis is essential. As the suturing of the ends of the nerve is extremely painful, a general anaesthetic is required. The wound must be enlarged in the long axis of the affected nerve, as the ends— especially the proximal end—are usually retracted. Having identified the ends and brought them into contact, they are secured to each other by the finest chromicised catgut or silk passed by a round needle, such as is used for the intestine. The sutures are made to transfix the ends of the nerve and the sheath, and should only be drawn tight enough to obtain accurate apposition. Additional sutures may be passed through the sheath around the circumference. If the ends of the nerve are bruised or torn, fresh surfaces should be obtained by cutting them across. If the nerve is only partially divided, it may be sufficient to pass a few sutures through the sheath. Tension on the sutures may be relieved by flexing adjacent joints and fixing the limb in a splint. When the wTound is healed, measures are employed to maintain the nutrition of the damaged nerve and of the parts supplied by it, while waiting for the restoration of function. The limb is exercised, massaged, and douched, and protected from cold and other influences Avhicli may provoke trophic changes. The nutrition of the paralysed muscles is further improved by electricity. The galvanic