190 TUMOURS. is a considerable amount of intercellular fibrous tissue the tumour is called a, Jibro-sarcoma. The term endothelioma or lympliangio- sarcoma is applied when the cells of the tumour are derived from the endothelium of lymphatic spaces and vessels. The angiosarcomata are those in which the walls of the blood-vessels play a prominent part in the structure of the tumour. They are sometimes derived from innocent angiomata, and they may be so vascular as to pulsate like an aneurysm and to yield a blowing murmur on auscultation. The gliosarcoma, myxosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, and myo- sarcoma are mixed forms which usually develop in already-existing innocent tumours. The osteosarcoma is characterised by the formation in the tumour of true bone by a process of ossification, the medullary spaces being occupied by sarcomatous cells in place of marrow. The osteoid sarcoma is characterised by the formation of a tissue resembling bone but deficient in lime salts, and the petrifying sarcoma by the formation of calcified areas in the stroma. These varieties, although chiefly met with in the skeleton, may occur in the soft tissues such as muscle, and in such organs as the mamma. The pigmented varieties include the chloroma, which is of a light green colour, and the melanotic sarcoma, which is brown or black. The psammoma is a sarcoma attended with the formation of a material resembling sand, and is chiefly met with in the membranes of the brain. Diagnosis of Sarcoma.—Sarcomata are to be differentiated from inflammatory swellings such as result from tubercle and syphilis, from innocent tumours, and from cancers. The points on which the diagnosis is founded are discussed with the different tissues and organs. Treatment.—The removal of the tumour by operation is the only satisfactory method of treatment, but in order to be successful it must be undertaken before regional or general dissemination has taken place. It is absolutely essential to remove a considerable area of healthy tissue beyond the apparent margin of the growth. In tumours which approach the surface of the body, the overlying skin should also be removed. If it is impossible to remove the tumour completely, or if there is already evidence of secondary growths, it is better to abstain from operative interference unless there are special indications to be fulfilled—such as the relief of pain or the arrest of haemorrhage. In inoperable cases recourse has been had to the injection of the toxins of the streptococcus of erysipelas. This treatment is based on the fact that an intercurrent attack of erysipelas has