WOUNDS BY FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES. 209 removing a limb, as much can be done to replace skin by graft- ing, but when it is associated with other lesions it favours the major operation. In considering these points it must be borne in mind that the damage to the deeper tissues is always more extensive than appears at first sight, and that in many cases it is only possible to estimate the real extent of the injury by administering an anaesthetic and exploring the wound. In doubtful cases the possibility of rendering the parts aseptic will often decide the question for or against amputation. If this be accomplished, the success which attends conservative measures is often remarkable. It is permissible to run an amount of risk to save an upper extremity which would be quite unjustifiable in the case of a lower limb. The age and occupa- tion of the patient must also be taken into account. When it is decided to make the attempt, to save the limb the wound must be carefully and thoroughly purified. If necessary it may be enlarged, so that all bruised tissue in which gross dirt has become engrained may be clipped away with scissors. The raw surface should be thoroughly cleansed with sterilised salt solution or peroxide of hydrogen. All rough scrubbing with strong antiseptics is to be avoided, as being only calculated to depress the vitality of the tissues without increasing the pro- bability of rendering the wound aseptic. The wound should be left unstitched, freely drained or packed with gauze, and im- mobilised by suitable splints. When granulations have formed, skin-grafting may hasten the healing of the wound. Wounds by Firearms and Explosives. The present consideration of gunshot wounds refers chiefly to such injuries as are met witli in civil practice. The subject will be dealt with under the following heads:—Pistol-shot wounds, wounds by sporting-guns, wounds by rifle-bullets, and shell wounds. Whatever the nature of the weapon, the wound is of the contused and lacerated variety. Its severity depends on the size, shape, and nature of the missile, its velocity, the range at which the weapon is discharged, and the part of the body struck. Shock is a prominent feature in most cases of gunshot wound, but its degree, as well as the time of its onset, varies with the extent and seat of the injury, and with the mental state of the patient when shot. At the moment of injury the patient experiences a sensation which is variously described as being like the lash of a whip, a blow with a stick, or an electric shock. VOL. I—14