INJURIES OF THE PATELLA. 523 ness are over the attachments of the lateral ligaments. As the internal lateral ligament suffers most frequently, the most tender spot is usually over its attachments to the inner aspect of the head of the tibia—less frequently over the internal condyle. Unless efficiently treated a sprain of the knee is liable to result in weakness of the joint, associated with effusion of fluid in the synovial cavity (traumatic hydrops). This is more likely to occur if the joint be repeatedly subjected to slight degrees of violence, such as are liable to occur in football or other athletic exercises—hence the name “ footballer’s knee ” sometimes applied to the condition. Treatment.—In recent and severe cases the patient must be confined to bed. The severe pain which accompanies the injury may be allayed by the application of very hot water, or by an ice-bag. To prevent or arrest effusion, firm elastic pressure over a thick pad of cotton wool is useful. Massage and movement should be commenced at once and carried out assiduously to promote absorption of the effusion and prevent the formation of adhesions. Prolonged fixation in rigid splints leads to stiffness, and may necessitate the use of an anaesthetic to restore the movements of the joint. In the chronic form the best results are obtained by rest and blistering. When the patient is unable to lie up, massage should be systematically employed, and a firm elastic bandage should be worn. INJURIES OF THE PATELLA. Fracture of the patella is a comparatively common injury in adult males. It may result from direct violence, such as a kick or a fall on the knee, and the fracture is then vertical, oblique, or comminuted. More frequently, however, the patella is snapped across the lower end of the femur by a sudden and forcible contraction of the quadriceps extensor muscle taking place while the limb is partially flexed—as, for example, in the attempt to save one’s self from falling backward. The line of fracture, which is transverse or slightly oblique, crosses the bone a little below its middle. Fractures of the patella are seldom compound unless from severe violence, such as the kick of a horse. Chief interest attaches to the transverse fracture, in which the degree of displacement depends upon the extent to which the lateral expansions of the quadriceps tendon are lacerated.