TUMOURS. 198 deeper parts, and when situated over the skull they may be lodged in a depression or actual gap in the bone. Sometimes the cyst becomes infected and suppurates, and finally ruptures on the surface. This may lead to a natural cure, or a persistent sinus may remain. The ovarian dermoid appears clinically as an abdominal or pelvic tumour, and may give rise to urgent symptoms if it becomes strangulated from torsion of its pedicle. The treatment consists in removing the cyst. When it is impossible to remove the whole of the lining membrane by dissection, the portion which is left should be destroyed with the cautery. The treatment of the ovarian dermoid consists in removing the tumour by laparotomy. Teratoma.—A teratoma is distinguished from a dermoid by its containing tissues or structures derived from all of the germinal layers of the embryo. Teratomata result from partial dichotomy or cleavage of the trunk axis of the embryo, and are found exclusively in connection with the skull and vertebral column. They include such monstrosities as conjoined twins or parasitic foetus. They are more commonly met with as irregularly-shaped tumours, usually growing from the posterior surface of the sacrum. On dissection, these are found to contain a curious mixture of tissues—bones, skin, and portions of viscera, such as the intestine or liver. The question of the removal of such tumours requires to be considered in relation to the conditions present in each individual case. Cysts.1 Cysts are usually rounded sacs, the wall being composed of fibrous tissue lined by epithelium or endothelium; while the contents are fluid or semi-solid, and vary in character according to the organ or tissue in which the cyst has originated. Retention and Exudation Cysts.-—Retention cysts develop where the duct of a secreting gland is partially obstructed; the secretion tends to accumulate, and the gland and its duct become distended into a cyst. They are frequently met with in secret- ing organs, such as the mamma, pancreas, salivary glands, mucous and sebaceous glands. Sebaceous cysts or wens are described with diseases of the skin, and other retention cysts with the surgery of their respective regions. Exudation cysts arise from the distension of cavities which are not provided with excretory ducts, such as those in the thyroid. 1 Cysts which form in relation to new growths have been considered with tumours.