536 INJURIES IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. os calcis, the peroneal tubercle on the same bone ; the cuboid ; and the prominent base of the fifth metatarsal. The astragalo-scaphoid joint lies immediately behind the tubercle of the scaphoid, and a line drawn straight across the foot at this level passes over the calcaneo-cuboid joint. The ankle-joint, formed by the articulation of the tibia and fibula with the astragalus, lies about half an inch above the tip of the internal malleolus, and is so constructed that when the foot is at a right angle with the leg, it is only possible to flex and extend the joint. When the toes are pointed, however, slight lateral and rotatory movements are possible. The chief seat of lateral movement of the foot is at the astragalo-scajilioid and calcaneo-cuboid articulations—“the mid-tarsal joint.” The ankle-joint ow'es its strength chiefly to the malleoli and the external and internal lateral ligaments, and to the inferior tibio-tibular ligaments, which bind together the lower ends of the bones of the leg. The numerous tendons passing over the joint on every side also add to its stability. The synovial membrane of the ankle-joint passes up between the bones of the leg to line the inferior tibio-fibular joint; but it is distinct from that of the inter-tarsal joints, which communicate with one another in a complicated manner. Fractures in the Region of the Ankle. Pott’s Fracture.—It must clearly be understood that various lesions occurring in the region of the ankle-joint are included under the clinical term “ Pott’s fracture.” Although of a similar nature, and produced by similar forms of violence, they vary considerably in their anatomy and clinical features. They are all the result of combined eversion and abduction of the foot—produced, for example, by the foot slipping off the kerb-stone, or by the patient jumping from a height and landing on the inner side of the foot. When forcible eversion is the chief movement, the tightening of the internal lateral ligament usually tears off the internal malleolus across its base. The astragalus is then brought to bear on the external malleolus, and the inferior tibio-fibular ligament may rupture, or the outer portion of the tibia to which it is attached may be avulsed. This form is sometimes called Dupuytrerfs fracture. The force continuing to act, the lower end of the fibula is pressed outwards and breaks close above the malleolus. When the bones are widely separated in Dupuytren’s fracture the astragalus may be forced uji between them, causing great broadening of the ankle. When the movement of abduction predominates, the internal lateral ligament is usually ruptured, or the anterior edge or tip of the malleolus torn off. The inferior tibio-fibular ligament