TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. 335 paroxysm is accompanied by Switching of the facial muscles it is called spasmodic tic. The skin of the affected \area may be glazed and red, or may be pale and moist with inspissated sweat, the patient not daring to touch it. There is excessive tenderness at the points of emergence of the different branches of the fifth nerve on the face, and pressure over one or other of these points may excite a paroxysm of pain. The affection is but little amenable to the remedies employed in the treatment of other forms of neuralgia, and is only relieved, as a rule, by large doses of morphin or chloral. In typical cases the patient is unable to take any active part in life. The attempt to eat is attended with such severe pain that he avoids taking food, and he only obtains sleep by the use of hypnotics. In some cases the suffering is so great that the patient is often on the verge of suicide. Diagnosis.—There is seldom any difficulty in recognising the disease. It is important, however, to exclude the hysterical form of neuralgia, which is characterised by its occurrence earlier in life, by the pain varying in situation, being frequently bilateral, and being more often constant than paroxysmal. Treatment.—Before having recourse to the measures described below, it is necessary to give a thorough trial to such drugs as arsenic, quinine, and strychnine, and to employ the other medical measures used in the treatment of neuralgia. The Injection of Osmic Acid into the Nerve.—Although the results of this procedure are uncertain, it may be had recourse to when operative interference is contra-indicated. Five to ten minims of a 1 per cent, solution are injected into the nerve and its vicinity by means of an ordinary hypodermic syringe. The injection is immediately followed by very severe pain, redness, and swelling, but after this subsides there may be no return of the neuralgia. Operative Treatment.—This consists in the removal of the affected nerve or nerves as completely as possible, either by resection of the nerve—neurectomy; or by a combination of resection with twisting or tearing of the nerve from its central connections—avulsion. These procedures are fairly successful when the pain is limited to one or more branches of one of the main divisions of the fifth nerve. The supra-orbital and supra-trochlear branches of the first division may be resected through an incision made in the line of the eyebrow. The infra-orbital continuation of the second division may be