ULCERATION AND ULCERS. 84 sharp spoon, silver nitrate, or pure carbolic acid may be tried. Skin-Grafting. The term skin-grafting is applied to certain procedures in which portions of epithelium or skin are applied to raw or granulating surfaces with a view to promoting the rapid forma- tion of a cicatrix which is at once strong and pliable, and which does not subsequently tend to undergo contraction. The grafts may be taken from the patient himself,—on the whole the most satisfactory source,—from another person, or from one of the lower animals. The procedure is applicable to all forms of ulcers when in a healthy, healing condition, especially those resulting from burns, severe crushes, or septic processes involving wide destruction of skin. It may also be employed to cover in the raw surfaces left after the excision of new growths implicating the skin, or of patches of lupus. In rectifying such defects as extroversion of the bladder, ectropion of the eyelids, destruction of the cheek or nose, and in other plastic operations also, skin-grafting is often of value. It is of primary importance that the surface on which the grafts are placed should be aseptic and have a good vascular supply. The surrounding tissues also must be free of inflamma- tion, oedema, or induration. The best results are obtained when the grafts are placed on a fresh raw surface. A granulating surface is less satisfactory, because of the difficulty of ensuring its asepticity, and on account of the tendency of a cicatrix formed by granulation tissue to undergo contraction. Preparation of the Surface.—For two or three days the ulcer and its surroundings should be thoroughly purified, and it is often advantageous to paint the surface with pure carbolic acid daily during this period. In old-standing ulcers of the leg it is best to excise the whole ulcer, including its edges and about a quarter to half an inch of the surrounding tissue, as well as the underlying fibrous tissue. In extensive ulcers resulting from recent burns, it is only necessary to scrape away the superficial layer of the granulations, the young fibrous tissue underneath being conserved, as it is sufficiently vascular to nourish the grafts placed over it. There is no advantage in preserving any young epithelium which may have formed round the ulcer, as this is very liable to break