INNOCENT CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOURS. 181 throughout the body. Tumours which are structurally alike may show variations in malignancy, not only according to their situation, but also according to the age of the patient and to other factors which are as yet unknown. In attempting to arrive at a conclusion as to the innocence or malignancy of any tumour, too much reliance must not be placed on its histological features. Its situation, rate of growth, and other clinical features must be taken into consideration. It cannot be too emphatically stated that there is no hard and fast line between innocent and malignant growths. There is an indefinite transition from one to the other, and some tumours occupy an intermediate position between the two. The possibility of the transformation of a benign into a malignant tumour must be admitted. Such a transformation implies a change in the structure of the growth, and has been observed especially in fibrous and cartilaginous tumours, in tumours of the thyroid gland, and in uterine fibroids. The alteration in character may take place under the influence of injury, prolonged or repeated irritation, incomplete removal of the benign tumour, or the altered physiological conditions of the tissues which attend advancing years. Varieties of Tumours.—In the following'description tumours are classified on an anatomical basis, taking in order first the connective - tissue group and subsequently those which take origin in epithelium. Innocent Connective-tissue Tumours. Lipoma.—A lipoma is a tumour composed of fat resembling that normally present in the body. The commonest variety is the subcutaneous lipoma, which grows from the subcutaneous fat, and forms a soft, irregularly-lobulated tumour (Fig. 32). The fat is arranged in lobules separated by connective-tissue septa which are continuous with the capsule surrounding the tumour, and with the overlying skin, which becomes dimpled or puckered when an attempt is made to pinch it up. As the fat is almost fluid at the body temperature, apparent fluctuation can usually be detected in the swelling. These tumours vary greatly in size, occur at all ages, grow very slowly, and, while generally solitary, are sometimes multiple and occasionally bilaterally symmetrical. They are most commonly met with on the shoulder, buttock, or back. In certain situations, such as the thigh and perineum, they tend to become pedunculated. A fatty tumour is to be diagnosed from a cold abscess and