366 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. wide to admit of their being approximated by sutures, one or both ends must be lengthened by splitting it longitudinally in order to bridge the gap. Avulsion of Tendons.—This is a rare injury in which the tendons of a finger or toe are torn from their attachments along with the digit concerned. In the hand it is usually brought about by the fingers being caught in the reins of a runaway horse or being seized in a horse’s teeth. It is usually the terminal phalanx that is separated, and with it the tendon of the deep flexor which ruptures most frequently at its junction with the belly of the muscle in the forearm. The treatment consists in disinfecting the wound, closing the tendon sheath, and trimming the mutilated finger so as to provide a useful stump. Diseases of Muscle. Congenital absence of one or more muscles may be met with, usually in association with other congenital deformities. The pectoralis major, for example, may be absent on one or on both sides, without, however, causing any disability, as other muscles enlarge and take on its functions. Atrophy of Muscle.—There is a form of atrophy or wasting of muscles described as “ simple ” because the muscle elements are merely diminished in size without undergoing any structural alteration. It is commonly met with as a result of disuse, as when a patient is confined to bed with a fracture. In cases of bone disease, and to a still more marked degree in joint disease, the muscles of the affected region become atrophied more rapidly than is accounted for by disuse alone. This is attributed to an interference with the trophic innervation of the muscles reflected from centres in the spinal cord. So decided is the atrophy that it is commonly recognised as an evidence of the existence of joint disease. It is usually more marked in the extensor than in the flexor groups of muscles. The affected muscles become soft and flaccid, they exhibit tremors on attempted movement, and their excitability to the faradic current is diminished. There is also a form of atrophy which may be described as neuropathic because of its association with lesions of the nervous system. It is most pronounced in lesions of the motor nerve trunks, probably because vasomotor and trophic fibres are involved as well as those which are purely motor in function. It is attended with definite structural alterations, the muscle elements first undergoing fatty degeneration, and then being absorbed, and replaced to a large extent by ordinary connective