506 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. The nature of the accident, the absence of broadening of the trochanter, and the adduction and inversion of the limb arc usually sufficient to prevent a dislocation being mistaken for an impacted extra-capsular fracture. Dislocation into the Obturator Foramen.—This dislocation is produced by great force applied from behind when the thigh is flexed and abducted, as when a weight falls on the back of a man stooping forward with the legs wide apart. It may also result from violent abduction by wide separation of the thighs. The capsule gives way at its inner and lower part, and the head of the femur comes to rest on the surface of the external obturator muscle, being directed forward, while the trochanter looks backward. Clinical Features.—The thigh is slightly flexed and abducted, with the foot pointing directly forward or a little everted. The body is bent forward to relax the ilio-psoas muscle and the A-ligament, the foot is advanced and the toes pointed. It is riot uncommon for the patient to be able to walk after the accident, and only to seek advice some time after on account of inability to adduct and extend the limb. There is apparent lengthening of the limb due to tilting of the pelvis downward on the affected side. The hip is flattened, the trochanter less prominent than usual, and the head of the bone may sometimes be felt in its abnormal position. It is doubtful if a rectal examination ever gives reliable information as to the position of the head of the femur. Dislocation onto the pubes is a further degree of the obturator form. It is usually produced by forcible hyper-extension and external rotation of the hip, such as occurs when the body is bent back while the thigh remains fixed. The capsule is torn further forward than in the other varieties, and the head rests on the horizontal ramus of the pubes against the ilio-pectineal line. Clinical Features.—There is marked eversion, flexion, and abduction, but the shortening is inconsiderable. The ilio-psoas and A-ligament are tense. The head of the femur may be felt in the groin, with the femoral vessels over, or to one or other side of it. There is sometimes pain and numbness in the dis- tribution of the anterior crural nerve. The prominence of the great trochanter is lost. Treatment of Dislocations of the Hip.—The patient should be placed on a firm mattress on the floor, to give the surgeon the best possible purchase upon the limb. Complete anaesthesia is necessary. The surgeon grasps the ankle with one hand, while