FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR, 495 The line of fracture, which is usually transverse but may be oblique or irregular, lies, as a rule, entirely within the capsule. The outer fragment, which includes the base of the neck, the trochanters, and the shaft, is usually displaced upward and rotated outward. Not infrequently the periosteum remains intact at some point, and the cervical ligaments are untorn—a condition which tends to prevent displacement and to favour union. Impaction is less common than in fracture through the base of the neck, and it usually results from the patient falling on the outer aspect of the trochanter, the outer fragment penetrating the inner. The posterior part of the neck is more comminuted than the anterior. All the symptoms of fracture are obscured, and it is often very difficult at first to diagnose the condition from a bruise. In old people such impaction should not be undone, as it favours union Fig. 142.—Fracture of Neck of Right Femur, showing shortening, abduction, eversion, and flexion of limb. Clinical Features.—The violence being as a rule indirect, there is at first little or no discoloration in the vicinity of the fracture, but it may appear a few days later. The limb is generally at once rendered useless, and the patient lies helpless, although in some cases, especially in impacted fractures, he may have been able to walk some distance after the accident. There is great pain and tenderness in the region of the hip on making the slightest movement • and a specially tender spot may sometimes be localised, indicating the seat of fracture. On placing the pelvis as square as possible, and comparing the measurements of the limbs from the anterior superior spine to the external malleolus, shortening of the injured limb to the extent of from one to three inches may be found. On applying Nelaton’s, Bryant’s, or Chiene’s tests, the tip of the great trochanter will be found elevated. It is also further back and less prominent than normal. Very often the shortening in