FRACTURES OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR, 509 When due to direct violence the fracture is usually transverse, and in infants and children, in whom it is more common than in adults, it may be sub-periosteal with little or no displacement. Indirect violence, on the other hand, usually produces complete and oblique fractures, which are frequently comminuted and often compound. The break is most commonly situated a little above the middle of the shaft, the obliquity being downward, forward and inward, and of such a nature that the fragments tend to override one another. The direction and nature of the displacement depends more upon the action of the muscles attached to the respective fragments, the fracturing force, and the weight of the lower part of the limb, than upon the direction of the obliquity. As a rule the upper fragment is pulled forward and outward by the ilio-psoas and glutei muscles, while the lower fragment is displaced upward and inward, and is rotated outward by the combined action of the longitudinal muscles of the thigh, the adductors and the weight of the limb. Clinical Features.—The limb is at once rendered useless, and there is great swelling from effusion of blood in the region of the fracture. This, together with the muscularity of the part, often renders an ac- curate diagnosis as to the site and direction of the fracture exceedingly difficult. When the fracture is produced by indirect violence there is often an effusion into the knee-joint. The shortening varies from half an inch to three or four inches—averaging about one inch in adults. Eversion is always marked, and mobility and crepitus may be elicited by placing the hand under the seat of fracture and gently attempting to lift the limb ; or by fixing the upper fragment by one hand placed in front and carefully lifting the lower part of the limb. It will be found that the great trochanter does not rotate with the lower segment of the Fig. 153.—Recent Fracture of Shaft of Femur with overriding of Fragments.