40 INFLAMMATION. The swelling is due to the increased quantity of material in the affected part—circulating blood, effused serum and leucocytes, and proliferated tissue cells. The more open the structure of the tissue of the part, the greater is the amount of swelling, witness the marked degree of swelling in the scrotum or in the eyelids produced by even a slight inflammation. In deep- seated inflammations of rigid tissues or encapsuled organs, however, there is often a marked (edematous swelling of the overlying soft parts, due to direct or reflex interference with the circulation of the part. Pain is a symptom seldom absent in inflammation. Tender- ness— that is pain elicited on pressure—is one of the most valuable diagnostic signs we possess, and is often present before pain is experienced by the patient. That the area of tenderness corresponds to the area of inflammation is almost an axiom of surgery. Pain and tenderness are due to the local irritation of nerve filaments, rendered all the more sensitive by the abnormal conditions of their blood-supply. Much value attaches to the character of the pain as described by the patient. Thus inflammations of the skin cause pain of a burning or itching character; the pain of inflammation in dense tissues like periosteum or bone, or in encapsuled organs, is described as dull, boring, or aching. When inflammation is passing on to suppuration the pain assumes a throbbing character, and as the pus reaches the surface, or “points,” as it is called, sharp, darting, or lancinating pains are experienced. Inflammation involving a nerve-trunk may cause a boring or a tingling pain; while the implication of a serous membrane such as the pleura or peritoneum gives rise to pain of a sharp stabbing character. Pain may be referred to parts at a distance from the actual seat of the inflammation; for example, pain in the knee is a common symptom of disease in the hip joint. Interference with the function of the inflamed part is always present, varying in degree with the severity of the inflammation and its seat. An inflamed joint, for example, may have its range of movement diminished or may be absolutely fixed ; an inflamed eye may be hypersensitive to light or may be rendered blind. Constitutional Disturbances.—Under the term constitutional disturbances are included the presence of fever or elevation of temperature; certain changes in the pulse rate and the respira- tion ; gastro-intestinal and urinary disturbances; and derange- ments of the central nervous system. These are all due to the absorption of toxins into the general circulation.