WOUNDS. 205 Wounds are described as incised, punctured, and contused and lacerated. Incised Wounds.—The best examples of incised wounds are those made deliberately by the surgeon in the course of an operation. Wounds accidentally inflicted by cutting instruments and suicidal cut-throat wounds are also of the incised variety. It should be borne in mind in connection with medico-legal inquiries, that wounds of soft parts which closely overlie a bone, such as the skull, the tibia, or the patella, although inflicted by a blunt instrument, may have all the appearances of incised wounds. Clinical Features.—One of the most characteristic features of an incised wound is its tendency to gape. This is evident in long skin wounds, and especially when the cut runs across the part, or when it extends deep enough to divide muscular fibres at right angles to their long axis. The gaping of a wound, further, is more marked when the underlying tissues are in a state of tension—as, for example, in inflamed parts. Incised wounds in the palm of the hand, the sole of the foot, or the scalp, however, have little tendency to gape, because of the close attachment of the skin to the underlying fascia. Incised wounds, especially in inflamed tissues, tend to bleed profusely, and when a vessel is only partially divided and is therefore unable to contract, it continues to bleed longer than when completely cut across. The special risks of incised wounds are : (1) division of large blood-vessels, leading to profuse haemorrhage; (2) division of nerve trunks, resulting in motor and sensory disturbances; and (3) division of tendons or muscles, interfering with motion. Septic infection is, of course, a risk common to all varieties of wounds. Treatment.—The first indication in the treatment of incised wounds is the arrest of haemorrhage. This may be effected by pressure, torsion, or ligature, and must be as complete as possible, as the accumulation of blood in the wound inter- feres with union. The wound should be purified, if necessary, by washing with sterilised saline solution or with an anti- septic lotion, and the edges approximated by sutures. The raw surfaces must be brought into accurate apposition, care being taken that no inversion of the cutaneous surface takes place. Iu extensive and deep wounds it may be advisable to unite the deeper structures by a separate series of buried sutures of catgut or other absorbable material. For the approximation of the skin edges, stitches of horse-hair, fishing-gut, or fine silk are the