333 SCIATICA. A definite cause of the pain is rarely ascertainable. The condition is chiefly met with in adults of gouty or rheumatic tendencies who suffer from Indigestion, constipation, and oxaluria —in fact, in the same typejof patients who are liable to lumbago ; and the two affections are frequently associated in the same individual. In hospital practice it is commonly met with in :| coal-miners and others who assume a squatting position at work. The actual onset of the pain may follow exposure to cold and wet, especially in those who do not take regular exercise. Any error of diet or excessive indulgence in beer or wine may contribute to its development. The essential symptom is pain along the course of the nerve in the buttock, thigh, and leg. It may be comparatively slight, or may be so severe as to prevent sleep. It is usually aggravated by movement, so that the patient walks lame or is obliged to lie up. It is aggravated, also, by any movement which tends to put the nerve on the stretch, as in bending down to put on the shoes, such movements also causing tingling down the nerve, and sometimes numbness in the foot. This may be demon- strated by flexing the thigh on the abdomen with the knee extended. There is no pain if the same manoeuvre is repeated with the knee flexed. The nerve is sensitive to pressure, the most tender points being its emergence from the sacro-sciatic foramen, the hollow between the trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, and where the external popliteal nerve winds round the neck of the fibula. The muscles of the thigh are often weak and wasted. The clinical features vary a good deal in different cases, but ■ the affection is often very obstinate, and may last for many weeks or even months. Diagnosis.—Pain referred along the course of the sciatic nerve is a common symptom of tumours of the uterus, the rectum, or the pelvic bones. It may also result from the pressure of an abscess or an aneurysm either inside the pelvis or in the buttock, and is sometimes associated with organic disease of the spinal cord, such as tabes. Sciatica may also be mistaken for disease in the hip or sacro-iliac joints, especially tuberculous disease and arthritis deformans. It is necessary, therefore, to exclude such conditions before arriving at a diagnosis of sciatica. A digital examination of the rectum or vagina is often of great value in excluding intra-pelvic tumours. Treatment is both general and local. Any constitutional tendency, such as gout or rheumatism, must be counteracted, and indigestion, oxaluria, and constipation must receive