TETANUS. 117 addressed to the patient or his attempt to answer, is sufficient to determine an attack. The movements are so forcible and so continuous that the nurse has great difficulty in keeping the bed - clothes on the patient, or even in keeping the patient in bed. Gradually the patient becomes exhausted. The fits may cease some time before death, or, on the other hand, death may occur during a paroxysm from fixation of the diaphragm and arrest of respiration. The general condition of the patient is pitiful in the extreme. He is fully conscious of the gravity of the disease, and his mind remains clear to the end. The suffering induced by the cramp-like spasms of the muscles keeps him in a constant state of fearful apprehension of the next seizure. Sleep is usually impossible until it results from utter exhaustion. The temperature is moderately raised (100° to 102° F.), or it may remain normal throughout. Shortly before death very high temperatures (110° F.) have been recorded, and it has been observed that the thermometer sometimes continues to rise after death, and may reach as high as 112“ F. or more. The pulse corresponds with the febrile condition. It is accelerated during the spasms, and may become exceedingly rapid and feeble before death, probably from paralysis of the vagus. Sudden death from cardiac paralysis or from cardiac spasm is not uncommon. The respiration is affected in so far as the spasms of the respiratory muscles produce dyspnoea, and a feeling of impend- ing suffocation which adds to the horrors of the disease. Death from respiratory spasm sometimes takes place during a severe fit. One of the most constant symptoms is a copious perspiration, the patient being literally bathed in sweat. The urine is diminished in quantity, but as a rule is normal in composition. As in other acute inflammatory conditions, albumin and blood may be present. Retention of urine may result from spasm of the urethral muscles. The appetite is lost, the tongue foul, and constipation most obstinate. The prognosis varies in the different varieties of tetanus. The main factors are the duration of the incubation period; the rapidity with which different groups of muscles have become involved; the degree of interference with respiration ; and the length of time the patient has survived the onset of the fits. Clinical Varieties of Tetanus.—Acute Traumatic Tetanus. —This variety has been described as the type of the disease. It is characterised, as we have seen, by the rapidity of its