733 CLUB-HAND. subsequent interference with growth. These deformities may be corrected by supra-condylar osteotomy of the humerus. Deformities of the Forearm and Hand.—The radius may be partially or completely absent, frequently in combination with other malformations. The most evident result is a deviation of the hand to the radial side—one variety of club-hand (manus vara). The forearm is shortened, the idna is thickened and often bent, the thumb and its metacarpal bone are often absent, and the usefulness of the hand and arm is greatly im- paired. For its treatment Bardenheueivhas devised an operation which consists in split- ting the lower end of the ulna longitudinally and inserting the proxi- mal end of the carpus into the cleft. Congeni- tal deficiency of the ulna is extremely rare. A deformity resem- bling congenital club- hand is brought about when the growth of either of the bones of the forearm has been arrested as a result of disease or of traumatic separation of its lower epiphysis. The hand deviates to the side on which the growth has been arrested. The , , , ... (From a cast in Mr. Annandale's collection.) treatment consists in re- secting a portion of the longer bone. The deformities of the forearm which result from fractures have already been considered. Congenital Contracture of the Wrist—Club-hand Proper.— This very rare deformity corresponds to congenital club-foot and probably arises in the same way. The appearances resemble to a certain extent those of paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve. The hand and fingers are rigidly flexed to the ulnar side so that the patient is incapable of moving them. Treatment is carried out on the same lines as for club-foot. Spontaneous Subluxation of the Wrist.—This is an acquired deformity met with between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five, chiefly in females who follow trades which entail hard manual relaxation of ligaments allows the flexors Fig. 260.—Club-hand, the result of imperfect development of radius. The thumb is absent. labour. The gradual