514 INJURIES IN REGION OF KNEE AND LEG. knee, or by violent twisting of the leg. The separated condyle may not be displaced, or it may be pushed upwards or rotated on its transverse axis. Clinical Features.—When the line of fracture traverses the joint there is an immediate effusion of blood into the synovial cavity. In fractures which are strictly extra-capsular there is frequently a copious effusion of serum into the joint. The region of the knee, therefore, is greatly swollen, and the recognition of the precise nature of the injury is rendered difficult. As it is of the utmost importance to arrive at an accurate diagnosis, a general anaesthetic should be given when necessary for this purpose. In the supra-condylar fracture the upper end of the lower fragment is usually palpable in the popliteal space, while the upper fragment is unduly prominent in front. By flexing the knee the fragments may be brought into apposition and crepitus elicited. In oblique fractures the pointed lower end of the upper fragment may transfix the quadriceps extensor muscle and may be felt under the skin. It sometimes perforates the skin and thus renders the fracture com- pound. It should be disengaged by fully flexing and making traction on the knee. The thigh is shortened to the extent of from a half to one inch. In the T - or Y -shaped fracture the knee is broadened, and pain and crepitus are readily elicited on moving the condyles upon one another, or on pressing them together. On moving the patella transversely it may be felt to hitch against the edge of the fractured condyle. The shortening may amount to one or two inches. In epiphysial separations the age of the patient, the mode of injury, the finding of the smooth broad end of the diaphysis in the popliteal space, and the difficulty in reduction and retention usually serve to establish the diagnosis. Crepitus is of little or no value as a diagnostic sign. In fracture of one or other condyle there is broadening of the knee but no shortening of the thigh, and the ecchymosis, crepitus, and pain are localised to the affected side. The knee can usually be moved to an abnormal extent towards the injured side. Fig. 156.—Separation of Lower Epiphysis of Femur, showing backward projec- tion of lower end of diaphysis.