THE KNEE-JOINT. 683 conservative methods in the case of children, because they have greater recuperative powers, because time is of secondary importance, and because extensive operations on the bones may interfere with the growth of the limb. The methods of conservative treatment are similar to those employed in other joints. The limb is immobilised in the position of almost complete extension. If the joint is sensitive and tends to be flexed, the patient is confined to bed, the limb is secured to a posterior splint, and extension with the weight and pulley is applied to the leg. If there is no pain or tendency to flexion, or when these have been overcome, the limb is put up in a Thomas’ splint, and the patient is allowed to go about. The splint is removed at intervals to allow of examination of the joint, for washing and douching of the limb, and at a later period for movement, massage, and electrical stimulation of the atrophied muscles. The splint is worn for a period varying from six to twelve months; before being discarded altogether it may be left off at night; it is ultimately replaced by an elastic bandage. Treatment by venous congestion and the injection of iodoform glycerin may in some cases be advantageously added to that by rest. The needle of the syringe is introduced either into the upper pouch or into the interval between the bones on the inner side of the ligamentum patellse. The treatment of abscess and of extra-articular foci in the bones is carried out on the same lines as in other joints. The indications for operative treatment may be stated as follows :—1. Where there are marked symptoms of destruc- tion of the articular cartilages. 2. Where there is a de- formed attitude incapable of being rectified without operation. 3. Where the general health requires that the disease should be got rid of by the most rapid method. 4. Where the disease has progressed in spite of conservative treatment, or where, from the mere persistence of the disease, there is reason to suspect the existence of serious disease in the bones, or, finally, where the disease has relapsed after apparent cure. In patients under fifteen years of age the operation of arthrectomy is preferred. It consists in removing the tuber- culous synovial membrane, and, if the articular surfaces are affected, paring them with a strong knife. Above the age of fifteen the joint is excised; the ends of the bones are removed with the saw, and diseased soft structures with the knife or scissors. Amputation is performed irrespective of age when arthrec-