ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. 635 are only affected in so far as they undergo fatty atrophy, or alteration in their configuration as a result of partial dislocation. Osseous ankylosis may be observed, especially in the small joints of the hand and foot. Clinically, the disease is chronic and usually incurable. Pain may be so prominent a feature that the patient resists the least attempt at movement. In other cases the joints, although stiff, may be moved and exhibit pronounced crackings. The joints are swollen when there is much new connective tissue formed in relation to the synovial membrane, the swelling becoming more noticeable as the muscles waste above and below the joint. Subacute exacerbations occur from time to time, with fever and aggravation of the local symptoms. Recovery may take place with ankylosis and deformity, the patient becoming a helpless cripple, and the tenure of life is very uncertain because of the tendency to visceral complications. From the nature of the disease treatment is for the most part palliative. Salicylates are only of service during the exacerba- tions attended with pyrexia. The application of soda fomentations, turpentine cloths, or blisters may be useful. Improvement may result from the general and local therapeutics available at such places as Bath, Buxton, Wiesbaden, Wildbad, or Aix. In selected cases a certain measure of success has followed operative inter- ference, consisting in a modified arthrectomy, and the injection of an emulsion of iodoform or guaiacol in glycerin. The deformities resulting from chronic rheumatism are but little amenable to surgical treatment, and forcible attempts to remedy stiffness or deformity are to be avoided. Arthritis Deformans or Osteo-Arthritis (Chronic Rheu- matic Arthritis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Rheumatic Gout, Malum Senile, Traumatic or Mechanical Arthritis).—Under the term arthritis deformans or osteo-arthritis are provisionally included a number of joint affections which in their etiology and clinical features differ widely from one another. Their inclusion in a common group can only be justified by confessing that we are ignorant of their essential nature. In the above list of synonyms, therefore, we must be especially cautious in the use of those names which seem to indicate the origin of the disease. While these affections occur more commonly in families with rheumatic or gouty tendencies, and while they may be preceded by attacks of rheumatism or gout, it is by no means certain that they are of a rheumatic or gouty nature. The term malum senile—implying, as it does, an association