FRACTURES OF UPPER END OF HUMERUS. 445 (Symington, Hamilton) looked upon as a want of union of the epiphysis, but the weight of evidence seems to prove that it is rather of the nature of an ununited fracture at this level, even when, as sometimes happens, it is bilateral (Struthers, Lane). If this be so, then fracture of the acromion is the commonest fracture of the scapula, although it is often overlooked clinically on account of the swelling resulting from bruising of soft parts, and the absence of marked displacement. By careful palpation, crepitus and an irregularity at the seat of fracture may some- times be detected. The shoulder is slightly flattened, and abduction of the arm is difficult. In rare cases the fracture passes into the acromio-clavicular joint, and is associated with dislocation of the clavicle. Between the fourteenth and twenty-second years the epi- physis may be separated, but it is seldom possible to make a positive diagnosis of this injury. As is the case in all fractures of the acromion, the resulting union is usually fibrous. The treatment is the same as for fracture of the clavicle. Fracture of the coracoid is exceedingly rare. It may result from direct violence, such as the recoil of a gun, but is more often an accompaniment of dislocation of the shoulder or of the outer end of the clavicle upward. As the coraco-clavicular ligaments usually remain intact, there is no displacement; but when these are torn the coracoid is dragged downwards and outwards by the combined action of the pectoralis minor, biceps, and coraco-brachialis muscles. Crepitus may be elicited on moving the fragment. The treatment consists in placing the arm across the front of the chest, to relax the muscles causing the displacement, and retaining it in that position by a sling and roller bandage. I Fractures of the Upper End of the Humerus. For clinical purposes it is most convenient to study fractures of the upper end of the humerus in the following order: (1) fracture of the surgical neck; (2) separation of the epi- physis ; (3) fracture of head, anatomical neck, or tuberosities. Fracture of the Surgical Neck. — The surgical neck of the humerus extends from the level of the epiphysial junction to the insertion of the pectoralis major and teres major muscles, and it is within these limits that most fractures of the upper end of the bone occur. They are most common in adults, and usually follow direct violence applied to the shoulder, but may result from falls on the hand or elbow, or from violent