440 INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. 1 and the great tuberosity is not infrequently avulsed. The circumflex nerve is particularly liable to be damaged. The projection of the acromion, the flattening of the deltoid, the lengthening of the axillary fold, and the abduction of the elbow are very marked; the arm is slightly lengthened, rotated out, and carried forward. It is readily reduced by the same manipulations as in the sub-coracoicl variety. Backward dislocation is usually termed subspinous, although in a considerable proportion of cases the head of the humerus does not pass beyond the root of the acromion process (sub- acromial). This dislocation is usually produced by a fall on the elbow, the arm being at the moment adducted and rotated in, so that the head of the humerus is pressed backwards and outwards against the capsule, which ruptures posteriorly. The muscles attached to the upper end of the humerus are all liable to be torn, and the tuberosities are frequently avulsed. In the milder cases the clinical features are not always well marked, and on account of the swelling from effusion this dis- location is apt to be overlooked. In addition to the ordinary symptoms, the shoulder is broadened, there is a marked hollow in front in which the coracoid projects, and the arm is held close to the side with the elbow directed forward. The head of the bone may be seen and felt in its abnormal position below the spine of the scapula. Reduction can usually be effected by making traction on the arm with internal rotation, and pressing the head forward into position, while counter-pressure is made upon the acromion. Prognosis.—The ultimate prognosis in dislocations of the shoulder should always be guarded. The circumflex nerve may be stretched or torn, and this may lead to atrophy of the deltoid, or other branches of the brachial plexus may be injured, and the muscles they supply permanently weakened. In a certain number of cases traumatic neuritis has resulted in serious functional disability of the whole limb. The movements of the shoulder-joint may be restricted by cicatricial contraction of the torn portion of the capsule and of the damaged muscles. Habitual dislocation may follow if the capsule becomes too lax or if the rent fails to close. Dislocation of the Shoulder complicated with Fracture of the Humerus.—This double injury is fortunately very rare. The dislocation, which is almost invariably of the sub-coracoid variety, is produced by the usual mechanism of forced abduction, and the fracture takes place by the violence continuing to act after the head has left the glenoid fossa. The neck of the humerus