DISEASES OF BONE. 602 or tuberculous, chronic inflammatory conditions of the adjacent joint, and innocent tumours and hydatid cysts of bone. Secondary cancer of bone may present the same clinical appearances as sarcoma, and may be mistaken for it unless its connection with a primary cancer elsewhere is recognised. Skiagraphy is not only of assistance in differentiating new growths from other diseases of bone, but may also yield informa- tion as to the situation and nature of a tumour, which may have important bearings on treatment. The prognosis of sarcoma of bone varies with the period at which it is recognised, with its malignancy as indicated by its rapidity of growth, and with its situation as bearing on the possibility of complete removal by operation. Growths on the skull, spine, or pelvis rarely lend themselves to surgical inter- ference. In the case of the limbs the prognosis is graver the nearer the disease is to the trunk, because of the greater un- certainty of the disease being completely removed, and also because of the greater mortality which attends high amputations. Treatment.—Those tumours which lend themselves to ope- rative interference should be removed at the earliest possible moment. Until within recent years the invariable practice has been to perform amputation well above the growth where one of the bones of a limb is involved, and this is still to be recom- mended as a routine procedure. It must be added, however, that conservative operations of the nature of resections have been performed, and in some instances with success, even in the case of cellular sarcomata (Mikulicz). Before performing amputation for a supposed sarcoma the tumour should be cut into to make certain of its nature. In amputating it is not always necessary to go as high as the joint above, provided the tissues are divided well above the tumour; skin-flaps with circular division of muscles is the method of choice. In tumours involving the upper end of the femur it may be necessary to remove one half of the pelvis along with the extremity ; and in those of the upper end of the humerus, to remove the shoulder girdle along with the arm. In cases where removal of the tumour can hold out no prospect of permanent recovery, discharge or haemorrhage may be a sufficient indication for amputation; and in cases where pain is a prominent feature, it may be worth while to remove the tumour, or trephine the shell of the bone. The operative treatment of sarcoma of the bones of the head and trunk is considered in the sections dealing with these regions. Pulsating Hcematoma or Aneurysm of Bone. — A limited