401 COMPOUND FRACTURES. the bone, the direction of the break, and the relative position of the fragments, simple and compound fractures agree. It is the presence of the wound which, by providing a means of entrance for bacteria and conditions favourable to their growth and development, dominates the whole aspect of the case. A fracture may be rendered compound from without, the soft parts being damaged by the same object which breaks the bone —as, for example, a cart wheel, a heavy piece of machinery, or a bullet. Sloughing of soft parts, resulting from the pressure of improperly applied splints, also may convert a simple into a compound fracture. On the other hand, a simple fracture may be rendered compound by agencies acting from within—for example, a sharp fragment of bone penetrating the skin, or the sloughing of the skin as a result of extreme tension from effused blood. As a rule the diagnosis is easy, as the bone can either be seen or felt through the wound. When any doubt exists as to whether a wound communicates with the bone or not, it is safer to enlarge it by incision than to assume that the fracture is simple. The prognosis in compound fractures depends, in the first instance, on the success which attends the efforts to make and to keep the wound aseptic, as well as on the extent of damage to the soft tissues and bones. When sepsis ensues in a compound fracture, repair is interfered with, fragments of bone may undergo necrosis and lead to the formation of sinuses, and union is usually attended with excessive and irregular callus formation (Fig. 85). Treatment. — The leading indication for treatment is to ensure asepsis of the wound. Even in the case of small punctured wounds caused by a pointed fragment coming through the skin, it is never wise to assume that the wound is not infected. It is much safer to enlarge such a wound, pare away the bruised edges, and disinfect the raw surfaces. In cases of extensive laceration of the soft parts the purifi- cation must be methodical and thorough. All soiled, bruised, or torn portions of tissue should be clipped away with scissors, blood-clots removed, and the bleeding arrested by forci-pressure or ligature. When there is good reason to believe that the wound is not already infected, any fragments of bone completely separated from the periosteum may be left; but when there is any suspicion of infection they had better be removed. The wound should then be washed out with sterilised salt solution. On the whole, it is safer not to attempt to obtain primary union by completely VOL. I—26