427 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. line of the clavicle, or, less frequently, from direct violence or muscular action. As a rule the deformity is insignificant, except when the costo-clavicular ligament is torn, in which case the inner end of the outer fragment is tilted up by the weight of the arm. The shoulder passes downwards, forwards, and inwards. When close to the sternal end this fracture may simulate a dislocation of the sterno - clavicular joint or a separation of the clavicular epiphysis. This last is a very rare accident, which may occur between the seventeenth and the twenty-fifth years, usually as a result of violent muscular action. It differs from the other injuries in this region in being easily reduced and retained in position. The prognosis as to union in all these injuries is good. Firm bony union usually occurs within twenty-one days. Non-union, false joint, or fibrous union is but rarely met with. At the same time it is to be borne in mind that, in spite of all pre- cautions, some deformity and shortening may result, without, however, interfering with the usefulness of the limb. Treatment.—-The displacement in complete fractures of the clavicle is readily reduced by supporting the elbow, bracing back the shoulders, and levering out the tip of the affected shoulder. In a few rare cases the interposition of some fibres of the subclavius muscle between the fragments has prevented perfect reduction. In the greenstick variety the bone should be bent back into its normal position, even if the force required is sufficient to render the fracture a complete one. In spite of imperfect reduction, the clavicle usually straightens as it grows, and although some deformity may persist, the function of the limb is not interfered with. Treatment in the Recumbent Position.—There is little doubt that the most perfect aesthetic results are obtained by treating the patient in the recumbent position. In the case of girls, therefore, in whom it is desired that the shoulders should be perfectly symmetrical, the best method of treatment is to place the patient on a firm mattress, with a narrow, firm cushion between the shoulder-blades, so that the weight of the shoulder may carry the acromial fragment outwards and backwards. A pad is inserted in the axilla, the elbow is raised, and the arm fixed by the side on a pillow with sandbags. Massage is applied daily to hasten the disappearance of the effused blood. As this position must be maintained uninterruptedly for two or three weeks, it proves too irksome for most patients. In cases of fracture of both clavicles, however, it is, short of operation,