DISEASES OF BONE. 562 lesions, however, are usually multiple in acute rheumatism, and solitary in osteomyelitis. The pain and tenderness are over the joints in acute rheumatism, and over the bone in osteo- myelitis. Swelling is articular in acute rheumatism, and extra-articular in osteomyelitis. The pains and temperature yield to salicylate of soda much more decidedly in acute rheumatism than in osteomyelitis. The prognosis in acute suppurative osteomyelitis varies with the type of the disease, the initial severity and prominence of the symptoms of intoxication, with the seat of disease,—the vertebrae, skull, pelvis, and lower jaw being specially unfavour- able,—with the multiplicity of the lesions, and with the develop- ment of septic endocarditis and of internal metastases. Treatment.—This is carried out on the same lines as in other suppurative diseases. The strength of the patient is to be kept up by abundant and easily absorbed nourishment. Kocher advocates the liberal exhibition of fluids by the stomach, the rectum, or by subcutaneous infusion, so as to keep up the blood pressure, to wash out toxins, and to promote excretion by the kidneys and skin. Considerable relief may result from the administration of full doses of salicylate of soda. The limb is to be wi’apped in a moist antiseptic dressing, and laid on a pillow, or immobilised in some form of splint, while the necessary preparations for operative treatment are being made. The most important indications are to evacuate the pus as early as possible, and to avoid introducing any fresh infection. So far as the suppuration under the periosteum is concerned, the above indication is fulfilled by a limited incision, and the insertion of a rubber or glass drainage tube. It is sometimes difficult to decide whether or not the medullary cavity should be opened. Indications of the necessity of opening into the marrow are often present, such as the presence of fat droplets or bone particles in the pus, the oozing of pus through holes in the cortex, or signs of commencing separation at the ossifying junction. In the absence of such indications, opening into the marrow may be deferred until the persistence of fever and other symptoms of intoxication indicate the certainty of there being purulent infiltration in the interior of the bone. Necrosis is less common and less extensive after such operations than without them. There is less inclination to explore the medullary cavity in deeply seated bones,—for example, the pelvis or the femur,—as free access cannot be obtained without a severe operation. •» The Operation of Clearing out the Marrow.—The frequency