TUBERCULOUS DACTYLITTS. 575 Tuberculous dactylitis is the name applied to a diffuse form of tuberculous osteomyelitis of a phalanx, metacarpal or meta- tarsal bone, the marrow being almost entirely replaced by caseating tuberculous tissue. The macerated bone may present the appearance of having been expanded—the spina ventosa of earlier writers; this is due to the absorption of the cortex of the original bone and the continuous formation of new bone by the periosteum. In some cases the shaft of the bone dies, in part or in its entirety, and constitutes a sequestrum. Although tuberculous dactylitis is essentially a disease of the marrow, there may be at the same time disease in the periosteum. Several phalanges of a finger or toe may be affected simultaneously (Fig. 188). The clinical features are those of a spindle-shaped swelling of a finger or toe, indolent, painless, and interfering but little with its func- tions. Recovery may eventually occur without suppuration, but in untreated cases it is very common to have the formation of a cold abscess, resulting in one or more sinuses. Previous to abscess forma- tion it may be difficult to differ- entiate tuberculous dactylitis from the enlargement of the finger in inherited syphilis (syphilitic dacty- litis), especially when the tuber- culous lesion occurs in a child who is the subject of in- herited syphilis. Skiagrams usually show a more abundant formation of new bone in the syphilitic lesion, but in many cases the doubt is only cleared up by observing the progress of the case and the effects of treatment, specific remedies usually bringing about a cure of the syphilitic lesion, while they have no influence in those which are tuberculous. Treatment is influenced by the knowledge that recovery under conservative measures is by no means uncommon, and that the functional results are usually much better than those following upon operative treatment, although in either case the affected finger is liable to be dwarfed. The finger should be immobilised in a splint, and the general health improved in every possible way. Operative interference is indicated if a cold abscess forms, where there is a persistent sinus, or for the Fie. 189.—Tuberculous Dactylitis.