TUMOURS. 186 have been mistaken for sarcomata, and portions of the jaw removed unnecessarily. Any circumscribed tumour of the jaw, particularly when met with in a young adult, should suggest an odontoma. Treatment.—The solid varieties of odontoma can usually be shelled out after dividing the overlying soft parts. In the follicular variety, it is usually sufficient to excise a portion of the wall, scrape out the interior, and remove the tooth if it be present. The cavity is then packed with gauze, and allowed to heal from the bottom. Fibroma.—A fibroma is a tumour composed of fibrous connective tissue. A distinction may be made between the soft fibroma, which is comparatively rich in cells and blood-vessels, and in which the fibres are arranged loosely; and the hard fibroma, which is almost entirely composed of closely-packed bundles of fibres often arranged in a concentric fashion around the blood-vessels. The cut surface of the soft fibroma presents a pinkish-white, fleshy appearance resembling the slowly-growing forms of sarcoma; while that of a hard fibroma presents a dry, glistening appearance, aptly compared to watered silk. The soft variety grows much more rapidly than the hard. In certain fibromata—in those, for example, which grow from the periosteum of the base of the skull and project into the naso-pharynx—the blood-vessels are dilated into sinuses and have no proper sheaths. They therefore tend to remain open when divided and to bleed furiously. Transition forms between soft fibromata and sarco- mata are met with, so that in operating for their removal it is safer to take away the capsule along with the tumour. The skin is one of the favourite seats of fibromata,—especially the skin of the buttock,—and they may occur in a multiple form. They are also met with in the subcutaneous and intermuscular cellular tissue ; and in the abdominal wall, where they sometimes attain considerable dimensions. The fibrous overgrowths in the skin known as keloid, and molluscum fibrosum, and those met with in the sheaths of nerves, are described elsewhere. Fibroid tumours of the uterus are described with myomata. Myxoma.—A myxoma is composed of tissue similar to that found in the umbilical cord. The tumour is characterised by its soft, gelatinous, semifluid consistence. The pure myxoma is ex- tremely rare, and occurring, as it does, chiefly in the subcutaneous and intermuscular connective tissue, it resembles clinically the lipoma. Myxomatous tissue is, however, frequently found in other connective-tissue tumours as a result, of myxomatous de- generation. This is specially observed in cartilaginous tumours