ANKYLOSIS. 609 Elongation of the adhesions may be effected by manipulations, exercises, and the use of special forms of apparatus—such as extension, or the application of weights to the limb. Massage, douching, and electricity are also useful. This line of treatment, however, demands considerable patience and fortitude on the part of the patient, and some encouragement such as is afforded by indications of yielding on the part of the adhesions. It may be necessary to administer an anaesthetic in order to rupture strong fibrous adhesions. These often give way with an audible crack. This procedure must be carried out with caution, in view of such risks as fracture of the bone—which is often rarefied— or separation of an epiphysis. There is also a risk of fat embolism, and of re-starting the disease. In any case the procedure is followed by considerable pain and effusion into the joint, which necessitate rest for some days before exercises and other manipulations are resumed. In selected cases of fibrous ankylosis, with or without con- tracture, it may be advisable to attempt to secure a movable joint by open arthrotomy, dividing or removing adhesions and other contracted tissues. This procedure, which has been named arthrolysis, has been chiefly practised in the elbow, and has yielded results which are distinctly encouraging. If the ankylosis is osseous and a movable joint is desired,— for example, at the elbow,—a considerable amount of bone, and it may be also of periosteum and capsular ligament, may require to be resected to allow of the formation of a false joint. On the other hand, if osseous ankylosis has occurred with the limb in a good position it should be left alone. When bony ankylosis has occurred with the joint in an undesirable attitude,—for example, flexion at the hip or knee, or extension at the elbow,—it can only be remedied by an osteo- tomy or a wedge-shaped resection of the bone, with or without such additional division of the contracted soft parts as will permit of the limb being placed in the attitude desired. The fixation of the bones to each other by means of pegs may hasten the occurrence of osseous union, and afford an additional secu- rity of the correct attitude being maintained. Bony ankylosis of the joints of a finger, whether the result of injury or disease, is difficult to remedy by any operative procedure, for while it is quite possible to restore mobility, the new joint is apt to be flail-like and useless. In those who find that the stiff finger is always in the way, and who have little regard for appearances, it is usually best to remove it. VOL. 1—39