006 DISEASES OF JOINTS. or purulent, as in certain forms of pyogenic and tuberculous arthritis. Wasting of the muscles in the vicinity of the joint is a constant accompaniment of arthritis. It especially affects the extensor muscles, is quantitative rather than degenerative, and the muscles do not show the reaction of degeneration. On account of the involvement of the articular surfaces, arthritis is apt to be followed by one or other form of ankylosis. The term empyema is sometimes employed to indicate that the cavity of the joint is full of pus. It is chiefly observed in chronic suppurative disease of pyogenic or tuberculous origin, and is usually attended with the formation of abscesses outside the joint. Ulceration of cartilage and caries of the articular surfaces are common accompaniments of the more serious and progressive forms of joint disease, and especially those of bacterial origin. The destruction of the cartilage is usually preceded by the formation of granulation tissue derived from the synovial membrane or from the bone marrow; the granulation tissue eats into and replaces the cartilage, giving rise to defects or holes, which are spoken of as ulcers. Ulceration of cartilage and articular caries represent successive stages in the same destructive process, the disappearance of the cartilage being frequently followed by exposure and disintegration of the sub- jacent bone. The occurrence of ulceration of cartilage and of articular caries is always attended with rigidity of the joint from involuntary muscular contraction, with marked wasting of muscles, and starting pains at night. These starting pains are the result of sudden involuntary movements of the joint, and are most likely to occur when the patient is dropping off to sleep. The muscles which hold the joint rigid become relaxed, and the sensitive ulcerated surfaces are thus allowed to jar on one another, causing sudden reflex contraction of the muscles, and the resulting movement is attended with severe pain, which causes the patient to wake with a start. Advanced articular caries is usually associated with some abnormal attitude, and sometimes with dislocation. It may be possible under anaes- thesia to make the exposed and crumbling bony surfaces grate upon one another. Should recovery take place, repair is usually attended with union of the oj)posing articular surfaces either by fibrous tissue or by bone. The term disorganisation of a joint indicates that all the constituent parts are damaged or destroyed. This occurs in the more severe and destructive forms of joint disease, and especially iu those of pyogenic or tuberculous origin.