318 THE NERVES. four months. There then follows an improvement or disappear- ance of any trophic disturbances which may be present. Re- covery of motion may be deferred for long periods,—rather because of the changes in the muscles than from want of con- ductivity in the nerve,—and if the muscles have undergone complete degeneration, it may never take place at all. While waiting for recovery, every effort should be made to maintain the nutrition of the damaged nerve and of the parts which it supplies by the measures already described. If it is impossible to bring the ends into contact, recourse must be had to other methods. For example, the gap may be bridged across by strands of fine catgut or by a portion of nerve obtained from an animal or a recently amputated limb. When catgut is employed, it is a useful addition to slip a decalcified bone tube over the ends of the nerve and across the gap. The practice of turning down flaps from the ends of the nerve is of doubtful value, as such portions usually degenerate. The resection of a portion of bone so as to shorten the segment of limb con- cerned has been successfully practised in the upper arm (Annan- dale). When the gap between the ends is very wide, the ends may be spliced into the nearest intact nerve trunk—for example, the widely separated ends of the median nerve may be attached to the ulnar. The results of this procedure—which has been called nerve implantation—are often most satisfactory. Injuries of nerves from. modern rifle-bullets have been already described. Involvement of Nerves in Scar Tissue.—A nerve trunk or the terminal filaments of a uerve may be dragged upon or compressed by scar tissue. The patient complains of neuralgic pains and of great sensitiveness in the region of the scar. The pain may radiate to distant parts, and may be associated with twitching of the muscles and in rare cases with epileptiform convulsions. Secondary changes of the nature of neuritis may occur in the nerve affected. Treatment.—When terminal filaments are involved in a scar, it is best to dissect out the scar, and along with it the ends of the nerves pressed upon. The wound is then closed by bringing together the edges or by means of a flap of skin, or by Thiersch grafts, with the view of obtaining primary union. When a nerve trunk, such as the sciatic, is involved in a scar, the nerve must be exposed and freed from its surroundings, and then stretched so as to tear any bands of fibrous tissue which may have been overlooked. When the nerves in an amputation stump have not been cut