SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY. 11 II by simple fission, each parent cell giving rise to two daughter cells, and this process goes on with such extraordinary rapidity that it has been computed that in twenty-four hours from one individual bacterium seventeen millions of similar cells may be produced. Other varieties are propagated by the formation of spores, but as most spore-forming bacteria give rise to only one spore, this is rather a process of rejuvenescence than of multi- plication. A spore is a minute mass of protoplasm surrounded by a dense, tough membrane, developed in the interior of the parent cell. Spores are remarkable for their extreme vitality, and for the resistance they offer to the action of heat and chemical germicides. Bacteria are most conveniently classified according to their shapes. Thus we recognise (1) those which are globular—cocci ; (2) those which resemble a straight rod—bacilli. Cocci or micrococci are minute round bodies, averaging 1 to 1‘5 mm. in diameter. They all multiply by fission, and when they divide in such a way that the resulting cells remain in pairs, they are called diplococci, of which the bacteria of gonorrhoea and pneumonia are examples. When they divide irregularly and form grape-like bunches they are known as staphylococci, and to this variety the commonest pyogenic or pus-forming organisms belong. When division takes place only in one axis, so that long chains are formed, the term streptococcus is applied. Streptococci are met with in erysipelas and various other inflammatory and suppurative processes of a spreading character. Bacilli are rod-shaped bacteria, usually at least twice as long as they are broad. Some multiply by fission, others by sporula- tion. Tuberculosis, tetanus, anthrax, and many other surgical diseases are due to different forms of bacilli. Conditions of Bacterial Life. — The first essential to the growth and development of bacteria is a suitable food-supply in the form of proteids and carbo-hydrates, which complex organic substances they break up, in the act of nourishing themselves, into simpler elements. An alkaline medium favours bacterial growth; and moisture is a necessary condition, although spores can survive the want of water for much longer periods than fully-developed bacteria. The necessity for oxygen varies in different species. Those which, like the bacillus proteus vulgaris, can only flourish in its presence, are known as aerobic bacilli, or aerobes ; those, such as the bacillus of tetanus and of malignant oedema, which will not live in the presence of oxygen, are spoken of as anaerobic. The -great majority of bacteria, how-