6 4 SUPPURATION. Clinical Features.—There may be an incubation period of some hours between the infection and the first manifestation of acute septicaemia. In such conditions as acute osteo-myelitis or acute perforative peritonitis we see the most typical clinical pictures of this condition. The onset is marked by a chill, or a rigor, which may be repeated, while the temperature rises to 103° or 104° F. In very severe cases the temperature may be subnormal throughout. The virulence of the toxins may prevent leucocytosis occurring. It is in the pulse that we have our best guide as to the severity of the condition. If the pulse remain firm, full, and regular, and does not exceed 110 or even 120, while the temperature is moderately raised, the outlook is hopeful; but when the pulse becomes small and compressible, and reaches 130 or more, especially if at the same time the temperature is low, a grave prognosis is indicated. The tongue is often dry, and coated with a black crust down the centre, while the sides are red. It is a good omen when the tongue becomes moist again. Thirst is most distressing, especially in septicaemia of intestinal origin. Persistent vomiting of dark- brown material whenever fluids are taken is often present, and diarrhoea with blood-stained stools is not uncommon. The urine is small in amount, and contains a large proportion of urates. As the disease advances, the respiration becomes shallow and laboured, the face of a dull ashy grey, the nose pinched, and the skin cold and clammy. Capillary haemorrhages sometimes take place in the skin or mucous membranes; and in a certain proportion of cases cutaneous eruptions simulating those of scarlet fever or measles appear, and are apt to lead to errors of diagnosis. In other cases there is slight jaundice. The mental state is often one of complete apathy, the patient failing to realise the gravity of his condition ; sometimes there is delirium. The prognosis is always grave, and depends on the possibility of complete disinfection of the seat of toxin formation, and the reserve force the patient has to carry him over the period during which he is eliminating the poison already in circulation. The only prophylaxis of septicaemia possible to the surgeon consists in the rigorous application of antiseptic methods in all surgical procedures. It has been suggested by Watson-Cheyne that the anti-streptococcic serum should be injected as a prophy- lactic before operation in cases where there is reason to fear streptococcal infection, and where rigid aseptic precautions can- not be enforced, as in the mouth or rectum. Treatment.—Once the condition is firmly established, little can be done. The wound must be opened up, purified by paint-