569 CHRONIC OSTEOMYELITIS. of pain and swelling, involving a considerable extent of tlie femur or tibia. The pain varies in intensity, and may be continuous or remittent. There is tenderness on pressure. The shaft of the bone is increased in girth, as a result of its being surrounded by a new case derived from the periosteum. The resemblance to sarcoma may be very close, but the swelling is not so defined as in sarcoma, nor does it ever assume the “leg of mutton” shape characteristic of the latter. In both diseases there is a tendency to pathological fracture. The condition is also differentiated with difficulty from syphilitic and from tuberculous disease. The anatomical peculiarities of this disease, apart from the absence of suppuration, are, the incomplete distinction between the dead and the living bone, the length of time -required for the separation of the sequestrum, the absence of any cloaca in the new case, and the forma- tion of new bone both on the external and internal aspects of the tubular sequestrum which represents the original shaft. Many of these characters are illustrated in tuberculous and syphilitic necrosis. They are to be ascribed partly, no doubt, to the fact that the disease is practically confined to the bones of adults, but chiefly to the very attenuated form of the infecting virus giving rise to it, the virus in this respect resembling that of tubercle or syphilis. The treatment consists in removing the sequestrum on the usual lines. The symptoms are relieved in any case by trephining the bone. Osteomyelitis and Periostitis due to Pyogenic Infections other than Staphylococci.—It has been hitherto assumed that the majority, includ- ing all the typical forms of osteomyelitis, are the result of infection with the staphylococcus aureus. Any micro-organism, however, with pyogenic properties may cause osteomyelitis. In infections with the staphylococcus albus the disease is usually milder, and is less frequently followed by necrosis. The streptococcus pyogenes is rarely met with as a pure infection, and occurs chiefly in infants. The onset of the illness may be very acute, but the symptoms tend to subside in a few days, when pus forms. Joint complications are comparatively frequent, the pains are less severe ; suppuration occurs earlier, and is more diffuse and abundant. The pneumococcus causes medullary infections which have been met with especially in the earlier years of childhood. They are relatively benign, for although the general symptoms may be grave to start with, the local lesions are less severe, as if the virulence of the infection were soon exhausted. The joints are affected more frequently than the bones. Incision of the purulent collection in relation to the bone is usually sufficient, as there is little tendency to the formation of sequestra. Some slight thickening of the bone, or a few adhesions in the adjacent joint, may remain, otherwise recovery is usually rapid and complete. The Typhoid Bacillus.—During typhoid fever, the bone marrow is markedly congested, which appears to favour the lodgment of the bacilli, and when lodged, they are capable of persisting for long periods until some injury or other factor determines their return to active life. The lesions in the bones may or may not be attended by suppuration, and they may involve the marrow or the periosteum, or both. They may be solitary or multiple. Their favourite seat is in the tibia and in the ribs at the costo-chondral junctions. Where unattended by suppuration, the disease may recover completely, or apparently recover, and then relapse. When pus is formed, it usually presents on examina- tion a pure culture of the typhoid bacillus. The abscess may be dumb-