THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 242 instead of diminishing the calibre of the artery, open up the hole in its wall and allow of free bleeding. By completing the division of the vessel under these circumstances the bleeding can often be arrested. In certain situations also the arteries are so intimately connected with their sheaths that they are unable to retract and contract when cut across,—for example, in the scalp, in the penis, and in bones,—and copious bleeding may take place from comparatively small vessels. This inability of the vessels to contract and retract occurs also in inflamed and oedematous parts and in scar tissue. Arteries divided in the substance of a muscle also sometimes bleed unduly. Any increase in the force of the heart’s action, such as may result from exertion, excitement, or over-stimulation, also prevents the natural arrest of bleeding. Haemophilia will be referred to later. In course of time the collateral branches of the vessel above and below the level of section become enlarged and their inter- communication becomes more free, so that even when large trunks have been divided the vascular supply of the parts beyond is completely restored. This is known as the development of the collateral circulation. (c) Ligature of a Vessel in its Continuity.—When a ligature is applied to an artery it should be pulled sufficiently tight to occlude the lumen without causing rupture of any of its coats. It often happens, however, that the compression causes a rupture of the inner and middle coats, so that only the adventitia remains in the grasp of the ligature. While this w'eakens the w7all of the vessel, it has the advantage of hastening coagula- tion, by bringing the blood into contact with damaged tissue. Whether the inner and middle coats be ruptured or not, blood coagulates both above and below the ligature, the proximal clot being longer and broader than that on the distal side. In small arteries these clots extend as far as the nearest collateral branch, but in the larger trunks their length is variable. The permanent occlusion of those portions of the vessel occupied by clot is brought about by the formation of granulation tissue, and its replacement by cicatricial tissue. In this process the coagulum only plays a passive role by forming a scaffolding on which the granulations are built up. The ligature which surrounds the vessel, and the elements of the clot are ultimately absorbed. (cl) In a vessel ligatured at its cut end,—as, for example, in an amputation stump,—the regenerative process is practically the same as when it is ligatured in its continuity. The ligature