129 ACTINOMYCOSIS. When metastasis takes place the fungus is transmitted by the blood-vessels, as in pyaemia. Clinical Features.—In man the disease may be met with on a cutaneous surface, but this is not common. The organisms gain access through a broken surface, and spread by the formation of new nodules in the same way as tuberculosis of the skin. They may, however, pass deeply and involve any of the underlying tissues. The lymphatic glands are not involved—a point which may serve to distinguish this disease from tuberculosis. The region of the mouth and jaws is one of the commonest sites of surgical actinomycosis. Infection takes place, as a rule, along the side of a carious tooth, and spreads to the lower jaw. A swelling is slowly and insidiously developed, and a condition closely resembling a periosteal sarcoma results. The loose con- nective tissue of the neck becomes infiltrated, and then the spread is more rapid. The whole region becomes swollen and infiltrated, and the skin ultimately gives way and free suppuration occurs, resulting in the formation of persistent sinuses. The character- istic greenish-grey or yellow granules are seen in the pus, and when examined microscopically reveal the colonies of actinomyces. Less frequently the upper jaw becomes affected, and the disease may spread to the base of the skull and brain and end fatally. The vertebrce may become involved by infection taking place through the pharynx or oesophagus, and leading to a condition simulating tuberculous disease of the spine. This disease comes under the notice of the physician when it implicates the intestinal canal and its accessory glands, the lungs, pleura and bronchial tubes, the brain, or the female genital tract. Differential Diagnosis.—The conditions likely to be mistaken for surgical actinomycosis are sarcoma, tubercle, and syphilitic gumma. In the early stages the differential diagnosis is ex- ceedingly difficult. In many cases it is only possible when suppuration has occurred and the fungus can be demonstrated. The slow destruction of the affected tissue by suppuration, the absence of pain, tenderness, and redness simulate tuberculosis, but the absence of glandular involvement serves to distinguish it. Syjihilis may be excluded by a consideration of the history of the patient, but benefit from the administration of potassium iodide is likely to follow in both diseases. When the pleura is affected the condition is very liable to be mistaken for an ordinary pyogenic or a tuberculous empyema. The recognition of the fungus is the crucial point in diagnosis, VOL. I—9