EPITHELIAL TUMOURS. 191 occasionally resulted in the disappearance of a sarcoma. Coley’s fluid, which consists of a sterilised culture of the streptococcus of erysipelas and the bacillus prodigiosus, is the injection usually employed. The two organisms are grown together and the culture is then sterilised by heat. A dose, which varies in amount with the virulence of the culture employed, is injected every second day or so into the subcutaneous tissue at a little distance from the tumour. Each injection is followed by a reaction attended with fever, nausea, and pain; the treatment is in consequence very distressing to the patient. In successful cases, the tumour decreases in size, becomes less painful, and may eventually disappear. This result has been obtained in 16 per cent, of the cases subjected to the treatment, the best results being obtained in spindle-celled tumours (Coley). The effect of the toxins is to cause degeneration of the cellular elements of the growth which then become absorbed. Inflamma- tion and sloughing, when they occur, are septic complications which ought to be avoided. Should no improvement manifest itself after a three weeks’ course of the treatment, it should be abandoned. Encouraging results in inoperable cases have also been obtained by the use of the Rontgen rays. Epithelial Tumours. In the tumours of this class an excessive and erratic growth of epithelium constitutes the essential and distinguishing feature. The innocent forms are the papilloma and the adenoma; while the malignant forms are the carcinomata or cancers. Papilloma.—Papillomata are tumours which project from a cutaneous or mucous surface, and consist of a central axis of vascular fibrous tissue with a covering of epithelium, which resembles that of the surface from which the tumour grows. In the papillomata of the skin—commonly known as warts—the covering consists of epidermis; in those growing from mucous membranes it consists of the surface epithelium. When the surface epithelium projects as filiform processes, the tumour is called a villous ’papilloma, the best-known example of which is met with in the urinary bladder. Papillomatous growths are also met with in the larynx, in the ducts of the breast—the so- called duct papilloma—and in the interior of certain cystic tumours of the breast and of the ovary. Although papillomata are innocent, when subjected to irritation they may become the starting-point of cancer. The clinical features and treatment of