434 INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. anatomical construction of the joint—the large, round humeral head imperfectly fitting the small and shallow glenoid cavity, and the ligaments being comparatively lax and thin. The capsule of the joint is materially strengthened in its upper and back parts by the tendons of the supra- and infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles; while it is weakest below and in front between the subscapularis and teres major tendons. It is here that it most frequently gives way and allows of displacement of the head of the bone. The violence is usually transmitted from the hand or elbow, less frequently from the outer aspect of the shoulder, the limb being at the moment abducted and the muscles relaxed and taken unawares. The head of the humerus, thus brought to bear on the weakest part of the capsule, ruptures it and passes out through the rent. Dislocation is very readily produced in an unconscious patient, and sometimes occurs in conducting arti- ficial respiration or in handling a patient suffering from opium poisoning. Several varieties of dislocation are recognised according to the position in which the head of the humerus finally rests. The simplest and least complicated of these is the sub-glenoid variety, in which the head rests on the long head of the triceps where it arises from the axillary border of the scapula just below the glenoid cavity. In almost all cases of dislocation of the shoulder the head of the bone is at least momentarily in this position, but the sharp edge of the scapula and the rounded head are ill adapted to one another, and the position is not long maintained. The subsequent course taken by the humerus depends upon the nature and direction of the force, the position of the limb at the moment of injury, and the relative strength and capacity for effective action of the different groups of muscles acting upon the bone. In the great majority of cases it passes forward and inward, and comes to lie against the anterior surface of the neck of the scapula, under cover of the tendons of origin of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles, constituting the sub-coracoid dislocation. Much less frequently it passes still farther in and lies under the pectoralis minor and against the edge of the clavicle—the sub- clavicular variety. In rare cases the head passes backward and lies against the spine on the dorsum of the scapula, beneath the infraspinatus muscle—the subspinous variety. Other varieties are so rare that they do not call for special mention. Clinical Features common to all Varieties.—Dislocations of the shoulder are commonest in adult males. In advanced life