SYPHILIS. 166 of which it is composed is very apt to undergo necrosis in which the overlying skin or mucous membrane frequently participates, the result being an ulcer—the tertiary syphilitic ulcer (Fig. 27). Tertiary Lesions of the Skin and Subcutaneous Cellular Tissue.—The clinical features of a subcutaneous gumma are those of an indolent, painless, elastic swelling, varying in size from a pea to that of an almond or walnut. After a variable period it usually softens in the centre, the skin over it becomes livid and dusky, and finally separates as a slough, exposing the tissue of the gumma beneath. Sometimes this appears as a mucoid, yellowish, honey-like substance; more frequently as a sodden, caseated tissue resembling wash leather. Unlike the contents of a tuberculous abscess, the de - generated tissue of a gumma is only gradually separated, and may be visible for weeks in the floor of the ulcer. The caseated tissue of a gumma differs from the cor- responding tissue of a tuberculous lesion in being tough and firm, of a buff colour like wash leather, or whitish, like boiled fish. Ac- cording to the extent of skin which has sloughed over a gumma, the resulting defect may be de- scribed as a sinus or as an ulcer. The tertiary ulcer may be situated anywhere, but is most frequently met with on the legs, especially in the region of the knee (Fig. 27) and over the calf. There may be one or more ulcers, and there may be scars of antecedent ulcers. The edges are sharply cut, as if punched out; the margins are rounded in outline, firm, and congested ; the base is occupied by gummatous tissue, or, if this has already separated and sloughed out, by unhealthy granulations and a thick purulent discharge. In rare cases the ulcer spreads bya destructive processallied to phagedrena. When the ulcer has healed, it leaves a scar which may or may not be depressed, but is usually thin, supple, and white in the centre with a pigmented margin. The features of the tertiary ulcer, hoAvever, are not always so characteristic as the above description would imply. It is to be diagnosed from the “leg Fig. 27. — Tertiary Syphilitic Ulceration in region of Knee in woman set. 35.