130 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. Prognosis.—Spontaneous cure rarely occurs. When the disease implicates internal organs it is almost always fatal. On external parts the destructive process gradually spreads, and the patient eventually succumbs to septic poisoning, pyaemia, and exhaustion. Metastasis is very rare. When the primary focus from its situation admits of surgical treatment the prognosis is more favourable. Treatment.—The only surgical treatment to be seriously considered is the early and free removal of the affected tissues. After excision the wound is cauterised by the actual cautery and sponged over with pure carbolic acid. The cavity left is packed with iodoform gauze, no attempt being made to close the wound by stitches. Local recurrences are treated in the same way. The administration of potassium iodide in large doses is of Fig. 25.—Mycetoma, or Madura Foot. (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.) great benefit in the treatment of actinomycosis, and in cases in which operative treatment is impracticable, is the most reliable measure at our disposal. Mycetoma or Madura Foot.—Mycetoma is a very chronic disease due to an organism resembling that of actinomycosis, but not identical with it. It is endemic in certain tropical countries, and is most fre- quently met with in India. Infection takes place through the skin. An abrasion is doubtless necessary for the introduction of the organism. The disease usually occurs on the feet of adult males w ho work barefooted in the fields—hence the name “Madura foot.” Clinical Features.—The disease begins on some part of the foot as an indurated patch, which becomes discoloured and permeated by black or yellow nodules containing the organism. These nodules spread through the foot, break down by suppuration, and numerous minute abscesses lined by granulation tissue are thus formed. In the pus yellow particles likened to fish-roe, or black-pigmented granules like gunpowder, are constantly found. Sinuses form, and the whole foot becomes greatly swollen and distorted by flattening of the sole and hyper-extension of the toes. Areas of caries or necrosis occur in the bones of the foot (Fig. 25) ;