SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. 581 sinuses or ulcers with sequestra, but there may be serious intra- cranial complications of the nature of abscess or meningitis. In the nose the disease may be characterised by gradually in- creasing deformity and an offensive discharge ; or by blocking of the tear duct with lachrymal abscess and fistula; in the palate by the formation of perforations and consequent alteration of speech ; in the wall of the orbit by exophthalmos and paralysis of the ocular muscles. Diagnosis.—The conditions most liable to be mistaken for syphilitic disease of bone are chronic staphylococcal osteomyelitis, sarcoma, and tuberculosis. Staphylococcal and, tuberculous lesions, in contrast to those of syphilitic origin, are frequently located in the ends of the long bones, are often complicated by disease of the adjacent joint and by the formation of abscess, and are not influenced by anti-syphilitic remedies. The diagnosis from sarcoma is to be made from the history and progress of the disease, the results of examination with the X-rays, and the effects of specific medicines. Treatment.—The internal administration of iodides and of mercury, along with the local application of blisters is usually followed by relief of pain and absorption of the gummatous tissue. A periosteal gumma should not be incised, even although it has softened and the skin over it is red. In advanced cases, ivhere the bone has undergone structural alterations of the nature of hyperostosis and sclerosis, or where there are sinuses, suppura- tion and necrosis, specific remedies may have little effect, or they may only afford relief during their administration, the disease relapsing as soon as they are left off. Great care must be devoted to improving the general health. In cases of persistent or relapsing gummatous disease of the bone with ulceration of the skiu over it, in addition to constitutional treatment, it is often necessary to adopt the same surgical methods of treatment as have been recommended in tuberculosis. The diseased soft parts are removed with the spoon and scissors, and the affected bone gouged or chiselled away. Where there is merely hyper- ostosis and sclerosis of the bone, with severe pain which does not yield to blistering, the thickened periosteum may be incised and the sclerosed bone perforated with a drill, gouge or trephine. In gummatous disease in the nose or palate, when it is per- sistent and threatens to result in serious deformity, surgical removal of the affected tissues may be had recourse to. Access may be obtained to the nasal cavities by splitting the nose in the middle line or by raising it up as in Rouge’s operation. The infected parts are then removed, the raw tissues swabbed with