THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 282 A stay knot consists of two ligatures applied side by side, each having the first turn of a reef knot tied separately. The two ends on each side are then used as a single cord with which to make the second turn of the reef knot (Ballance and Edmunds). The wound is sutured without drainage. The after treatment consists in wrapping the limb in cotton wool to conserve its heat, and elevating it sufficiently to promote the venous return, without at the same time impeding the arterial How — a similar line of treatment to that already described in connection with ruptured arteries. Compression.—With a view to promoting coagulation in the sac the circulation may be temporarily arrested by compressing the artery on the cardiac side of the aneurysm. To be efficient the compression must be kept up continuously for several hours. It is best accomplished by digital pressure applied over a super- ficial part of the vessel where it overlies a bone. As the com- pressing hand soon gets tired, to ensure the pressure being continuously and efficiently maintained it is necessary to have a relay of competent assistants to relieve one another. The pressure should be sufficient to stop pulsation in the aneurysm, although it should not completely arrest the flow through the artery. Great care is necessary while the assistants are relieving one another, to avoid a rush of blood through the aneurysm. It is advisable to vary slightly the point of pressure, lest the skin and deeper parts be injured by the prolonged compression. Digital compression is chiefly applicable to aneurysm of the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries. Compression by instruments—tourniquets, weights, and other forms of compressor—is less satisfactory than that by the fingers. The appliances are difficult to regulate and to maintain in position, and, in addition to being painful, they are liable to cause irritation or even sloughing of the soft parts pressed upon. The results of compression are very variable and uncertain. Sometimes coagulation takes place rapidly, and the clot formed permanently cures the aneurysm. In other cases a laminated clot is slowly formed, many weeks being required for the complete occlusion of the sac. Not infrequently, the clot which forms only temporarily arrests the pulsation, and sub- sequently disappears, so that the pulsation is restored. In some instances even prolonged pressure skilfully applied entirely fails to induce coagulation. Flexion.—In small and slowly growing aneurysms at the bend of the elbow or in the popliteal space, the circulation may be arrested and coagulation induced by flexing the joint so that