505 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. dorsum of the sound foot. There is shortening to the extent of from one and a half to two inches, the trochanter being displaced above Nekton’s line, and lying further from the anterior superior iliac spine than on the normal side. The patient is unable to move the limb or to bear weight upon it; abduction and external rotation are specially painful ; and traction fails to restore the limb to its proper length. On making these attempts a characteristic elastic resistance is felt. The head of the femur may sometimes be felt in its new position through the fibres of the gluteus maximus, but the swelling of soft parts often obscures this sign. The normal depression behind the great trochanter is lost, the gluteal fold is raised, and there is often a degree of lordosis which compensates for the flexion. The fingers can be pressed more deeply into Scarpa’s triangle on the dislocated than on the normal side—a Fig. 152.—Dislocation of Femur onto Dorsum Ilii, showing flexion, adduction, and shortening of the limb. point in which this injury differs from fracture of the base of the neck of the femur. In a certain number of cases the outer limb of the A-ligament is ruptured and the limb is everted—dorsal dislocation with ever- sion; but in other respects the clinical features are much the same. Dislocation into the vicinity of the Ischiatic Notch or “ dislocation below the tendon.”—This variety of backward dislocation is less common than that onto the dorsum, although produced in the same way. The head of the femur passes beneath the obturator internus, and this tendon, catching on its neck, checks its upward movement. The clinical features are the same as those of the dorsal variety, but, on the whole, are less marked. Differential Diagnosis.—Backward dislocations of the hip are usually easily recognised. When the dislocation below the tendon occurs in a very stout person, however, it is liable to be overlooked on account of the difficulty of feeling the displaced bone, and the comparatively slight amount of deformity present.