DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 678 cavity of the joint, or may divide it up into compartments, one usually being above the patella, and two below, in relation to the condyles of the femur. When, under these conditions, a tuberculous focus in the bone erupts into the joint, the infection may be confined to one or other of these compartments. The destructive changes of the articular surfaces are similar to those in other joints. That form of the disease known as white swelling is due not only to tuberculous thickening of the synovial membrane, but in addi- tion to thickening and gelatinous transformation of the para-syn- ovial connective tissue, and especially of the fat around the joint. The nature and seat of the bone lesions are subject to the same wide variations as in other joints ; the tibia and femur are affected with about equal frequency. Multiple small foci may be found beneath the artic- ular cartilage of the tibia, or along the lateral margins of the femoral condyles—especially the internal. Caseating foci are com- paratively rare, but sometimes attain a considerable size—especi- ally in the head of the tibia, where they may assume the character of a caseous abscess. Sclerosed foci, which may form sequestra, are comparatively common (Fig. 231). Diffuse caseating osteomyelitis may involve an entire epiphysis and extend into the adjacent shaft. The more severe bone lesions in young children frequently erupt outside the joint, either into the popliteal space or on one of the lateral aspects of the limb. Clinical Types of Tuberculous Disease of the Knee.—Hydrops tuberculosis is that type in which the outstanding feature is the accumulation of fluid in the joint. It usually arises from a purely synovial lesion, but where the joint suddenly becomes distended with fluid it may depend on foci in the bones. Hydrops is chiefly met with in young adults. As a rule, the fluid accumulates gradually and imperceptibly, stretching the capsule, and pushing the patella forwards, so that it Fig. 231.—The Lower End of Femur from an advanced case of Tuber- culous Arthritis of the Knee. Towards the posterior aspect of the internal condyle there is a wedge - shaped sequestrum, of whicli the surface exposed to the joint is polished like porcelain. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)