56 SUPPURATION. that they are placed so as not to interfere unduly with vessels and nerves. The pus is gently squeezed from the meshes of the tissues, and, where it is deemed advisable, the whole surface of the wound may be swabbed over with pure carbolic acid. Drainage tubes are inserted, or iodoform gauze lightly packed into the wound, and an ordinary antiseptic dressing applied, to be renewed at least once daily until granulations are formed and the risk of further spread is past. In cases where the temperature remains raised, and other signs of septic absorption persist after incisions have been made, much benefit may result from the continuous irrigation of the part by a slow, steady stream of a mild antiseptic lotion, at the body temperature, such as boracic acid, or permanganate of potash. Frequent washing with sulphurous acid or peroxide of hydrogen (10 vols. strength) has been found to be of value in such cases. The method of treating these cases by continuous immersion in a water-bath containing antiseptics has its advocates, but it is a method which is very liable to be misused and to do harm. Elevation of the affected part diminishes the passive oedema and the pain ; but it is necessary to take care that it in no way interferes with drainage, and that it does not facilitate the spread of the pus farther up the limb. A suitably arranged splint often adds to the comfort of the patient. The rapidity with which the process is arrested and repair takes place after prompt and vigorous treatment is often re- markable. Massage, passive movement, hot and cold douching, and other measures, may be necessary to get rid of the chronic oedema, adhesions of tendons, and stiffness of joints which so often remain after cellulitis. In all cases the toxamiia must be counteracted by the ad- ministration of quinine, strychnine, iron, alcoholic stimulants, and by suitable nourishment. In a certain number of cases due to infection by streptococci, anti-streptococcic serum may be useful. In a few rare cases amputation well above the seat of disease may, by removing the source of toxin production, offer the only means of saving the patient’s life. Suppurative Cellulitis in Different Situations. Whitlow.—Whitlow is a convenient clinical term applied to an acute inflammation, usually followed by suppuration, in the