520 INJURIES IN REGION OF KNEE AND LEG. the fibula does not reach the facet on the tibia—a condition which might be mistaken for a dislocation. Displacement of the Semilunar Cartilages. One or other of the semilunar cartilages may become unduly movable as a result of gradual stretching of its ligaments, or may be actually displaced by sudden rupture of these. The most common condition is one in which the ligaments of the affected side of the joint are relaxed and admit of the cartilage passing between the bones, so that it is liableVto be nipped in certain movements of the joint. When the ligaments are completely torn the cartilage may be dislocated into the inter-condyloid notch. We have seen one case in which it was protruded from the joint. In other cases the cartilage itself is actually torn across— usually near its anterior end, with the result that the posterior part is liable to pass between the bones. Not infrequently the cartilage is split longitudinally, so that its inner margin becomes loose. The internal cartilage is much more frequently affected than the external. This is largely due to the fact that, owing to the way in which it is fixed by its coronary and other ligaments to the capsule of the joint, it enjoys a comparatively limited range of movement. When the knee is Hexed, therefore, and the tibia suddenly rotated outward, these ligaments are put upon the stretch and are liable to give way and allow the cartilage to slip too far inwards between the articular ends of the bones. This condition is met with most frequently amongst those who by their occupation are compelled to assume a kneeling or squatting attitude, with the toes turned outward, for prolonged periods—as is the case, for example, with coal-miners. The ligaments attaching the semilunar cartilage to the capsule, and the lateral ligaments of the joint are gradually stretched and weakened, so that a comparatively slight degree of violence may be sufficient to determine displacement. It is seldom met with in females. The determining cause of the displacement is usually some sudden movement which tends to rotate the leg outward—a movement which is only possible when the joint is in the partially flexed position. It frequently happens in the course of such exercises as tennis, football, golf and skating, when the player turns quickly round and pushes off with the foot. It may also occur from slipping off the kerb-stone. The