DISEASES OF JOINTS. 630 patient, the joint affected, and the type and extent of the disease. In many cases it can only he decided after exploration of the joint. The aim is to remove all the disease with the least possible impairment of function and the minimum sacrifice of healthy tissue. The more open the method of operating the better, so that all parts of the joint may be available for inspec- tion. Such methods of operating as permit of dislocating the joint are especially to be recommended, since this procedure affords the freest possible access for inspection and for removal of the disease. Cold abscesses should, if possible, be cured before operating on the joint. Diseased synovial membrane is removed with the scissors or knife. If the cartilages are sound, and if a movable joint is aimed at, they may be left; but if ankylosis is desired they must be removed. If there is localised disease of the cartilage the affected portion should be removed, so as to permit of the bone beneath being investigated. If extensively diseased it should be entirely removed, and special attention directed to the bones. If the surface bone is diseased, a thin slice should be removed with the knife or saw. If foci are then revealed in the interior, it is often better to dig them out than to remove further slices of bone, as this involves need- less sacrifice of the cortex and periosteum. The limb should be rendered bloodless before commencing the operation. The technique should be antiseptic rather than aseptic, so as to diminish the chances of tuberculous infection of the wounded surfaces. With the same object, as well as to overcome any minute tuberculous foci which may have escaped detection, a small quantity of sterilised iodoform may be rubbed into the raw surfaces and recesses of the joint. Further details belong to the surgery of the individual joints. While closure of the entire wound without drainage may be successful, it is safer to employ some means for preventing the accumulation of blood-clot, as this affords an admirable soil for the development of any tubercle bacilli which may have been left behind. The terms arthrectomy and excision are those usually applied to the operations performed for the removal of tuber- culous disease in any joint. Arthrectomy implies the re- moval of such synovial membrane and articular cartilage as are diseased, while excision implies the removal of a portion of one or of both of the bones entering into the joint along with the entire synovial membrane and cartilage. It should be stated, however, that the original distinction between these procedures has largely disappeared. The modern operation for