221 BURNS AND SCALDS. meningitis and cerebritis, when the neck or head is the seat of the burn. Intestinal catarrh associated with diarrhoea is not un- common ; and ulceration of the duodenum leading to perforation has been met with in a few rare cases. These phenomena are much more prominent when septic infection takes place and the discharge is profuse. It seems more than probable that they are all to be attributed more or less directly to septic absorption, especially in view of the fact that they have become less frequent and less severe since burns have been treated on rigidly anti- septic principles. Albuminuria is a fairly constant symptom in severe burns, and is probably due to congestion of the kidneys. In burns implicating the face, neck, mouth, or pharynx, oedema glottidis is a dangerous complication. During this period the pain subsides. The third period begins when the sloughs separate, usually between the seventh and fourteenth days, and lasts till the wound heals, its duration depending upon the size, depth, and asepticity of the raw area. The chief causes of death during the third period are septic absorption in any of its forms; waxy disease of the liver, kidneys, or intestine;] less commonly erysipelas, tetanus, or other diseases due to infection by specific organisms. It is stated that duodenal ulcers have sometimes perforated and caused death during the third period. The prognosis in burns depends on (1) the superficial extent, and, to a much less degree, the depth of the injury. When more than one-third of the entire surface of the body is involved, even in a mild degree, death usually follows. (2) The situation of the burn is important. Burns over the serous cavities— abdomen, thorax, or skull—are, other things being equal, much more dangerous than burns of the limbs. The risk of oedema glottidis in burns about the neck and mouth has been already referred to. (3) Children are more liable to succumb to shock during the early periods, but withstand prolonged suppuration better than adults. (4) When the patient survives the shock the presence or absence of sepsis is the all-important factor in prognosis. Treatment.—The general treatment consists in combating the shock by warmth; by alcoholic stimulants given by the mouth or rectum ; or by hypodermic injections of ether, brandy, or strychnine. WheiTthe pain is severe morphin must be injected. Local Treatment.—This must be carried out on the most rigid antiseptic lines, a general anesthetic being administered, if necessary, to ensure the purification being carried out thoroughly. After carefully removing the clothes, the whole of the burned