FLAT-FOOT. 721 without any loss of the arch and yet cause the ordinary symptoms and disability of flat-foot. Treatment.—This is directed towards restoring the arch of the foot and preventing its giving way again. It necessarily varies with the stage or degree of the deformity. For purposes of treatment the following differentiation into degrees is useful. A first degree in which the arch reappears when the weight is taken off the foot or the patient rises on the balls of the toes. A second degree in which the normal attitude can be restored by the manipulations of the surgeon. A third degree in which this is only possible in narcosis. A fourth degree in which the bones are so displaced and altered in shape that correction is impossible without an open operation. Cases of the first degree are treated on the following lines. If there is marked pain and tenderness the patient should be made to lie up. The legs and feet are douched and gently massaged. The general health is improved by a nourishing diet and by cod liver oil and tonics. When pain and tenderness have disappeared the patient is instructed how to walk and exercise the feet. In walking the inner edges of the feet should be parallel with one another; the heel should touch the ground first and then the balls of the toes. He should neither stand nor walk long enough to cause fatigue, and in standing he should alter the attitude of the feet from time to time, and occasionally rise on the balls of the toes. The following exercises, devised by Ellis of Gloucester, should be practised night and morning: (1) Eising on the balls of the toes, the toes being directed straight forwards; (2) rising on the balls of the toes, with the points of the great toes touching each other, and the heels directed out, so that the inner borders of the feet meet in front at a right angle ; (3) in the same attitude, having risen on to the balls of the toes, the knee is flexed and then extended before the heel descends again; (4) while seated in a chair with the legs crossed one over the other, circumduction movements of the foot are carried out; (5) while standing the inner border of the foot is raised off the ground several times, then the patient walks to and fro on the outer border of the foot, and in the same attitude lifts one foot over the other. These exercises should be carried out with the feet bare. They should be carefully supervised until the patient thoroughly understands what is aimed at, and they should not be pushed so as to cause pain or fatigue. The patient should be fitted with well-made lacing boots. In time the limbs are further strengthened by sea-bathing, cycling, skipping, and other exercises. VOL. 1—46