DISPLACEMENT OF SEMILUNAR CARTILAGES. 521 mechanism by which this lesion is produced doubtless explains the greater frequency with which the left knee is affected, as most sudden movements are made from right to left, thus throwing the strain upon the left knee. Clinical Features. — The surgeon may be consulted either the first time the displacement occurs, or on account of its repeated recurrence. In the former case he will obtain the history that while making some sudden movement, the patient was seized with an intense, sickening pain in the knee, accom- panied, it may be, with a sensation of something giving way with a distinct crack, and followed by locking of the joint. The patient usually falls and may be unable to rise again. The knee is found to be fixed in a sightly Hexed position; complete extension is impossible on account of the cartilage being wedged between the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia, but flexion is usually comparatively easy. Tenderness is elicited on making pressure over the position of the anterior attachment of the cartilage—that is, at the inner edge of the ligament um patella; in the groove between the femur and tibia. The pain is increased on attempting to extend the joint. Considerable effusion rapidly takes [dace into the synovial cavity. As a rule little is to be learned by palpation, although in exceptional cases an undue prominence may be felt, and in others a hollow, depending upon whether the cartilage has slipped outside the joint or towards its interior. In cases of recurrent displacement each attack is accompanied by symptoms similar in kind to those above described, but less severe, and the patient has usually learned to carry out some manipulation by which he is able to return the cartilage into position. He seeks advice with a view to having some- thing done to prevent displacement occurring, and to restore the stability of the joint, which, in many cases, is impaired, preventing him following his occupation. Differential Diagnosis.—A displaced cartilage is to be diagnosed from a loose body in the joint, free or pedunculated, and from a sprain of the internal or external lateral ligament. In the differential diagnosis, the history of the condition and the site of tenderness are the most valuable guides. In the case of a displaced cartilage the pain is always referred to the same spot, while in other forms of loose body it may be at any part of the joint and varies in different attacks. Treatment.—The patient is placed on a couch and reduction of the displaced cartilage is attempted by first fully flexing the knee, then firmly rotating the leg—inwards in the case of the