ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. 157 it fades leaves a brownish coloration or stain which in time disappears. Papules.—A papular or lichenoid sypliilide may appear in the form of small or large spots which are raised above the skin, and smooth or scaly on the surface. They are due to cellular infiltration of the skin. They develop gradually, and may persist for several weeks, leaving brownish pigmented areas which are very characteristic. On the palms of the hands and soles of the feet the papules may be so numerous and so scaly as to merit the term psoriasis; but as ordinary psoriasis scarcely ever occurs in these situations, this eruption is very suggestive of syphilis. The other types of eruption are rarer in comparison, and usually occur at a later stage of the disease. A pustular sypliilide, resembling acne or chicken-pox, may be met with, but, unless from its distribution, or its association with the remains of the papular eruption already described, it is not character- istic. A nodular or tubercular sypliilide is chiefly met with on the face and scrotum; it begins as closely-packed nodules which break down, forming superficial ulcers, and as these may heal in the centre while spreading at the margin, often in a serpiginous manner, the lesion may resemble lupus of tuberculous origin. It is extremely chronic, and tends to relapse. The lesions to which the names pemphigus and rupia are applied are rare, and as they occur late in the disease are sometimes classed with the tertiary manifestations. They are chiefly met with in severe attacks of syphilis in patients who are broken down in health. Rupia starts as a bulla or blister of which the contents dry up and leave a scab, beneath which there forms an ulcer, which extends both in area and in depth; the scab becomes thick, raised above the surface, dark in colour, and assumes a conical shape, roughly resembling the shell of a limpet. If the scab is detached, the ulcer is exposed. Rupia is very persistent, and finally leaves scars which tend to be circular, thin, supple, of a white colour, and with a pigmented margin. Condylomata are probably more characteristic of constitu- tional syphilis than any other single type of skin eruption. They are simply large scaly papules occurring on those parts of the body where the skin is habitually moist, and especially where two skin surfaces are in contact. They are chiefly met with in relation to the external genitals, especially in women, around the anus, beneath large pendulous mammae, between the toes, and at the angles of the mouth, and in these situations their development is greatly favoured by neglect of ordinary