706 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. adhesion. As the child increases in years the leg fails to grow, the deformity becomes more pronounced, and the toes become pointed. If the tibia is markedly bent, it may be straightened by osteotomy. If the ankle is unstable as a result of the absence of the external malleolus, it may be artificially ankylosed, or the lower end of the tibia may be split vertically so as to make a socket for the astragalus. In either case the foot is placed in the equinus atti- tude to compensate for the short- ening of the leg. Deficiency of the tibia is frequently associated with imperfect development of the great toe—deficiency of the fibula with absence of the outer toes and their metatarsal bones. Volkmann’s Supra - malleolar Deformity.—This term is applied to a congenital deficiency in the development of the bones of the leg, and especially of the fibula, as a result of which the articular surface is oblique and the foot deviates to one or other side. The foot usually occupies a valgus position, the sole looking out- wards, and only its inner border being in contact with the ground. It is to be treated by supra - malleolar osteotomy. Rickety Deformities of the Bones of the Leg—Bow-legs.— These are very common in children under five, and they are nearly always bilateral and symmetrical. They may occur before the child is able to walk, the bones bending in the attitude in which they are habitually placed—over the nurse’s knee, for example, or as they are crossed underneath the child in sitting. In children who are able to walk, the de- formity is due to the weight of the body acting on the softened bones. In either case the bending may be increased by the trac- tion of muscles, and sometimes by the occurrence of greenstick fracture. The most common deformity is a uniform curvature of the bones outwards and somewhat forwards, or a more acute bend in the lower thirds of their shafts. In some cases the chief curva- Fig. 245.—Bow-leg in Rickety Child.