SURGICAL FEVERS DUE TO BACTERIA. 61 discharge to pass more readily by the natural than by the abnormal route. When this is done, spontaneous closure of the fistulous opening tends to take place in most cases, but in others complicated plastic operations may be necessary to effect a cure. Congenital fistula-, such as occur in the neck from imperfect closure of branchial clefts, or in the abdomen from unobliterated foetal ducts, such as the allantois or Meckel’s diverticulum, will be described in their proper places. Surgical Fevers due to the Action of Bacteria. We have here to consider certain fevers, Saprsemia, Septicaemia, and Pymmia, which, although their clinical manifestations are widely different in many respects, are all directly associated with the action of bacteria, and are fundamentally of the same nature. Sapraemia, or septic intoxication, is the name applied to a form of septic poisoning resulting from the absorption into the blood of the toxic products of bacteria. These products are of the nature of alkaloids. They act immediately on their entrance into the circulation, and produce effects in direct proportion to the amount absorbed. As the poison is gradually eliminated from the body the symptoms abate, and if no more be introduced they disappear. Saprsemia in these respects, therefore, is com- parable to poisoning by any other form of alkaloid, such as strychnine or morphin. Clinical Features.— The symptoms of sapraemia seldom manifest themselves within twenty-four hours of an operation or injury, because it takes some time for the bacteria to produce a sufficient dose of their poisons. The onset of the condition is marked by a feeling of chilliness, sometimes amounting to a rigor, and a rise of the temperature to 102°, 103°, or 104° F., with slight morning remissions (Fig. 1). The heart’s action is markedly depressed, and the pulse is soft and compressible. The appetite is lost, the tongue dry, and covered with a thin brownish-red fur, so that it has the appearance of “ dried beef.” Vomiting of dark coffee- ground material and diarrhoea are often prominent features. The urine is scanty and loaded with urates. Death is usually impending when the skin becomes cold and clammy, the mucous membranes livid, the pulse feeble and fluttering, the discharges involuntary, and when a low form of muttering delirium is present. A local focus of septic infection is always present in some