668 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. Death usually results from meningeal, pulmonary, or general' tuberculosis, septic complications, and waxy degeneration. In cases which terminate fatally the average duration of the disease is from one and a half to three years. In cases which recover the duration varies indefinitely. Where there are bone lesions and septic sinuses, the disease, which may have begun in childhood, may still be present after the age of twenty. It is a safe rule in practice to assume that even mild cases rarely recover in less than two years. The patient or his relatives should be informed of this, and also that they are not to expect recovery without some impairment of function, and that complications may arise necessitating more prolonged treatment or operative interference. They should also be informed of the tendency of the disease to relapse. Treatment.—A large proportion of cases recover under con- servative treatment, and the functional results are so much better than those following operative interference, that unless there are special indications to the contrary conservative measures should always be adopted. Conservative Treatment.—This consists in protecting the limb from injurious strain or pressure, and in preventing deformity. Absolute rest is imperative, and the patient must be confined to bed until pain and tenderness have disappeared and sleep is undisturbed. Extension by means of the weight and pulley is of most service in cases attended with pain, spasmodic contraction of muscles, rigidity of the joint, or a deformed attitude of the limb. The weight employed varies from three to eight pounds in children, to ten or more pounds in adolescents and adults, and must be adjusted to meet the requirements of each case. If pain returns after having been relieved, it is due to overstretching of the ligaments, and the weight should be diminished or removed for a time. If there is deformity, the line of traction should at first be in the axis of the deformed limb, and should later be gradually brought into the normal axis of the limb. Flexion yields most readily. If there is abduction, extension should be applied to both limbs, and if there is adduction it may be necessary to apply counter-extension by means of a perineal band. The attitude ultimately desired is one of almost complete exten- sion with slight abduction. When there is a deformed attitude which does not readily yield to extension, as, for example, in cases which do not come under treatment until the deformity has existed for some time, there is considerable advantage in correcting it at once. Under