INJURIES PRODUCED BY ELECTRICITY. 225 industrial undertakings where powerful electrical currents are employed. The lesions—which vary from a slight superficial scorching to complete charring of parts—are most evident at the points of entrance and exit of the current, the intervening tissues apparently escaping injury. The more superficial degrees of electrical burns differ from those produced by heat in being almost painless and in healing very slowly, although as a rule they remain dry and aseptic. The more severe forms are attended with a considerable degree of shock, which is not only more profound, but also lasts much longer than the shock in an ordinary burn of corresponding severity. The parts at the point of entrance of the current are charred to a greater or less depth. The eschar is at first dry and crisp, and is surrounded by a zone of pallor. For the first thirty-six to forty-eight hours there is comparatively little pain, but at the end of that time the parts become exceedingly painful. In a majority of cases, in spite of careful purification, a slow form of moist gangrene sets in, and the slough spreads both in area and in depth, until the muscles and often the large blood-vessels and nerves are exposed. A line of demarcation eventually forms, but the sloughs are exceedingly slow to separate, taking from three to five times as long as in an ordinary burn, and during the process of separation there is considerable risk of secondary haemorrhage taking place from erosion of large vessels. Treatment.—Electrical burns are treated on the same lines as ordinary burns, by thorough purification and the application of dry antiseptic dressings, with a view to avoiding the onset of moist gangrene. Experience has shown that when amputation is necessary, unless the limb is removed well above the level of the dead tissue, it is not advisable to stitch the flaps, as the divided muscles usually necrose up to their points of origin, and are very slowly thrown off as sloughs. After this has occurred and granulations have formed, skin-grafting is of great value in hastening healing. Lightning-stroke.—In a large proportion of cases lightning- stroke proves instantly fatal. In non-fatal cases the patient suffers from a profound degree of shock, and there may or may not be any external evidence of injury. In the mildest cases red spots or wheals—closely resembling those of urticaria—may appear on the body, but they usually fade again in the course of twenty-four hours. Sometimes large patches of skin are scorched or stained, the discoloured area showing a markedly VOL. I—15