DISEASES OF JOINTS. G38 of a walnut. Whether remaining attached to the synovial membrane by their pedicles, or detached and free in the joint, they may give rise to symptoms of loose body. When the synovial changes are prominent, there is usually considerable serous effusion into the joint, constituting one form of hydrops. The capsular ligament, except in cases of hydrops, becomes the seat of connective-tissue overgrowth, and tends to become contracted and rigid. Intra-articular ligaments, such as the ligamentum teres in the hip, are usually worn away and disap- pear. The surrounding muscles become atrophied, tendons become adherent to their sheaths and may become ossified, and nerves may be involved by the cicatricial changes in the tissues surrounding them. The series of morbid changes, of which the above is a brief summary, may be described as presenting a remarkable combina- tion of degeneration on the one hand, and of overgrowth on the other, suggesting a profound disturbance of nutrition, the cause or causes of which are at present unknown. The clinical, features vary widely. Hydrops is frequent in the knee, and may be met with in the elbow, shoulder, and ankle. The patient complains of a feeling of weight, of insecurity, and of tiredness in the joint. Pain is occasional and evanescent, and is usually the result of some extra exertion or exposure to cold and wet. As the joint becomes distended with fluid the ligaments are stretched, so that the limb becomes weak and unstable. It may be associated with hydrops of the adjacent bursae. The affection is extremely chronic, and may last for an indefinite number of years. It is to be diagnosed from the other forms of hydrops already considered,—the purely traumatic, the pyogenic, gonorrhoeal, tuberculous, and syphilitic,—and from that associated with Charcot’s disease. Great benefit may follow the withdrawal of the fluid and the in- jection of iodoform glycerin. The symptoms may be relieved by douching and massage, and by the support of an elastic bandage. Fringes and pendunculated or loose bodies may give rise to characteristic clinical features, especially in the case of the knee. The fringes, especially when they assume the luxuriance of what has been described as the arborescent lipoma, project into the cavity of the joint, and may fill up its recesses and distend its capsule. The joint is swollen and slightly flexed. Pain is not a prominent feature, the functions of the joint are but little impaired, and the patient may walk fairly well. On grasping the joint while it is flexed and extended by the patient, the fringes may be felt moving under the fingers.