BACTERIAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. 101 of the patient, remedying any nervous or uterine disorder Avhicli may be present, and keeping the parts warm by wrapping them in cotton wool. When gangrene occurs it is treated on the same lines as other forms of dry gangrene, but if amputation is called for it is only with a view to removing the dead part. Gangrene occurring after Acute Fevers.—A variety of dry gangrene is sometimes met with in patients recovering from typhus, typhoid, or other fevers. It is due to endarteritis, thrombosis, or embolism, and occurs in peripheral parts, such as the toes, fingers, nose, or ears. Bacterial Varieties of Gangrene. Gangrene associated with the action of bacteria is of the moist type, and tends to spread rapidly and to end fatally. Acute Traumatic Gangrene usually follows very early on such severe injuries as result from railway, machinery, or street accidents, where, in addition to the extensive laceration and bruising of tissues, including vessels and nerves, there is gross dirt ground into the wounds. On the other hand, it may follow very trivial injuries, such as a pin-prick or a scratch. Some virulent pathogenic organism is introduced, and flourishes in the devitalised tissues, producing a degree of acute inflammatory reaction, with extensive stasis and interference with the venous return. The highly poisonous toxins not only lead to serious constitutional disturbances, but by their local irritant action add to the venous stasis, and so determine a rapidly-spreading gangrenous process. Clinical Features.—Often within a few hours of the accident there is great pain in the wound, and the whole part rapidly becomes swollen, oedematous, and tense. The skin is at first glazed, and perhaps paler than normal, but soon assumes a dull red or purplish hue, and bullae form on the surface. Putrefactive gases may be evolved in the tissues, and their presence is indicated by emphysematous crackling when the part is handled. The spread of the disease is so rapid that its progress is quite visible from hour to hour, and may be traced by the occurrence of red lines along the course of the lymphatics of the limb. In the most acute cases the death of the affected part takes place so rapidly that the local changes indicative of gangrene have not time to occur, and the fact that the part is dead may be overlooked. Rigors may occur,' but the temperature is not necessarily raised—indeed it is sometimes subnormal. The pulse is small,