161 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. with those who push the drug until it produces its well-known physiological effects of salivation and soreness of the gums. The mercury must be continued in the tonic doses above mentioned for at least one year, or better for two years, with occasional intermissions of a month during the second year. While under mercurial treatment the majority of patients enjoy the best of health. It is a useful practice to keep a record of the body weight, and if this fall it is advisable to stop the mercury for a time. When the grey powder causes irritation of the bowels, it should be combined with iron in small doses, and, if necessary, with a small amount of opium. The following is a useful formula:—Hyclrarg. c. cret. gr. 1 ; ferri sulph. exsiccat. gr. 1 or 2 ; pulv. ipecac, co. gr. 1. When the grey powder fails to relieve or does not agree with the patient, some other preparation may be substituted, such as the green iodide of mercury, in doses of quarter or half a grain, gradually raised to one grain three times a day ; or the liquor of the perchloride of mercury in teaspoonful doses. While taking mercury the patient must pay special attention to the teeth and gums. The teeth must be brushed after every meal, and the mouth and throat rinsed out with a solution of chlorate of potash or alum. If the tongue becomes furred and the breath foul, the gums tender, and the saliva increased in amount, the mercury must be temporarily discontinued. The patient must lead a regular, healthy life; alcohol must be given up unless it is required as a food, in which case malt liquors or claret may be allowed at meals. The diet should be simple, and easily digested, and should include a full supply of milk. The patient should avoid catching cold or taxing his energies by any extra exertion; and he should keep the skin acting freely by frequent baths and by wearing woollen under- clothing. On account of the susceptibility of the mouth and throat, he should give up or minimise the use of tobacco. (2) By Inunction.—Inunction consists in rubbing into the skin an ointment containing mercury, such as the mercurial ointment, made with lanolin instead of lard, and diluted to a third of its officinal strength; or, as this discolours the linen, an ointment composed of equal parts of 20 per cent, oleate of mercury and lanolin. After a hot bath, a portion of the oint- ment about the size of a hazel nut is rubbed for fifteen minutes every night, or night and morning, into the skin where it is soft and comparatively free from hairs. Different parts of the body should be selected in rotation, and the most scrupulous cleanli- ness observed so as to avoid septic irritation of the skin. VOL. I—11