257 PHLEBITIS. tional diseases—for example, gout and rheumatism ; the endo- thelium of the veins undergoing changes—possibly the result of irritation by abnormal constituents in the blood—which favour the formation of thrombi. In patients suffering from extreme debility or the cachexia of cancer, also, venous thrombosis is liable to occur. Under these various conditions the formation of a thrombus is not necessarily associated with the action of bacteria, although in any of them this additional factor may be present. The most common cause of venous thrombosis, however, is inflammation of the wall of the vein—phlebitis. Phlebitis.—Various forms of phlebitis are met with clinically, but for practical purposes they may be divided into two groups —one in which there is little or no tendency towards suppura- tion ; the other in which the suppurative element predominates. The non-suppurative form is almost invariably met with in the lower extremity, and usually occurs in patients who are debilitated and anaemic, and who are confined to bed for pro- longed periods—for example, during the treatment of fractures of the leg or pelvis, or after operations in the region of the groin or pelvis. During convalescence from such general diseases as typhoid fever or influenza, and in patients suffering from chlorosis or from gout or rheumatism, this form of phlebitis is also liable to occur. It most frequently attacks veins which are varicose. A non-suppurative form of phlebitis frequently occurs in the great longitudinal sinus in patients suffering from ex- treme debility. The coats of the vessel become infiltrated with leucocytes and proliferated connective-tissue cells, which gradually invade the thrombus that occupies the lumen. In course of time this thrombus becomes organised and may lead to permanent occlusion of the vein. It may happen that a portion of the thrombus passes into the circulation as an embolus. The cellular tissue surrounding the affected vein usually shares in the inflammation—a condition known as peri-phlebitis. Clinical Features.—The most typical example of this form of phlebitis is that so frequently met with in the internal saphena vein — especially when it is varicose. The condition may follow an injury, or the patient may have been suffering from some illness, or there may be no determining cause ascer- tainable. The onset of the attack is usually indicated by a sudden and severe pain in the lower limb—sometimes below, sometimes above the knee. This initial pain may be associated with shivering or even with a rigor, and the VOL. I—17