THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 292 An axillary aneurysm grows more rapidly than a subclavian, and may soon attain a large size, filling up the axilla, and displacing the clavicle upwards. This renders compression of the third part of the subclavian difficult or impossible. It may extend beneath the clavicle into the neck, or, extending inwards, may form adhesions with the chest wall, and, after eroding the ribs, with the pleura. The usual symptoms of aneurysm are present, and the pressure effects on the veins and nerves are similar to those produced by an aneurysm of the subclavian. Intra-thoracic complications—pleurisy, pneumonia, lnemoptysis—are not in- frequent when the aneurysm forms adhesions to the chest wall and pleura. Rupture may take place externally, or into the pleura or the shoulder-joint. Digital compression or ligature of the third part of the subclavian, needling, and electrolysis are the most generally applicable methods of treatment. In rare cases, where the sac is small, the old operation may be preferred. Brachial aneurysm usually occurs at the bend of the elbow, is of traumatic origin, and is best treated by excision of the sac. Aneurysmal varix, which was frequently met with in this situation in the days of the barber-surgeons,—usually as a result of the artery having been accidentally wounded while performing venesection of the median basilic vein,—may be treated, according to the amount of discomfort it causes, by a supporting bandage, or by ligature of the artery above and below the point of communication. Aneurysms of the vessels of the forearm and hand call for no special mention. They are almost invariably traumatic, and are best treated by excision of the sac. Inguinal Aneurysm (Aneurysm of the Iliac and Common Femoral Arteries).—Aneurysms appearing in the region of Poupart’s ligament may have their origin in the external or common iliac arteries or in the common femoral. They tend to spread upwards towards the abdomen, and to a less extent downwards into the thigh, on account of the tension of the fascia lata. Sometimes a constriction occurs across the sac at the level of Poupart’s ligament, giving the swelling a lobulated appearance. The pressure exerted on the nerves and veins of the lower extremity causes pain, congestion, and oedema of the limb beyond. Rupture, either externally or into the cellular tissue of the iliac fossa, is a frequent mode of termination. These aneurysms have to be diagnosed from abscess, rapidly