The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: COOKR/ i\ m 0106 0 1105 483 jookery: K-^fHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD OB, HYGIENIC COOKERY. BY SUSANNA W. DODDS, A.M.,M.D. “.Yo xpice but hunger; no ttimulant hut exercise." FELIX L. OSWALD, M.D. SECOND EDITION NEW YORK: FOWLER & WELLS CO., PUBLISHERS, 775 BROADWAY. 1891.COPYRIGHT, 1883, BY FOWLER & WELLS.TO ALL WHO LOVE GOOD HEALTH AS WELL AS GOOD EATING, ^his Volume IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED% 0 . k • f - r* * • % pA . * -■> — *. • ' i * '•' . • r ^ t*,(vii) PKEF ACE. The object of this work is to enable health-seekers to fiUTiish their tables with food that is wholesome, and at the same time palatable. The writer claims that the food prod- ucts of the eaiih, properly grown and prepared, should be not only healthful, but to the unperverted palate, rehshable, in the highest degree. Foods, as ordinarily cooked, ai’e robbed of their own luscious flavors and rich juices by aU manner of wasteful or injudicious processes; by soaking, by parboiling, by evap- oration, by under-cooking, and by biuTiing ; after which one tries in vain to compensate for these defects, by adding butter, pejrper, sugar, salt, and other seasonings, ad infini- tum. Nature is prodigal of her fine flavors, furnishing them in infinite variety and choice abundance ; and all we have to do is to produce them from the soil by proper cult- lU'e, and save them with frugal care. How to grow the best grains, fruits and vegetables, belongs not to the art of cookery, but to the department of agriculture and horti- ciilture. How to prepare these products for the table, get- ting all the good there is in them, and adding nothing harmful thereto, is the thing sought after in the following pages. It has often been urged against cook-books, that the very items one needs most to know, are not in them ; the quan- tities, proportions, etc., together with the smaller details, being usually left out, In the present volume the authorvm PREFACE. has endeavored, even at the expense of brevity, to avoid falling into a like error. The recipes claim to be sufficiently exj)licit, and as far as is possible, accurate. Some of them are wholly original, others are not; many valuable hints have been derived from books already published on hygienic cooking. In preparing Part II. the following works have been consulted freely, and in some instances quoted verba- tim ; viz.: The Hygeian Home Cook-Book, by the late R. T. Trail, M.D.; the Health Eeformei''s Cook-Book, Battle Creek, Mich.; and How to Prepare Food, by Mrs. Lucretia E. Jackson, DansviUe, N. Y. For the benefit of those who are beginning to trj’^ hygienic cookery, but whose families and friends are not thoroughly converted to the system, Part III. has been written, with directions for preparing foods, not strictly in the hygienic way, but in such a manner as to render them relatively plain and healthful. An urgent caU having been made for a work of this kind, the suggestion has been acted upon to bind it and the hygienic cook-book in the same volume. In the preparation of Part HI. the author is greatly in- debted to several writers, among whom are Catharine Beecher, Marion Harland, Emma P. Ewing, and the author or compiler of the Buckeye Cookery. S. W. Dodds. St. Louis, Mo., Sept. 21, 1883.(ix) TABLE OF CONTENTS. PART I. THE REASON WHY. Constituents of food, .... . . 11 Tables (from Pavy), .... . 11 Food and physical development, 15 Wheat and other cereals, . . . . . 20 Wheaten vs. white flour, .... 27 The fruits, . 33 The vegetables, 38 Meat as an article of diet, . . . . . 42 Pork-eating, 48 Milk, . 53 Butter and eggs, 55 Sugar, . 57 Salt, 61 Pepper and other condiments, . 71 Drinking at meals, 73 Tea, coffee, etc., . 75 Food, intellect and morals. 79 “ combinations, etc., . . . . . 84 Two meals or three, 92 Dietetic rules, . 93 Hints on cooking, 95 PART II. THE HYGIENIC DIETARY. Unleavened bread, 101 Leavened and other bread, 119 Plain fruit cakes, 143CONTENTS. s Steamed grains, . 145 Mushes, 151 Pastries, . 154 Vegetables, 169 Soups, . 197 Fruits and fruit juices, 197 Drinks for the sick, . 224 Foods “ “ “ 229 “ “ infants . 232 Preserving fruits and vegetables, 2.4 Canning fruits, etc., ...... . 238 Miscellany 250 PART III. THE COMPROMISE. Steamed bread, 260 Corn cake, muffins, etc., . 265 Griddle-cakes, 271 Cake-making, . 276 Pies, etc., 288 The grains, . 301 Mushes, 302 Puddings, “ selection of, 305 “ other, . 337 Plain desserts, 353 Pudding sauces, creams, etc., .... . 360 Custards, blanc-manges, etc., .... 368 Moulded farinacea, . 382 Other dishes, 386 Jellies, jams and syrups, . 390 Ripe fruits for desserts, 398 Vegetables, . 407 Soups, 436 Meats, etc., . 449 Beef, mutton and lamb, 453 The “porker,” , 47QCONTENTS. Xi Venison, 470 Poultry, ... 472 Wild birds and other game, 488 Fish, 497 How about oysters ? 505 Meat pies, etc 506 “ stews, etc., 518 Hashes and toasts, 530 Eggs, 540 Practical hints, 544 Addendum, 580INTKODUCTORY. The question is often asked, “What is this hygienic diet ? ” and it would be well for its advocates, if a correct answer were always given. This food differs so materially from that in common use, that persons who have simply heard of it, are apt to form eiToneous ideas in regard to it. For example, if you state that a hygienic breakfast-table furnishes neither coffee nor tea, no beefsteak, butter, nor hot biscuits, you are met with the question, “ What do they eat ? ” And before you can begin to reply, the conclusion is reached that the table must be wofuUy bare, and the food on it lacking in wholesome variety and good flavor (since there are no seasonings), and also in nutritive qualities. In other words, that it is a sort of starvation diet, which sensi- ble people wovdd at once reject. Now, nothing could be farther from the truth than such an inference ; and patients at our table have often remarked that if people only understood the real character of the hygienic diet, they would think more favorably of it. In the flrst place, the hygienic table admits of as great a variety as any other ; and once the palate adapts itself to the change —^which requires but a short time—the food is quite as keenly relished as that prepared in the ordinary way. In the next place, one does not tire of it; even in warm spring mornings, when other people feel the need of a tonic to give them an appetite, the sound of the breakfast-beU in hygienic households is always welcome. The presence of natural hunger makes the food taste good, while at the same time it is the best possible aid to digestion. The fresh ripe fruits,HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 2 the crisp little rolls, twenty minutes from the oven, the well- cooked oatmeal, and the luscious stewed fruits—^to say nothing of good baked potatoes, and other side dishes that find their way to the table—all are enjoyed with a zest that rarely belongs to steak, biscuit and coffee. But a more important point to the physiologist is, that the food eaten is far more healthful and nutritious than the aforesaid articles; from the simple fact that it contains a much larger per cent, of those substances that are necessary to form bone, teeth, muscles, tendons, and the other tissues of the body. This is why one can work longer and with less fatigue on hygienic food than on any other ; it nourishes better. Were proof needed on this point, the tables in Part I., giving the constituents of food, ought to furnish it. Stfil another virtue belonging to this diet is, that it con- tains no stimulating or abnormal substances, to tax the vital powers in getting rid of them ; no salt, pepper, spices, or other irritating condiment; everything is usable, in one way or another. Neither is there an excess of oily or saccharine matter, to clog the digestive or the excretory organs. But, to get at once to the root of the matter, we will take up the a, b, c, of the hygienic dietary ; resting assured that if our premises are correct, the conclusions will take care of them- selves. All persons who are thorough hygienists, according to the teachings of the late R. T. Trail, M.D., believe that inorganic substances are incapable of nourishing or building up the vital structures of our bodies. To begin with first princi- ples, we hold that vegetable organisms are fed by inorganic substances, and by these alone ; that animal organisms are fed by organic substances, and by these only. We also maintain that, other things being equal, the products of the vegetable kingdom are better suited to man’s needs than are those of the animal kingdom ; and that out of the former, those products are best suited for foods which most3 INTRODUCTORY. nearly supply tlie waste of the various tissues. There are, no doubt, many varieties in the vegetable kingdom which can be and sometimes are used for foods, but which rank low in nutritive value, and are otherwise inferior in quality ; these, if eaten, are recommended only as occasional dishes. If we follow scientific analysis, we must place first in the rank of nutritious foods, the various preparations of wheat; then tlie other grains, some of which are better adapted to our wants than others. Fruits, as a class of foods, are ranked higher than vegetables by hygienists, and some fruits higher than others ; while among the vegetables proper, there are certain kinds that are better suited for human food than others. The flesh of animals, as will hereafter be shown, does not begin to compare with the whole grains—or even mth some vegetables—in the quantity of nutritive matter contained ; so that if used, it must fall below the latter in respect to nutrition. Besides, it cairies with it a certain amount of substance that can not be utilized by the vital organs ; whence it follows that these organs must do extra work in expelling this substance from the vital domain. All animals, however healthy, are everj"- moment of their lives throwing off a large per cent, of worn-out or effete matter; many times larger than that which is expelled from the surfaces of fruits or vegetables. This matter is in every tissue, and in every drop of blood or other fluid in the tissues; nor does the act of killing the animal improve the condition of things. On the contrary, the moment that life is extinct decomposition begins, and the waste is much more rapid ; hence the use of antiseptics, as salt, soda, saltpetre, etc., to arrest decay. Animal foods therefore are exceedingly unstable, not to say impure, in their best estate ; whence their character as iriftammatory food. All animal products, as butter, eggs, cheese, etc., partake of this character, in a greater or lessHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 4 degree. Beef and mutton ai-e pei'baps the best of the flesh foods. Fish, fowls, oysters, etc., belong to lower orders of animal life, some of which are infested with vermin or animalcvJfe,* and aU of which feed upon less inviting food substances than do the nobler animals. A further objection to the use of meat is found in the fact that many animals are afldicted with acute or chronic dis- eases, and are often rushed into market in that condition. This is particularly true of swine, and often indeed of cattle. Were the actual statistics given in all their loathsome de- tails, of scurvy in swine, of ulcerated Hvers, of deaths from trichinae, of beef discolored from venous blood, and often from semi-putrefaction, it would be enough to paU the keenest appetite, even though it failed to convince the most perverted judgment. In the following pages the subject wOl again be adveiied to, and reasons given why hygienists regard meat, the best of it, as second-rate food ; and salt, its usual condiment^—■ which is a metallic, inorganic substance—as no food at all. Some hints will also be given as to the relative merits of the various food products, both in regard to health, and also to their nutritive value. It will likewise be shown, that so far as the quality of the hygienic diet is concerned, the resources of nature, as weU as of art, are not by any means exhausted. Indeed, the hygienists themselves have scarcely more than commenced to study tlie matter. The place to begin, of course, is in the department of agriculture. It is weU kno-VNOi that grains, fruits and vegetables, are capable of improve- ment by culture, to an almost unlimited extent; and there is little if any doubt that nearly all fruits fully ripe, and in their finest development, would be exceedingly palatable as nature furnishes them. It is much to be hoped that an enhghtened public sentiment, on this subject as on others. * The liquor of oysters is said to be filled with infusoria or animalculae.& iNTBODUCTORY. •will lielp to bring about a higher culture of all these prod- ucts, and especially of fruits. Some dietetic reformers, in their eagerness to gratify a pervei-ted palate, have fallen into the habit of mixing various foods together, indiscriminate!}", in the preparation of a single dish. Such admixture, if confined to one class of products, for instance the grains, would not be amiss ; but the plan of putting together in the same dish, fruits and vegetables (say cabbage, beans, beets, squashes, etc., with raw or cooked finits), is a practice that can not be too strongly condemned. Sound stomachs might be able to manage these conglomerations, but weak or diseased ones would certainly be the worse for it; and it is a question whether even the best digestion, under such treatment, woiild not finally be impaired. This brings us to the subject of the dietetic classification of foods. It also suggests a reason for some sHght depart- ure in this book from the ordinary grouping of food products. For example, under the head of “ Vegetables,” only such products are named as seem to be dietetically allied to each other ; no attention being paid to scientific technicalities. In like manner, tomatoes and melons are classed with vegetables, because they are intended to be eaten "SNuth them. And it might be added, that meats, if eaten, are thought to digest better taken with vegetables, rather than with fruits. There is no doubt that very oily sub- stances eaten mth fniits, make rather a bad mixtui’e ; and it ought to be thorouglily well known that the large amount of sugar ordinarily cooked in the latter, renders them diffi- cult to digest, and often causes pain in the stomach, or cholera morbus, particidarly if they are eaten with vegetables. The trouble is not with the fruits, but with the sugar, and the bad combinations that are made. The subject of food combinations—whether cabbage and raw ajjples will digest weU together, or strawberries and6 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. cucumbers, or grapes and Lima beans, etc., etc.—is a topid that in the main has been quite overlooked. In the last few years, however, some careful observations have been made by hygienists, in the management not only of verj'’ sensitive stomachs, but also those of ordinary strength ; and the con- clusion has been reached, that here as elsewhere, there are certain general principles underlying the whole subject, which, if properly understood, would be of much value. Certain physicians, among them the writer of this book, beheve that (for feeble stomachs at least) fruits and vege- tables do best when taken at separate meals; that vege- tables, when eaten, should be taken at dinner; and that disregard of these rules often leads to indigestion. It is a question, then, whether with care in these respects, there would be that difficulty which some persons experience in eating fruits, and others in eating vegetables. In the management of patients with even a moderate amount of vitality, the writer has found no difficulty in enabling them to eat fruits in abundance, and without the slightest inconvenience; and to a certain extent the same is tiTie as respects the use of vegetables. A very good rule for general observance, is to make the breakfast of bread and fruit, and perhaps some grain preparation; the dinner of bread, vegetables, etc.; and the supper of bread and fruit only, or bread and fruit juice. It is also a good plan, if raw apples, peaches, or grapes are eaten, to take them at break- fast, and by all means at the beginning of the meal. Let the fine sub-acids touch the bottom of the stomach, so to speak. If melons ai’e eaten, they should be taken at or before the dinner; if at the meal, they should be seiwed at the com- mencement of it, not at the close. These niles have been found to work weU with persons who are sick, and they can hardly work ill with those who are in good health. Or, as it is sometimes said, “What wall make a sick man well, will also keep him well.”7 INTnODUCTORY. Tlie question is frequently asked, wliethor the hygienic diet is to be recommended from an economic stand-point. So far as the table itself is concerned, the one way of living is probably about as expensive as the other ; in other words, the money that is usuiilly spent for tea, coffee, sugar, butter, meat, condiments, etc., is laid out for choice grains, ripe, di’ied or canned fruits, and the best of vegetables. But if there is a saving of time and money in the enjo^unent of uninternipted good health, then indeed, there is economy in hygienic living. A lady who has tried both ways, and who was formerly a patient and boarder in our house, gives her testimony as follows : “ My husband and I have been married twelve years; and it is only since leaving your house, two years ago, that we have ever been able to save a cent. Doctors, medicines, and what we then supposed to be the ‘ best of living,’ viz., meat three times a day, and beef-tea between meals for strength (?), ate up the small salary. Last year we bought a lovely little home, and on a salary of fifteen hundred dollars, we saved five hundred to pay on the place. And the diet—why, we never lived so well; good bread of Akr'on Graham flour, fr’esh vegetables, and the best of fruits and grains. We kept a horse, and hired a man to work the garden. We feel that we have only just begun to live. In health I am better ; more like my real self ; more sunshine, contentment, and happiness—aU owing to a good, pure diet, fresh air and exercise.” To those who may desire to understand more fully the Reasons why hygienists depart somewhat from the ordi- nary methods of preparing foods, the chapters in Part I. may be of interest. And should the reader find in these more or less repetition of what has been stated elsewhere in the work, the simple fact that it has all been written piecemeal may in part account for it. The items have been jotted down from time to time, as the writer could noteHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 8 them; and in the end there was very little chance to re- write, or even rearrange the matter in hand. Another six months would have made a more orderly work, but it would not have silenced the clamor for the hook at all hazards. There! now, good friends, take the volume just as you find it; and if you can write a better, the author of this wOl gladly help you to sell it. But one thing—do not decline the present one, and then come to us with inquiries of this sort: “ How do you steam these choice grains ? ” “ Tell me how you make your cream biscuits ? ” “ What ai’e your rules for preparing those fine fruits?” “How do you manage to cook vegetables so nicely?” “What ails my httle Graham rolls that they never look like yours ? ” etc., etc. Take the book, follow its directions, and you will find out all about it f(9) NOTICE. In a work of this kind, it is hardly to be supposed that all the dishes described have had the personal supervision of the author. A large per cent., however, of the recipes in Part II. belong to this class, and since they can readily be vouched for, they will, as a matter of convenience, be desig- nated thus : =|=. Not that the ones so indicated are all of the same value ; on the contrary, some dishes will be in much greater demand than others. For example, the hard Graham rolls are—or ought to be—on the table daily ; cream biscuits come only once or twice a week, and currant scone not much oftener ; while strawberry shortcake makes its appearance only a few times in the whole year. In Part m. there are many recipes that the writer has not been able to test, even indirectly ; a large number, how- ever, have been put into experienced hands, and (from the compromise stand-point) have been heard from favorably. These recipes will be known to the reader by the follow- ing sign : #.(11) PAKT I THE REASON WnT. CONSTITUENTS OP FOOD. The folio-wing tables, giving the composition of the varioua grains, together with that of beans, peas, lentils, potatoes, beef, mutton, eggs, milk, and cream, are taken from Pavy, that well-kno-wn authority on Food and Dietetics. TABLES. Varieties of Wheat in the dry* state.—(Payen.) Hard 'wheat. {Venezu- ela.) Hard ‘wheat. {Africa.) Hard wheat. {Tagan- rog.) Semi- hard wheat. {Brie.) White or soft wheat. {Tuzelle.) Nitrogenous matter ... 22.75 19.50 20.00 15-25 12.65 Starch 58.62 65.07 63.80 70.05 76.51 Dextrin, etc 9-50 7.60 8.00 7.00 6.05 Cellulose 3-50 3-00 3-10 3.00 2.80 Fatty matter 2.61 2.12 2.25 1-95 1.87 Mineral matter 3.02 2.71 2.85 2.75 2.12 100. TOO. roo. 100. 100. * In an ordinary state, gfrain contains from 11 to i8 per cent, of water.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD, [PARl' i 12 Varieties of grain in the dry state.—(Payen.) Rye'. Barley. Oats. Maize. Rice. Nitrogenous matter... 12.50 12.96 14-39 12.50 7-55 Starch 64.65 66.43 60.59 67.55 88.65 Dextrin, etc 14.90 10.00 9.25 4.00 1.00 Cellulose 3.10 4-75 7.06 5.90 1.10 Fatty matter 2.25 2.76 5-50 8.80 0.80 Mineral matter 2.60 3.10 3-25 1.25 0.90 100. 100. 100. 100. 100. Composition of Buckwheat.—(Payen.) Nitrogenous matter 13.10 Starch, etc 64.90 Fatty matter 3.00 Cellulose 3.50 Mineral matter 2.50 Wat«r/ 13.00 Composition of Beans.—(Payen.) 100. Nitrogenous matter Starch, etc Cellulose Fatty matter Saline matter Water Broad or Windsor Horse bean, dried in the Bean. green state, and decorticated. 30.8 29.05 48.3 55-85 3-0 1.05 1.9 2.00 3-5 3-65 12.5 8.40 * 100. 100. French or Kidney Bean.—(PAYEN.) Nitrogenous matter Starch, etc Cellulose Fatty matter ’ Mineral matter . Water 25-5 55.7 2.9 2.8 3-2 9-9 100.13 PART I.] CONSTITUENTS OF FOOD. Dried Peas.—(Payen.) Nitrogenous matter Starch, etc ' Cellulose Fatty matter [ Mineral matter Water Lentils.—(Payen.) Nitrogenous matter Starch, etc " Cellulose • • • • • Fatty matter ] ] Mineral matter [ ^' W'ater 25.2 56.0 2.4 2.6 2.3 II-5 Potato.—(Payen.) Nitrogenous matter Starch Cellulose Sugar and gummy matter Fatty matter Pectates, citrates, phosphates, and silicates of lime, magnesia, potash, and soda Water 100. 2.50 20.00 1.04 1.09 O.II 1.26 74.00 Sweet Potato.—(Payen.) Nitrogenous matter Starch Sugar Cellulose Fatty matter Other organic matter Mineral salts Water 100. 1.50 16.05 10.20 0.45 0.30 1.10 2.60 67.50 Lean (Letheby.) Nitrogenous matter 19.3 Fat 3.6 Saline matter 5.1 Water 72.0 joo.UE.VLTH IN THE UOUSEUOLD. 14 [PABT L Lean Mutton.—(Letheby.) Nitrogenous matter 18.3 Fat 4-9 Saline matter 4-8 Water 72.0 White Fish* 100. Nitrogenous matter 18.1 Fat 2.9 Saline matter i.o Water 78-0 100. Eggs.—Entire contents.\ Nitrogenous matter 14.0 Fatty matter 10.5 Saline “ 1.5 Water 74.0 100. Egg— White of. Nitrogenous matter 20.4 Fatty matter Saline “ 1.6 Water 78.0 100. Egg— Yolk of. Nitrogenous matter 16.0 Fatty matter 30.7 Saline “ 13 Water 52.0 Milk (Cow’s).—(Letheby.) Nitrogenous matter Fatty matter Lactin Saline matter Water 100. 4.1 3-9 5 2 0.8 86.0 100. * From Pavj'’s “ Food and Dietetics,” p. 171. t Ib., p. 182.15 PART I.] FOOD AND PHYSIC.VL DEVELOPMENT. Cream.—(L i; r 11K13 y). Nitrogenous matter 2.7 Fatty matter 26.7 Lactin 2.8 Saline matter 1.8 Water 66.0 100 Food and Physical Development. The food question is one of the most important, not to (Say the most difficult, that the physiologist has to handle ; and with aU the experience of bygone ages, we have not as yet been able to fuUy unravel the mysteries of this many- sided problem. What products to select and the best methods of growing them, how to prepare the food and how often to piu*take of it, what quantity is necessary to supply the waste of the tissues, what variety is needed, and what combinations produce the best digestion—all these, and more, remain to be studied in the light of known facts and of physiological scifence. As regards the nature or quality of foods, it ipust be con- ceded that that food is best which moat nearly supplies the natural imste of the tissues. And those articles which con- tain the largest amount of the materials necessary to build up the body, these being in the required proportions, would rank higher in value than other articles which are poor in tliis respect. Natiu'e, has given us a bountiful sujiply of food products, some rich in quantity and variety of nutritive elements, and some containing an abundance of certain food princijiles, with rather a meager supply of others ; while there are many that yield only a limited amount of nutrient matter. Thus, the lavish profusion that is furnished to our hand gives room for the exercise of judgment in selecting foods, as well as skill in preparing them. The results of chemical analysis, as given by Liebig,16 [PAHT I. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Boussiugaiilt, Payen and others, f>lace the grains at the head of all nutritive substances, as will be seen by the tables at the beginning of this chapter. And while it does not follow that we must, as a rule, use the more nutritious articles of diet to the exclusion of the others, it would seem to be in accordance with reason that the former should occupy a more prominent place in the food list than the latter. For example, wheat, which contains 85 per cent, of sohd matter, would be better suited to sustain life than turnips, that have only 11 per cent. ; and better also than meat, that has but 36 per cent. In so far, therefore, as chemical analysis can give us any hght, the grains rank highest as foods. But it is sometimes said that the relative value of the different food products can be better determined by experi- ence than by chemical analysis ; and as there is not space in this short chaj)ter to investigate the latter, let us give a passing thought to the former. Experience, to be of value, must be derived from the observation of a sufficient number of individuals to give us something like a rule, deduced from facts which these individuals can fm’nish. What, then, are the facts ? Looking over the nations of the earih, savage and civilized, we find great disparity among them as to the physical development of their inhabitants ; some are weU proporiioned, with good bones and muscles, sound teeth, robust bodies, and all the other evidences of fine growth and excellent general health. Others are small in stature, ill-proporiioned, wanting in muscular development, and othenvise inferior in physique; and while it must not be taken for granted that food alone is responsible for these several results, still it can not be denied that it is an imporiant factor in the case. Comparing the dietetic habits of the people of these nations, there has been found to exist a very striking correspondence between the quality of the food they eat, and the size, strength and symmetryFOOD AND PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT. PART I.] 17 of their bodies. It has also been noted by travelers that in those countries, in Europe and elsewhere, in which the people were remarkable for long life, strength of body and line proportions, combined with rare personal beauty and good complexions, their dietetic habits have been relatively simple, and the food itself restricted for the most part to the products of the soil. The peasantry of Europe furnish examples of whole nations of people living almost exclusively on a grain and vegetable diet, with perhaps a moderate sujiply of milk. They use coarse bread, and an abundance of cereals, va- riously prepared. They eat very little meat, and their food as a whole, contains few condiments. It is likewise worthy of remark, that among these simple rural people, who can not afford either the rich dietary or the sparkling wines and other stimulating drinks used by the wealthy, there is a smoothness of skin and purity of complexion that is cpiite the exception among the upper classes. Tliis is particularly noticeable in England and Scotland ; and it is said to be the same in Germany. There is a ceriain Avholesome come- liness among the peasant lads and lasses that does not quite belong either to the people of rank (who, having every facility for mental and physical culture, ought to look well), or to the denizens of cities, whose habits of eating and living are less simple than theirs. According to Felix L. Oswald, M.D., “ The strongest men of the three manliest races of the present world are non-carnivorous : the Turanian mount- aineers of Daghestan and Lesghia, the Mandingo tribes of Senegambia, and the Schleswig-Holstein Bauern, who fur- nish the heaviest cuirassiers for the Prussian army, and the ablest seamen for the Hamburg navy.” The following item from the San Francisco Chronicle, is another bit of evidence showing that the best of muscle can be made from a diet that is simjile and sparing, and that contains very little animal food :[part 1. 1IE.VLXH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 18 “ Yokohama, July 1, 1882.—Japan fui’nislies an example tliat tolls largely in favor of a vegetarian diet. That the Jaiianese are a people of muscle and great physical endur- ance is apparent on every hand. The specimens of muscu- liu* develojiment shown in the build and structui’e of the working classes, ai'e evidences of great strength and hardi- ness. The diet of these men is entirely of vegetables and fish, and they are very economical feeders at that. The quantity of food they requii’e, or at least the quantity they eat, is astonishingly small when compared with the food de- voured by the meat-eaters from the Westeim world. The amount of manual labor they perforin is sim2ily prodigious. The coolie, who takes the place of, and who does the work for which oxen and horses are utilized elsewhere, is about as strong, and can accomjilish about as much heavy work as the animtds themselves. They are jiossessed of immense jiower of limb, being able to jmll loads that woidd be con- sidered as much as any other di’aft animal coidd draw. It is wonderful to see them walking awa}" with the heavy loads they easily move ; and as carriers of burdens ujion the shoulder they are cajiable of staidling achievements. Seemingly their frames are as tough as steel, not suscepti- ble of cold or intense heat—going thinly clad in freezing weather, and not sluinking from the sun in its most ojqires- sive season.” There are also abundant statistics, and some of them from excellent authorities, showing that among the savage tribes there exist the most startling contrasts in resjiect to longevity, beauty of form, and strength of muscle. And the travelers who have made note of these facts, and who in all probability cared nothing whatever for dietetic rules or theories, tell us that the meanest and most hideous forms of human life (as the Calmucks) w’ere found among those peojfie who subsist almost exclusively ujion animal food, and this often of a very low order. On the other hand,PART I.] POOD AND PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT. K) t^-ose races that are celebrated for their beauty of form and complexion (as the Circassians), ai’e an agiicultural jicople, drawing their subsistence chiefly from the soil. But leaving the Eiu’opeans and Asiatics to work out their own destinies, may we not venture to inquire whether cer- tain jiliysiological defects among our own people, defects so pronounced as already to be considered national, may not in some degree be traceable to theii' dietetic habits? Is there not some error, which if corrected, would lead to more beneficent results? There must be a reason why sound teeth ai'e the exception ; why natural dentine gives place to porcelain ; why the teeth that remain ai*e ill-shapen, loose in their sockets, and covered with scmwy. There must bo a reason wh}' heads are bald so early ; why heavy tresses of beautiful hak, even on youthful brows, are so rai'e ; w'hy the few thin, straggling locks that remain, are harsh and faded, and the scalji covered with a scurvy dan- drutf. There must be a reason why firmly knit muscles, giving to the human figure a beauty and loveliness of form almost divine, have left in their stead, loose, flabby tissues, with very little muscular fiber in them. There must be a reason why the rose tints fade so early from the cheeks of tlie young ; why healthful boys and girls are converted into little, spindling, wizen-faced creatures, looking more like old men and women of diminutive stature, than like thriving, gi-owing children. There must be a reason why even in in- fancy the spine so often refuses to hold the body erect, and disease and deformity ensue. There is a reason, and it is our duty to find it. If the food we eat does not contain the elements out of which dentine is made, how can we expect to have good teeth ? If it is defective in nutritive quality, having a lack of those materials which make fibrin, by what process can we hope to clothe the bones with muscles? If it has a meager supply of the “ salts ” which enter into the forma-[part L 20 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. tion of the bones, why should not the little children (and those of larger stature) be limp and rickety? If the nu- tritive substances that are found in hair are wanting, is it not reasonable that the middle-aged, and even our young people, should have bald heads ? If our tables do not su2i- ply the elements which go to make up om* bodies, and therefore to form the blood corjmscles out of which the various tissues are made, then indeed we must be content to have faded cheeks, flabby muscles, sunken eyes, weak backs, toothless gums, and bare scaljis. Nor is it at aU strange that what we have left is little more than a “ bundle of nerves,” since we have lavislfly parted with all besides. We deserve our fate, if we do not mend our ways. AVhjsat and other Cereals. Old mother earth has given to man the very thing he needs, to keej) him in perfect health. First among these gifts are the golden grains ; they contain in great abun- dance and weU-suited jirojioi-tions, those substances in organic combination that are required to build uji the body, as its tissues are spent from day to day. Nature furnishes us in the organic kingdom, not “ proxi- mate princiifles ” as such ; not fibrin, albumen, or casein ; not starch, sugar, or fat; not chlorides, carbonates, or phos- phates ; these latter, if obtained from the food jiroduets, come only through destructive analysis. Out of her own ample storehouse she gives us those wonderful products of the soil suited for human food. Nor must we fail to note the fact, that it is these, untouched by the hand of the chemist, that are received and aiipropriated by animal organisms. Trees may grow and thrive upon inorganic foods in the aqueous or gaseous form—but animals never. The human animal, in common with the others, would very soon staiwe to death on these substances. Neither wflU the proximate principles of food, support animal Hfe ; not even21 f>ART I.J WHE.VT AND OtUER CERE.VLS. if Ave select those that ai-e stiictly of organic origin, as starch, sugai*, oh, fibi*in, albumen, etc. The vit:il instincts reject those products that do not come directly from Nature’s own laboratoiy. The tables from Payen at the head of these chapters, will give a fair idea of the relative nutritive values of the dif- ferent grains. It wiU be seen that the saccharine element is most abundant in rye, the fatty in maize and oats, and the starchy in rice ; we observe, moreover, that oats are rich in mineral or saline matter (good for teeth and bones), and also in nitrogenous substances. The human body is kno\vn to be composed of some fifteen ultimate elements (the older authorities give thirteen), as shown by chemical analysis, all of which are supplied in common wheat. It is not strange, therefore, that this grain is a staple among food products throughout the civilized world, the fact being founded in the pliysiological needa of the human race. But it is- strange, yes, marvelous, that this same wdieat, which a beneficent Creator furnishes to our hand for the renewing of our bodies, should be largely strij^ped by man of its nutritive materials before he eats it. There is more than a grain of truth in the saying, that “ the principal article of human food in America is a robbed, depreciated substance, incapable of sustaining human life.” Tliat “ the human animal in America is drenched with starch ” (in the use of white flour), “ and destroyed by it.” That “ the ten thousand mills in America which are to-day engaged in pulverizing wheat, and sifting from it its gi’ay matter,” ought to be classed wdth the “ distilleries of the land,” as shorteners of human life ; and that the “ exter- mination of the one is not more to be desired, than the annihilation of the other.” "Wliat stupidity (shall we call it madness?) that in the flour of commerce we shoiald take away froin the wheat—• in a large degi’oe, certainly—no less than twelve of theHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART I. fifteen elements that belong to it, and without wliich the gro\\'th of the human body can not be maintained! In other words, the wheat, with its fifteen elements, which ai’e nearly or quite identical with those of the human body, is reduced for the most jiart to a white, starchy substance, containing only three of the ultimate elements, carbon, oxygen and h^'drogen. The ricli supplies of silica, sodium, sulphur, phosphorus, calcium, nitrogen, and other elements that ai’e found in the bones, teeth, hair, nails, muscles, and in the blood, are gone! And the self-defrauded people, instinctively aware, as it were, that they are perishing for lack of those life-giving products, are now attempting to supplement the loss in a way that is none the less ridiculous and foolish. Vainly endeavoring to compensate for the things wasted, they betake themselves to the swallowing of certain substances which are little else than proximate ele- ments or principles derived from the foods proper. Why this roundabout process ? Why separate these vari- ous substaimes from the grains, doing violence to their organic structures, and then eat them individually rather than take them in organic combination, as Nature has pro- rided them? The idea is entertained by some, that in selecting and combining certainof the grains, a food can be prepared that will not only siq^ply some special need in the system, but that it will afford nomishment to a pariicular organ or part of the body. Following tliis theory there arc persons who delight to sup on cooked gluten, to eat wheatena, “ diabetic bi'ead,” “ brain food wafers,” or any of the “ food preparations,” as they are called, rather than to take the food itself. Nor is it at all uncommon to see per- sons wet up wheat Iman, coarse, flaky stuff, hardly fit for horses, and swallow it as a “ medicine,” and then sit down at meal-time, and eat white flour bread in preference to that made from the whole wheat! Any way but the right way ; particularly if it be fashionable, or in seeming accord with the old-time custom of “ taking something.”PART I.] WHEAT AND OTHER CEREALS. 23 Coming fairly and squarely to tlie point, the truth of the whole matter is simply this : 'NVhat is best suited to the nourishing or building up of the body as a ichole, is also best adapted to the proper growth of its individual members. Tlie late R. T. Trail, M.D., has very justl}' remarked that “ Those who would prepare healthful food, and those who desire to ‘ eat to hve,’ should ever bear in mind that no one of the alimentary principles is capable in itself of properly nourishing the body. Neither of them, in the j)roper sense, is food, but merely a constituent part of food. And almost all the ahments or substances used for food, contain very nearly, and some of them quite all of these proximate ele- ments. Hence the futility of all the multitudinous experi- ments, in feeding human beings or animals on a constituent part of an aliment, instead of the ahment itself. Such experiments only show the physiological ignorance of the experimenters.” Those constituent parts of food which are known to phys- jologists as proximate principles of the “ second class ” (oil, sugar, starch), are purely of organic origin. And the same is true of those of the third class, as fibrin, albumen, casein, etc. These two classes differ widely, both in their nature and origin, from those inorganic substances which are des- ignated, proximate principles of the first class. The Latter —most of them metallic—though obtainable by destructive analysis from organic products, are also found elsewhere, some of them existing largely in the surface of the earth. Now, if the proximate elements of the second and third classes can be shovm to be incapable of siii^porting animal life, what shall we say to those of the first class ? If dogs starve to death on starch, sugar, oil, fibrin, etc., would they thrive well on chlorides, carbonates and phosphates ? And yet there are j^eople who do not hesitate to recommend even these. They imagine that if magnesia, siilphur, soda, etc., are lacking in the bones and other tissues, they can eat24 HEALTH W THE HOHSEHOLD. [part L magnesia, soda, sulplim’, etc., or the carbonates, i^hos^jhates, etc., which contain them—quite ignoring the fact that these substances are simply earthy or inorganic materials, and as such, utterly incapable of suj)porting animal life. They seem not to understand that the only possible way in which human (or animal) beings can make these substances avail- able, is to take them, not as inorganic matter, but fresh from the hand of Nature, as part and parcel of the food products, in a state of ^xirfect organization—before the chemist has laid his finger upon them. It has been truth- fully said, that where chemistry begins, organic Hfe or structure ends. If hme is a necessary constituent in our bones, we can easily supply the system with the iieeded “ salts ” by eating xoliecU, not lime, or other calcareous substances. If sulphur is requii'ed in the hair, we shall obtain it from the grains ; not by taking the crude ariiclo. If sodium is called for in the fonnation of the different structures, let us look to the wheat and other cereals for that ingredient; not to soda, or chloride of sodium. Had God or natnre intended that we should eat inorganic substances, or even made it posnihle for us to sul)sist upon them, wliat need would there be to till the earih ? If, like trees, we can live upon gases, or derive nourishment from l^hosphates, etc., why turn the fuiTow, or put in the seed ? These materials abound in the crust of the earth, and are in no sense the products of agi’iculture. But why debate this question ? It has been shown again and again, that so far from man’s being able to sul>sist upon inorganic matter, neither he nor the lower animals can get nourishment out of them ; they can only live upon tlie natural, organic products of the earth. It has been repeatedly demonstrated, that even tliose proximate principles which are strictly of organic origin, as oil, sugar, starch, fibrin, albumen, casein, etc., can Hot sustain animal life ; both dogs and men would starve toWHEAT AXD OTHER CEREALS. PART I.j 25 death on any one of them, or all of them put together. For example, wheat alone, with water (the latter as a carrier of nutrient material), will sui^poi't human hfe for an indefinite length of time. But if we sei^arate the wheat into gluten, stiU’ch, sugar, etc., and attemj^t to hve iipon these, with or w'ithout the water, certain death wlU in a few weeks or months repay us for our folly. And yet, well as these facts are kno'^m among physiolo- gists and scientists,.people stfil persist in eating white flour bread, which is mostly stiu*ch, actually prefening it to bread made from the flour of the whole whe|it! Really, is it not high time that we ceased to eat, and feed to oul^ children, an aiticle of food that dogs can not hve upon ? In speaking of this subject. Dr. Trail remarks: “All of these proximate constituents vary exceedingly in their ability to sustain the j^rolonged nutrition of man or animals ; but neither of them alone can sitpply perfect nutrition, nor sustain the organism for a gi’eat length of time. Their power to do so is in the ratio of then’ complexity. Thus, gluten, which combines in itself a greater number of ele- ments, or in other w^ords, is a more complex substance in its chemical composition than any other alimentary prin- ciple, is capable of sustaining the nutrition of animtils longer than any other.” Dr. Graham is even more exi^hcit on this important sub- ject. He says: “Can any inorganic compound of oxygen, hydrogen, carbon and azote, be made to answ'er as a substi- tute for animal or vegetable food ? Ceriainly not! And the reason is ecidently not because any pariicular chemical character or property is wanting in such a compound, but because such a compound has not the constitutional nature which adapts it to the constitutional nature and functional powers of the living animal organs.” He further adds: “A single pound of good wfiieat contains about ten ounces of farina, six drachma of gluten, and twm drachms of sugar ; 2rPAKT I. HE.\LTH IK THE HOUSEHOLD. 26 and a robust laboring man maybe bealthfully sustained on one pound of good wheat per day, wdth pure water, for any length of time he chooses, without the least physiological inconven- ience; but let him attempt to live on ten ounces of j^ure farina, six drachms of gluten, and two drachms of sugar jier day, with pure water, either taken separately or mixed together, and he w'ill soon find his ajipetite and strength and spirits failing, and his flesh forsaking him; and death wiU terminate his experiment in less than a year. Can chemistry teU us why this is so ? Indeed she can not! But physiology tells us with promptitude and accui’acy, that wheat, in its whole substance, is constitutionidly adaj)ted to the anatomi- cal structure and physical powers of the ahmentary organs of man; but chat farina and gluten and sugar, in their con- centrated forms, are not; and therefore that the wheat, wdiile it affords healthfid nourisliment to the body, also sus- tains the organs in digesting and apiiropriating that noui'ish- ment; but that the farina, gluten and sugar, though purely nutrient principles, break down the alimentary organs, destroy their functional powers, and cause the whole system to perish.” Now, either Dr. Graham is con’ect in these statements, or he is not. If incorrect, it would be the easiest thing in the world to demonstrate the fact, by a few^ simple experiments upon dogs. If Dr. Graham is right, we ought to credit his statements, and have the benefit of his teachings. "What has been said in this connection in regard to wheat, is in noAvise limited to that grain—it applies with more or less force to rye, oats, barley, and the grains in general. If we want the best that there is in them, w’e must neither reject nor destroy any of the nutritive substances w^hich they con- tain. Even the woody fiber w'liich forms the outer coating of the grain, when properly cleaned and cut sufficiently fine, seiwes its puipose in the intestinal canal—on the same prin- ciple that straw is needed for horses, when they are fed too27 WHE.\TEN US. WHITE FLOUR. P.LRT I.] exclusively on oats or other grains. We need bulk as well as nutrition, in the foods we eat; were tliis not the case, what would he the use of all the varieties of fruits and vege- tables, many of which, in one sense, serve to “ fill up ” with fluid or solid materials, rather than to supply large quanti- ties of strictly nutritive substances ? Indeed, we can scarcely commit a greater mistake than to confine ourselves to the use of the very nutritious or concentrated foods. To present this Avhole theme in a nutshell, the reader is referred to the following chapter, which gives the testimony of Dr. Cabin Cutter, that well-known physiologist of Warren, Massachusetts. W HEATEN VS. WlUTE FlOUR. The idea is sometimes entertained that bread made from wheaten meal (usuiiUy called Graham flour), is less nutritious than that made of the ordinary white flour; and that the persons who eat it are simply subjecting themselves to a “ starvation diet,” ivhich does not suppoii life properly. Let those w'ho cherish such views read Dr. Cutter’s statements, and then decide for themselves which of the two kinds of bread lacks the elements of nutrition that the system re- quires. First, however, let us hear, in a few words, what a w^eU-known divine has to say. Kev. J. F. Clyuier, oi Auburn, N. Y., has given a discourse to his congregation on Food and iMorals,” in which ho goes straight to the root of the matter.'^ In speaking of the white flour of commerce, ho says: “The process of bolting or refining takes from the wheat most of the phosphates and nitrates, the elements that are chiefly required for mak- ing nerves, muscles, bones, and brains. The phosphates and nitrates being removed by bolting, very little remains in the flour except the starchy carbonates, the heat and fat- * This discoiirt^e lias been published in pamphlet form, and is for sale by Fowler & Wells, New Yiult.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part I. 28 producing elements. The use of fine flour bread as a staple ai-ticle of food, introduces too much heat and fat-producing elements into the system; and where there is too much car- bon or heating substance, it tends rather to provoke the system to unnatural and abnormal action, and instead of serving as an element to warm the body, its tendency is to burn or consume, heating and irritating all the organs— getting one into that state which is properly known as ‘ hot- blooded.’ “Tlie tine white flour ordinarily used has two-thirds of the nitrogenous and mineral nutriment that God put in the wheat, taken out. Unless these deficiencies are made up by some other foods, the exclusive use of fine flour bread ^\ill leave the nerves and bones poorly nourished, producing in some systems nervousness, d^'sjDepsia, and all the physical iUs taat foUow these diseases, together with impatience, fretfuiness, and irratibilitv. God intended that aU the nutritive properties He put in the wheat should stay in it for piu’poses of symmetrical nourishment. Fine flour bread may bo used for pui-poses of producing heat in the system, but it does not feed hungiy nerves or stai’ving bones. “ One reason why children fed chiefly on white bread feel hungry nearly all the time, and demand so much food be- tween meals, is found in the fact that their bodies are in- sufficiently nourished. Their bones and nerves not receiv- ing the nitrates and phosphates they need, are suffering from hunger.” Now we wlU hear from Dr. Cutter. He says : “ 1. Flom- is the onl}'^ impoverished food used by mankind—impover- ished by the withdrawal of the tegumentary poiiion of the wheat, leaving the intemal, starchy or white portion. See the facts : In Johnson’s ‘ How Crops Grow ’ you find that in 1,000 parts of substance, wheat has an ash of 17.7 parts ; flour has an ash of 4.1 paiis—an impoverishment of overi’AKT I.] ^YUE.VTEN VS. WHITE FLOUR. 29 three-fourths, '\^^eat has 8.2 pai-ts jihosphoric acid ; flour has 2.1 parts phosphoric acid—an impoverishment of about three-fourths. Wheat has O.G lime and O.G soda ; flour has 0.1 lime and 0.1 soda—an impoveiishment of five-sixths each. AVheat has 1.5 suliiluu'; floui’ has no sulphm\ AVheat has sulphuric acid 0.5 ; flour has no sulphui’ic acid. Wheat has silica 0.3 ; flour has no silica. “2. Flour is mostly starch—68.7 per cent. Its formula, chemical composition, is C 10, H 12, O 12—tliree elements ; cai’bon, hydrogen, oxygen. The human body contains at least twelve elements besides those of starch. How, then, c.an flour be nutritious with about three elements, when it should contain fifteen elements, in order to properly nomish and sustain the human body ? “ 3. Flour has less gluten than wheat. Gluten is the al- buminoid principle corresponding to the albumen, fibrin, and gelatine in the human body. “4, Dogs fed by Magendie (uhfeKirhe & Paget’s ‘Physi- ology ’) on flour bread, died in forty days ; other dogs, fed on bread from whole-wdieat meal or flour, flourished and throve. The three-fourths impoverishment of the mineral ingredients proved fatal to the first. AVliy should not man- kind suffer in some manner from living on impoverished food ? “5. The history of the Koman Empire in the time of Julius Cicsar shows that wheat, as an article of food, com- bined wdth fresh outdoor-air life, is capable of producing and sustaining the highest type of physical manhood the world ever saw. The empire was built up and maintained by soldiers whose main article of food -was wheat. “ 6. There is every probability that the present prevalence of late erupting and easily-decaying teeth is due for one cause to the use of flour as food. In eight hundred and eighty of the school children in Woburn, Lexington, and Bedford, Massachusetts, in 1874, under twelve years of ago,HEALTH IH THE HOUSEHOLD. 30 [PABT I. two-tbircls bad decayed teetb. See ‘ReiDOi-t State Health Boai’d of Massacbusetts, 1875.’ “ 7. There is every probability that the prevalence of pre- mature grayness or baldness, is partly due to the present ex- clusive and universal use of white flour. Han* contains ten per cent, of sulpbamid (N H 2 S).—Mulder. But there is no sulphur or sulphui’ic acid in flom*. A flour, to be food, must contain in proper quantities aU ingredients found in the tissues, hair, teeth, etc. If it does not, then impairment of vigor, decay, and falling off must be expected as a natural consequence. “ 8. Flour for half a century has been regarded as one cause of constq:)ation. It has been proved that whole- wheat meal (or flour) regulates the bowels by giving the system nerve food to ‘nm,’ so to speak, the digestive functions and promote healthy peristaltic motions. Nearly all our functions are sustained by nerve-force ; hence the importance of having the nerves receive their full amount of phosphoric acid, which is the great pabulrun of the nerve tissue. “ 9. It is probable that the use of flour may be the cause of the change of the type of disease from strong (sthenic) to weak (asthenic).* “10. Why should mankind, then, use flour and render themselves liable to disease, because flour is impoverished food? Remember Megendie’s dog that died from eating * “ The mineral ingredients of food for plants, contained in fertilizers, if withdrawn seventy-five per cent., would entail vegetable growths of very feeble vitality and the resistance to the causes of disease. No farmer would think of manuring his vegetables with one-fourth the fertilizers ordinarily deemed necessary ; or if he did, he would get a miserable and weak crop, if he got any at all. Now it is asked, May it not be possible that the present type of asthenic disease is partly due to the use of an im- poverished food like flour ? The answering of this must be made by the organized medical societies, although there is every probability that the reply will be in the aflfirmativc.”PART I.] 31 WKEATEN VS. WHITE FLOUR. white-flour bread exclusively! How can pai’ents expect their children to grow up with strong teeth, nerves, eyes, nail’, etc., on floiu’? In children every tissue and organ is growing, increasing in size, and developing. Every element which belongs to those tissues and organs should be con- tained in the food or ahinentary substances, and in normal proportions, as provided by the Creator in the natural sub- stances designed and proved by history to be perfect food. Wheat is such an article ; but white floiu’ made from it is a substance weakened, deteiiorated, and impoverished ; and history show's that people eating it are more subject to tissue- wasting disease (consumption, etc.) than ever before. Why then, not use the whole of the original wheat, ground or re- duced to a uniform condition, without loss or injury to the food elements, with its native normal balance of quantity of mineral ingredients in a soluble assimilable form, as Liebig and others advocate ; and such as it is demonstrated undeni- ably and incontrovertibly, by facts of history, to be capable of producing the highest type of manhood the world ever saw ? Why raise a pale, feeble, nervous, and smaU-sized race of people on flour because flour-bread looks white and light, and therefore is considered nice? What jn’inciple of aesthetics is it that confers such a pre-eminent place upon the color of white ? Wliy not brown or bronze ? What is more grateful to the senses than the complementary colors of landscape ? If it wei*e aU white, it would be both re- pulsive and injurious. This preference of white over yel- low or brown, or any other color, is not based upon the truth of existing facts, else it would be inferred that a w'hite statue is preferable to a bronze. The fact is, the elevation of white bread into the highest place of preferment is altogether unfounded and unwarrantable. The white color comes from starch ; and the whiter the bread the more starch it contains, and of course the less nutrition, as stai’ch has only carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen to make tissue,HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part I. 32 which would contain fifteen elements. The whiteness of flom’ is, in fact, an outward sign of the starvation and death within. Indeed, the jn-esent universal use of white fiom* is one of the most remai’kable facts in the history of civiliza- tion—remarkable, because it is the only impoverished food upon the diet list. Over-boiled meats and vegetables are the only approach to imiDOverished food. People know enough not to eat them. But that they should love to eat white flour is certainly very remai’kable indeed, and almost an evidence of a fallen nature, as there is nothing like it in the whole history of eatiug. “ 11. What is wanted is a wholesome, healthful, nourish- insr wheat food—a whole-wheat flour in the fullest and O broadest sense of the term—containing every one of the fifteen elements in their normal proportions, and reduced to an entire evenness of condition, which is most favorable to digestion and assimilation. It is a common practice, to a lai’ge extent, to giind the finest and soundest wheat into fine flour, and the poorest into what is called ‘ Graham flom’.’ This term ‘ Graham flom ’ ought no longer to be used ; it is a kind of general name given to mixtures of bran, and poor and often spoilt flour, to a large extent unfit for human food. We must have a thoroughly piu’e, sweet, and nutri- tious whole-wheat flour, made from the choicest and ripest wheat, wholly (bran, or cortical portion, and all) reduced to a uniform fineness of quality, and well put up for family use ; and whoever will give his earnest and honest efforts to furnishing such a flour, and keep its manufacture up to this high standard all the time, ■^dU confer a lasting benefit upon his race and generation, and find a remunerative market for aU he can produce. The bro-svn loaf is to our eye as handsome as the white, and in it we secme all the important nutritive principles which the Creator for wise reasons has stored up in wheat.” As respects the relative values of white flom and that of33 PART 1.] THE PEttlTS. the whole wheat, the following table, if even pi-oximately coiTect, ought to be of especial interest. It was submitted by a j\Ir. Johnson, some years ago in Blachvood’s Magazine: In 1,000 lbs. IVhoie IV/ieat, F'ine Flour. Muscular matter .... loGlbs. 130 lbs. Bones and saline matter.. .... 170 “ 60 “ Fatty matter .... 28 “ 20 “ Total in each .... 354 “ 210 “ The Fruits. Fruits are almost as indispensable to a healthful dietary as tlie grains, particularly in the summer season, and in waiTU climates. They supply those delightful acids that are not only agreeable to the palate, but specially suited to the needs of the vital organism. They cool and refresh us in the heat of summer; they supply organic fluids to the system, replacing those that are lost in perspii’ation from day to day ; and they keep the vital machinery in good working order. If no other proof were furnished of the natural requirements of the human system for fniits, a very broad hint is given in the fact that they are capable of being grown in nearly every quarter of the habitable globe ; throughout the temperate zones, as well as the tropics, we find them in great abundance. Another evidence in the same direction, is the fact that in the course of the season the different varieties of fruits follow each other in close succession, so tliat one is hardly gone till another is ready. And, as if to supply any defect that may arise from negligence on om* part, or from climatic causes, one quarter of the globe supplements an- other to such a degree, that any local failure in the fruit crop is largely made up by an over-abundant yield in some neighboring locality. So that if apples fail us in the IVIiddle States, they are directly shipped from the North ; or if the supply from that quarter is short, there are peaches 2*HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part 1. 34 and oranges in the South. And yet, how much more com- plete would this arrangement be, if the soil were so culti- vated from year to year as to yield its largest product! Anything like a comjdete failure of the fruit crop, were such a thing possible in this country, would be nothing short of a great national calamity. Next to the grains, therefore, in dietetic impoidance, we must place the fruits ; they minister alike to the pleasures of the appetite, and to the actual wants of our bodies. The sour fruits, especially, are the best of “ cholagogues,” doing away with aU need of “ bilious remedies,” so called ; they stimulate the liver to its normal activity, and prevent that “ clogging up ” of the organ which causes retention of bile, tliickening of the blood, and other derangements conse- quent upon non-jDerformance of fimctional action. And it wiU be observed that those which have keen acids, come in great j)rofusion just at the time we need them most; viz., after the long winter, when both fruits and vegetables are necessarily scarce. Fniits are the natm’al coiTectives for disordered diges- tion ; but the way in which many persons eat them, con- vei*ts them into a curse rather than a blessing. Instead of being taken on an empty stomach, or in combination with simple grain preparations, as bread, they are eaten with oily foods, with meat and vegetables, pungent seasonings, or other unwholesome condiments ; or they are taken at the end of the meal, after the stomach is ah’eady fuU, and per- haps the whole mass of food “ washed down ” with tea, coffee or other liquid ; or they are eaten at all hours of the day ; or late at night, with ice-cream, calce or other rich desserts; and a few hours after, when there is a sick patient, and the doctor has to be sent for, the innocent fruits get the blame of all the mischief, when really, their only sin was in being found in bad company. Fruits, to do their best work, be eaten either on anTUE FRUITS. P.VET I.] 35 empty stomach, or simply with bread—never with vegeta- bles. In the morning, before tlie fast of the night has been broken, they are not only exceedingly refreshing, but they serv'e as a natural stimulus to the digestive organs. And to produce their fullest, finest effect, they should be ripe, sound, and eveiy way of good quahty ; moreover, they should be eaten raw. What is better than a bunch of luscious grapes, or a plate of berries or cheiTies, on a sum- mer morning the first thing on sitting down to breakfast ? Or a fine ripe apple, rich and juicy, eaten in the same way. In our chmate ajiples should constitute not the finishing, bui the beginning of the meal, pariicularly the breakfast, for ai least six months in the year ; and fniits, raw or cooked should make a part of the morning and evening meal (pro vided suppers are eaten), during the entire year. The good effects that would follow the abundant use o{ fruits are often more than counterbalanced by the per- nicious habit of completely saturating them with sugar. Very few fniits, if thoroughly ripe and at their best, requir.' any sugar, particularly if eaten in the raw state ; but un- happily it is a fact, that what was intended and prepared for us as a great good in the matter of diet, should be trans- formed into just tbe opposite. It is also a misforiune that people in this country should so habituate themselves to “ sweet things ” (foods prepared with sugar), that almost everjdhing in the line of fruit acids “tastes sour”; so that what would otherwise be a pleasant acid flavor, must be covered with or cooked in sugar, before it can be relished. The taste can be educated in this direction, as in its opposite, to an almost unlimited extent. This is seen in comparing the dietetic habits and tastes of the people of this country with those of Great Britain ; the former use perhaps five times the amount of sugar that would suffice for the latter. And cooked fruits that are “ plenty sweet ” for an Englishman or Scotchman, would not be touched by36 [part L HEALTH m THE HOUSEHOLD. the average American without the saccharine condiment. It is worthy of remark, moreover, that those who are excessively fond of sweet fruits or condiments, rarely fad to call for the intensely sour, as lemons or pickles. This, indeed, is a neces- sary consequence ; for when the liver is badly congested from the use of sugar, the vital instincts natiirally call for the keen acids, in order to empty out the bile ducts, set them in good working order, and get rid of the debris. Whoever can induce our people to tmm theii* attention more largely to the cultivation of fruits, and then show them the necessity of making them a staple on their tables, to the exclusion of so much animal and fatty foods (particularly butter), win confer upon them an incalculable blessing. Such a change would save the hves of thousands of children —to say nothing of those of a larger growth—and it would make the ones that sui’vive better ivorth the saving. Many persons, with rather feeble digestive powers, can not manage raw fruits, as apples, at the evening meal; and some, who can eat them with iinpunity at the begimiing of the breakfast or dinner, can not digest them well at the end of the meal. One reason for this is, that after taking warm food into the stomach, its neiwes are to a certain degi’ee re- laxed, and that organ is no longer able to do its best work. And just here we have the explanation of another fact, viz., that if the meal is simplj'’ a cold lunch, raw fruit can gener- ally be eaten at the beginning, middle, or end of it, without the slightest inconvenience. Sylvester Graham, M.D., furnishes stdl another reason, which is probably a good one, why raw fruit is usually better digested in the earlier than the later hours of the day. He says : “ But it should always be remembered that fruit of every description, if eaten at all, should be eaten as food, and not as mere pastime, or merely for the sake of gusta- tory enjoyment; and therefore it should, as a general rule, be eaten at the table, or constitute a portion of the regular37 THE FRUITS. PART I.] meaL I do not mean as the dessert of flesh-eaters, after they have eaten already enough of other food ; but I mean as a portion of the regular meal of vegetable-eaters, taken Avith tlieir bread, instead of flesh and butter ; for their break- fast and their dinner, but more sparingly at their third meal or supper, especiiiUy if this meal be taken late in the day. The tiaith is, that all cooked food, even under the best regulations, impairs in some degree the power of the stomach to digest uncooked substances ; and therefore, so long as we are accustomed to cooked food of any kind, we must be somewhat more careful in regard to the times when we eat fniit and other substances in their natural state. The digestive organs always in health partake of the general vigor and freshness of the body, and always share with it also in its weariness and exhaustion. Hence, as a general rule, so long as we are accustomed to cooked food, the stomach vill always digest fruit and other sub- stances in their natural state better in the early than in the latter paid of the day. Moreover, it is a truth of considerable impoidance, that fruit and other substances in the natural state arc digested with more ease and comfort when taken alone, at a regular meal-time, than when taken with any kind of cooked food, except good bread. While, therefore, human beings, and especially in civilized life, wholly disregard these physiological principles, and cat fruit with anything and everything else, and at aU hours of the day and night, they ought not to be surprised, and still less should they complain, if they suffer from their erro- neous habits. But nothing is more certain than that if human beings will in a reasonable degree conform to the physiological laws of their nature, they may cat almost every variety of esculent fruits which the vegetable king- don, produces, with entire safety and comfort.”HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part I 38 The Vegetables. Vegetables, while they must rank second as compared with fruits, have a greater value, dietetically considered, than is generally accorded to them. In the first place, they give bulk to our food, which is a matter of more importance than is commonly supposed ; and in the next place, they furnish a large amount of organic Jluids, which are digested and assimilated by the system. It is a mistaken idea which some persons have, that those foods are necessarily best which contain a large amount of nutrition in small bulk. They seem to forget that food, to be properly digested and appropriated by the organism, must contain something more than the mere nutritive particles ; there must be certain indigestible materials supplied to the intestinal canal, else the bowels, having httle to do, would lose them natural tone, and shrivel up, as it were, from mere inac- tivity. This is what actually happens, to a certain degree, when persons live too exclusively on white crackers, or fine flour bread, and other highly concentrated forms of food. G. Schlickeysen, a German writer, in treating of this subject, says : “ The value of the various articles of food consists not, as is generally supposed, in their chemical con- stituents, but in a variety of other conditions, which we shall here mention. In the first place, the food must con- tain the necessary amount of water to maintain the excre- tory processes through the breath, perspiration, and other- wise. Fruits contain an abundant supply of water, so that when they are eaten freely the drinking of water is almost entirely unnecessary ; and the vegetarians are really justifi- able when they say, ‘We drink fruit’; and they might also add, ‘AVe eat water.’” Horses, it is well knoA\TQ, can not live exclusively on grains ; they need straw as well—and even wood-shavings have been ^successfully substituted when straw could not beP.VRT I.] 39 THE \TEGET.VBLES. had.* On the same principle, if not to the same extent, human beings thrive best on a diet that contains a certain per cent, of coarse material. For example, the graitis, as wheat, rye, etc., wliich are excellent in themselves, iire not tlie best by themselves. Nor must we overlook the fact that our bodies are made up of both fluids and sohds—about one-foiu’th of the latter to three-fourths of the former ; or, as some one has stated it, in rather general terms, the human body is so many pounds of salts, etc., and a “ few pailfuls of water.” Now, when we consider that the fluids of the body are the flrst to waste, either in sickness or health, it wiU be seen that in order to supply that waste, liquids as well as solids are required in the food. The potato, which is 75 jrer cent, water, and which many caU poor in nutritive value, will of itself sustain life for an indefinite length of time. Indeed, if we had to choose a single article, and live on it exclu- sively, the potato would come nearer meeting the wants of the system, so far as its Jluids are concerned, than the gr*ains, which contain so large a proportion of solid matter. Pa^y, in his treatise on Food and Di<^tetics, very justly The following para^niph is from Dr. Gr.aham’s “ Scieuce of Human Life”: “About thirty years nco,” sa3’’s Governor William Kinp:, of Maine, “I went to the West Indies, and during my voyage became, acquainted with the following fact, which may be relied on as strictly true.- A vessel from New Eiurland, with a deck load of horses, bound to the West Indies, was overtaken by a violent calc, which swept away all the hay on board, and carried awo}' the masts. The captain was obliged to feed his horses on com. After a while they began to droop and to lose their appetite, and at length wdiolly refused to eat their grain, and began to gnaw the scant- lings and spars within their reach, and to bite at tlie men, and cver}dhing else that came in their way. The captain threw pieces of wood before them, which they immediately began to eat. After this, he regularly sup- plied them with a quantity of cedar shingles, which they eagerly ate as they would hay, and soon recovered their appetite for their grain, and imi)roved in health and sprightliness, and continued to do well on theif food of corn and cedar shingles till they got into port.”40 [PAHT 1. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. remarks that, pliysiologically, “ the separation of the ingesta into ‘ food ’ and ‘ drink ’ is unsuitable ; that the two factors of life are food and air”; and that the former “embraces both sohd and liquid matter.” It is, indeed, a nice point to determine just what propor- tion of our food should be fluid and what sohd, to say nothing of the indigestible matter, as bran in wheat, which is necessary to the normal or healthy action of the intestinal canal. One thing is ceidain : in warm weather, when there is much waste of the fluids of the body through the skin, the supply of hquid material must be corresiiondingly large. Here is where the juicy fruits, and even the vegetables, sup- ply a great want in the vital economy ; they give us a large amount of fluid matter, in an organized state. Indeed, we have a most beneficent arrangement in the relation of sup- ply and demand ; when our needs are greatest and most urgent, the stock of supplies from Natm'e’s storehouse is most abundant. In the early spring, when we have grown tired of “ last year’s leavings,” the tender vegetables fill our markets and dehght our eyes in glad anticipation of a change in the repast. Tlie young beets, the spinach and asparagus, the early cauliflowci’, and even the lettuce and onions, have charms for us then. As summer draws nigh, the varieties of choice vegetables midtiply, giving us green peas, toma- toes, string beans, summer squashes, and an almost endless variety of products. Then come the autumn days, and with them the great Lima beans, the Hubbard squashes, and the sweet potatoes. Nor does the supply fail us when winter approaches ; there are still turnips, potatoes, cabbage, win- ter squashes, and other good things. Keally, it is little less than wonderful what varieties of vegetable products there are, even in a single latitude or climate. Another feature in regard to vegetable foods, is the strong contrast that exists in tlie flavors of the several products.PART I.] THK VEGETABLES. 41 There ai'e “ families,” it is true, the member-s of which show their kinship by a similaiity of flavor and texture ; but out- side of these the differences or individualities are strongly mai’ked. For example, what is more imlike in apiJcarance and taste than a cabbage and a sweet potato, or a beet and a butter bean ? Some of these vegetables are of less value as foods than others, theii’ dietetic impoidance seeming to consist more in the individual constituent that is added to the general food product, than to the merit that belongs to them separately considered. To illustrate : common lettuce does not seem to possess any extraordinary dietetic propeities ; but after a long winter, when everybody has tired of bread, beans and potatoes, to say nothing of “ beef, mutton and ham,” a fresh bunch of tender lettuce with a dressing of lemon juice, is to most persons really inviting. So is a dish of young peas, cauliflower or sjiinach. Something green is wanted after the old sameness of dry dishes, and it would be a great misfortune if, for even one season, the gardens shoidd fail us. Vegetables and fruits are so unlike in their individual flavors and characteristics, that they should not, as a rule, be eaten together, or at the same meal. A good plan is to confine the vegetables to the noon-day rep.ast, letting the morning and evening meal be made of fruits and cereals variously prepared. Ordinarily, these latter are quite suffi- cient for breakfast, though a dish of baked potatoes would not be a bad accompaniment. The potato is so unobtrusive in its nature, that it rarely creates disturbance eaten with any other food. Like the grains, it “goes well” with either fruits or vegetables, and it is about the only vegetable of which as much can be said. Not that well people, Avho scarcely know they have a stomach, might not manage a meal very well with miscellaneous combinations, but feeble stomachs must either discriminate, or suffer. For a fuller42 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET I. elucidation of this subject, tbc reader is refen’ed to the chapter on Food Combinations. Mr.AT AS AN Article oe Diet. The flesh of healthy animals, as beef or mutton, is neither the best nor the worst of foods. In actual nutritive value, so far as either quahty or quantity of nutrient material is concerned, the grains will always stand at the head of the food products. In respect to variety, we have but to add to these the various fruits and vegetables, each in its season and in its highest state of cultui’e, and we have, as many believe, ah, and the best, that is needed for the sustenance of our bodies. But such ai-e the customs in modem cook- ery, and such the arts and inventions of civilized hfe, that these things, naturally good, ai’e often transformed into any- thing but wholesome foods. It is, therefore, a common remark, made even by those who do not approve of eating the flesh of animals, that meats, prepared in a plain way, are far less injurious than many other articles that are often found on oui’ tables ; such, for example, as flne flour bread, ordinary cake, pickles, pungent sauces, preserves, jellies, the usual pastries, etc., etc. At the same time the question remains, whether any of the meat dishes can hejin to com- pare with a fruit and bread diet (using bread made from the flour of the whole wheat), either in nutritive value, or in respect to health. In the first jilace, every particle of animal flesh (including the human), is, to a certain extent, laden with effete, worn- out material that is making its way out of the vital domain. It is that kind of material out of which are formed the bile, persph'ation, and other excretory products, the bare mention of which would be unsuitable in a work of this kind. Those products are the results of a transformation in the downward grade—sometimes called destructive assimi- lation—by which the ingredients of the animal tissues areMK\T ^VS AN ARTICLE OF DIET. 43 P.VRT I.] decomposed, and convei*ted into waste substances. In the language of the physiologist, they represent the “j)hysio- logical detritis of the animtd organism.” Every drop of venous blood is laden with it; so much so, that if an animal is not well bled when it is killed, the meat is actually poi- soned by it. It is the presence of these waste products in meat, that renders it so cpiickly putrescent after life is extinct—unless some antiseptic is employed, which shall so change the natm-e of the meat itself as to render it no longer the same, even in nutiitive vtduo. It is the presence of these that causes the chyle formed from a diet of meat, and taken from the living vessels, to putrefy in a few hours ; while that which is elaborated from grains and other vegetable products, wiU keep for weeks with no material change. It is due to the presence of these that the perspiration, and indeed all the excretions of meat-eaters, are more offensive than those of persons living upon fruits and grains, and other ju’oducts of the soil. And just here we have an ex- planation of the fact that the flesh of most carnivorous animals is so disgustingly filthy and putrescent, that it is utterly unfit for human food. Their bodies are filled with this waste matter, working its way a second time out of the domain of animal life, and this time laden with stiU another portion of “physiological detritis.” Persons who live upon animal foods have need to pay specitil attention to bathing, change of underwear, and other habits of cleanliness, else their very presence wiU reveal the character of the materials out of which their tissues arc made. This is particularly true in the case of individuals whose sedentary habits prevent them from throwing off the waste matters fast enough to keep the body in a pui'e, whole- some condition. But there are reasons of a moral nature why meat is not the proper food for man. The habit of mui’dering animalsHEALTH Ils^ THE HOUSEHOLD. 41 [part I. is of itself degrading; eveu beef-loving England will not, it is said, allow a butcher to serve on a jiuy, pai-ticularly if the case to be tried is one involving hiunan life. One of the foulest mimlers that ever disgi*aced a peacefid commu- nity, was committed some years ago in Oliio, by a man (supposed by his neighbors to be a peaceable citizen) who had spent the day in killing hogs; he j)ursued liis victim, a young woman, to the village chm’ch-3'ard, and there stabbed her with the very knife with which he had cut the throats of the swine. As to the actual necessity for a meat diet, it is not true, as some suppose, that vigorous health can not be maintained without it. On the contrary, “four-tenths of the human race,” according to Virey, subsist exclusively on a vegetable diet, and as many as seven-tenths are practically vegeta- rians.* Then, there is an argniment outside of physiology—one tliat sooner or later mU have to be considered—why the llesh of animals should not form a pait of the diet of human beings. At the present rate of increase of the human fami- ly, the surface of the earth will, in a few centuries, be far too densely populated to admit of the raising of animals to be used as food. For it has been shown that it would require more than foiiy times as much land to feed a man on meat, as it would to feed him on grains.f It follows, therefore, that when land is scarce, as it mU be when the earth is many times more thickly populated than at present, the acres will have to be utilized in the way that is most profitable; not in the raising of hogs, cattle and sheep, but in the cultivation of grains, and other products of the soil. Ectm’ning to the sanitary argument against the use of *See “Physical Education,” by Felix L. Oswald, M.D., published by D. Appleton & Co. tSce essaj' on “ The Influence of Food on Civilization,” by Richard A. Proctor, in the Xorth American Review for December, 1883.45 UE.\.T AS AN ARTICLE OF DIET. PART I.] auimal foods, it is proper to remark that so long as there ai'o persons who, from life-long habit or otherwise, think they “ must have it,” they should at till events beware of dis-^ eased imnts. The cattle that ai'e shipped into New York for the mm’ket, have many of them come hundreds of miles in ill-ventilated cars, often in hot weather, and ai‘e stowed into them almost as closely as they ctxn stand; here they ai’e sur- rounded with a stifling, filthy atmosjihere, and frequently they have not a drop of water on the whole journey. A large per cent, are disabled from being trampled underfoot; and by the time they reach the city some of them are sick or dying with typhoid or other putrid fevers, and aU are in such a feverish condition that their bodies are poisoned, through and through. Nor must it be forgotten that all stall-fed or sty-fed ani- mals are, to a certain extent, diseased; in fact, the fattening process is of itself nothmg more nor less than the progress of disease. "When an animal ceases to take exercise, as in a stall, it also ceases to throw off excretory matter promptly; its liver becomes engorged, the lungs are pressed upon, the blood can not be properly aerated, and loads of carbon retained excretion) in the shape oi fat, are impacted between the once healthy muscles, which are now every day getting smaller and smaller. Fat people, as well as fat animals, have smixU, weak muscles—a fact well understood by tlie medical student. The presence of ceidain parasites in animal foods, is another strong objection to their use. It is a well-knoAvn fact that the ova of trichinje are taken into the human sys- tem by eating pork, and especially raw pork; and it has been questioned whether any moderate degree of heat would be sufficient to kill them. It is also perfectly well known that the larvae of the tapeworm may exist in oxen, sheep and swine; and that those who eat of the flesh of these ani-[part I. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 46 Dials, particularly if it be not well cooked, are more or less exposed to the tapeworm malady.* Animals that are to l>e eaten should bo fed on the cleanest of food, and should have plenty of pui-e water to drink; they should never be kept in confined places, or with filthy surroundings. In fact, they need at least a ten-acre field to nm in, and get plenty of exercise and fresh air, as well as fresh grass. “ But how can they have this,” you ask, “ when the country becomes densely populated aU through ? It A^^ll take more room for the animals, than the people have for themselves and their childi’en.” Very true; and wdien this is the case, the people will then be obliged to live upon fruits and grains, and the products of the garden, w'hich Avill be infinitely better for them. Meat is an expensive diet, every way you take it; but the ex23ense in actual dol- lars and cents, is the least part of it. Used three times a day, as it is by very many of our jieojfie, it is anything but health-producing; and the doctors’ bills often exceed those at the meat market—to say nothing of the time lost, the suffering endm'ed, and the actual impairment of the general health. It is the duty of the butcher, as well as of those who jiur- chase the meat, to see that no animal is killed in an angered condition, as the lilood is actually jioisoned by the mental excitement thus jiroduced. Neither should it be overheated by rimning ; this sends the blood to the capillaries ; and the flesh which is filled Avith it is not only much darker from the superabundance of Annous blood, but the meat is ren- dered putrescent by it. Butchers have sometimes been obliged to throw away a whole beef, from its having been killed after severe racing ; the flesh being not only unfit to eat, but commencing to putrefy very soon after life was extinct. *8ec lecture on “Worms,” by F. Spencer Cobbold, M.D., published in kondon, in 1872,MEAT AS AN ARTICLE OF DIET. PART I.] 47 It win readily be seen, by glancing at the tables given at the head of these chapters, that all meats fall far below the gi'ains in nutritive value. Some of the field vegetables, as sweet and Irish potatoes, artichokes and winter squashes, contain nearly or quite as much solid matter as meat, and considerably more than milk ; while beans, peas and lentils contain about three times as much as ordinaiy meat. Some years ago, great importance was attached to the fact that meats contain a large per cent, of nitrogenous sub- stances, these being considered by Liebig and others as higlily essentitd to the production of muscular force. This theoiy, however plausible, has of later years been disproved by able authorities, as Frankland, Traube and others. In- deed, Liebig himself, who was the originator of the doctrine, has abandoned it altogether. In like manner, other j)et theories, as what were supposed to be the “ elements of res- piration,” the “ heat-forming principles,” etc., have fallen to the ground, or at least lost much of their former signifi- cance. The more rational view is now somewhat favorably entertained, that whatever is best suited to the building up of the various structures of the body, or in other words, is capable of replacing that which is lost, must necessarily bo jiro- ductive of vital lieat and vital force, these being generated in the normalqiiantUy. Tlie late R. T. Trail, M.D., in speaking of the doctrine advanced by Liebig, remarks : “ The theoiy has no practical value in dietetics, for the reason that aU the elements of nutrition, whether heat-forming, or flesh- forming, or bone-forming, are sufficiently distributed, and nearly equally so, throughout all those poriions of both the vegetable and animal kingdom that man ever does or can employ as food.” All domestic animals, either from the ignorance or negli- gence of those who keep them, or from other causes, are liable to be diseased ; this is particularly true in those stock- raising districts that are adjacent to cities. Tlie animals areHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 48 [part I. largely swiU-fed from breweries ; and owing to the increased value of land in these vicinities, they have less territory to roam over or feed upon. By a cai’eful perusal of the Bepoi’ts made to the Department of Agriculture at Wash- ington, it is easy to arrive at the following facts, viz. : That all domestic animals, as horses, cattle, hogs, sheep, and even poultry, are subject to disease, those in some localities being freer from it than others. That next to hogs, fowls ai’e most hable to be affected. That there are various diseases among hogs, the most fatal being that of hog-cholera. That the mortality from this cause alone is enormous, some counties in certain of the States losing as high as 80 per cent, per amium. That the value of farm animals lost to the United States in a single year (1879) exceeded $16,000,- 000. That about two-thirds of this loss was due to diseases among swine. That these diseases prevailed more exten- sivety in the Middle, Southern and Western States than in the Northern or Eastern. Improper food, insufficient housing, and lack of clean surroundings, seem to be the chief causes of disease among animals. Pork-Eatino. If there is a practice in all Christendom that deseiwes the censure of this enlightened age, it is that of eating swine’s flesh. Away back in the twilight of the ages, before Chris- tianity had been dreamed of, there were people upon the earth who, for sanitary reasons, if for no other, declined to touch the unclean thing. But we, who live in the light of the nineteenth century, who boast of our reflnement, our intuitive perceptions, and our clear-headed forethought, who have all the wisdom of the centuries behind us,—we. do not hesitate to take into our stomachs that which the Hebrew shoved from his table thousands of years ago, banishing its very presence by the strong arm of the law. We, forsooth, are a wise people!PART 1.] 49 PORK-EATINQ. What care we for certain legal enactments enforced by the Jewish leader, far back in history ? True, our children die of scrofula, entire families having often been swept off with consumption; erysipelas appears in divers forms, and diphtheria (the legitimate result of foul feeding or foul air) is growing more and more common every year. Not only so ; there are everv now and then sudden and almost tragic deaths from trichinosis, whole families being the victims. But so far, these things fail to alarm us ; and though statistics show that diseases are multiplying among the swine them- selves, killing them annually by the hundreds of thousands, we take comparatively little heed. Of the twenty million dollars’ woiih of hogs in the United States that were sick in 1877, about 59 per cent. died. Has any one thought to inquire what became of the 41 per cent, that recovered? If, in the olden time, swine’s flesh in its normal con- dition was not fit for a Jew, can we, in these days, make that which has suiwived the ravages of hog-cholera, hog- fever, etc., suitable for a Christian? It is said that Dr. Adam Clarke—who evidently had an antipathy to pork-eat- iug—having once been called upon to say grace at a barbecue, bowed his head reverently, and uttered these words : “ O Lord, if Thou canst bless under the Gospel what Thou didst curse under the law, do Thou bless this pig.” The hog is a scavenger by natru’e, and by practice ; it is his proper mission on this earth, not to be eaten, but to eat up that which the nobler animals disdain to touch. Indeed, he adapts himself to circumstances, devouring whatever comes in his way. He is equally well pleased with the clean ears of corn, or the seething contents of the swill-pail; he will dine on live chickens, or devour carrion. Nothing is too fine or too foul to suit his undiscriminating palate ; he has been called “the scavenger-in-chief of all the back-boned animals.” Tnily he is omnivorous. And yet, bad as the hog is, it is not absolutely impossible to improve his condition. 350 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part 1. Put liiin where lie can not get refuse matter, where he will have only nuts, grains, etc., to feed upon, and he will readily conform, for the time being, to his better suiToundings ; and in process of time his flesh would be improved in quality. But his nature no man can change ; give him his former haunts, and he will at once fall into his old ways. You can not educate him. AVill any one give a reason why intelligent peojile should eat him, and from choice f If we muid dine on our fellow- creatures below us, are there not decent, clean-feeding animals, as the ox, and the sheep, that we could take in preference ? In a sanitary point of view the condition of the hog, in his best estate, is not flattering. His scurvy hide (which is perhaps the cleanest paid of him), his foul breath, and his filthy feeding habits—are not these enough to bar him from our tables ? Or must Ave wait for such logical sequence as is sure to follow the violation of physiological law ? Wait tni diseases are multiplied in kind, and intensified in char- acter, tiU we are fairly driven from the no longer question- able provender? AVait tiU our nearest friend is stricken with supposed typhoid fever, and dead of veritable trich- inosis? There can be no doubt that many persons have sickened and a number died, of what was thought to be typhoid fever, when reaUy the disease was due to the presence of these parasites (the trichin;e)* in the system ; for the symptoms in the two diseases are quite similar. As stated in the last chapter, one of the principal objec- tions to the use of animal flesh as food, is the fact that it is fiUed Avith the debris of the vital organism, working its way through the cajiillaries into the various excretions, and out of the domain of life. Noav, if this effete matter is objec- tionable, even in clean-feeding animals, what must be its * Trichinae are said to be found In the ox and sheep, as well as in the hog.P.VRT 1.] 51 PORK-EATINa. condition as it is thrown off from the tissues of scav- engers? And what the nature of the tissues themselves, when they are not only made out of, and nourished by a diet of garbage, but are thoroughly saturated with the almost putrescent matters with which the venous blood is laden ? It is a fact which we seem rather slow to recog- jiize, that the quality of all animal tissues partakes of the eharaeter of the materials out of luhich they are made. In other words, if we expect sound bodies with good fii'm tissues, we must look to the nature of the food we eat. Animal foods, of aU others, should, if eaten, be selected with the utmost care ; the animals themselves should be well fed, weU housed in winter, and allowed to graze from open pastimes in summer. No animal or fowl should ever be stall-fed, or sty-fed ; and none with carnivorous or om- nivorous habits, should be used as food. The creatime whose characteristics we ai-e at present discussing, combines in his personality too many bad qualities to give him a decent passpoi-t to our tables. He is of low organization, and naturally filthy in his habits ; he is desperately foul in his feeding, is often kept and fattened in a close, dirty pig-sty, and as might be expected, he is specially subject to disease.* And yet the hog is found in every market in this country, and in Europe ; though recently the German and Austrian markets have forbidden American pork ; and other nations, it is said, have the matter under advisement. Nor must it be supposed for a moment that the use of pork is at all limited to the few, or to the very poor among our people. There is scarcely one family in twenty that does not partake of it in one form or another. Tlie hams, the shoulders, the side-meat, the pickled souse (head-cheese), * Dr. Jas. C. Jackson makes the statement baser!, he sn5's, on informatioji derived from the pork-dealers of Cineinnati, Ohio, that “ ninet3'-live hofjs in one hundred have ulcers on their livers from the size of an ounce bullet to a hen’s egg.”52 [PAET'L HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. the stuffed sausages—every paid is in demand. PicMed pigs’ feet are considered a rare delicac}'; and hogs’ brains make another “ dainty dish.” But it is left for the very bon-ton of society to sit down to what is called beef a-la-mode; which is simply a beef roast plugged full of fat j)ork, along with innumerable spices, etc. Nor is it enough that we devour the several paids of the animal, even to his liver and kidneys; we strip the intestines of their fat, melt it down, and use it in the form of lard. This latter is the very quintessence of the swine; it is the diseased product of all his filthy feeding; and it is tJm arti- cle that forms a staple in almost every American family. It shOldens the biscuits, the plain cakes, and the pastries; and it even finds its way into the loaf bread! It oils the bake- pans, it fries the drop-cakes, the doughnuts, the Saratoga potatoes, and all the other “ fried things,” or nearly all. In short, there is neither breakfast, dinner nor supper without it, in some form or other. Do the people wonder that they are afflicted with scrofula; and that it crops out, full-fledged, in a single generation ? Oh for a Moses among the Gentiles, to forbid them, by legal enactment, the use of this vile thing, swine’s flesh! The late R. T. Trail, 1\I.D., in discussing the quality of animal foods in his Hydropathic Encyclopedia, says: “Of the hog, whose filthj’- carcass is converted into a mass of disease by the ordinary fattening process, I need only ex- press my abhorrence. Although swine’s flesh and gi’ease, under the names of poi'Jc and lard, ai’e stajile and favorite articles of food throughout Christendom, common observa- tion has long since traced the prevalence of scrofula, erysij)- elas, and a variety of glandular and eniptive diseases resulting from impure blood, to their general employment. If there are any animals which should be exterminated from the earth, mad dogs and fatted hogs are among them.”MILK. P.^T l] 53 Milk. Many persons who discard meat, do not hesitate to pai*' take freely of milk, eggs, sugar, butter, etc., and to use pastries, cakes and puddings, that are little else than a com- bination of these, with the addition, it may be, of spices and other seasonings. Now, a plain diet of Graham bread with beef or mutton, roasted or boiled, and a fair allowance of fruits and vegetables, would be much more wholesome than the above articles, or the dishes that are manufactured out of them. As to milk, it is the natm'al diet for the young. But foi- gi'own persons, and especially for those who live in cities, or who incline to sedentary habits, it is not the best, or one of the best aidicles of diet. Before arguing the question, however, let us make a note of the fact that milk is one of those secretions that is readily affected, not only by the food the animal eats, but by the conditions, physical or mental, of the creature itself. If the health of the cow deviates from the normal standard, the character of the milk is im- mediately changed; if she is mentally disturbed, as by anger or fright, the mammaiy glands will secrete, not a whole- some, but a poisonous fluid. A mother not unfrequently kills her child, or throws it into spasms, by nursing it after she has been badly frightened, or after a violent fit of anger; and many a child has been “ salivated, purged and narcotized, by mercury, drastic purgatives and opiates, respectively administered to the mother.” * But the question is asked, “ Suppose the animal is kept in the best possible condition, every way; would milk be objected to as an article of diet? ” Most assuredly not—for young calves. Nature has provided the very food that is needed, for all her babes. The milk of the cow, like that of other mammals, including the human, is intended for the * Pavy’s “Food and Dietetics.”[part L HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 54 nourisliment of the infant; and as soon as the calf is able to take more solid food, the maternal supphes, where nature is not j>erverted, are diied up. But the unnatiu’al practice of milking cows has distended the milk glands, and thus converted them, in a lai-ge measm’e, into dej)m'ating organs; and the milk supply is not only increased, but prolonged beyond the period that nature intended. Add to this the improper foods, as swill-feeding, the confined air, and other unhealthful conditions with which tlie animal is suiTOund- ed, paidicularly in large cities, and we have not only a pro- lific source of disease, but an explanation, in part at least, of the enoi’mous death-rate among young children; this, it wfil be noticed, is always largest in cities, where the milk used is poorer in quahty than country milk. But retmaiing to the direct question, suppose we have the best of milk, from perfectly healthy cow's, what is the real objection to its use? To tliis question there are two answers ; the first is founded on experience, and may be stated as follows : It is the almost universal testimony of persons of sedentary habits, dark complexions and “ bilious temperaments,” that milk, even of good quality, does not agree with them ; and where there is torpor of the liver, or other dyspeptic conditions, it usually causes distress. The reason of this will directly appear. As already stated (and herein is the second answer), milk is designed by nature for the young of all mammals ; it contains a small per cent, of solid substances, but enough for the needs of the infant; and these substances are just the elements, and in the right proportions, to make those soft, fatty tissues wdiich the little creature needs for the protection of its small bones and dehcate organs. As the child or young animal gi’ows, and the teeth develop, other and more solid materials should take the place of the milk ; this chan ;'o must, of course, be gradual. Many mothers elo their babes harm, and in fact make them sick, by giving them solid food before they areBUTTER AND BUGS. 55 />AHT 1.] able to masticate it jDropeiiy. And no less detriment is done to tlie full-gi’own child, when we give him an aliment that requires no mastication with the teeth, and which is designed only to make soft, “ baby tissue.” Such food is now needed as will make good, linn muscles, sinewy ten- dons, strong bones, and all the other tissues that belong to the adult man or woman. “ But how about cream ? ” Well, cream, if used to the same extent, woxdd perhaps be more injui’ious than milk ; it contains an abmidance of fatty material, and if habitually taken is a prolific cause of biliousness. Young children that lU'e fed lai-gely uj3on cream—or butter, or meat, par- ticidiu’ly fat meat—become gross and plethoric, and are apt to brotik out with boils, or “scald-head”; or if a nm-sing mother uses these articles to excess, her child will suffer in consec^uence. Ordinarily, cream does less harm than milk, from the simple fact that it is served in a very limited quan- tity ; that is, as a condiment, rather than a beverage ; and it is less employed than milk, even as a mixing material in breads, puddings, etc. For gi-ains, mushes, plain puddings, etc., the juices of fruits make a far more wholesome dress- ing than cream ; and were we in the habit of using fruits in this way, the palate would not only tolerate readily the new combination, but we should come to like it. IVIilk, if used, should be taken, not as a beverage, but as a condiment, and then very sparingly, particularly by those persons who live in cities and whose work is indoors and of a sedentary chai'acter ; while invahds, as a rule, would cer- tainly be better without it. Butter and Eggs. If we dispense with milk—that is, leave it to the calf, for whom nature intended it—there will, of necessity, be no butter ; and, in a sanitary point of view, the absence of it would perhaps be no great loss, it being by no means as56 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part 1. wholesome an article of diet as either milt or cream. Lite other oils, it is, to a ceidain degree, indigestible ; not that it gives a “ pain in the stomach,” as a general thing, but it does not enter into those vital changes which are necessary to convei-t food into chyle jiroper. It mixes with the pan- creatic juice in the form of an emulsion simply, and goes into the blood in that crude condition ; and being carried through the system by the capillaries, it is deposited as fat in the various tissues, and largely in the skin. From the very nature of its constituents, butter has little nutritive value in it; it usually contains 3 to 5 per cent, of casein (due to the j>resence of milk), and about twice that amount of water ; the other substances are oils, fixed and volatile. These readily decompose on exposui*e to the atmosjDhere, and butyric and other fat acids are set free. Persons who live largely upon butter emit a strong odor from the skin, very perceptible to those who do not use animal foods. The salt which has to be mixed with it to make it “ keep,” is not, to the hygienist, a desirable addition, for reasons which will hereafter be stated. Pereira says: “ Fixed oil or fat is more difficult of digestion, and more obnoxious to the stomach, than any other alimentary jirin- cijile. Indeed, in some more or less obvious or concealed form, I believe it will be found the offending ingredient in nine-tenths of the dishes which disturb weak stomachs. ]\Iany dyspeptics who have most religiously avoided the use of oil or fat in its obvious or ordinary state (as fat meat, marrow, butter and oil), unwittingly employ it in some more concealed form, and as I have frequently witnessed, have suffered therefrom. Such individuals should eschew the yolks of eygs, livers (of quadrupeds, poultry and fish), and brains, aU of which abound in oily matter. Milk, and es- pecially cream, disagrees with many persons, or, as they term it, ‘ lies heavy at the stomach,’ in consequence of the butter it contains. Ttich cheese, likewise, contains butter, and on that account is apt to disturb the stomach,”rAKT I.] 57 SUG.VH. ScLlickeysen, in speaking of the use of butter, eggs and cheese, remarks : “ These cause an excess of fat in the system, and an offensive, slimy condition of the mucous secretions in the mouth and nose, quite ajiparent to those who, contrary to theii* usutil habit, eat of them. Their effects are often aj^parent also in eruptions upon the skin, especially upon the face.” Eggs are pretty generally conceded to be a “ bilious diet ”; and if eaten freely at each meal for a few weeks, the whites of the eyes usujilly show the presence of bile. The albu- men (whites of the eggs) cooked soft, would be less objec- tionable than the yolks, which contain about 30 per cent, of oil. If eggs are eaten they should be fresh, theii’ use not too frequent, and confined to cool weather. The fowls should be allowed plenty of clean territory to roam over, and an abundance of fresh water, pui’e am, and good grains. Unfortunately, the habits of the bird are none the cleanest; it will pick up and eat almost anjThing that comes in its way. This is why country eggs and country fowls (pro- vided there are good and healthful suiToundings), are always to be preferred. In to-vvns and cities, the chickens are necessarily confined to the house and yard ; whereas, in the country they have access to the open fields, and feed largely on grains. Persons who are suljject to torpor of the liver, would do well to refrain from the use of either eggs or butter ; and those who have sound livers—and desire to keep them so— can take a hint. SUOAB. Hygienists have no objection to the use of saccharine matter, aU that the vital economy requires, provided it is taken in the natui’al way ; that is, in organic romhination with the other food principles,—not separated as a proximate element. In other words, the saccharine substances con- 3*TTF.AT.TH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 58 [part I. tained in fmits, pjrains and vegetables, ai-e tborouglily wliole- some, so long as we get them simply by eating these natural products. But when we separate them into starch, sugar, oil and the other proximate principles, and think to take these as foods proper, or in combination with them, we make a serious mistake. And were we to reduce all our foods to their proximate elements, and then tiy the experi- ment of hving upon them, we should in the end meet the fate of “ Megendie’s dog.” “ But,” say you, “ we do not wish to confine ourselves to these things—the proximate elements—we only desire to use them in combination with other substances.” Very true ; but the point is just here ; if the proximate elements, taken collectively (after they have once been separated from the alimentary substances to which they belong), are in- capable of supporting animal life, then they must be worth- less individually, no matter how small the quantitj^ in which we use them. If the proximate principles of food, combine them as we may with each other, lead to ceidain death, then it is plain that we must look for sustenance, not from these, but to those organized materials known to be cajjable ofi replacing the waded tissues. And if any one desires a test in this matter, let him try the experiment of making, say half his meals for tlmee weeks, provided he can hold out so long, out of as many of the proximate jirinciiiles of food as he may select, and see how he thrives during that jieriod. Before the time is one-quarter expired he will be tired enough of starch, sugar, oil, fibrin, albumen, casein, etc., and he will long for the foods proper, in undisturbed organic combination, in place of the miserable trash wliich he has been attempting to hve upon. Since, then, these proximate principles can not support animal life, may we not reasonably expect that any consid- erable proportion of one or more of them, taken habitually with the food, would produce abnormal conditions of thePaKT ..] SUGAR. 59 V l)ody ? Whfit are the facts in the case ? Take, if you l^iease, the article under consideration, viz., sugar ; and let us select the i:>ure white crystals, in order to have as little organized or extraneous matter in it as possible. Try liking a heaping tablespoonful of this each night on going to bed ; and if you wish, you may repeat the “ dose ” in the morning on rising. How long, think you, will it requii-e to create a “ bad taste ” in the mouth, cause soreness in the liver, and constipation of the bowels “? Try it. A teaspoon- ful of white sugar j^ut into enough milk or water to dissolve it, and given to a young babe, the quantity being rej)eated two or three times each day, would very soon derange its digestion, causing severe constipation. Another ex2:>eriment easily tried, is to double or treble the amount of sugar usually taken in the food, and note its effects. It will be seen that the increased quantity creates thirst, or in other words, slight inflammation of the mucous surfaces of the alimentary canal; and if the digestion is ordinarily none too good, the sugar wiU most likely cause headache, and other symptoms of indigestion. Now, any substance that can not be taken habitually, in the small quantity of say half a gill—not even on an enqity stomach—-svithout causing abnormal conditions of the l)ody, must, to say the least, be set down as of little value, dietet- icaUy considered ; and it is pretty safe to conclude that the less one uses of such an article, the better. No family of ordinary size can consume “ barrels of sugar ” in a year, nor half barrels, without detriment to the stomachs of its individual members; the difficulty, however, is usually traced to any but the riyht cause. It is quite common for persons Avho suffer, for instance with periodic sick-hoad- ache, to affirm that what they eat has nothing whatever to do with it; that the headache is inhcritcA from father or mother. Did they ever think to inquire what gave it to the father or mother? So much easier is it to put the causeg60 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART I. beliind us, out of oui’ reach, than to correct our own bad habits. “ But how can we do without sugar ? ” j^ou ask, AVliy, easily enough, at least as a rule ; even the acid fruits, as strawberries, cherries, etc., if fully rijDened, ai'c sweet enough for the unperverted palate. And if these fniits come to our markets a little green, we can at least be con- tent to add only so much sugar as will make them as siveet as fully ripened fruit ; this amount you will find to be very httle. Some hygienists cook sweet and sour fruits together ; preferring to make the one kind sweeten the other, rather than to use sugar. Whether this plan is at aU times practi- cable, is a cjuestion elsewhere considered in this work. The fact that much of the sugar of commerce is lai’gely adulter- ated, is another argument against its use ; a great deal of what is sold in the market under that name, is glucose. AVhether this substance is more or less injurious than cane sugar (it is certainly less sweet), might be a matter of some importance, dieteticaUy considered. One thing is sure, both are proximate elements, and as such are incapable of sustaining animal life. The habit which some have of sweetening cooked grains and breadstuffs, is a foolish and most unnatural practice; they are sweet enough of themselves; and if we were to train oiu’ children to eat these foods without sugar, they would not want it.* The fact is, we like the saccharine con- diment in just those dishes in which we have been taught to eat it, and in no others. For example, we do not want sugar in mashed jiotato, cauliflower, or string beans, any more * “ Sir Aiitliony Carlisle relates an anecdote from liis experience among the Arctic inhabitants : ‘ The most nortliern races of mankind,’ he says, ‘ were found to be unacquainted with the taste of sweets, and their in-' fijnts made wry faces, and sputtered out sugar with disgust; but the little urchins grinned with ecstasy at the sight of a bit of whale’s blubber,’ Pavy’s “ Food and Dietetics,” page 412,SALT. G1 PART I.J than we would relish salt or pepper in strawbeiTies, stewed plums, or apple sauce. In other words, habit enables us to relish what we would otherwise bai’ely tolerate. S.ALT. The fact that chloride of sodium, or common salt, is ordinarily found in the secretions and excretions of the hiunan body, and also in the blood, has given rise to the behef that it is a nccessirry constituent in human food. And some physiologists have gone so fai' as to make the state- ment that it must he eaten, or the general health will suffer. Admitting, for the sake of the argument, that salt is one of the proximate principles legitimately obtained from the tissues of the human body, and that it is therefore indis- pensable in the vital economy, the question arises, why we should eat it, any more than that we should eat chloride of potassium, or carbonate of lime, or phosphate of magnesia. They, too, are found in the bones, and are obtainable from them; then why not eat these ? The reply is, that there is no need; that the grains and other food products of the eaidh contain aU the elements necessary to make these several constituents. This is very true; and it is equally true that the products named contain the other proximate principles —aU of them—that are found in the human body in its normal condition. In dealing with this, the physiological argument, we may as well recognize the fact that the chloride of sodium found in the perspiration or other excretions, and also in the saliva, milk, tears, and other secreted fluids, as well as in the blood, is largely if not wholly due to the presence of the salt taken with the food; and the fact iliat it is found in these fluids is no proof whatever that it belongs there. We can easily put into the stomach, whiskey, sulphur, Iodine, strychnine, almost any thing, and afterward find these sub- stances in the blood, and in most or all of the secretions orHEAXiTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET L 62 excretions of the body. Persons who live without salt find that the perspiration, tears, sahva, and also the blood, lose theii- saline taste, even in a few weeks or months. And if we were to select for experiment those wild animals known to live without salt, as rabbits, squu'rels, etc., it might be a question whether an^^dhing short of a destmctiv e analysis of their tissues would reveal the presence of actual chloride of sodium. But suppose we should find it; what would this prove ? Simply that the vital organism has the power to create out of the foods furnished from the natural products of the soil those substances which it needs in the vital economy ; and if it has this power in the wild animals, the presumption is that the same power is not wanting, either in domestic animals or human beings. But it has been said that experience is, after all, the best test in these matters ; and that it is well knoANTi that not only human beings, but the domestic animals, require salt to keep them in healthful conditions. This latter statement is pm’e assumption—nothing more—the facts being on the other side. And the still more extravagant assertion, viz., that disease and death will follow the leaving off of salt is with- out a shadow of truth in it. There probably never was a time in the world’s history when there were not people who lived and thrived without it, and also without meat. Certain it is, that there are such at the present day, both in savage and civilized life. But so much has habit to do with our opinions, that there is perhaps not one person in ten who does not beheve that salt is absolutely essential to the health, and even comfort, of the domestic animals.* The * Dr. Graham, in his “ Science of Human Life,” says : “ It is a little re- markable that some have contended for the neeessity of salt as an article in the diet of man, to counteraet the putrescent tendency of animal food or flesh-meat, when there is not a carnivorous animal in natnre that even uses a particle of it; and few, if any, of the purely flesh-eating portions ofPART I.] SALT. 63 fact in the case is simply this : nearly all these animals— at least in the United JStates—have been trained to the use of it (as will presently be sho-wn), just as human beings have been; and the probabihty is that not one of them would touch the aiiicle if its taste had not been already peiwerted. Any American who has visited the rui'al districts of Scot- land for the fii'st time, wiU. at once remark that the horses, cattle and sheep, are among the finest that he has ever seen ; the cattle and sheep especially axe far superior to the average of them in this coiintry. No doubt something is due to the better and more humane treatment in feeding and housing them ; these fine cattle, sheep and horses, how- ever, are never given sail. The only cattle in the Cheviot Hills that ever taste it (and no doubt the nile is general throughout the country), are those that are fattened for the market. And just here are two important facts to be noted.* * One is, that these cattle at first refuse the salt, but by sprinkling it lightly over the food, they will, rather than starve, eat the latter with the sprinkle of salt on it; and finally they come to like the thing itself. The other fact to make a note of is this : their owners give it to the cattle for the purpose of making them eat more turnips. In other words, by creating a feverish or inflamed condition of the stomach (which salt will do—and all the more if the animal is unused to it), the cattle gorge themselves with the juicy turnips to quench their thii’st; they also drink more water, as a matter of course. This increased feeding causes them to lay on adipose tissue rapidly ; or in other words, it i^re- pares them more quickly for the market. the human family ever use it in any measure or manner ; and most por- tions of the human family who subsist mostly on vegetable food, wholly abstain from it.” * These facts were obtained from a native of Scotland, who was familiar with the raising and breeding of cattle, and other farm stock.64 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part I. The horses and sheep, as before stated, never taste salt; in fa(d, the sheep are far too numerous and too frisky, as they run over theii’ native hills, ever to be “ salted ” by the shepherds ; and they are iierfect paragons in physical pro- portions, as well as in muscular activity. “ But,” say you, “ they get it, from living so near the sea ; from the grass, and the air” Ridiculous ! The air of Scotland is as free from saline properties as it is in this country ; and so is the grass on the Cheviots. The salt in the sea is not “ evap- orated ” into the aii’; neither is it “ deposited ” in the soil that covers those great masses of uplifted rock, knowm as the “ hills of bonny Scotland.” It has been stated that the farmers in Kentucky who raise fine horses, made the dis- covery years ago, that by leaving off the use of salt their horses thrived better, and had finer, sleeker coats in conse- quence. It now remains to account for the fact that, as a rule, the horses, cattle and sheep, in this country show no antipathy to it, but on the contrar}^, seem to relish it. The question is easily answered ; they nurse it in, with their mothers’ milk, which is ah’eady impregnated with it, owing to the habit of “salting” among farmers. So that the calf, like the young child, gets the taste of salt with its nutriment from the hour of its birth. “ But what about the wild animals that go to the salt ' licks ? ” is the next question. This might be answered by asking another : “ What of the wild animals that do not go to the licks ; if salt is necessary for some, why not for all ? ” And wo know that wild amimals, as a rule, never taste it. We also know that it is positively injurious to some of them. It is a well-known fact that salt fed to birds, and even chickens, wiU kill them ; and a good supply of it about the roots of trees will destroy them. Of the deer that are said to go to the licks, Dr. Graham says : “ As to the instinct of the lower animals, it is not true that there is any animal inSALT. G5 PART I.] nature, whose natural history is known to man, wliich in- stinctively makes a dietetic use of salt. It is true that some herbivorous animals, such as the deer, when they are dis- eased by worms, grubs, or bots, in the alimentary cavity, will instinctively go in pursuit of salt, not as an article of diet, not as a seasoning to theii* food, but purely as a medi- cine, to destroy the animals in their stomachs ;* and they never instinctively use it at any other time, nor for any other pui'jjoses.” It is often asked whether any immediate pathological effects follow the use of salt. Let the person who asks this (piestion, try taking double the usual quantity of this condi- ment,at dinner ; in less than an hour there will be a burning in the stomach (local inflammatory action) which will call loudly for water; this feverish condition may last a good part of the afternoon, or it may pass off as the salty sub- stance is carried out of the stomach. A better test is to take the salt itself, undiluted except with a little water ; try a tablespoonful if you like, on an empty stomach. (This amount of a food proper, as rice, oatmeal mush, or good apple sauce, taken by a hungry man, ought not to cause any unjDleasant sensations.) If you are not a most inveterate salt-eater, the quantity named wiU produce nausea, and per- haps vomiting. But to save the trouble of so unpleasant an experiment, suppose we take the testimony of Dr. Graham. He says : “ Salt is a mineral substance, and is wholly innutritions and indigestible. If a tablespoonful of it be dissolved in half a pint of water, and introduced into the human stomach, it is immediately perceived by the organic sensi- bilities of that organ as an offending or disturbing substance ; great irritation is produced ; the vital forces, if not exceedingly impaired react with energy ; mucous ••• Dr. Graham, who did not believe m>ich in medicine, was evidently will- r_g to give the worms the benefit of the “art killative.”HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part L 66 and serous secretions are rajDidly increased in tlie gastric cavity, to protect the mucous membrane from its acrid and iiTitating qualities ; much distress is experienced by the individual, and nausea and vomiting generally succeed, as an instinctive means of expelling the offending cause from the vital domain ; and in all cases, considerable por- tions of it are driven tlirough the pyloric orifice in the intestines, where great irritation is also produced by it, and it is soon expelled from the bowels, with large quantities of serum secreted from the blood to dilute and flood away the ii’i’itating substance, and thus protect the living parts on which it acts, and the vital interests of the system generally, from its pernicious effects. hen salt is taken into the stomach in small quantities with food, the residt is somewhat different. If the stomach is perfectly healthy in aU its properties and powers, however small tlie quan- tity of salt, it is immediately detected by the undepraved sensibilities of the organ, and a vital reaction takes place corresponding in energy and extensiveness ^vith the quan- tity and strength of the offending substances, and by the nmcous and serous secretions which are promptly pro- duced, the parts are protected, and the salt is so diluted as to be rendered no longer very dangerous to the delicate vital properties of the tissues on which it may act. It is therefore not expelled from the alimentary cavity by vomit- ing nor jiurging, but is taken up in a state of solution by the absorbents of the stomach, and mingled with the blood of the portal veins ; not in any case nor degi’ee, however, to supply the wants of the vital economy, l)ut to l)p expelled from the vital domain throitgh the kidneys, lungs, skin and other depurating organs of the system, as a foi'eign substance. By the long and habitual use of this substance, however, the organic sensibihties of the stomach, and of all the other parts of the system, become so much impaired by its qualities, that they no longer makeG7 PART I.] SALT. SO energetic a resistance to it as when they are healthy and midepraved, and the salt is gi’aduaUy permitted to pass more and more freely into the general circulation, and he diifused throughout the whole vital domain, persuading the minute vessels of the glands and other parts, and becom- ing so permanently a quality of the serum of the blood as to be regarded by many as an evidence of the necessity for its dietetic use.” “ The facts in regard to the dietetic use of salt, then, are these :—1. Salt is whoUy innutritions—it affords no nourish- ment to any structure or substance of the human body. 2. It is utterly indigestible—it enters the body as a mineral substance—it is absorbed unchanged as a mineral substance —it goes the rounds of the general circulation as an unas- similated mineral substance—and is finally eliminated from the body through the kidneys, lungs, skin, etc., as an unas- sirailated mineral substance. 3. Its acrid quality is offen- sive to the vital sensibihties of the organs, always causing vital reaction or resistance, and this vital reaction constitutes the only stimulnlion ever produced by salt, and is therefore always attended with a commensurate degi'ee of iiTitation and vital expenditure, and followed by a coiTespondent degree of indirect debility and atony ; and consequently it always and inevitably tends to produce chronic debility, pretematural irritability, and disease ; the stomach, intes- tines, absorbents, veins, heart, arteries, and aU the other organs of the system, are always in-itated, exhausted and debilitated by its presence. 4. It never in any measure promotes digestion nor any of the assimilating functions of the system ; on the contrary, it always retards those functions, and is unfavorable to all tlie vitfil changes. AVhere a stomach has been greatly debauched and its energies prostrated, the sudden and entire abstraction of salt and aU other stimulants from the food would undoubtedly leave that organ in a temporary state of atony or depres-G8 UEALTH IN THE^ HOUSEHOLD. [PART I. sion, which would unfit it for the performance of its function. But it is entirely certain that, in a stomach whose powers and sensibilities are unimpaired and healthy, salt always retards digestion and embarrasses the function and diminishes the functional powers of the organ ; and the impaired stomach receives tone from it only uj3on a j:)rin- ciple which is always and inevitably unfriendly to its own physiological interests, and to those of the sj^stem in generaL And this is all true of every other assimilating function and j)rocess of the vital economy ; and hence it is a weU-ascertained truth in the science of physiology, that the dietetic use of salt is unfriendly to aU the j)rocesses of assimilation, nutrition and secretion, in the vital economy. 5. It always, in proportion to the freedom with which it is used, diminishes gustatory enjoyment. It is true that there are some substances eaten by man, whose qualities are such that they are rendered more tolerable by the use of salt than they would be without it; but it is neverthe- less true that the use of salt with those substances alwaj^s and necessarily impairs the nicely discriminating power of ihe organ of taste, and takes away the delicate perception of the agreeable qualities of more proper food, and thereby on the Avhole immeasurably diminishes tlie amount of gus- tatory enjoyment in the course of an ordinary life. In- credible as this may appear to many, every intelligent in- dividual may demonstrate its truth by three months’ fair experiment.” Now comes the query, how it came about that whole nations of jDeople took to the use of salt, and continued it through successive ages. The reason is obvious : it was no doubt a necessity, after the introduction of animal foods ; for in order to keep these from j^uti'efying, particularly in warm climates and on long journeys, an antiseptic was indispensable. A suitable substance for preseiwing meats from decay, was found in common salt; and though it soPART I.] C9 SALf. clianged the nature of the meat as to render it harder to digest, and very much less nutritious,* still, it kept it from going to total destruction. Then, as the flesh-eaters partook of the salted meat they not only came to like it, hut they also relished the vegetables that were cooked with it. To be brief, one can learn to eat and like almost anything, by simply continuing the use of it; and the fact that it pleases the palate, is no proof either of its wholesomeness. or of its relative nutx’itive value. But if there is any one article of food or drink that we can not leave off, even for a day, without gi’eat discomfoii (as wine, tea, coffee or a good salted beef-steak), we may rest assiu-ed that that m-ticle is doing us hai’m ; or in other words, that it is not simply a food, but to a greater or less degree a stimulant; and just to the extent that we are enslaved by it, to that extent are we akeady injm*ed. A diet of salted meats, as almost every one knows, pro- duces scurvy, the disease being caused by the combined effects of salt and grease,. Eichard T. Colburn, of New York, who is a hygienist, has written a small work on “ The Salt-Eating Habit,” from which the following quotations are taken : “ I am told by an Italian who has lived among them, that the Algerines do not eat salt”; neither do the Indian tribes on the Cohrmlria Eiver, and Prrget Sound— among whom the writer has tr.aveled. “ I am assured by many of the great herders in Texas, Colorado and Califor- nia, that the native cattle are not fed salt, never see it, and * Pavy says : “ The effect of a saline is to depreciate (he mitritive value of the article b}' cxtractini; tlie soluble eonstituents, ami by also hardening; the texture, so as to render it difficult of disrestion.” lie also says ; “The analysis of brine shows that the process of saltiiur must materi.ally diminish the nutritive value of meat, for it is fouiul to contain a lar<;e jiorfion of the inirredients of its juice. Liebii? estimates the loss of nutritive value as amountine: to one-third, or even one-half. Soakln" salted meat in water removes its saltncss, but can not, of course, restore the nutritive principles that have been lost.”—Food and Dietdics,70 . HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD, [r.VRT 1. will not oat it if offered,” “ I have both horses and cows that do not and will not eat salt if offered to them. The parents, when I cut off the supply, did not suffer percejiti- bly, and in a short time unlearned the habit. Neither the old ones nor their progeny will touch it now,” “ A hungi’y cow will eat what is called ‘ salted hay,’ whereon tlie brine of the sea has crystallized ; but invariably the same cow wiU turn from it to good, weU-cured meadow kay,” “The whole of the bii'ds avoid salt. It is fatal to chickens and tame birds, as every housewife knows,” Chicken-cholera, this writer thinks, is caused in part by the salted food given the fowls from the table, wild birds not being subject to disorders of this kind. He fuidher adds, “I believe it is well ascertained that wdien hogs get a moderate amount of brine, or pickled salt meat, it is impossible to save them.” Mr. Colburn is firmly of the belief that the use of salt is a prohfic cause of impaired digestion, owing to the unnatui’al flow of saliva and other digestive fluids which it stimulates. He also thinks that by causing indigestion, it to some extent injures the teeth. All hygienists who have totally abstained from the use of salt, even for a few months, lose their relish for it, and after a time it becomes positively distasteful. And to illus- trate the force of habit—even in leaving it off—it is a matter of common observation that unsalted foods which only come to the table occasionally, are less relished than those that are eaten daily. Another exj^erience, which every one has to find out for himself, is this ; salt when taken by any one not accustomed to its use, invariably creates thirst; and where there has been chronic inflammation in any part of the aliinentai'y canal, and it has disappeared, owing to strict hygienic living, salt food, used even for a slioii time, gener- ally causes its reappeai’ance.PEPPER AND OTHER CONDIMENTS. PAHT I.] 71 Pepper and other Condiments. Pepper is not, like salt, a mineiTxl substance : it is a vege- table poison. Plies AviU not touch it, neither will they eat salt. Black pepper, if taken on an empty stomach in the moderate quantity of a teasjioonfiil, will either be promptly ejected, or it will cause great disturbance in the stomach and bow'els, and also in the heaid’s action after it enters the circulation. It is in no sense a food, but in every sense a stimulant, which is but another name for a substance non- usable by the vital organs, and therefore to be thrown out of the vital domain. Red or black pepjier is a prolific cause, as are all stimulants, of enlargement of the blood- vessels, and ultimately of disease of the heaid. Its imme- diate effect upon the tongue, throat, stomach and bowels is to create increased action, not only of tlie capillaries, caus- ing temporary congestion and even inflammation of the mucous surfaces, but also of the organs which secrete the digestive fluids. Its uliimate effect is to weaken and deaden these organs, b}' repeated stimulation to abnormal action ; it also impairs or destroys the nerves of taste in the mouth, together with the gastric or other neiwes which aid in the process of digestion. AVhen these are weakened by stimu- lants, the functions themselves are necessarily impaired ; and confirmed dyspepsia, with its attendant train of bad symptoms, brings up the rear. It is needless to say, that ginger, spices, nutmeg, cinna- mon, and all that class of condiments, however much they may vary in cpiality, are stimulating to a greater or less de- gree, and must be put into the list of “ things forbidden,” in the hygienic dietary. The habit, every year increasing, of using spices and condiments in almost every article of food, and in such large quantities, can not be too severely condemned. The end must be hopeless indigestion, with prostration of the nerves whidi supply the digestive organs,72 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part L and detriment or ruin to tlie entire system. In the language of Sylvester Graham, “ The stern truth is, that no piu'ely stimulating substance of any kind can be habitually used by man, without injury to the whole nature.” Nor does Dr. Graham stand alone in his views on this subject. Pereira says : “ The rehsh for flavoring or seasoning ingredients manifested by almost every person, would lead us to suppose that these substances serve some useful purj)Ose beyond that of merely gratifying the palate. At present, however, we have no evidence that they do. They stimulate, but do not seem to nourish. The volatile oil they contain is ab- sorbed, and then thrown out of the system, stiU possessing its characteristic odor.” Dr. Beaumont is essentially of the same opinion. He remarks : “Condiments, particularly those of a spicy kind, are non-essential to the process of digestion in a healthy state of the system. They afford no nutrition. Though they may assist the action of a debili- tated stomach for a time, their continual use never fails to produce an indirect debihty of that organ. They affect it as alcohol and other stimulants do—^the present relief af- forded, is at the expense of future suffering.” In doing away with spices and condiments, we must also disjiense with pickles ; there is nothing in a pickle to redeem it from hojielcss condemnation. The spices in it are bad, the vinegar is a seething mass of rottenness, fuU of aninial- cula3, and the poor little innocent cucumber, or other vege- table, if it had very little “ character ” in the beginning, must now fall into the ranks of the “ totally depraved.” Drinking at Meals. Among the other “ odd things ” that hygienists believe in, is to al)stain from drinking at meals. In the first place, we do not see any necessity for it; if the horse or ox can eat dry grain without stopping between mouthfuls to take aPART I.] DRINKING AT MEALS. 73 sip of water, why should not we manage to swallow our foods, which ai’e much more moist, without resorting to the “ washing-down ” process ? Lilce the habit of taking only soft foods, that of drinking at meals is exceedingly detrimental to good digestion. The evils it brings ai*e manifold. In the first jfiace, it in- clines one to taking too large mouthfuls, and this, added to the fluid poui'ed down with the food, interferes with thorough mastication. “ Food well chewed is half digested.” But suppose we “ bolt ” it in ten to fifteen minutes, as is the usutil custom : instead of its being divided as finely as possible, and time given for the flow of the saliva whose office it is to dissolve the nutrient particles, and otherwise prepare them for the next stage in the process of digestion, the food enters the stomach, not only in a crude state mechanically, but without undergoing that first step in the vitalizing process which is ultimately to transform it into a constituent paid of the blood. If the ill effects stopped here, it would not be so bad ; but they do not. The moment the gastric juices begin to flow from the follicles in the stomach, they are met, not by the smooth pulp of finely masticated and insalivated food, but by a emde, half-ground sort of “ fodder,” wet up with a slush of hot coffee, strong tea, greasy cocoa, ice-water, or some other liquid, each as foreign in its nature to that vitalizing solvent which the stomach itself prepares, as it is possible to conceive. And if the drink taken is very cold, it will check or prevent the flow of both the gastric and the salivai*y juices, and thus cripple digestion at every stage, from the lack of vitalized material to carry on that proenss. If hot drinks are indulged in, the opposite effect follows, viz., an over-stimulation, and therefore exhaustion of the glands and follicles that secrete the digestive fluids. The next injury sustained is in the duodenum and small intestine ; the food, or that paid of it which reaches these, 4HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 74 [part r. is not iu a condition to be j^roperly acted on by the intes- tinal juices. The consequences are, first, that the digestive function in this pai*t of the alimentary canal is overtaxed ; in other words, the chyme can not be made into chyle with- out an extra drain upon the digestive supplies in that quarter. Second, that the chyle formation is not as finely elaborated and vitalized as it would have been had the mouth and stomach digestion been complete. Third, that the chyle is too cnide in quality to be fully absorbed by the lacteals, and carried into the blood. Now, if the mastication of the food has been imperfect, the formation of chyme interfered with, and the chyle not of the best quality, what shall we say of the residual matters in the large intestine ? If the elaborated material has fallen below the normal standard, the residue will most assuredly be in anything but the proper condition. If there were crude qualities in the chjane and chyle, there is crudeness intensified here ; the half-digested foods which could not undergo absorption in the small intestine are earned along the alimentary canal, and there is not a sufficient quantity of intestinal juices to moisten the mass properly. Instead of the normal condition of plastic matter, there is “ chaff and water,” so to speak, the latter being absorbed in the intestinal canal. Then comes iiTitation of the mucous sur- faces, engendering heat (feverishness), and aU those dis- agreeable symptoms which betray the presence of undigested matter. In other words, we have constipation, which is one of the forms of indigestion. A result somewhat similar follows, when too much food bas been eaten ; instead of being vitalized and appro- priated, it rots or decomposes in the alimentary canal, and gases are given off. But by far the greatest detriment of all is in the bad blood that follows imperfect digestion. If the chyle is not properly elaborated, every tissue in the body must75 TE.\, COFFEE, ETC. PART I.] suffer for lack of the reguhu* sui:>plies of nutrition. The muscles shrivel up, the brain is not furnished with good pure blood, and the latter itself becomes thick and tuibid, or poor and impoverished. In short, the whole being suffers from top to toe ; and owing to disuse, the very teeth become covered with scurvy, and decay or fall out. Let us then masticate oiu‘ food properly, and abandon the pernicious habit of washing it down ; it will take a little longer time, but we shall save it all back again from sick beds, headaches, and bad feelings generally. We shall also have better bodies, and clearer brains with which to work. Tea, Coffee, etc. Not believing in any drink at meals, it is hardly to be supposed that hygienists could recommend tea or coffee. If, as some think, a fluid “ must be taken ” with the food, the best is water or gruel, at about blood heat; a drink warmer or colder than this, habitually indulged in, leads to evil consequences, as already shown. Tea and coffee are injurious, not merely because they are taken at meal-time, but because they are stimulating, and in fact, poisonous. The water in which unparched coffee is steeped is of a greenish color, and wiU kill flies; nor does the parching of the bean remove all i'cs noxious qualities. To test this matter, try making coffee two or three times the usual strength ; then drink a pint of it on an empty stomach, eating nothing after it, and note the results. You wih do well to try the experiment on some one accus- tomed to its use, or you might have to order the undertaker. The question is often asked, “ Which is the more in- jurious, tea or coffee ? ”—to which the answer may well be given, “ Both! ” The late R. T. Trail, M.D., makes the fol- lowing statement: “ Tea possesses strong nervdne and moderate narcotic properties, and considerable astringency, due to the presence of tannin.” And Prof. C. A Lee, New[part I. 76 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. York, remarks, “ A very strong decoction of green tea, or the extract, speedily destroys life in the inferior animals, even when given in very small doses.” Of coffee. Dr. Trail, after speaking of its nervine and narcotic qualities, says : “ From all the testimony I can gather from medical and dietetical writers, coupled with some degi’ee of 25er- sonal observation, I should judge it to be more dii’ectly injmious to the digestive process, and more exhausting to the general nervous energy than tea, and less injurious to the kidneys and pelvic viscera.” To the unperverted jialate, coffee has a bitter, unj^leas- ant taste. “ Not so,” says the reader ; “ I relished it from the time I was a babe.” Quite likely; and in all proba- bihty you nursed it in with yom’ mother’s milk. Besides, very young babes will swallow from instinct almost anj"- thing that is given them, even to castor oil. If any one really wishes to find out whether tea and coffee are doing him an injury, let him totally abstain from both for a few months ; then let him take a good strong cuj) or two of either beverage, and retire for the night. If he does not lie awake part or all of that night, he will have better ners^es tlian a good many others who have tried the experiment, and tossed on sleejdess jiiUows till morning. What a blessing it is that “ strong ” toast-water, oat meal gruel, or fruit juice, even when taken by one wholly unused to it, has no such unjileasant effect! One can often teU a tea-toper at sight, particularly if the stimulant has so far done its work as to affect the general health ; the individual has frequently a slirunken, slu’iveled ajipearance that is unmistakable. And the tobacco-using habit, even in a young man, is sometimes detected by simply shaking hands with him. After the nerves are par- tially shattered there is no longer the’ firm grasp, but an unsteady motion, a half tremor in the hand, not unlike the shaking gait of a dog that has had a shght under-dose ofTEA, COFFEE, ETC. 77 PART 1.] stryclmine—enough, not to kill him, hut to affect the muscles permanently, and produce something like “shaking palsy.” Poor creature ! one always wants to end his misery as soon as possible—not the young man’s, hut the dog’s. “ But how,” it is asked, “ are we to replace the waste fluids of the system, if we do not drink at meals ? When nearly three-fourths of the human hody is water, how is this to he supplied ? ” The (Question is not hard to answer. In the first i)lace, nature has provided an abundance of juicy fruits and vegetables, some of them having, as shown by analysis, as high as 80 to 90 per cent, water ; and it is our own fault if we do not furnish our tables with these products. People are apt to fox'get that their bodies are nourished by the orcjanized fluids in fruits and vegetables, as well as by the more solid materials. Some writers, as Schhckeysen, have placed fruit before bread, as an article of diet. The solid constituents of food, it is true, ai’e found chiefly in the gi’ains ; but the fluids, which make so large a per cent, of the body, are more abundantly supphed from the juicy fruits. As to drinking “ for the love of it,” it is a fact worthy of note that if we live on fniits, grains and vegetables, reject- ing annual foods and the various seasonings, as sugar, salt, pepixer, spices, etc., we shall care very little for drinking, even between meals. It is the presence of stimulants in ordinary foods, that creates thirst; do away with these, and the thirst is gone. As if it were not possible in the very nature of things, to eat a meal without something to drink, the question is frequently asked, “How would chocolate do ? ”—quite forgetting that no one would care for choco- late, if it were not for the quantities of milk and sugar that oi’e used in it as seasonings. Moreover, it is prepared from the oily seeds of the Theobroma Cacao, and is, therefore, a gi’easy substance, not at aU fit to moisten the food prepara- tory to its being received into the stomach. ^78 [I’AilT I. UE-VLTU IN THE UOUSEIIOLH. After what has already been said in regard to stimulants and stimulating drinks, it is hm'dly necessary to add, that the whole family of alcoholic beverages, even to the “ lighter drinks,” can find no favor with hygienists. They are all detrimental. Beer, for example, contains by volume, 5 to 8 per cent, of alcohol, sometimes a little more than this, and sometimes a little less. “ Adopting mean numbers, a pint (20 ounces) of beer will contain about an oimce of alcohol (Parkes.)” * Wine usually has 18 to 22 per cent. ; sometimes as high as 30 per cent. The habitual use of beer inclines to a plethoric habit, and the formation of loose, flabby tissue, with veiy little’ muscle. Moreover, the supposed good effect of aU stimulating di'iuks, comes from the rally- ing of the system to get rid of the alcohol, which is a iioison, an anti-vital or life-destroying substance. After the excite- ment or stimulation is over, there is a corresponding de- pression of the system, showing that vital force has been expended in the effort made to expel the offending thing. The stronger the beverage taken, or in other words, the larger per cent, of alcohol in it, the more marked Avill be the effects. It is sometimes asked, whether new cider is injurious as a beverage ; to which it must be replied, that the adjective “ new ” is rather indefinite. Right from the press, the juice is almost as bland and unstimulating out of the apple, as in it; but in a few houi-s there is a “ smack ” to it, and a foam, that tell of something stronger. Many a poor fellow has again been led into the downward path, simply by a drink of cider. The safe way, is to take the juice and the flesh of the fruit together. Any drink that contains even a small per cent, of alcohol, injures the blood ; it affects the red corpuscles, causiiig them to j>art with a portion o.f theii- water. When a lai-ge quantity of alcohol is present, these * Pavy’s “ Food and Dietetics,” page 364.79 PART I.J FOOD, INTELLECT AND MORALS. corpuscles shrivel uji into comigated discs, and often adhere together, creating ohstraction in the blood-vessels, and to a certain extent cutting off the nutritive supplies from those pails through which these vessels ramify. It also affects the fibrin of the blood, causing it to coagulate or form into clots, and in some instances producing paralysis, or even death. Food, Intellect and Morals. That the character of the food we cat bears a very close relation to the quiility of tissues made from it, is a fact which has been frequently stated in these chapters; it seems indeed to be fairly weU understood, that in order to develop strong, firmly-knit muscles, the food eaten must not only be simple, but sparing. But that the dietetic habits of a people have anything to do with their intellectual and moral powers, is a very wijiortant fact which we seem con- tinually to lose sight of. It can not be denied, hoAvever, that the history of the human race, from the earliest to the latest times, furnishes the best of evidence on this point; and the relation holds, not merely with respect to indi- viduals, but to nations. Following out the history of the latter, we find them in the zenith of their power at a time when for successive generations the habits of the people, dietetic and otherwise, had been simple and healthful. On the other hand, the decHne and downfall of these nations came not until after they had departed from their plain and frugal ways. And were we to trace the career of individuals eminent for learning or power, we should find a like correspondence to exist; men as well as nations reach the acme of their strength, intellectually and morally, before their minds are clouded, and their bodies plethoric by full feeding and other voluptuous habits. Those who are born in the lap of luxury rarely attain to any considerable prominence, eitherso [part L HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. as thinkers or Avorkers. It is also well known that the gi-eatest philosophers, and the most profound scholars, both in ancient and modern times, have been men of temperate and abstemious habits. In the light of history, therefore, there is but one conclu- sion to be drawn in the matter ; viz,, that in order to make the best use of om* minds, or to develop them to their greatest capacity, the food we eat must be proper in quality and moderate in quantity. Indeed, how could it be other- wise, when we consider that the brain, which is the organ of the mind, is constantly supplied Avith blood for its special groAAdh and nourishment, and that this blood is made out of the things eaten ? If, therefore, the quality of the food is bad, or if any substance deletei’ious to the vital organism is taken Avith it, the brain AviU immediately suffer ; and when this organ is not in its normal condition, how can we expect it to do good work? In other words, bad food, or too much of it, makes bad blood ; bad blood causes a disordered brain ; and a disordered brain can not do first-class think- ing. The ill effects of stimulants in food, are manifold ; they send an increased quantity of blood to the base of the brain, causing congestion of the cerebellum. This congestion creates excitement or preternatiural action of the animal propensities, inducing in the individual a desire to fight, commit murder, and do all sorts of immoral or unlaAvful things. But the evil does not stop here ; the habitual tak- ing of stimulating substances, even in limited quantity, causes an increased gronih of those organs that are located in the base of the brain ; and this, with the greater activity that necessarily follows, leads to intense passional emotions, and excesses of every description. So that murder, theft, and all manner of evil doings, are the legitimate results of the introduction into a community of stimulating foods and drinks.POOD, INTELLECT AND MORALS, 81 fART I.] “ But,” says one, “ why speak of these things in a cook- book ? The temperance hall is the place to discourse upon the evils of alcohol.” To this query there ai’e two answers ; in the first place, it is a lamentable fact, that King Alcohol does not confine himself to the highways in society. He appears in private circles, takes a seat at the domestic hearth, and makes himself welcome at table. His fingers have “ touched ” the delicate puddings, the rich jDastries, or other fine desserts ; he comes with the wines, the pale sheiTies, and brandies, that are used in preparing these dishes. He is in the houses of the rich, and the hovels of the poor ; he goes to the gay feasts, and he comes home to tlie midnight embers, burning low on the hearth-stone. He makes his way to the churches, and appears at the sacra- mental board ; and the reformed inebriate is reminded, at one and the same time, both of the love of Christ, and of former debauches! But this is not the whole of the matter ; when King Alcohol comes to our firesides, and sits down at oui’ tables, he is met by a multitude of his own “blood relations”; some near of kin, some more distant. And the peculiarity of this numerous household is, that if you enteiiain a single one of them, that individual never stops till he brings all the others with him. Figures aside, however, the plain facts are these: if one is in the habit of using tobacco, tea and coffee can not be dispensed with ; and if either of these beverages forms part of the morning repast, a “ good rich beef-steak ” is the next thing in order. Moreover, if steak and other meats come to the table, salt and pepper are expected to come also ; and the other contents of the castor usually gain an easy admittance. Then are introduced the spicy pickles, pungent sauces, and other condiments that set the blood on fire, and inflame the passions. Verilv, the wives and mothers of tliis country, arc them-[part I. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD, 8:2 selves responsible for much of the ruin Tvu’ought in their own households. Had them tables been plain and simple, these things had not been. Is it any wonder that crime and bloodshed stalk rampant tlirough the land ? That licentious- ness lurks in the by-jiaths ? That women take to morphine or the mad-house, and men blow their brains out ? That homicides multiply with amazing rapidity, and theft and other crimes are frequent in high places ? These outrages on common decency and the whole communitj^ are not com- mitted by the plain, temperate members of society, who sit down tliree times a day to unstimulating food, go to their work regularly in the daytime, and retire to rest at night- fall. Could the private histories of the lawless ones be written, we should find the “ little foxes ” that spoil the tender vines. Rev. J. F. Clymer, wfiiose admirable little work on “ Food and Morals ” has akeady been alluded to in this book, gives a forcible illustration of the effect which diet has on char- acter, even in childhood. “ A father, by prayer and precept, and flogging, had done his best to reform his boy, whose staple diet was meat and sausage and pie and cake at his meals, with lunch between. The family physician said to the father, ‘ If you will put a leech back of each of your boy’s ears once a week for a month, you will do more to re- form him than your preaching and pounding will do in a year.’ The father asked for the philosophy of this pre- scription. ‘ MTiy,’ said the doctor, ‘ your boy has bad blood, and too much of it; he mud behave badly, or he would burst.’ ‘Then,’ said his father, ‘I’ll change his diet from beef and pie to hominy and milk.’ In three months there- after, a better boy of his age could not be found in the neighborhood. The acrid, biting, eAul blood had not become food for leeches, but it had done its wicked work and passed away ; and a cooler, blander, purer, safer blood had been supplied from sweeter, gentler food sources.”t’ooD, Intellect and morals. I'AXiT I. 83 The trouble in this country is, that the fathers and mothers do not begin right; they demoralize their children from the very start, by giving them at table and elsewhere their ovm way in everything. In fact, the child orders and the mother serves. The women in the old country set us a good example in this respect; in England and Scotland no mother would thinlc of seating her little child at the table with grown people, and giving it any and everything that was before it. She places it at the^ child’s table in the nursery, and gives it plain bread and milk or mush and milk. Not so in America ; here the mother asks her little one what it will have, instead of giving it what she thinks it needs. Truly, we are a fast people ; and unless we change our habits we shall run a feai'ful career, brilliant but brief, dash- ing but dissolute, and ending at last in imbecihty or infamy. The physicians of the hygienic school, claim to have demonstrated two facts : first, that intemjxerance (unless inherited) rai*ely if ever begins until there has been the habitual use of condiments and the fighter stimulants, either in the food or di-ink. Second, that when the habit of taking strong drink is established, the safest, surest way to reform, is at once to abandon all stimulus in the dietary, at the same time that the drinking is discontinued. Many in- ebriates have been reclaimed in this way, and in a compara- tively short space of time ; nor is there in these cases the slightest desire to resume the drinking habit, so long as the other stimulants are not indulged in. In other words, by living correctly, you conquer the evil habit But an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Can not the mothers act on this hint, and see to it that their sons (and daughters) are reared in such a way that vice will be no temptation to them? Solomon—who must have knovm from experience—said : “ Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he wifi not depart from it.”HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 84 [part I. Women in tLis country do loo mw.-h cooking ; they prepare too many kinds of food for a single meal; they literally load down their tables with an endless variety of dishes, showing a lack of good taste, as well as good judgment. A few dishes, well prepared, would be altogether better. And the practice of high seasoning, not only in dessei't dishes, but in the j)lainer or more substantial ones, as vege- tables, meats, meat preparations, etc., is most deplorable. These highly seasoned foods poison the blood, congest the liver, and inflame the mucous surfaces ; and if long con- tinued they prostrate the nervous system and ruin the gen- eral health. “ That machine will wear* out the soonest which works the fastest.” Strong constitutions, it is true, may not give way for years ; but sooner or later they too must succrunb. Food Cojibinations, etc. Most hygienists recognize the fact that too great a variety of foods eaten at a single meal, is not favorable to the best digestion ; paiily because it tempts the appetite to over- indulgence, and partly from too great a stimulation of the nerves of digestion, by the oft-repeated presentation of a new substance for them to act upon. But very few pay much attention to the proper comhinalion of foods, provided they be considered hygienic. Neglect of this important feature in dietetic reform has turned many away from it in disgust ; and it has kept not a few of those outside from becoming hygienists. It is folly to overlook the fact that there is a certain ^ness or adaptation to be observed, both in the selection and classification of foods, which enhances their value as a whole ; it will not do to huddle them together indiscrimi- nately, either on one’s plate or in the stomach. Baked beans and grape juice are both very satisfactory, in themselves ; but they have so little in common that no one would thinkPAKT I.] POOD COMBIKATIONS, ETC. 85 of eatin" them together ; though the harm resulting from SO injudicious a combination, would be more apparent in some cases than in others. Not every one has a cast-iron stomach ; and experience teaches that an individual whose digestive organs have be- come enfeebled from taking drugs (poisons), or from the long use of stimulating foods and drinks, has need to lie paiticularly cai’eful in the matter of diet. Suppose he is trying his first “hygienic dinner”; if he chances to partake of two or more substances so unlike in their nature and organization, that they do not “ go well ” together, in less than an hour’s time the stomach and boAvels will be filled with gases and undigested food ; while the “ pangs of hunger,” so called, will not have diminished in the least. In other words, digei^tion has not gone on properly ; and a certain morbid craving, which is next to ungovernable, has set up its clamor for something that can “ satisfy.” And though these feelings are the legitimate results of long-continued dissipation in eating—or of some other violation of law—that fact does not make it any easier to bear the discomfort. More than once has a patient taken his first meal at a “ Cure,” and risen from the table with the firm conviction that that diet will not do for him/when a little care (or knowledge) on the part of the managers, in the matter of combining foods, and a little previous explanation as to the unsatisfied feeling that necessarily follows the leaving off of aU stimulating substances, would have induced the new-comer to make a more thorough test of the better way. The early Grahamites made many serious blunders in their first efforts at dietetic reform ; they ate, for instance, their “ bran-bread,” wdiich was a wretched food, manufac- tvu-ed out of dirty wheat coarsely ground, or from a mixt- ure of poor white fiour and common coarse bran, making an article better suited for horse-feed than for human stom-86 HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [pAKT 1. achs. Of course, there was no sweetness in it; the peai'ling or cleaning process, which the Ahron people understand so well, was not then applied to the manufacture of Graham floiu’; and the bran was so coarse and imtating that the “ Graham bread,” as it was called, made more dyspep- tics than it cured. The consequence was that those who ate it were a by-word and a reproach ; and aU succeeding dietetic reformers have been forcibly reminded of their folly, by the keen thrusts of a scrutinizing public—which always looks after these matters. Nearly half a century of close contact with invalids, has placed before the hygienic physician ceidain facts which can not be ignored ; and whether the science behind them is fuUy understood or not, the facts themselves remain. For example, if we have a nervous dyspeqttic to ti'eat, we know better than to set before him, at one and the* same meal, strawberries and beets ; or strawberries and cabbage ; or apples (raw or cooked) and sweet potatoes ; or apples and beans. These are only examples of at least fifty combina- tions that could be made, any one of Avhicih would give a weak stomach indigestion. The question then comes, whether it is not possible to lay down some general rules, which shall apply, in a certain sense, to aU cases ; whether, indeed, the vanguard of the “hygienic brigade” has not at last reached that point in the reform. It certainly stands to reason tliat the food products of the earth should be studied in their relations to each other, as weU as with respect to their nutritive qualities. In the first place, the commissariat, as a whole, should have in it all that is needed for the fullest growth and development of the liody ; and there should, if possible, be a sufficient variety to allow of more or less change in the bill of fare from one meal to another, and from day to day. One tires of the same thing, or exactly the same routine, over and over •, and all the more if there is any defect in the food87 PART 1.] Pood combinations, etc. itself, either as regards its quality in growth and matui’ity, or its actual nutritive value. Moreover, the wants of the system are not always exactly the same ; they may vary somewhat, owing to diseased con- ditions or torpor of functional action, so that there will he an actucil need, if not a positive longing, for certain kinds of food that ai*e necessary to restore nonnal action to the system. For instance, a person who has taken “ quantities ” of certain medicines, the effect of which is to congest or toiqiify the liver and other organs of depuration, is apt to have an intense craving for acids. Another, who has been fed for weeks on a diet tliat contains too little nutrient materiid, will call for something that has a larger per cent, of solid matter in it: as bread, beans or peas, rather than cabbage, tiumips, soups, or other watery substances. Many a p^^rson has risen from the table feeling dissatis- fied, actually hungry, after eating in quantity a full meal. In such cases, either the articles eaten have not been di- gested, or they were of such a character that they did not supply the natural waste of the system. One who has made this matter a careful study, can very nearly tell at a glance whether the food on the table is such as will give general satisfaction to persons with reasonably normal appetites,—though, as just now stated, there are individ- uals whose appetites are anything but normal. For example, the tea-toper or coffee-drinker suffers from head- ache after trying to make a breakfast without the accus- tomed beverage. Or the lover of beef-steak rises from his morning meal from which the favorite dish is absent, feel- ing that he has had no breakfast. The sense of all-goneness in these cases is not from a lack of nutrient material, but OAving to the absence of the habitual stimulus. In selecting foods for the table, one must take into con- sideration both the habits of the individuals who are to be fed, and the ever-varying climatic conditions. Persons ofHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part 1. 88 sedentary habits would be satisfied at a given meal with a few plain aidicles, and these largely of fmits ; whereas, a laborer would require a larger proportion of more nutri- tious foods, as Graham bread, beans, or some of the grain preparations, with less juicy or w^atery materials. If, how- ever, the weather is warm, inducing profuse perspii'ation, the more juicy fruits and vegetables are in special demand. But a combination of dishes that would be delightful in the sultry days of July or August, would be altogether insuffi- cient to satisfy the appetite on a cold December day, or a keen frosty morning. And when the weather is not only cold, but damp, the food is always best relished if it is warm. Often a good plate of warm soup (not hot), to be followed by corn-bread and baked potatoes, and perhaps another warm vegetable, is very acceptable on damp, cold days, when there is a raw atmosphere, chilling one all through. To be brief, the cook should use her rare good sense in these matters ; she should consider the character of the eaters, whether they are sick or well; accustomed to active outdoor exercise, as farmers, or to sedentary habits, as students, book-keepers, etc. She should also vary the quality of the food, not only to suit the weather, but the season of the year. In May or June, when the markets are full of strawberries and other fruits, with plenty of fresh garden stuff, the “ boarders ” will hardly be content six days in the week with dried apples and prunes for fruit, and old potatoes with last j^ear’s beans, for vegetables ; they will be thinking of the green peas, asparagus and new pota- toes, that they saw in the city market; and the loads of fresh benies, cherries, etc., that looked so inviting. Last, but not least, she must study the individuality of the various food products ; for, as already remarked, cer- tain kinds are so unlike—not to say antagonistic in char- acter, that they seem not to digest well together ; or as weX>AKT I.] 80 FOOD COiMDINAllONS, ETC. 5. A good rule, when suppers are eaten, is to make the sometimes say, they quarrel with each other. For while it may be true that thoroughly sound stomachs can digest almost anything, and feel no unpleasant sensations from iill sorts of heterogeneous combinations, it is not true that in- valids, or persons of feeble digestion, can do likewise. After more than twenty yeai*s’ experience and careful ob- sciwation, the AVTiter is fully convinced that in order to get the l'>est possible results from nutrient materials, we must not ignore those kindred ties among food products which make an agreeable combination ; nor must we be oblivious to those opposite qualities in them, which by fine contrast please equiilly well. Take, for examjfie, sweet potatoes and tomatoes ; these make a good combination, and very ac- ceptable to most persons, the one being sweet, the other acid ; the one higlily nutritious, and the other decidedly j'^iicy. To those who have not made this subject a study, the following hints may be of practical use ; though in many things it is next to impossible to lay down definite rules : 1. Finits and vegetables should not, as a rule, be eaten together; that is, at the same meal; if they are so eaten, persons with feeble digestive organs will usually suffer. 2. If vegetables are eaten, the noonday meal is the best time to take them, two or three varieties being quite suffi- cient. Tomatoes do weU with vegetables, grains or meats; but they should not, as a rule, be eaten with fruits. 3. The Iifish potato seems to be an exception among vegetables ; it is so unaggi’essive in its nature that it seldom quaiTels with anything. It may therefore be eaten (by most persons) with either fruits or vegetables ; and it always does well with grains. 4. Fimits and cereals are particularly suited to the morn- ing and evening meals ; and very little other food is re- quired.90 HE.\.LTn IN TUE HOUSEHOLD. [pART I. meal of bread and fruit only, these being taken in limited quantities, and at an early hour. G. Fruits, if eaten raw, should be ripe, and of good quality j anil pei’sons with feeble stomachs digest them more easily at the beginning of the meal; this is particu- larly true when warm foods make a part of the repast. 7. Fnjits raw or cooked, may be eaten at dinner, pi’ovided no vegetable (unless it be the potato) is taken. But if raw, they should bo eaten first, particularly if there are warm foods to follow. 8. Some persons can not digest certain kinds of raw fruits for supper, or late in the day ; let them take these on sitting down to the breakfast table ; or the first thing at dinner, unless there are vegetables at this meal. 9. If meats are eaten—a debatable question between strict hygienists and “ other people ”—take them at the noonday meal, with or without vegetables; and in cold weather, rather than warm. 10. The gi-ains digest well with all other foods ; though some persons can not eat them in the form of mushes. They should always be thoroughly cooked. 11. Persons with feeble digestion, should as a rule, con- fine themselves to a single kind of fruit at a meal; they can make the changes from one meal to another. 12. Those who find it difficult to digest vegetables, should not attempt more than one kind at a given meal, until the digestion is improved. And often it is best to leave them off entirely for a time. 13. In selecting vegetables for a single meal, do not, if there are several varieties, have all of them of the watery or juicy kinds, as cabbage, asparagus, white turnips, etc.; nor all of the drier sorts, as baked beans, winter squashes, sweet potatoes, etc.; but blend the more and less nutritious kinds in a judicious manner. Or if you have only the watery ones at hand, be content with not more than two varieties,FOOD COJIDINATIONS, ETC. 1)1 I'AUT 1. 1 prepai-e a siJo-dish of soniethiiig rather nutritious, and then atld a dish of warm coru bread, as au accompauimeiit, par- ticularly if it be a cold day. 14. If you have for dinner a thin vegetable soup, follow with something more substantial, as baked beans, baked jjotatoes (sweet or Irish), or corn bread ; but if you have beau or sidit-pea soup, let the other vegetables bo of a kind less heaidy. 15. On a very cold day, have a warm dinner of good nutritious articles ; select mainly solid foods with gi’ains, rather than thin soups and watery vegetables. 16. On a warm day make the breakfast largely of fruits, with a moderate sui)2)ly of cere;ds. The dinner may be of young vegetables (or fruits), a dish of gi-ains if you like, and a little bread. Eat lu/hllij, and you will suffer less from heat —paiiicularly if no seasonings are taken. For supper, a glass of cold grape juice and a slice of loaf bread, is line in hot weather. 17. In very cold weather, take the chiU off jouv stewed fruit, fruit pies or other dishes, before seiwing them. Pas- tries if used, are best at the midday meal—and so are puddings. 18. If there arc invalids at the table, they should eat nothing that is venj cold ; food not much below Idood heat is best, p;irticularly in cold weather ; and the dining-room should be comfortably warm. 19. Never have too great a variety at a single meal; have few dishes, well prepared, and make the changes from one meal to another ; this will please better on the whole, and it will not too rapidly exhaust your hinited supplies. 20. If one meal happens to fall a little below the average in either quality or variety, see that the next is fuUy up to the mark.92 [PABT I. HEALTH IN THE HODSEHOLD. Two Me.\.ls or Three. The question is frequently asked, Avhether it is better to take two meals or three during the day. This would dejiend very much upon the habits of the individual, and somewhat upon the healthful conditions of the stomach. Some per- sons can digest three meals perfectly, while others find it hard to manage two comfortably. If the thii’d meal, light in quantity and simple in quality, and taken at an eai’ly hour, causes distress, then it would be well to try leaving it off. Sometimes a longer I'est wiU enable the stomach to do better work. Persons of sedentary habits combined with indoor life, usually find two meals sufficient, provided these can be arranged at iiroper hours. When two meals are taken, the breakfast should be served about eight o’clock, and the dinner at two ; this gives six hours between, and the after- noon not so long as to cause hunger. It wiU be found, however, that a great deal depends upon previous dietetic habits. Most persons who have been long accustomed to cither two or three meals, prefer not to make a change : the old way is more satisfactory. In ordinary cases, it probably makes very little difference whether tAvo meals or three are taken, provided no discom- foid is experienced ; usually Avdiere the digestion is fair, and the habits of the individual active, three are preferred. The third or last meal should be much lighter in quantity than the others, very simple in quality, and taken not later than six o’clock. This leaves three hours till bed- time, putting the latter at about nine o’clock, or half-past nine ; long enough for all the food to pass out of the stomach, and leave that organ in a restful state, ready for the night’s repose. If the digestive organs are not strong enough to accomplish this much easily, then it is plain that the third meal should be left off.93 PART I. ] DIETETIC RULES. Dietetic Eules. Eat slowly, masticating your food thoroughly before swallowing it. The first jirocess of digestion—called insali- vation—takes place in the mouth. Never eat when you ai'c mentally excited, or physically exhausted ; if you ai’e very tired, lie down and rest half an hour before going to the table. Neglect of this rule has caused many a fit of indigestion. Do not take vigorous exercise, either jihysical or mental, immediately after eating. Light exercise, as clearing up the table, washing dishes, or walking about the house or garden, facilitates digestion ; but heroic exertion, as run- ning, pulling, lifting, washing or wringing clothes, etc., retards it. A bath should never be taken directly after eating, and particidarly after a very hearty meal. A good rule is not to bathe for half an hour before, and for two hours after eating. Take youi’ food regularly, at stated intervals—not at any hour of the day ; and do not form the habit of eating be- tween meals. If anything is taken outside of the regular meal-time, ripe juicj" fruits, as apples or oranges, will usually occasion less disturbance than more heariy or substantial food. Let at least the gi’eater pari of each meal consist of plain food ; and do not continue to eat after the actual wants of the system are satisfied. Tlie supjier should be the lightest meal, both in quantity and quality ; and it ought to be taken at least three hours before retiring for the night. Do not wash do^vn the food with a fluid ; eat without drinking ; this will insure more thorough mastication and insalivation ; it will also help to preserve tlie teeth. The horse never leaves his oats or corn to take a sip of waterHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part I. 91 between mouthfuls ; nor is he evei’ tortured with the tooth- ache. It is a bad plan to rise from the table, rush out into a freezing atmosphere, and take a long cold ride ; the body becomes chiUed and digestion is apt to be interfered with. A few minutes’ brisk walking in the morning, filling the lungs with fresh air, at every breath, is an excellent tonic before breakfast. Try it—you that are not too feeble to leave the room. As a rule, fruits and vegetables are best served at sepa- rate meals; vegetables, if eaten, should be taken at dinner —near the middle of the day. Raw ripe fruits, as apples, berries or cherries, are fine for breakfast, and best at the beginning of the meal. Avoid the frequent use of soft, sloppy foods ; and also of soft bread ; give the teeth something to do, if you would have them grow strong, and keep clean. Do not take very hot or very cold foods or drinks ; these crack the enamel of the teeth, and destroy them ; they also weaken the sahvary glands, enfeeble the stomach, and im- pair digestion. If you want good teeth, you must first eat the kinds of food that win make them, and then you must use them, or they will decay. Remember that a cow can be sloj)-fed till her teeth will fall out. To preserv'e the teeth, then, you must throw white bread to the dogs (and it wiU kill them if they are fed exclusively on it), eat bread made of the flour of the whole grains, and have it well baked ; it must be hard and cnisty enough to keep your teeth clean and bright. To secure a good SAveet breath, the digestion must bo perfect and the teeth clean. Use the brush after eating, not before. Some persons brush their teeth the first thing in tho moiming and the last thing at night; this leaves them un- brushed between breakfast and dinner, and between dinner and supper—or in other words, only clean at night. FormPART I.] HINTS ON COOKING. 95 the habit of briishiuj^ the teeth the fird thing after you rise from the table. Another imj^ortant rule, and always applicable, is the following : make the meal as enjoyable as possible ; a cheer- ful face, with pleasant conversation, is an excellent condi- ment. And if children dine with “ big folks,” let them learn at the start, that they too ai'e to be put upon their good behavior. Hints on Cooking. The following hints on cooking, some of which apply to Paid n., and some to Part III., may be convenient for reference. In making loaf bread, the floiu* should in cold weather be slightly warmed before mixing, and the dough set to rise in a wooden tray or thick earthen crock—never in a tin vessel, as the dough is apt to chiU from draughts of cold air. Bread to be good and wholesome must be thoroughly baked, having the crust nicely browned, but not scorched ; and it is better baked in pans that have closely fitting rovers; these confine the escaping vapors about it, and by preventing evaporation make the bread much sweeter. Mix all pastries lightly and quickly, gathering the mass together without kneading ; have the materials as cold as possible, and either bake as soon as mixed, or lay the paste into a refrigerator. Never make pies or cakes till the oven is ready for them ; roU your pie-crust pretty thin, staid with a brisk oven, hot enough to brown without blistering or scorching, and moderate the heat as the baking proceeds. Be sure the bottom crust is well done before taking the pies from the oven. This for cream pastry. Pies made of apjiles that are under-ripe and their crust shortened witli butter (which, however fresh and sweet, is always less wdiolesome than cream), are improved by bfvkiug an hour and a half in a very slow oven.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part I. 9G Nearly all ve^etaliles are Lest dropped into boiling water, and cooked rapidly ; particularly those of a watery nature, as cabbage, turnips, string beans, young peas, and potatoes, new or old. As soon as done, lift from the fire ; cooking a little too long, makes all the difference in the flavor. Cabbage thinly sliced will cook in thirty minutes. Another direction applicable to nearly aU vege^ tables, is to put them on in as little water as possible, having none to iioui’ off, or next to none. As a rule never soak potatoes or other vegetables before cooking them, and never parboil them—not even beans, unless the}’’ are very old and strong, and then only for a few minutes ; when the water is drained off rejilace it with more, boiling hot. Fruits if overripe must be cooked but little, and taken from the fire the moment they are done ; a trifle under- done is fully better than cooked too much. All green or unripe fruits are improved by starting them in cold water, and cooking or simmering slowlg (without stirring), for a long time. The long, slow cooking makes the fruit taste sweeter and riper. All dried fniits, as apples, peaches, pears, prunes, sweet currants, etc., should be well washed, dropped into boiling water, cooked rather quickly, and removed from the fire as soon as done. Peaches and apples di’ied by steam, usually cook in twenty-five or thiidy minutes, and sweet currants in thirty-five minutes. Grains are best steamed, starting them in hot or cold water (rice is less sticky started in cold), and cooked till tender ; the water in the pot below should be kept eonstantlg boiling. Steamed bread, to be good, must be well managed ; as soon as the batter is mixed, pour it into a round pan, well oiled, and set this inside the steamer ; the pan must not be quite full. Then cover it with an inverted plate or pie-pan ; and if the steamer is one with holes in the bottom, place two or three bits of wood under the pan, so that the steam97 HINTS ON COOKING. P.\BT 1.] can enter beneath it. Now put on the lid of the steamer, the latter being closely fitted over a pot of boiling water and cook constantly, keeping the water at a fast boil. Do not uncover till the bread is done ; then lift the lid, take out the pan, and set it in a hot oven to brown ten or fifteen minutes. Steamed puddings, mixed in a batter, are managed in the same way, except the browning at the end. When corn meal is used in mixing either steamed breads or puddings, take golden or white fiint meal, if you can get it; and fiU the measiu'e not quite so full as when meal from the dent corn is taken. In making puddings or steamed breads, never heat the pan before oiling, as this will make the batter stick to it; a little olive oil, or beef chipping, may be used instead of butter. In baking batter puddings, or any that may adhere to the sides of the dish, a good plan is to place the latter in the oven within a shallow vessel (as a dripping-pan), containing a little boiling water. Custards, if baked, ai’e best managed in the same way. Always heat milk in a farina-kettle if you have one, so as not to scorcli it. In the absence of this utensil, heat in a tin bucket set inside a pot of boiling water ; or a thick stone or eazdlien crock will answer, if the fire is not too hot. If bread-crumbs are used in puddings, dressings, hashes, etc., have at least a portion of them of good, home-made Graham loaf, unsweetened ; the gluten in this broad makes it richer and finer flavored than the white. In preparing sweet currants for cakes or puddings, pick them over carefully, and wash in a colander till they are p^rfecthj clean ; then dry in the oven, being careful not to overheat them, and finally dredge well with flour before stirring them in. If soda is put into bread, cake or puddings, use it spar- ingly. A “ teaspoonful ” of soda, is simply the spoon filled until it is level; and the same for cream of taidar. But ifHE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [P.VRT I. 98 baking-iDOwcler is employed, the spoon must be heaped some- what, owing to the fact that nearly all baking-powders are one-third starch. The proper proportion of pure soda and cream of tartar, is said to be about six ounces of the former to sixteen of the latter. When eggs are used, as in making custards or puddings, beat the yolks and whites sei^arately ; if you sweeten first, whip the yolks a little (to avoid lumping), then beat with the sugar, and stir the whites in last. Eggs to l^eat well, should be fresh, and moderately cold ; and experienced cooks say they should never be beaten in a tin vessel, but in stone or earthen ware. The rule for custards, is to cook uery slowl}-; and if baked, to take from the oven as soon as they ai'e well thickened— before they begin to separate, or become watery. Soups must boil or simmer doidy till done ; and most kinds need three or four hours’ cooking. When necessary, remove fragments of meat, bones or vegetables, by straining through a colander at the last; return to the pot and heat again, before seiwing. Meat, if roasted, should be placed in a hot oven till the surface is seai’ed, and then hake sloivly till done. If stewed, pour boiling water over it till half covered, skim if neces- sary, boil rapidly five or ten minutes, and then sleio gently, till a fork will go through the thickest portion of it easily. 1’lie water should all be evaporated when done ; and if finished as a pot roast, heat the oil or gravy in the bottom till the under surface of the meat is nicely browned ; then turn it over, and brown the other. If cold meat is to be warmed over (as in a hash), do not heat too long ; you can cook a good hash in fifteen or twenty minutes, after the meat, bread and potatoes are j^re- pared. Cold potatoes are best warmed over as follows : oil the skillet slightly, just enough to keep them from sticking;PART I.] HINTS ON COOKING. 99 slice, if they are whole ; if mashed, see that a second cinish- iu" leaves no lumps, and stir them up lightly with a fork. AMien the skillet is hot turn in the potatoes, and heat quickly till they are nicely browned on the bottom, but not scorched. Then with a knife turn them over, brown again, and dish for the table. Ten minutes will suffice for the browning ; and in ten minutes more, they should be eaten. To toast bread perfectly, cut it in even slices about half an inch thick, and brown, not too rapidly, over a bed of hve coals ; the bread should be stale to begin with. Turn it over before the slice warps too badly ; that is, if you are holding it on the end of a fork ; then toast the other side, and turn again if necessary. When done, the entire surface should be crisp, and an even chestnut brown. If the crust scorches a little, scrape off its buimt edges with a knife. To warm over mushes or grains, never add a particle of water, not even boiling ; tui’ii into a stew-pan, set where it wiU heat quickly, cover, and stir two or three times till the mu.sh is thoroughly hot. To warm bits of stale bread, dip the slices quickly into cold water, and lay them in a hot oven ten minutes, or till the surface is crisp, and the bread well heated through ; it will be as good as new—better, to most persons’ liking. Cold biscuits, split in two, dipped quickly into cold water, and tlien heated in the same way, are excellent.PART II. THE HYGIENIC DIETARY. To those who are acquainted with the principles of hygiene as expounded by their great originator, the late R. T. Trail, M.D., it is needless to say, that a strictly hygienic dietary is one in which the grains, fruits and vegetables, are all pre- pared without the slightest addition of seasonings or condi- ments, even sugar and milk being excluded. But so far removed from this plan are the usual methods of cooking, and so great the prejudice against this innovation, that it is next to impossible to convince people that foods prepared in this plain, simple manner, could be either healthful or pal- atable. It is the object of this work, or rather this pari of it, to place before the reader a collection of recipes, which, with little or no alteration, would be fully up to the standard of Dr. Trail himself. On the other hand, a very moderate amount of the plainer condiments—which any cook can add to suit herself—makes these (otherwise) hygienic dishes acceptable, even to perverted palates; wliile as respects health, food prepared in the ordinary way, can not begin to compare with this diet. It replaces the waste tissues of the body, it develops muscular strength, and it satisfies the nor- mal appetite ; it does not impair the digestive organs, neither does it clog the tissues, nor weai’ out the vital machinery. It sustains, it noui’ishea.UNLEAVENED BREAD. PART II.] 101 UNLEAVENED BREAD. To prepare the “ staff of life ” as it should he, four things are necessary. First, we must have good grains ; second, these must be cleaned, and properly ground into flour or meal; third, the flour or meal must be rightly mixed into dough or batter ; and lastly, the dough or batter must be well baked. The whole or unhulled wheat, as elsewhere stated, is said 1 o contain no less than fifteen elementary principles, all of which are necessary to build up the structures of the bod3^ Beneath the outer or Avoody portion of the grain, lies an abundance of glutinous matter ; here also are found most of the carbonates, phosphates, and other mineral substances that enter so largely into the formation of the teeth, bones, cartilages, etc. Beneath these again, is a substance that is composed chiefly of starch, the elementary principles of the latter being carbon, oxygen and hydrogen. It is this part of the Avheat that is used in making the white flour of com- merce, paidicularly the superfine. So far, then, as the num- ber of chemical elements is concerned, Graham flour stands to starch—and iiroximately to white flour—^in the propor- tion of fifteen to tln-ee, or five to one. Now, when Ave con- sider that bakers’ bread (and that is Avhat the masses live upon in cities) is made of this impoverished Avhite flour ; that it is raised by fermentation, AA'hich still further impairs its nutrient qualities ; that it is to a large extent imjireg- nated with alum, and is often half sour before baking—Ave can safely say that this is about the slenderest “ staff ” that ever a living creature sought to lean upon. Graham (or unbolted) flour is too often manufactured from small, shrunken gi-ains of spring wheat, or other poor material. This is Avhy there is ordinarily such a large per cent, of bran in it; too much entirely for eitlier good health or good eating. An excellent article for Graham10‘2 [part II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. flour is the white wheat, of which the Genesee is a variety. This has very nearly the right propoi-tions of hull, gluten, etc., to make wholesome and palatable breadstuff. On the quality of flour, the late li. T. Trail, M.D., in his “ Hydropathic Cook-Book,” says : “ Unless the grain is well cleaned before it is ground, Ave can not have the most de- licious bread. There is, too, a great difference between fresh-ground and stale flour, the former making incom- parably richer, sweeter bread. Those Avho ‘ eat to live,’ or to enjoy, had better, therefore, look well to the kind of grain, to its being thoroughly cleaned from dust, cockle, smut, sand, chaff, etc., and to its being ground but a short time before using.” “ The wheat meal or Graham flour in market is not unfrequently an admixture of ‘ shorts ’ or ‘ middlings,’ with old, stale, soured or damaged fine flour ; and fine flour is sometimes—more especially in European markets—adul- terated with whiting, ground stones, Ixnie dust, and of Pari&” The most difficult thing after the selection of the wheat, is to have it ground in the best manner. There are but few mills in the United States that make fii’st-class Graham flour. Either the wheat is not cleaned before grinding, or it is cut too coarse, or the stones get hot by running too fast, and “ kill ” the flour, or it is ground or rather mashed Avith dull stones, so that the hull is scaled off in large flakes of bran. In this latter condition, it is so coarse and rough as seriously to injure the delicate coats of the stomach and boAvels, especially if it is used for any great length of time. This is one cause of the prejudice that sometimes exists in re- gard to Graham bread. All flour, of whatever kind, should be kept in a dry, cool place, and in a pure atmosphere, where the circulation is good, as it absorbs impurities readily. And for leaA^ened bread, it is said that the flour should ahvays be thoroughly disintegrated (sifted or shaken), and in very cold weathertJNLEAA'ENED BRE.\D. 103 PART n.] imrmed before mixing ; a process Avliich would help, no doubt, to expel any gases or vapors that it may have ab- sorbed. The best Graham flour in our market is that manufactured by Ferdinand Schumacher, of Akron, Ohio. This gentle- man has built a mill that cleans each grain perfectly before grinding ; it cuts the hull tine enough to jmss throiigh a coarse corn-meal sieve, and turns out an excellent article of lively Graham flour made from the best white wheat. By sending for his “f. f.” (very tine) grade, we get the choicest of Graham for hard rolls, loaf bread or pastries. Moreover, this flour is so clean and sweet that it wiU keep for weeks, if put in a cool place, without getting old or musty. His oat meal, pearl wheat and pearl barley, are among the best in the country, both in the quality of the grains, and the methods of preparing them ; each grain is nicely dressed, the rougher portion of the outer or woody tiber being removed. Cracked wheat, as it is call«d, is pre- pai’ed in the same way, before the kernel is divided or cut. The ordinanj cracked wheat (now fast disappearing from our markets), which is simply crushed, contains a large per cent, of dwarfed or shriveled grains ; the hulls, Avliich are harsh and flbrous, are comparatively unbroken ; and were it not for the “ dressings ” that usually accompany it at table, very little of this article would be eaten. First and best of all the varieties of bread preparations known to hygienists, is the cold-water bread usually called the hard Graham roll It is made by mixing wheat meal with pure cold water, the colder the better. Properly prepiU’ed and baked it is sufficiently light or poroiis, owing to the air that is confined within its texture during the process of baking. No other kind of bread begins to compare with this in wholesomeness ; and the longer one uses it, the better it is relished. It is substantially what Dr. Trail calls the perfect bread—or Premium Bread. There are many “ little things ”104 [part 1L HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. to 1)0 observed in order to make it successfully ; tbe manner of mixing, the consistency of the dough, the kind of knead- ing, the fonning of the rolls, the spacing in the pan, the dispatch in getting it into the oven, the heat required, the time it should bake, the test as to when it is done, the cooling process,—all these are important; but once the cook is familiar with them, this bread is as easily made as almost any other ; and there is no need of failure. The following is the recipe in full : Hard Graham Rolls. =|= If the Graham flour is of red wheat or coarsely ground, it must be sifted.* Before you begin to mix, have the oven heating, and the bread pans clean ; they need not be oiled. Take for mixing, the coldest water you can get—ice-water, if you have it; wet the flour with this, using a little at a time ; that is, pour in slowly and stir fast, so as to moisten the mass gradually, allowing no little puddles to form, to make the dough wet and sticky. It may take say two-thirds of a pint of water to mix a quaii; of flour ; though the quantity will vary according to grade of flour used ; the coarser it is ground, the more wetting will be needed. OoTitimie to mix until rather a soft dough is formed ; about as soft as you can well handle. If you get the dough too stiff, the bread wijl be dry and harsh ; if too soft, it Avil! be Avet and clammv. «/ Mix in a smooth boAvl of common yelloAV earthenware, if you have it; also do the kneading in it, as the dough Avill not stick to its side's. Knead lightly but thoroughly all of ten minnte.s by the clock. When sufficiently Avorked, the dough becomes tine and smooth, lighter in color, and elastic^ to the touch ; if you poke it Avith the finger it will * Ordinarily, the terms Graham flour, wheaten meal, unbolted flour (of wheat', and even “brown flour,” are used interchangeably. Unbolted rye flour is often called rye meal.PART II.] UNLEAVENED BRE.\D. 105 rise or spriii" up as the pressure is removed. Then take half of it, and roll it over and over on the moulding-board with the hands, forming a long roll about an inch and a quarter in diameter ; cut this off in bits nearly an inch and a half in length, or large enough to make a roll from three to four inches long, and not quite three-quarters of an inch thick. Take each bit sepai’ately and roll it firmly together, making it smooth and round, and of the length and thick- ness just stated. Leave no dry flour on it, but let it drop from your fingers smooth, straight, and well-worked. As the rolls are made place them in the bread-pan, leaving quite a space between each, so that in swelling (as the air expands in baking), they may not touch each other. Make out the panful quickly, and on no account allow the rolls to stand after they are moulded, lest the air escape and they become heavy. For the same reason, let the oven be hot enough to brown moderately, almost from the begin- ning, as the lightness of the bread depends upon the con- finement of the atmospheric air within its crust, which forms around the roU in baking. Hence, the more crust there is above the flat surface of the pan, the lighter the bread will be. This is why rolls or round balls are always lighter than biscuits. The more even the heat of the oven, the better for baking ; it should be hot enough to scorch white bread. If too hot, the rolls will blister, letting out the air ; if too cold, the air will escape before the crust forms, and in either case the bread will be heavy. A tolerably good rule is to have the oven so hot that you can hold your hand in it just long enough to count ten, rather slowly. A little experience, however, soon enables the cook to regulate the heat. Before putting the rolls in the oven, prick well with a fork to prevent blistering. It wiU require about thirty minutes to bake thoroughly ; and if you happen to get them thicker than usual, it wiU take five minutes longer. When about 5*]0G HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART II. half (lone, turn each roll one-quaiier over—or a good plan is to shake the pan—so as to brown the sides ; and when cpiite done remove from the oven, and turn out on a table, spreading them well apaid. They should be entirely cold before you lay them in the bread-box, as they are apt to fall if put away warm. If any of the rolls yield to pressure when taken between the thumb and finger, they are not done, and must go back to the oven ; otherwise they will shrivel in cooling, and become heavy. When cooled a little, place them one layer deeji on plates, and send to the table ; and what are left over, save for the next meal, to be eaten cold. It is best to bake fresh every morning ; though any rolls left from the day before, may be warmed over as follows : first break each into two or three j^ieces, not lengthwise, but across ; never cut them ; then drop into cold water, and let them stand two or thi’ee minutes. Place well apaid in a bread-pan, and set the latter on the grate in a brisk oven, which will crisp without scorching them ; remove from the oven as soon as the bits are firm enough not to yield to pressure. If j^i’operly managed, they wiU be lighter than when newly made—provided the rolls have not been over- done in the first baking. The above bread is deservedly the standard among hy- gienists. Among people in general it is a new-comer’, nothing whatever being known as to the way in which it is made ; hence the fullness of detail, as just given. For the benefit, however, of those who are akeady partly initiated, the directions are given below, More Brieely.=|= Mix Graham flour with cold water, forming: a dounh about as soft as you can haiulle with the hand ; if the flour is of red wlieat, or is coarsely ground, it must be sifted. Knead very thoroughly, as for “ beat biscuit,” ten to fifteenPART II.] 107 UNLEAVENED BREAD. minutes, or until the dough is smooth and elastic. Then form into rolls three to four inches long, and barely three- quaiders of an inch thick ; leave no dry Hour stic-king to tliem. Miike them out rapidly, and place a little apart in t'le pan ; then prick Avell with a fork, and jmt them in the oven ; it must be hot enough to brown nicely, but not to scorch. Bake about thirty minutes. "When done, the rolls should not yield to pressure between the thumb and finger ; and wlien taken from the oven, spread them out on a table to cool. They may be eaten for breakfast a little warm ; or you can lay them away cold, for dinner or sujDper. Stems. =1= jMould the same as hard rolls, except that you make the stems a little longer, and only about half the thickness; they will bake in from twenty to twenty-five minutes, ac- cording to the heat of the oven. They are very sweet and crisp when warm, but not as good as the rolls, after they are a few hours old. You may warm them over the same as hard rolls, breaking each into small bits before wetting. Stems and rolls can be made of rye meal, though they are not as good as the wheaten. Cold-Water Loaf Bread. The dough for this bread is mixed the same as for the hard rolls, already described. After fifteen minutes’ good kneading, mould into small loaves, three to three and a half inches thick, and about five inches in length ; prick deejily with a fork, and place in a hot oven. The heat should be as even as possible, to avoid blistering or scorching. It will take from an hour to an hour and a quarter to bake the loaves thoroughly. This bread must not be cut tiU cold.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT II. 108 Cocoa-Nut Bread. Some weak stomachs can not tolerate this bread, the grated cocoa-nut being rather difficult to digest. The usual way of making it, is as follows : to one quart of Graham flour allow half a teacupful of grated cocoa-nut ; prepare the nut by peeling off the brown or outer portion, then grate the remainder as fine as possible, stir it well through the floui’, and mix as for hard rolls, kneading thoroughly. Save and add the cocoa-nut milk, if it is perfectly sweet; mould into rolls or biscuits, or any desii’ed form, prick well, and bake till fully done, in a hot even oven. A safer way for invalids, is to soak the grated nut in a pint of cold water for an hour, or longer ; then put the mixture into a farina-kettle, warm to blood heat, and set it back on the stove where it will keep warm for two hom-s. Then bring almost to a boil, removing the kettle from the fire just before the cocoa-nut water begins to bubble. Let it stand till quite cold, strain out the nut and use the water for mixing ; add the milk if it is sweet. If you make by this method, grate the Avhole of the cocoa-nut, and add enough water to cover it before soaking and heating ; when you have strained out the nut and added its milk, use as much flour as the fluid will wet to the proper consistency. Hot-Water Rolls. These are the soft rolls so common in Water-Cures years ago, and still largely in use. They are SAveet, and tolerably wholesome, especially if the dough is mixed rather stiff, and the bread very thoroughly baked. To make them, pour boiling water into a quantity of unsifted or rather coarse Graham flour, stirring constantly Avith a strong iron spoon until two-thirds of it is scalded ; then finish Avith cool or cold water, stirring with the spoon, and forming a dough stiff enough to handle Avith the hands ; if too stiff, the bread109 PART II.] UNLEAVENED BRE.VD. will not be good. Then pinch off in small bits, and make into roUs an inch thick, and about three inches in length ; form by rolling on the moulding-board, sprinkled with dry floiu’ to prevent sticking. Put them into the brcad-j)an, spacing so they Avill not touch each other, and bake from thirty to forty minutes, in a very hot oven. This bread is best eaten warm, though it is pretty good cold. Instead of rolls you may luake into biscuits, two and a half inches in diameter, and three-quarters of an inch in thickness. Rye flour (unbolted) can be used instead of the wheaten—or halt rye and half wheat, which would be less sticky. Hot-Water Loaf Bread. IMix as for hot-water rolls in the last recipe, having the dough a little stiffer, and kneading it longer. Mould into loaves about three inches thick, and five inches in length ; bake all of an hour, in a hot oven. If underdone, this bread will be wet and clammy ; do not cut till cold. It can be made either of wheat or rye flour (unbolted), or with a mixture of the two. Gilaham Cilvckers.=|(= Take sifted Graham, or best Akron flour unsifted, and mix as for hard rolls (first bread-recipe given), only a little stiffer. Use very cold water—ice-water is best—and knead thoroughly and very hard, all of twenty minutes ; then roll to the thickness of ordinary pie-crust, cut in any shripo desired, and prick deeply with a fork. Bake in an even oven from ten to fifteen minutes, or until the crackers are dry and hard. Let them get quite cold before stacking away, and then put them in a dry, cool place. If the ordinary Graham flour is used, a good plan is to sift it, and add a third or fourih part white flour of the110 [PABT IL HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. coarser brands; or you may take cold-blast flour, if you have it. Other Crackers. Make tbo same as tbe last, using cold-blast flour in place of Graham ; and instead of rolling out the paste and cutting, pinch it off in small bits, and roU into stems three inches long and hardly as thick as your little finger. Mix with ice- water, or the coldest you can get. As soon as moulded bake from ten to fifteen minutes, or until thoroughly dry and hard ; when cold, set away on plates. If you have not the cold-blast flour, use equal parts of sifted Graham and “middlings,” then mix and bake as before. W HEAT Meal Crisps.=|= These are sometimes called wafers. Take Graham flour, best Akron (or other Graham sifted), and mix as for crackers in the last two recipes. Knead very thoroughly, pinch off in small bits, and roll to the thickness of a knife-blade. Bake in a pan or on the gi’ate, in a hot oven, and be careful that they do not scorch ; they will be done in five to ten minutes. This bread is sAveet, crisp and tender, as well as very whole- some, and is quickly and easily made. Oat Meal Crisps.=|= Scald oat meal with boiling water, stirring with a spoon, and making a pretty stiff dough ; knead well together, dust the moulding-board with a little Graham flour, and roll to the thickness of nearly a quarter of an inch. Then cut into small cakes and bake in a moderate oven fifteen minutes, or till they are dry and hard, but oidy slightly browned. Watch closely, that they do not scorch in finishing. In rolling out this dough, it cracks badly near the edges ; after using the cake-cutter gather up the ragged pieces, knead them well together, and roll again,PART II.] Ill UNLE.WENED BREAD. These crisps will keep for days in a dry place ; and if heated over in the oven, they will he as brittle and tender as when first baked. Scotch Oat Cakes. In Scotland, the oat meal cake is made and baked as fol- lows : Take oat meal, not too fine, and wet it with water that is nearly or quite boiling. Mix well together, making the dough as smooth as possible, and roll out as in the jire- ceding recipe ; but instead of using the cake-cutter, make one large round cake, and cut it into quarters. Place these on a griddle (the griddle in Scotland is supplied with a bail), and hang it over the fire ; when nicely browned on the under side, lift from the griddle, and toast the ujqier side to an even brown, before the coals. These ai*e essen- tially the same as the oat meal crisps. Oat Meal Bannocks. Pour boiling water over fine oat meal, scalding it thor- oughly, and stir with a spoon to form a batter considerably thicker than for Graham gems ; so thick that it will scarcely tlrop from the spoon. Tlien oil a bake-pan, set it on the stove till hot, and jiour the batter into it to the depth of about half an inch. Separate the cake into four quarters with a knife, set the pan in an oven moderately hot, and bake from twenty to thirty minutes, Avithout scorching. ]\Iusii Rolls.=|= Take any cold mush made of corn meal, Graham or rye flour, oat meal, samp, or farina, and knead into it enough Graham flour to form rather a soft dough ; just stiff enough to handle with plenty of flour. If too much or too little flour is worked in, the bread Avill not be good. Make into rolls three to four inches long, and nearly an inch thick ;HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PABT II. 112 then bake in a hot oven thirty to forty minutes. This bread is best eaten warm, or not quite cold. Instead of the above mushes, cold rice or cracked wheat can be used. If corn mush is taken, white flour kneaded in makes a very sweet roU ; but the dough must be mixed almost as soft as it can be handled, and then baked in a very hot oven. Wheaten Gems. If hard rolls are the best of all the breads, gems are among the poorest, owing to their soft and rather moist texture ; there is a great difference, however, in the way they are made. Stir into cold water (ice-water is best), enough coarse Graham flour, unsifted, to make a tolerably stiff batter—not thin enough to settle smooth when lifted in the spoon. If the batter is too thin or too thick, the bread wiU not be light. For ordinary Graham, unsifted, two parts water and three of flour, are about the right proportions. Beat vigorously, and dip into hot gem-pans of cast-iron ; if clean, they need no oiling. Set them on top of the stove until well heated, and fiU them not quite even full ; bake in a very hot oven, thii-ty to forty minutes. Or if you like more crust, fiU only half or two-thirds full, and bake hardly so long. If properly made and thoroughly weU done, the gems will be very light, spongy, and comparatively diy. Fruit Gems. ]\Iake a batter as above of unsifted Graham flour, rather coarse, and stir in sweet currants ; then bake as before. The currants should be carefully picked over, and well washed in a colander before using. Instead of these, raisins steamed, or partially stewed in a very little water, and mixed with the batter, are good ; the seedless raisins may be used without steaming.113 PART II,] UNLKVVENED BRELVI). Potato Gems. Take one cup of warm potato, finely mashed, and soften it with a cup of tepid w'ater ; then stir in Graham flour un- sifted, until a gem-batter is formed. Beat weU, di-o^i into hot gem-pans, and bake in a good even oven, thirty to forty minutes. HvGiEjac Rusk Crumbs. Take bits of unleavened wheaten bread, and dry them thoroughly in an oven hot enough to brown slightly, but not to scorch. Then break them in a moidar, and grind in a coffee or hand-mill. Or you may take stale Graham loaf, grate it, brown in the oven, and when brittle roU fine. Tliis is “hygienic nisk crumbs.” Serve with fruit juice (some use milk), allowing it to soak a few minutes before it is eaten. Parched wheat may be ground and eaten in the same way. Corn Preparations. It is sometimes asked whether bread made from corn meal is wholesome, and whether the yellow or white meal is best. Com bread is rather hearty in warm weather ; in winter, and moderately cool weather, it may be used even by patients, two or three times a week or oftener, without detxlment. As to quality of meal, tlie corn best fitted for bread is the genuine “flint the “ dent ” corn is so soft in structure, that any bread made from it is apt to be gluey and heavy. This is particularly tnie of steamed breads. The real “ golden,” which is made of flint corn of a deep yellow color, and is common in Eastern cities, is veiy sweet and good. But by far the best meal in our Western markets, both for bread and mush, is that made from the “ white flint ” com. A poorer quality, common in the West, is of a pale yellow color ; and a still poorer, wliich is a bluish white, is not fit for bread.114 [part IL UEALTil IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Oue great difficulty, botli East and West, is to get corn meal that is not ground too fine ; and usually the better the quality of corn (as white flint or golden), the finer the millers make it. When ground so very fine, it is next to im- possible to make good “ lively ” bread from it without the aid of baking-powder, eggs, or fermentation. On the other hand, corn of poorer quality is often ground into meal that is entu’ely too coarse ; this makes bread that is hai’sh to the taste, and very irritating to the mucous sui’faces of the ali- mentary canal. Coen Dodger. Mix corn meal with cold water, making a dough stiff enough to handle ; then mould into ov:d cakes about two inches thick, put these in an oiled i^an, and smooth the top with the hand wet in cold water. Bake in a hot oven, foidy to fifty minutes. In the olden times, the cakes were wi’ajqDed in husks, and baked under the embers. Corn Dodger. Scald the corn meal with boiling water, forming a dough or batter as stiff as will droj) from the S]30on. Spread it an inch thick on an oiled griddle, turn when well browned, and bake on the other side. Bake in all, from twenty to thirty minutes, turning two or three times if necessary. Or you may si^read it in an oiled bread-pan, place in a moder- ate oven, and bake forty to fifty minutes, reducing the heat at the last. Hoe Cake. Wet the corn meal with cold water, making a dough stiff I'uough to sjiread with a knife. Stir thoroughly, spread it on a smooth board wet in cold water, and prop up and bake Sefore the fire ; you Avill need an open grate, or fire-place. On the Southern plantations, this cake was baked on a broadP.\ItT II.] 115 UNLEAVENED BRE.VD. hoe ; hence its name. In the absence of a board you may use an oiled bread-jian, or griddle ; make the cake from half an inch to an inch in thickness. Corn Bread. =|= Take coarse corn meal, scald one-half, and add cold water to mix the rest, forming a dough moderately stiff; then beat hard. Mould into small oval cakes two or three inches thick, put them in an oUed pan, and bake from forty to fifty minutes. This bread is very good wanned over the next day, by cutting open the cakes, dipping them into cold watex’, and laying in a hot oven ten to fifteen minutes. Dough mixed in the same way, only a little thinner, can be baked in gem-jians ; have a hot oven, and bake twenty to thirty minutes. Corn Gems.=)(= Take a quart of coai’se coi*n meal, scald half of it at night with boiling water, and let it cool to blood heat; add the other half of the meal, and mix with tepid watei', forming a batter as thick as \vill drop from a spoon. Let it stand in a warm place till morning ; then dip into gem-pans, oiled and hot, and bake in a quick oven thirty minutes. In warm weather the batter should not be mixed at night, as it would sour befoi'e morning ; it can be made soon after breakfast, kept in a warm place, and liaked for dinner. A handfid of Graham flour, added after scalding and cooling, IS an improvement. Corn Pone. Make a corn mush, and cook it thoroughly ; while hot, stir into it coarse com meal to form a pretty stiff dough. Then add more meal, and enough cold watei’ to make a dough that vou could mould with the hands ; almost too stiff to stir with a spoon , it will soften on standing. Mix thor-[part II, HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 116 ougMy, working out all tlie lumps of musli or dr}'^ meal ; set this in a Avarm place for several hours, or until the dough begins to swell. Then without working, turn it into a deep round dish, iron or earthen, and well oiled ; smooth it lightly over the top, wetting the hand in cold water, and place in a hot oven. After it begins to brown reduce the heat, and bake two or three hours, according to the size of the loaf. Take particular care that neither the top nor the bottom crust burns. This bread, projierly made, is sweet and delicious ; it is good eaten cold or warm. It is also excellent warmed over, as follows : cut it in thick slices, dip these quickly into cold water, and then either steam, or heat them through in the oven. Com pone is a bread well knoAvn in North Carolina, and other Southern States. In cold weather it is best to mix in the evening, let the dough stand over night, and bake in the morning or fore- noon. Care must be taken, however, that it does not get too warm or stand too long, and sour before baking. In the early days this bread was baked in a deep “Dutch oven ” (or bake-kettle), on the hearth before the fire ; the oven was set over a bed of coals, covered with a lid, and coals were put on the latter; it was turned from time to time, to let the loaf bake on all sides. Steamed Corn Pone, In these days, when bread is no longer baked in iron ovens or bake-kettles, a good way to cook corn pone is to steam it till half or two-thirds done, and then finish by baking. Mix as in the recipe just given ; and Avhen the dough is light and ready for the oven, pour it into a round tin pan, well oiled, set it covered in a steamer, put on the lid, and steam two hours without uncovering. Then take it out, place in a moderate oven, and bake one hour ; do not scorch the crust.f.VUT II.] UNLEAVENED BREAD. 117 Good Breakfast Cake. Mix a corn pone as in the last recipe hut one, and let it stand in a warm jdace over night; in the morning dip the hatter into hot gem-pans, well oiled, and hake for breakfast. The gems are excellent. Rye and Indian Bread. Take two parts coarse corn meal, and one of unholted rye ; see that hoth are fresh and sweet. Scald the corn meal thoroughly, and let it stand until lukewarm ; then stir in the rye meal, until all is well mixed. The dough should he nearly as stiff as you can stir it, with a strong iron sjioon ; if too stiff, add a little warm Avater. x\fter mixing, pour it into a round pan, tin or earthen, and well oiled ; set it in a warm place two or three hours, and then hake. Be- gin with a brisk oven until a thin crust forms ; after this, hake very slowly, from three to four hours. Be careful not to burn the cmst in finishing. Instead of rye, coarse Graham flour can he used, or half of each. You may steam this bread five or six hours if you like, and then brown it in the oven ten or fifteen minutes ; longer, if you want a good crust. Rye, Wheat and Indian. =|= Take two parts coarse corn meal—“ flint,” if you have it —one of cracked wheat, and one of rye meal; if rye meal can not he had, take coarse Graham flour instead ; or rye flour may be used, provided the corn meal is very coarse. Scald the cracked wheat well, by itself, then add and scald the corn meal, mixing hoth together, and forming rather a soft dough ; let the latter cool till lulccAvarm, and then put in the rye ; tliis should make the mixture about as stiff as can he stirred with a spoon. If you get it too stiff add a little tepid water, stir well, pour into a round pan well[paet n. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 118 oiled, and set in a warm place two hours ; then bake (or steam and bake), as in the preceding recipe. Raisins, sweet currants, dates, or other fruits, may be stiiTed into the mixt- ure before baking (or steaming), if desired. This, as weU as the bread described in the preceding recipe, is excellent baked in a baker’s oven, and left in sevei'al hours after it is done. It is very good sliced and toasted, when it is one or two days old. Huckleberey Beead. Mix together tlu'ee cups of rather coarse corn meal, and one and a half cups of middhngs (rye flour will do), and wet with sweet milk, making a batter that will pour readily. Into this mixture sth' one full quart of huckleberries ; and if you have the old-fashioned brick oven, such as bakers use, pour the batter into an earthen crock, well oiled, and set it in the oven with the other bread ; do this in the even- ing, and leave it in aU night; or if you bake in the morn- ing, let it remain in the oven several hours. This bread is very good steamed ; let the batter stand in a warm place two hours, then stir the fruit in lightly, and steam two hours and a half ; brown ten minutes in the oven, at the end. Rye and Indian Gems. Mix two parts lye meal, and one part corn meal; then wet with cold water, forming a batter that will barely di’op from the spoon. Beat very thoroughl^^ until the mixture is creamy, and drop into hot gem-pans of cast-iron, slightl}^ oiled. Fill the pans nearly full (unless they are very deep), and bake in rather a hot oven, thirty to forty minutes. A very fair gem is made of all rye meal, unsifted ; moderate the heat of the oven in finishing, and do not have the gems too thick.PAJRT II. J 119 LE.VVEKE1) AND OTHER BREAD. Snow Biulvd. Stir well together iu a cold room, two paids of clean dry snow, newly f:illen, and one of corn meal; timi the mixture into a bread-pan, smooth it tiU level, and bake in a very hot oven. The cake before baking, should not be more than two inches thick. LEA\Ti:NED AND OTHER BREAD. The preceding chapter has told how to make “ perfect bread”; the present one gives some of the best methods of making imperfect bread. The question is sometimes asked, “ "Which is worse for the stomach, yeast or soda ? ” Perhaps it is enough to know that l)oth are bad. The yeast—which is said to consist of vegetable infusoria—is the product of a rotting process, leading step by step to actual putrefaction ; and as such, it destroys certain proximate principles in the grains in which it is used. In the early stages of fermentation the sac- charine matter is decomposed, and carbonic acid and alcohol are given off ; as it proceeds, the starchy substances are destroyed, and acetous acid or vinegar is formed. Another step in the downward grade destroys the gluten, and brings the later stages of putrefaction or decay. So that yeast bread, however weU made, is deprived of a part of its nutrient material; and poorly made, it is intolerable, even to the taste. Soda, on the other hand, is an inorganic substance, and is used with an acid, forming a third substance, also inorganic, and therefore indigestible ; this remains in the bread, and renders it unwholesome. Bi-carbonate of soda, the salt generally employed in bread-making, is commonly used in connection with tartaric acid—or “ cream of tartar,” Avhich is a bi-tartrate of potassium. In the reaction that follows,[part II. llE-^LTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 120 a double taiirate of potassium and sodium is fonned ; these salts (which are left in the bread), are nothing more nor less than the “ Rochelle Salts,” which are used in medicine as a “ mild purgative.” The carbonic acid that escapes in the process of forming them, is what puffs up the loaf. When there is not sufficient acid present to combine with the soda, a portion of the latter remains, giving the bread a yellow color, and a very disagreeable, alkaline taste. Pure baking-powder of the best quahty, consists of the bi-carbonate of soda, and cream of tartar (tartrate of potas- sium), mixed together. The propoidions given by some chemists as the best, are six ounces of the former to sixteen of the latter ; but the usual rule is, one measure of soda to two of cream of tartar. It is safe, however, in actual measurement, not to have too much soda. Bi-carbonate of soda, with lactic acid (sour milk), is considered by some as less objectionable than the ordinary baking-powder, just described. Instead of the cream of tartar, cheajier sub- stances, as alum, acid phosphate of calcium, etc., are fre- quently sold ; and both the acid and alkaline salts (bi- carbonate of soda and cream of tartar), are often largely adulterated Avith various foreign and injurious substances. It is difficult, therefore, to say which is least hannful, the “ soda bread,” with its indigestible, inorganic salts and adulterations, or the yeast bread, which at best has passed through certain stages of decay. Very much, however, depends upon the management of the yeast, and the bread made with it; it requires gi'eat care to have it just right. If the process of fermentation be not arrested at the proper moment, the bread will be sour or veiy nearly so, and ex- ceedingly indigestible. Never buy compressed yeast, and on no account brewers' yeast ; if you want first-class broad, your own hop yeast, well made, is infinitely better than either. All brewers’ yeast hastens the process of fermentation so rapidly, thatLEAVENED iVND OTHER BREAD. PAET II.] 121 most of the sweetness is gone from the bread before it can be raised and baked. The following recipe for making yeast, is one of the best; and the one given after it, is nearly or quite as good. Hop Yeast. =|j= 1 cup grated potato. 1 “ white sugar. ^ “ salt. 1 tablespoonful ground ginger. 1 pint good hoji yeast. 41 quarts boiling water. 1 good handful of dry hops. Pour three pints of boiling water into a jiorcelain kettle, put in the hops, and boil ten minutes ; then cool, and strain through a coai'se muslin bag. Put into a separate vessel three quarts of boiling water, and add the grated potato ; the potatoes must be good and sound ; bod three minutes, and strain ; or you may rub through a coarse sieve. Return the potato-water to the kettle (this should be granitized iron or porcelain-lined), and add the hop-liquor, along with the salt and sugar ; heat to boiling, and slcim icell; then boil all together eight minutes. Pour the hot mixture into a stone jar large enough to allow it to ferment, and stir into it a tablespoonful of ground ginger, moistened with a little warm water. WTien cooled to lukewarm, add one pint of good yeast left from the previous making, and heat very thoroughly. Let the yeast stand in the kitchen, or in some moderately warm place, twenty-four hours, or until it ceases to send up bubbles ; then put it into a clean stone jug, cork tight, and set it (in warm weather) in the coolest jiart of the cellar. Shake well from the bottom, each time before using. In very cold weather, do not let it get chilled. This yeast has been thoroughly tested for years ; H Avill 6[part II. 122 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. keep six or eight weeks, or longer, in a cool place ; and with even tolerable management, you need never have sour broad. Always save a jiint to staid with next time ; if you are starting for the first time, either make the self-working yeast (next recijie but one), and start with that, or else with bakers’ yeast, or good hop yeast, which is the same thing. Never use brewers’ yeast, as it gives the bread a strong, bitter taste ; and bread raised with it is apt to sour. Hop Yeast. 4 tablespoonfuls gi-ated potato. 2 “ white flour. 4 “ sugar. 2 “ salt. 1 tablespoonful ginger. Mix the above ingredients with cold water, to form a stiff paste. Then put a double handful of hops into two quarts of boiling water, boil ten minutes, cool to lukewarm, and strain out the hops ; poui- this water over the paste, stir till tlie whole is well mixed, and boil three minutes ; when the fluid is cooled to lukewarm, stir in a pint of good yeast, and l)eat well. Let it stand in a warm room till it ferments ; then pour into a stone or glass jar, tie a clean cloth over it, and set it in the cellar or other cool place. If you have no suitable place to keep it, make it into cakes, as follows : Stir in fine corn meal, until a stiff dough is formed ; then roll to about a quarter of an inch in thick- ness, and cut into small cakes. Set these in a very moderate oven, or in the sunshine, and when fully dry and cold, tie them in a paper sack to preserve their strength, and hang in a dry place ; they will keep several weeks, in cool weather.PART II.] 123 LEAVENED AND OTHER BREAD. Self-'\Yorking Yeast. In makin," yeast it is often difficult to get a good article to start with ; in such cases a self-working yeast would be of advantage. The following recipe is from “Common Sense in the Household,” which is good authority: 8 potatoes. 2 ounces hops. 4 quarts cold water. 1 lb. floiu’. i lb. white sugar. 1 tablespoonful salt. “ Tie the hops in a coarse muslin bag, and bod one hour in four quarts of water. Let it cool to lukewarm before removing the bag. Wet the flour with the tejiid liquor—a little at a time—making a smooth paste. Put in the sugar and salt, and beat up the batter three minutes before add- ing the rest of the tea. Set it away for two days in an open bowl covered Avith a thin cloth, in a closet which is mod- erately and eA’enly Avarm. “ On the third day, peel, boil and mash the potatoes, and when entirel}" free from lumps and specks, stir in gradually the thickened hop-liquor. Let it stand tAvelve hours longer in the bowl, stirring often, and keeping it in the Avarm kitchen. Then bottle, or put aAvay in corked jars, Avhich must be perfectly SAveet, and freshly scalded. This will keep a month, in a cool cellai’. It is more troublesome to m:ike than other kinds of yeast, but it needs no other ‘ rising ’ to excite fermentation, and remains good longer than that made in the usual Avay.” Leavened Graham Bread.—( General Directions.) To the inexperienced housewife, the foUoAving directions for making Graham bread Avith yeast, Avdl be convenient fopHE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 121 [part II. reference. Thougli the best of rules may fail, without that rare counterpail, known as good management. 1. See that the yeast is good, and the flour the same. 2. If you like moist bread, scald a cup or part of a cup of flour, and cool to blood heat; then add warm water, the yeast, and just enough flour to form a batter that will drop (not jDour) from the sj^oon. 3. If bread rather dry and flaky is preferred, omit the scalding, and make the sponge a little thinner ; thin enough to pour from the spoon, but not too easily. 1. You may use for the S23onge, either Graham or white flour, sifted ; most persons jirefer the white, jierhaps from the fact that ordinary Graham is inferior in quality, and the sjjonge made of it ajiter to sour. Mix with water not warmer than blood heat, add the yeast, and beat till you have a smooth batter ; you may allow of good hoj) yeast, about half a cup to a quart of water. 5. Set the sjDonge in a warm jilace to rise, and do not let it get too light; in summer, you can leave it on the kitchen table. In winter, it is better to set it on the tank of hot water at the back of the stove—or if you have a range, 2Dlace on the shelf above it. G. Mix the bread as soon as the s2>onge is ready ; many a batch has been s2Doiled, through neglect of this rule. When the batter begins to send u2) little bubbles, the fermentation has commenced ; and by the time the whole mass looks light, and rather foamy, 2n’Oceed to mix. 7. In cold weather Avarm the flour a little, before you make the bread ; and if ordinary Graham is used, sift it; best Akron is fine enough Avithout. 8. Use for wetting, sim23ly the S23onge—no water. And for moist bread (Avhich has the stiffer S230nge, Avith scalded flour in it), mix very soft; entirely too soft for kneading. Simply work the mass well with the hands (in the tray), till it is thorouglily mixed ; then scrape the dough from yourPART II.] 125 LE.VVENED AND OTHER BRE.VD. fingers witli a knife, and siuootli off the top. Now sprinkle lightly with floiu*, cover with several folds of old table-linen, and set in a warm place to rise ; it may take severiil hours, or over night. When risen, the dough will have stiffened somewhat; then knead ten to fifteen minutes (according to quantity), working in very little flom-. 9. But for bread that is rather dry and flaky, mix the dough (with a sponge that will just pour) considerably stiffer ; stiff enough to leave the sides of the tray ; then lift to the bread-boai’d, and knead vigorously about fifteen minutes. When Avorked nnough, the dough becomes elastic ; if you give it a poke with the finger, or with your closed fist, it avlU rise or spring up when the pressure is removed. Then return it to the tray—over the bottom of Avhich you have sprinkled a little flour—cover, and set to rise. 10. Always mix in a warm room, so as not to chfll the bread ; in very cold weather, you may protect it from draughts of air by covering with several folds of thick flannel, kept for the purjiose. 11. When the weather is cool or cold, make the sponge in the afternoon or evening, and mix the bread before bed- time. Next morning knead, and form into loaves, then set to rise, and bake. 12. In very warm weather, make the sponge in the morn- ing ; this enables you to mix, set to rise, mould, and finally bake, all in the daj'time ; whereas, the dough would almost certainly sour, if it had to stand over night. 13. Do not let the bread get too light, in either the first or second rising ; when it has doubled in volume, it is just about ready for moulding or baking. 14. Allow sufficient time for the fermentation ; do not hasten or force it, by keeping either the sponge or bread too warm ; neither must you let it chill before fermentation begins. 15. Mould into small loaves, having a pan for each ; thisHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 126 [PAKT II. favors thorough baking ; it also gives more (rust, Avhich is the sweetest part of the bread. 16. Have a good even oven, and not too hot in the outset; the heat should permeate the loaf gradually, giving it time to swell a little before the crust forms. 17. You must allow a longer time for baking Graham bread than you would for white ; forty to fifty minutes for small loaves, and about an hour for large ones. 18. Have the oven a httle hotter for Graham than for white bread ; moderate the heat toward the last, and finish without the slightest approach to scorching ; the crust should be a good chestnut brown, neither too thick nor too thin. 19. When talcen from the oven turn the loaves out of the pans, and lean them up endwise against something till cold ; then wraj) in clean old linen, and put into the bread- box, also clean. 20. The next day (or several houi’S after baking), cut in even slices, not too thick, and the last thing before sending to the table. Do not leave the cut loaf standing, to dry out; either wrap in a clean cloth, or lay it back in the box. Briefly stated, leavened Graham bread differs from white in the following particulars : it requires less kneading by about one-half ; it takes a little longer time for baking, and rather a hotter fire ; and—for moist bread—it is mixed as soft as it can be handled. In other respects the manage- ment is essentially the same, either for Graham or white bread. The best pans for baking loaf or other bread, are made with closely fitting covers or lids, which confine the heated air about the bread, and prevent its sweetness from being lost in the exlialed vapors. These pans may be made of tin or sheet-iron, with a cover of the same material. The bread that our grandmothers baked in the old-fashioned oven or bake-kettle, owed its superior sweetness to the factLEAVENED AND OTHER DREAD. 127 r.\BT II.] that the loaf “was placed in a confined atmosphere. If bread is baked in open pans, the big brick (or stone) oven which bakers use, is best; it takes in a great many loaves at once, and confines the heated ah’ about them. But as private families can not all be supplied with bakers’ ovens, there is no way but to use the ordinai’y cook-stove. Lewened Graham Brevd.=|= Make a sponge by taking three pints of waiTQ water, two- tlhrds of a cup of yeast, and enough white floiu’ to thicken. Have the water no warmer than blood heat; then stir in pari of the fiour, add the yeast, and enough more flour to make a batter that will poxir from the spoon, but not too reacbly. Beat till smooth, and then set to rise in a w’arm jflace. In all but the very hottest weather make the sponge in the afternoon, say between four and five o’clock, or in time to mix the bread before bed-time ; if the yeast and flour arc good, and the temperature just right, the sponge should be hght enough in three hours, or less time. 'When ready, sift into the mixing bowd—a clean wooden tray, if you have it—three quarts of Graham floui’, or enough to form a dough that you can mould ; if best Akron is used, omit the sifting. Before you begin to mix, dip out a pint of the flour to work in at the last, if needed ; then make a well in the center of the remainder, poui’ in the sponge, and gradually mix in the flour, being careful not to get the dough too soft, nor yet very stiff. As soon as it Avill leave the sides of the tray, lift to a bread-board and knead thoroughly from ten to fifteen minutes ; then sprinkle a little flour over the bottom of the tray, and lay in the kneaded bread ; cover with several folds of old linen, and leave on the kitchen table, or in some otlier moderately warm place, to rise over night. In the cohlcst weather, warm the flour a little before you mix ; and -when you set[PART ir. 128 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. the bread to rise, it may be well to throw a folded blanket over it; or you may carry it to the furnace room, after the fire is low. Next morning, the bread having risen to twice its fii’st volume, is waiting a second kneading. Tf this can not be done immediately, you will have to set it in a cold room, lest it get too light; and bread that has risen overmuch is never sweet. The only really safe rule, is to knead as soon as the batch is ready ; ten minutes’ light kneading will be long enough. Mould into small loaves (this amount of dough will make five or six), put them into separate pans, cover, and set in a warm place ; in half an hour, or when they have risen to double their former size, place in a very moderate oven; do not forget this last item, as the bread should swell a Httle before its siuface hardens. FoUow with a steady heat—rather hotter than for white bread—and bake from forty to fifty minutes ; larger loaves would require about an hour ; reduce the heat toward the last, and finish with an evenly browned crust, not the least bit scorched. If -on removing from the oven, any of the loaves are not firm to the touch and well broAvned, top, sides and bottom, they must be set back a few minutes, for fm’ther baking. As soon as done, stand each loaf endwise, leaning against a stone jar or other upright object, on the kitchen table ; this will admit the air on all sides, leaAung the crust dry and brittle, not soft and tough. When thoroughly cold wrap in a clean cloth, and lay in the bread-box ; cut the next day. After the bread is two or three days old, you may slice and toast it; or cut it a little thicker, dip quickly into cold water, and crisp in a hot OA’en. Very good bread is made—and many like it for a change —by working into the above sponge equal parts Graham and white flour ; then knead, set to rise, mould into ioaves, and when risen again, bake as before. The bread ii, a pale buff color, and very sweet and good. Or you ma;) use allPART II.] LEAVENED AND OTHER BREAD, 120 Graham, both for sponge and mixing, and make in other resjiects the same ; many prefer it to the above bread. Le-wened Graham Brkvd.—(Softer.) =](= 1 quaid boiling water. \ cup good hop yeast. 1 “ sifted white flour for scalding, cups “ “ “ “ thickening, 6 “ “ Graham “ “ mixing. The bread made according to the last recipe is light, dry and flaky ; that described in the ^rresent one is more moist, but light, sweet and good. Some prefer one, some the other. In the afternoon, say four or five o’clock, make the sjronge ; scald the cup of white flour by pouring over it the quart of boihng water, and stirring well to remove lumps. Wlien cooled to lukewann, thicken with the rest of the white flour (sifted), add the half cup of yeast, and beat to a smooth batter, thick enough to drop from the spoon. Set this where it will keep warm ; when risen, which should be in two or three hours, sift the Graham flour into the tray ; or if you have best Aki’on (Graham flour from white wheat), simply stir it up lightly, without sifting. In very cold weather, wanu the floui’ slightly before beginning to mix ; dip out a cupful to work in as it is needed, then make a well in tlie rest of it, and pour in the sponge. Mix as soft as possible, working with both hands till the flour and sponge are thoroughly incorporated, and a plastic dougli is formed— entirely too soft to lift from the tray. Then remove with a knife what adheres to the fingers, sprinkle the surface lightly with flour, and cover with several thicknesses of old table-hnen. You may leave the tray on the kitchen table, or in some other wai’m place. If the yeast is good, the bread can be made as early as seven or eight o’clock ; thoughHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD, 130 [part II. in pretty warm weather it is better to set the sponge later, and mix the last thing before bed-time. Next morning you will find the bread increased in vol- ume, and also considerably stiffer in texture ; so much so that you can readily lift it from the tray to the moulding- board. Give it ton minutes’ thorough kneading—a little longer for a larger bafch — using very little flour ; then mould into four or five loaves, put in separate pans, cover, and set to rise. When light enough, bake ; a few moments’ delay will spoil the bread. The oven must be moderate in the stai’t, tiUowing the loaves to swell a little before they commence to brown ; if baked too fast at first, the}' will be doughy in the middle. Continue with an even heat, slack- ening it toward the last, so as not to scorch in finishing ; the bread should be done in from forty to fifty minutes, though larger loaves (which are never quite as good) re- quire an hour. Have the crust an even brown, and not too thick. When taken from the pans, stand the loaves endwise till cold ; then wrap in clean cloths, and put away. In very warm weather, the bread is in danger of souring if it stands over night; to avoid this, set the sponge in the morning, and get through with the intermediate processes in time to bake the same day. Leavened Graham Bread. The following recipe is from a lady who is an excellent bread-maker : Over two tablespoonfuls of white flour jiour a pint of boiling water ; then pour in cold water until it is lukewarm. Stir in white flour to form a batter that pour (not drop) from the spoon, put in half a cup of good yeast, and beat well. Set this to rise over night, and in the morning stir in another pint of white flour, beating very thoroughly ; let it stand in a warm place till it begins to send up bubbles.LEA\'ENED AND OTHER BREAD. 131 PART n.] Then take enough sifted Graham Hour to mix with the sponge, and form a dough not very stiff ; knead till it looks and feels smooth and silky, and set it to rise. When light enough knead very little, form into loaves, and put them into the pans. As soon as they have xisen sufficiently (if too light tlie bread will not be sweet), set in a moderate oven, and bake till done ; they will recpiire fully an hour, if the loaves are of ordinary ^size. When taken out do not set them flat on the table, but place endwise, leaning against something until cold. Cut the day after baking. Graham Bre-vd with Potato Sponge. Peel foiu’ or five potatoes, drop into a quart of boiling water, and cook till soft; then hft them out, mash tiU free from lumps, and add the water (hot) in which they boiled, mixing well together. Stir into this enough sifted white flour to make rather a thin batter, and beat well to remove the lumps. Let it stand till luliew'arm, and then add half a cup of good hop yeast, and one pint of tepid water ; thicken with white flour to fonn a batter about as stiff as wiU pour from the spoon, and beat very thoroughly. Set this sjionge where it will keep warm without scalding ; when light, sift into the bread-bowl equal parts Graham and white flour, say three pints of each, and make a well in the center. Now add the sponge, mixing as you pour, and fonning a dough stiff enough to leave the sides of the bowl. Knead thoroughly, till the dough is elastic to the touch, which will take perhaps fifteen minutes ; then set it to rise, covering well, and leaving it in a w^arm place. As soon as risen fonn into small loaves, knead moderately, and set where they will keep w'arni. When light enough bake in a good even or\'en, nearly an hour. Do not cut the bread till it is one day old. This, and indeed all loaf bread, is better baked in a brick oven, such as bakers use ; and it is sweeter if put in pans (tin or iron) with closely-fitting covers. The pans may132 [part II. HEA.LTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. be made in any shape desired ; the best perhaps are cii’cular, and -widening toward the toji, hke an earthen flower-pot. Raisin Bread. Pick, wash and seed the raisins, a full pint for an ordi- nary loaf ; put them in a small, covered vessel, and set the latter into a larger one containing boiling water ; cover this also, and place over the fire. Let the raisins steam half or three-quarters of an hour ; the water that adheres from washing, is sufficient to steam them. INIix and knead the bread, as in either of the preceding recijies ; when ready to mould work the raisins in evenly, and set it to rise in single loaf tins. Bake an hour, or till well done, and eat the next day. Bread from “Risings.” Leavened bread is often made without hops, as follows : Into one pint of water at scarcely more than blood heat, stir white flour to form rather a stiff batter, and beat well ; our mothers added a little salt, but there is no need of it. Make this sponge early in the morning, and set it where it will keep at an even temperature, about blood heat; it wiU take five or six hours for it to rise. Beat several times the first three hours—not afterward ; and wlien the sponge is ready, mix 'immrdiateh/; “ delay is dangerous,” particularly in making bread from “ risings.” Sift into your tray throe quarts of Graham flour—or part Graham—make a well in it, pour in the sponge, and add warm Avater (not hot) to form rather a soft dough. Knead but little and very lightly, and mould into loaves not too large. Set these to rtse in a warm place, and when light enough, bake in a moderate oven about an hour ; if made chiefly of -white flour, a little less time will suffice. This bread requires promptness at every step, or it will not be good ; if either the sponge or the dough stands after it is risen, the bread loses its sweetness.PART IT.] REA\’ENED AND OTHER BREAD. m BrE-VD from “Risixgs.” The folio-wing recipe for bread from “risings,” comes well recommended : Scald one cup of fresh coim meal and thin it with cold water, making the mixture about blood heat. Stir into this one cup of white Hour, or enough to make a batter that will run from the spoon ; beat thoroughly. Then set it in an earthen crock, containing water that can be comfortably 1 )orne with the hand ; not hot enough to scald the sponge. Keep it in a warm place three hoiu’S, or xmtil ivater rises on top ; then stir in more white flour, enough to stiffen the batter to tlie first consistency. Let it remain in the crock of wann water until risen to a light sponge, though not too light. After it is fairly up, put into the mixing-bowl four or five pints of sifted Graham flour, pour in the risings, and w’ork into a very soft dough, without kneading. Handle only enough to mix all well together ; then make into rather small loaves, and set in a warm place to rise ; when light enough, bake in a good even oven, nearty or quite an hour. If prefeiTed, use part white flour for mixing. Another recipe, from a good bread-maker, is as follows : Scald two tablespoonfuls of com meal, let it cool a little, and then pour in a pint of water scarcely warmer than new milk. Thicken wdth white flour till tlie mixture is stiff enough to drop (not pour) from the spoon ; set this sponge in a crock of wami water, kept steadily at blood heat; stir now and then, tiU it begins to send up bulxbles ; and when it has risen, say txvo inches, mix the bread. To do this, scald a portion of the flour (Graham), and let it cool to lukewarm ; then mix with the sponge, forming a jiretty soft dough, and knead lightly and quickly till smootli ; tlie dough must not get chilled. Mould at once into loaves, set in a warm place to rise, and as soon as they are light enough, bake.13 i: HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART II. Ill lualviug bread from “risings” al\va3’’S set the sponge very early in the morning, in order to finish the baking in good season. Batter Loaf Bread. IVIake the ordinary sponge with tejiid water, yeast and floiu*, using half Graham and half white ; set this in a warm place. As soon as risen add sifted Graham flour, mixing with a spoon till a thick batter is formed ; too thick to drop from the spoon. Beat till there are no lumps, then pour into small bread-jians, well oiled, smooth the toj) with a knife, and set to rise ; when sufficiently light, bake in rather a hot oven about fift}' minutes. Another.—Make the same as before, using the Lockport flour both for sponge and mixing ; the bread is very sweet and fight, but pretty moist. Rye Bread. IMake the same as Leavened Graham Bread, using white flour for the sponge, and either rye flour or sifted rye meal for mixing. Or a better way, as the bread is not so apt to be sticky, is to mix Avith half rye meal, and the rest sifted Graham flour. Knead lightly, and not too long. A very sweet rye bread is made as follows : Make the sponge with tepid water and rye flour, and set it in a wann place to rise ; as soon as fight mix with rye meal or flour, to form rather a soft dough. Knead as little as possilfle, and mould into small loaves. Set these where they will keep warm, and AAdien fight enough bake in a moderate OA'en one hour. This is rye bread from “ rismgs”; the flour must be fresh. A handful of good Graham mixed with it, is an im- provement. Cut the day after the bread is baked. Rye Flour Brkad. 1 pint wann water. 3 cups rye flour—or enough for a smooth batter, cuj) good Imp yeast.LEAVENED AND OTlIEE BREAD. PART II.] 185 IMjike the sjionge with the above, and set it in a warm place to rise ; it should be hght in from two to three hoiu’s, if the yeast is good. A\'hen risen, put into the bread- bowl one cup of corn meal and three cujis of rye hour, mixed together ; or enough to form a dough that will knead without sticking to the moulding-board. IVIix with the sponge, kneading lightly and very little ; scarcely more than enough to hold the mass well together, or the bread will be sticky ; you may in cool weather, set this to rise over night. In the morning mould into loaves (small ones are better than large), let them rise twenty to tliii'ty minutes, or till sufficiently light, and bake in an even oven about an hour. Potato Biscuits. 2 cups* new milk. 1 cup good hop yeast. 2 cups mashed potato—hot. Flour for sponge and dough. Time (for baking), 20 to 30 minutes. Heat the milk to a boil, stir in the mashed potato, and cool to blood heat. Then strain through a colander to re- move the lumps, add the yeast, and stir in enough white flour to form a batter that AviU pour from the siioon. Set this to rise in a warm place ; it should be ready in two or three hours. In cool weather you may set the sponge over night, and make the bread in the morning. When light, mix Avith Graham flour, or half Graham and half white, foiming a tolerably stiff dough ; knead very thoroughly, and set in a Avarm place till risen. Then roll half to three- quariers of an inch in thickness, cut in small round cakes, and let them rise fifteen or twenty minutes, or till sufficiently light. * A “ cup ” is half a pint.136 HEALTH IN THE HOHSEHOLT). [PAKT H. Bake in a quick oven. You can take water for the sponge, if desired ; but the bread will require longer kneading. Or a plain rusk may be made in this way : Before mixing, add to the above sponge a little sugar finely rolled, and a beaten egg ; then proceed as before, not forgetting to knead well. Stale BeE/Vd. Cut the loaf in thick slices, dip these quickly into cold water, and lay in a hot oven ten to fifteen minutes ; long enough to heat through thoroughly. The outside should be crisp, but not scorched, and the inside light and dry. Bread warmed over in this way, is very good. Dry Toast. Take bread that is two or three days old, but not mouldy ; cut it in rather thin shces, and toast evenly before or over the coals. Do not hurry the process. Toast that is merely scorched on its surfaces, and underdone between them, is not fit for the table ; both sides should be an even bro^vn, the bread dry and crisp, but tender enough to be easily broken. If rather fresh, lay the slices on the oven grate a few moments, and dry slightly before toasting ; or, you may dry each surface, holding the shoe on the fork before the coals, and lu’own afterward. A very delicate toast is made as follows : Cut the slices nearly half an inch thick, from bread that is two or three days old. Toast with a fork very evenly, and not too slowly ; when one side begins to tinge turn the other, to keep the slice from warping. Graduate the heat and rej^eat the turnings, in such a way that each surface shall be an even brown, with a very thin layer of soft bread between. Good home-made Graham loaf, toasted in this way, is excellent. The moment they are ready, serve the shces sei^arately on a plate, as they are apt to sweat and become clammy, if i^iled one upon another.LE.VVEMED AND OTHER BREAD. 137 PAnT JT.] Mush Gems. Make at ni"lit a thick gi’uel, hy stirring corn meal into a quiu-t of boiling water ; let it cook twenty-live or thirty minutes. Cool to lukewarm, then thicken with Graham flour, unsifted, until a batter is formed almost too stiff to drop from the spoon. Stir into this a spoonful of sweet fluid yeast, and leave it (in winter) in a warm room till morning. Then without stimng the batter, dip it into hot gem-pans, slightly oiled ; fill about two-thirds full, and bake forty minutes in a pretty hot oven. This bread is a great favorite with many. Mush Biscuits. =|= Take hot corn meal mush, and stir in either Graham or white flour till it is quite stiff ; add cold water until the mixture is cooled to blood heat. Then stir in two or three tablespoonfuls of fluid yeast, then more flour, forming a tolerably stiff dough ; knead well, and set it to rise over night. In the morning mould into small cakes or biscuits, oil the edges to keep them from running together, and set to rise a second time. MTien light, bake in a good even oven till well done. ' Corn Bread.—{Exedh7it).^ The bread described below, tliough not strictly hygioiiic, is quite plain and very much liked ; it is made without (ggs or sugar. You must measure the milk before using it. Stir into white flint corn meal—or the yellow flint, if white can not be had—enough boiling water to moisten (or half scald) the whqle mass ; stir constantly, while you are pouring in the water. Let the mixture stand a moment, to give time for the meal to swell. Then pour in a little sour milk, and with a spoon mash all the lumps of partly scalded meal; add enough more milk to make a batterl-rEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 138 [part II. almost too stiff to pour, and beat very hard. Stir in soda to sweeten, first dissolving it in a little boiling water, and using a level teaspoonful to a pint of sour milk ; then beat thoroughly; jiour immediately into an oiled bread-pan, smooth the top with a spoon, and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes. The cake must be scarcely more than half an inch thick, and must have a good crust, top and bottom. Success in making it, depends ujion the proper amount of scalding, the thorough beating, quick handling, and hot oven. An excellent cake made with verj- little milk, is prepared in this way : Partl}'^ scald the meal (flint, if you can get it) with boiling water, the same as in the jireceding ; then mash the lumps, and stir in sweet or sour milk—if sour, a pinch of soda to sweeten—till you form a dough pretty nearly as stiff as you can spread with a spoon. Beat till you are tired, then spread half or three-quarters of an inch thick over the bottom of an oiled bread-pan, and bake in a good oven, all of forty minutes; the two cinists must be well broAvned. Still another method, very good, is the following : Into a quart of corn meal—white flint, if you hai^e it—pour a pint of boiling water, stirring well ; add sour milk to fonn a dough barely stiff enough to handle ; buttermilk moderately sour, is best. Then add a level teaspoonful of soda finely pulverized, beat till light, and mould into small oval cakes by tossing the dough over and over in the hands. Place them so as not to touch each other in the pan, and bake in a hot oven thirty to forty minutes. A handful of Graham flour added with the milk, improA^es the bread. Pumpkin Bread. Stew pumpkin till it is soft, and rather dry ; then stir a cupful of it into a cup of sweet milk, and thicken Avith corn meal till a dough is formed stiff enough to mould withPAKT II.] LEAVENED AND OTnEE DREAD. ir,s) tlio liands. Make into small oval cakes about two indies thick, and bake in a hot oven. Corn Gems with Eggs. "Wet a pint and a half of coarse coni meal wdth cold water, making a batter almost too stiff to drop from the spoon ; let it stand over night, if the Aveather is not too w'arm. In the morning stii’ in an egg, and beat well ; add half a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in boiling Avater, and stir again very thoroughly. Diji into hot gem-pans, pre- viously oiled, and bake thirty minutes in a quick oven. H.\sty Corn Bread. Into a pint of com meal pour boiling water, to scald about half of it; take for this purpose the water in which green corn has been boiled, if you have it. Add a handful of Graham flour, and enough sour milk to make a batter that AA’ill drop readdy from the spoon ; mash the lumps AA'dl, as you add the milk. Then pulverize a teaspoonful of soda, add it to the mixture, and beat hard ; droji the cakes on a hot griddle previously oiled, and bake, aUoAving them to brown nicely on both sides. They should be less than half an inch thick, A\’hen done. Buckwheat Shortcake. BuclcAvheat flour not too finely ground, is sometimes mixed in a batter Avith milk or AA'atcr, and baked as plain gems or drop cakes. It is also made into “shortcake,” according to the foUoAAung recipe : 2 cups sour milk—or cream. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Flour to make rather a stiff batter—as for wheaten gems. Time—25 to 30 minutes. Mix and bake in shallow gem-pans, forming a good crust;140 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part n. have rather a quick oven, but not so hot as to blister the tops. The cakes are sweet and crisp, if well baked. If you have not sour milk use sweet, adding, if you choose, two teaspoonfuls of baking-powder ; if the powder is omitted, stir in a good tablespoonful of coarse corn meal. Cream BiscuiTS.=jj= 3 cups sifted Graham flour—or best Akron unsifted, if you have it. 3 cups sifted white flour, the coarser brands. 2 cujis new milk—^or half cream and half milk. 1 teaspoonful* soda, finely pulverized. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartai’. Time—15 to 20 minutes. Mix the Graham and white flour together ; then, having pulverized the soda as finely as possible with a knife, add the cream of tartar to it; stir these well tlu'ough the flour, and sift at least twice. Wet with the milk or cream, and mix with the finger-tips, forming rather a firm dough ; you must pour slowly and stir fast—the same as in mixing jDastry ; if the cream is poured in so rapidly, or the stirring done so slowly as to form little puddles in the flour, the biscuits will be tough. Mix very lightly, using only pres- sure enough to make the dough adhere ; get it together without kneading, and roll to a little less than a quarter of an inch in thickness ; prick well with a fork, and then use the cake-cutter. The cakes should be smooth, with no dry flour sticking to the surface. Place in a hot oven, and bake evenly fifteen to twenty minutes, or till well browned, toji and bottom. Thick soiir cream may be used, in place of sweet, but it must be well stin-ed before mixing ; and in- * A “ teaspooiifnl” of soda, or cream of tartar, is the spoon filled no more tlian level; baking-powder is so adulterated with starch or flour, that it is necessary, iu using it, to heap the measure.141 LEAVENED AND OTHER BRKAD. PART II.] stead of soda and cream of tartai’, take only tlie former ; a teaspoonful will be enough. This bread, properly made, is nearly all crust; it is very good split apart, and fruit spread on it. If the ordinary Graham flour* made of red wheat is used, one pai*t sifted Graham and tioo of white flour, ai*e the best proportions. Currant Scone. =|j= 2 cups sifted Graham flour. 2 “ “ white “ 1]- “ thin sweet cream—part milk will do. 11 “ sweet currants, picked, washed and drained. I teasiioonful soda, tinely pulverized. II teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. Time—30 to 40 minutes, according to thickness. Stir together the Graham and white flour, add the soda (pulverized) and the cream of tartar, and sift two or three times. Then stir in the cun*ants, and wet with the cream to make a tolerably stiff dough ; knead as little as possible ; gather the mass up lightly, till it will stick together, and roll to the thickness of half or three-quarters of an inch ; there should be no dry flour adhering to the cake. Prick deeply wdth a fork, or draw* shallow lines across the top w*ith a knife, forming diamond creases ; then bake in a moderate oven, thirty to forty minutes. It should be nicely browmed, top and bottom, and so evenly and thoroughly baked as to be (h*y and jjorous throughout. It is very good made of all Graham flour. When cold, cut in regular pieces, and serve as a cake dessert; it is not so good the day after it is baked. It is best eaten with tart fruit (as canned cherries), or with gooseberry or grape juice ; and the children like it crumbed into grape or other fruit juice, to cat like bread and milk.142 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT II. The Scotch pcojile make this cake of white flour (mixing a little softer), and bake it on a griddle over the fire ; when one side is sufficiently browned, they turn and brown the other. They also make a pZawi cake, leaving out the cur- rants, and bake it in the same way. If sour cream is used for mixing, omit the cream of taidar. Potato Scone. Pare and boil good mealy potatoes, drain off the water and mash fine, leaving no lumps. Then mix together equal parts of Graliam and white floui’, sifted, and take out a handful for kneading. Into a quart of the mixtui*e, stir two-thirds of a teasiioonful of soda finely pulverized with a knife, and sift at least twice. AVhen this is done add a pint of the mashed potato, nib it well through the flour, and mix with sour milk, forming rather a firm dough ; then roll out and bake, as in the jireceding recipe. If sweet milk is used, add to the soda one and a half teasjioonfuls of cream of tartar, and mix and sift as before. PLAIN FRUIT CAKES. Strawberry Shortcake.-|= 3 cups sifted Graham flouz'. 3 “ “ white “ 2 “ sweet cream. 1 teaspoonful soda, finely pulverized. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 4 to G quarts strawberries. Time—30 to 40 minutes. If the ben’ies require it, wash quickly in a colander; do this an houi' before they are w^anted ; and if not perfectly ripe, sprinkle a little sugar over tliem to start the juice. When large and firm, or a trifle underripe, a httle choppingPLAIN FRUIT CAKES. 143 PART n.] with a knife—a silver one, if you have it—is an improve- ment. Mix the cake as for cream biscuits, already given, sifting the soda and cream of taiiiu' several times tlu'ough the flour. Roll to the thickness of half an inch, prick well with a fork, and bake in a moderate oven thirty to forty minutes. For weak stomachs make the cake still thinner, rolling not more than a third of an inch thick. When done remove from the oven, and lean edgewise to cool, till you can handle it comfortably; spht carefully in h;dves by first dividing the crust (at its edge) with a knife, and then taking a fork and separating the cake as nearly tlirough the middle as pos- sible. Lay these each on a plate, emst downward, and put on the prepai'cd fruit; then lay one half on top of the other, and after it stands half an hour, serve. The above quantity of flour will make three cakes, the size of a tea-plate ; these will require from four to six quarts of uncliopped berries ; if npe and sound, fewer will be needed. It is best in spreading the fruit, not to drench the cake with it; but to leave out a bowlful of the berries, and pass as you serve ; no other sauce is needed. If your family is small, take half tlie proportions here given for the cake, and half the quantity of fruit. Should you have the ordinary Graham flour made from red wheat, take less of it by half a cup, and mix with it three and a half cups of the white flour. If baking-powder is used, it will require three teaspoonfuls, heaping. Instead of strawberries, you may take huckleberries, red or black rafspbeiTies, or cherries ; the latter must be seeded, and stewed in a very little water with a trifle of sugar. Huckleberry Shortcake. Mix the paste as in the last recipe, and roll into two sheets, each a quarter of an inch thick ; line a pie-pan with one of these, and fill witli the bemes, sprinkling lightlyfpAET n. 144 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. i. with sugar. Then lay on the other crust, trim off the edges with a knife, and j^uess firmly together. Bake from thirty to thirt} -five minutes in a moderate oven, cool to lukewai’in, and serve without a dressing. Or, you may make the same as strawberry shortcake, which is a better way. Strawberry Gem-Cake. Take equal paids of cream and milk (or cream and water), and thicken with Graham and white flour, half of each, making a batter nearly as stiff as will drop from the spoon ; dip into hot gem-pans, weU oiled, and bake thirty to forty minutes, or until thoroughly done. When half cold, split the gems through the middle by separating each with a fork, place the halves on plates, crust downw'^ard, and jmt on a layer of strawberries prepared as for shortcake. Rasp- beiT’ies, cherries, or gooseberries just beginning to ripen, may be stewed, moderately sweetened, and served in the same way. Or you may use red or black raspberries with- out cooking ; simjfly sjirinkle with a little sugar, and partly crush them before spreading. Graham Fruit Roll.—(Excellenl. 2^ cups sifted Graham flonr. 3 “ “ white “ 1 cup raisins, seeded and chopped. 1 “ currants, picked, washed and dried. 2 cups sweet cream. 1 tcaspoonfiil soda, flnely pulverized. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar, sifted through the flour. Time—one hour. Tium the Graham and white flour together, stir in the soda and cream of tartar, and sift two or three times. Wet with the cream, mixing lightly, and roll in two oblong sheets, each a quarter of an inch thick. Cover with th^145 STEAMED GRAINS. PART n.] raisins and currants mixed, and then roll up closely, pinch- ing the ends of the folded roll firmly together, to secure the fruit. The roll must not be more than three and a half to four inches in thickness. Bake in a moderate oven, one houi” when cold, cut in round slices, and serve. Dates carefully picked, seeded and choj^ped, or figs thinly sliced, may be used instead of either raisins or currants, or in combination with them; but the fruit named in the recipe is best. STEAMED GRAINS. The table below gives the proportions of grain and water by measurement, and the time required for cooking in a closed steamer. (A closed steamer is one that admits the steam through Jlues in the side or elsewhere, and not throng!i holes in the bottom.) Some like these grains cooked quite dry, and others prefer them very moist; if the proportions here given do not suit the taste, it will be an easy matter to correct them, after a single tnal. In steaming, always keep the water at a fast boil; and dish the very moment you lift the steamer from the fire, else the water will collect. Grain. • Rice 1 cup... Water. enns. . . Time. Cracked wheat 1 u ... 4i Ci . . . 3 hours. Rolled or pearl wheat. ... 1 (( ... 4 (C . . . 3 “ Pearl barley 1 <( . . . 3 ... 31 “ Rolled or crushed barley. 1 it ... 3 ii ...3 “ Coarse hominy 1 a ... 4 ii ...4 “ Pine. “ 1 u ... 31 (( ...4 “ Samp 1 a ... 4-1 u ... n “ Oatmeal 1 ti . .. 4 it ...2 “ “ groats 1 a ... 4 ii ...3 “ Rolled oats 1 a ... 4 ii ...2 “ If you have not a steamer, cook the above grains in a farina-kettle, Avhich is a double boiler or one vessel within another, the outer one containing water that is boiling. 7[hart II. 14G HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Grains cooked in tins kettle (or in a covered tin bucket set in a pot of boiling water), require a longer time by about one-tbird, than if done in a closed steamer ; hominy and pearl barley, for instance, would need all of five hours. The time can be shortened, however, by soaking (covered) over night, and cooking in the same icaier; if soaked, they will steam in a farina-kettle in about the same time as that given in the table. But the flavor is rather better if the soaking is dispensed with. These grains are sometimes cooked in a stone or earthen crock, or even in an iron j)ot, on the back of the stove ; the fire must be slow, or they ■will scorch. Cracked Wheat. =|= Cracked or crushed wheat Avas originally what the name imifiies, viz., the grain crushed, or cracked partly open. But now that each kernel is first dressed or cleaned (pearled), and then cut into two or more pieces, some other name, as “ Avheaten grits,” seems more appropriate ; and this is Avhat the jDreparation is called, in Eastern cities. To cook it, put it into a steamer and add cold water, taking four and a half parts water to one of grain; cover, and cook without stir- ring, three hours. In the absence of a steamer, or a double boiler, j)ut the wheat and water into a tin bucket, fit on its lid, and set it in a kettle of boiling water, also covered. Care must be taken to allow the gi’ain room to swell. In summer you may pour it into a mould or oval dish, and seiwe cold. Easpberries, or other small fruits, stewed, make a good dressing. Rolled Wheat. This is cooked the same as cracked -wheat, the propor- tions being one of grain to four and a half of cold wLater ; or, if liked dry, one to four ; time, three hours. Serve the same as cracked wheat.STE.V:WED GRAINS. 147 PART II.] Rolled or Crusued Barley. Allow one part grain and three parts water, hot or cold ; then steam the same as the last, only hardly so long ; three hours would be sufficient. On finishing, some stir in a spoonful or two of cream. PnvRL Whkvt.=|= Put into a closed steamer one cup of pearl wheat and four cups of hot or cold water, and cook three hours. Or, if preferred, soak it over night in cold water (same quan- tity), keeping the vessel closely covered ; then steam in the water in which it soaked, and allow about two hours. Pe.\rl Barley. =1= This requires less water for cooking than the other grains. Staid in hot or cold, allowing three cups of water to one of barley, and cook in a closed steamer three hours and a half. Or you may soak over night, as in the last recipe, which would shorten the time nearly an hour. If you have not a steamer, cook in a farina-kettle, allow- ing room to swell ; or in a covered tin bucket set in a pot of boiling water. If cooked in either of these, it will re- quire four or five hours to make the grain tender ; less, if it has been soaked. A very little cream stirred in at the last, is thought to be an improvement to this grain. Hominy. Hominy is usually made from white flint com ; there are several grades of it, which fact has led to some confusion in designating the varieties. First, there is the whole grain, which is boiled in the lye of wood ashes till the hulls will slip off ; then the lye is soaked out, and the hominy cooked until tender. The other jireparations common in the mar-HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 148 [part II. ket arc as follows : Coarse liominy, in wliicli tlie kei'nels are cut through once or twice ; fine hominy, which has them cut into several pieces ; and samp, which is finer still. Coarse Hominy. =|= Staid in hot or cold water, and cook in a closed steamer four hours ; allow four quaids of water to one of grain. In the absence of a steamer, cook in a farina-kettle an hour longer ; or you may boil in a pot over a slow fire, stiiring frequently to jireveut sticking. This grain may be soaked over night, and cooked in the same water ; it wiU then take less time by about an hour, but the flavor is hardly as good. The only admissible dressing, if any is required, would lie a spoonful of cream, stiiTed in a few minutes before finishing. Fine Hominy, or Corn Grits.=|= Fine liominy is prepared the same as coarse, except that the corn is cut into smaller pieces. It is cooked like the coarse grits, only in less water ; you may take one cup of grits to three and a half cups water, hot or cold. Steam four hours, though thi-ee and a half AviU do. If any “ fin- ishing” is wanted, a spoonful or two of cream stirred in five minutes before dishing, is the best. Samp.=|= Samp (called hominy by some) is made from white flint corn. It differs from the “ gidts ” described in the last two recipes, in being cut very much finer ; it requires more water to cook it than hominy (or corn grits), but less time. Take one jiai-t samp and foui’ and a half jiaids water, hot or cold, and steam two hours and a half. A little cream or new milk stirred in at the last, is considered by most persons a “delightful finishing.” Fruit and fruit juices, as rasji- beiTies, blackberries or cherries, make a good dressing ; though some prefer the grain by itself. Serve warm.STEAMED GRAINS. 149 PART II. J Eice.=|= To one cup of rice, carefully picked over and washed, add three and a half cups of cold water ; then steam three- quarters of an hour without stirring. If you have not a closed steamer or double boiler, put the lice and water into a two-quart tin bucket, cover closely, and set it in a pot of boiling water, also covered. Keep the water at a fast boil; it must not reach to the top of the bucket. Do not cook a large quantity at one time (unless the vessel is wide and shallow), as the weight of the grain on itself makes it heavy and soggy. If boiled in an iron pot, like corn mush, it must be stiiTed once or twice at first, to prevent its sticking to the bottom ; it will require a little more water than if steamed. A good way to cook nee is to put it into a shallow tin basin, and add fom* measures of cold Avater to one of rice ; cover, and set on the stove where it will cook steadily without burning. Shake, but do not stir or uncover. It Avill be done in from forty to fifty minutes. When a small (piantity is Avanted, and in haste, start in plenty of boiling Avater—about five parts water to one of rice—and cook from twenty to thirty minutes, shaking the vessel occasion- !iHy. Rice and Raisins. =|= Pick and wash a cup of raisins, and also a cup of rice ; mix them together, add four cups of cold Avater, and steam or boil as in the last recipe. If cooked in a pot, stir care- fuDy two or three times at first, to prevent the raisins from sticking to the bottom. Rice—Southern Method. Tlie Southeni people are said to cook rice as follows : After picking over carefully and Avashing, put it into plentyHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET II. 150 of cold water, and boil without stirring, just seventeen min- utes from the time the pot begins to bubble. Then di’ain off any water that remains, or lift the lid and let it evapo- rate ; replace the cover, and steam fifteen to twenty min- utes. Each gi’ain should be whole or unbroken. Since the above jiaragrajih was written, a lady in Louisi- ana sends the following : “ After picking over and washing the rice, put it into a pot with a plain round bottom, and pour in cold water till it rises an inch and a half or two inches above the grain. Cover, and boil over a very mod- erate fire till done ; for a small quantity, twenty to twenty- five minutes would be long enough. By this time the water will be about all evaporated, as you will see by hfting the lid. Then set the pot back where it will keep hot, put on the cover, fitting it closely, and let the rice remain in its own steam a few minutes before you send it to the table. It should turn out just the shape of the pot, and every grain should be whole. Never stir rice.” Rice—Japanese Method. A traveler in that country writes : “ They know how to cook rice here, though ; and for the benefit of consumers in the United States, I investigated the matter. Only just enough cold water is poured on to prevent the rice from burning to the pot, which has a close-fitting cover, and is set on a moderate fire. The rice is steamed, rather than boiled, until it is nearly done ; then the cover of the pot is taken off, the surplus steam and moisture are allowed to escape, and the rice turns out a mass of snow-w'hite kernels, each separate from the other, and as much superior to the soggy mass we usually get in the United States, as a fine mealy potato is to the water-soaked ariicle. I have seen something approaching this in our Southern States ; but I do not think even there they do it as skillfully as it is done here ; and in the Northern States but very few persons151 PART II.] MUSHES. \ understand Low to cook rice properly. I am sure tliat, if cooked as it is here, the consumption of this wholesome and delicious cereal would largely increase in America.” AIUSHES. Sometimes young children, and indeed those of a “ larger gi’owth,” are too much inclined to the use of soft, sloppy foods, as mushes, soups, etc. After the teeth are developed, these should not be eaten as often as every meal, nor to the exclusion of drier foods, but loith them. The haixl Graham roU is the best bread to eat Avith mushes. On the preparation of these, the late R. T. Trail, M.D., has the following excellent paragraph : “ Mushes of all kinds should be stiiTed as little as possi- ble Avhile cooking, after the material sets, or stops sinking to the bottom. Much stirring breaks ui? the paidicles and frees the starchy matter, rendering the food pasty, and de- stroying the light, spongy, delicate appearance it should present on the table ; too lauch stirring also makes it more liable to adhere to the bottom of the vessel. The water should boU when the meal or gi’ain is stixTed in, be kept boiling, and the mush stiiTed frequently for a few minutes, Avhen it will cease sinking ; then cover closely, and cook sloAAdy for an hour or moi’e. Mushes should not be too thick, nor so thin as to spread much on the plate when dished. The tendency of fruit Avheu cooked in mushes, is to settle and adhere to the kettle ; hence, in adding fruit, the better Avay, as a general rule, is to cook it separately, and mix just before dishing. The fruit for this purpose should ahvays be cooked slowly, and in as little water as possible.” The best di’essing for mushes, because the most healthful, is fruit or fruit juice ; though they can be eaten without a dressing. INIushes should invai’iably he staided in boiling water ; if started in cold, they are a]xt to taste raw. Most of the grains, hoAvever, as hominy, samp, pearl wheat, etc.,[part U. 152 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. may be j)ut into hot or cold water ; but they will cook soft in shorter time by beginning with cold. Cracked wheat (wheaten grits) is thought to “jelly” better—and this is one of its delightful characteristics—by being started in cold water. Rice cooked in the same way, is less inclined to be sticky; the flavor too, is better preserved. As a rule, the grains are preferred warm, or lukewann; though cracked wheat, cooked to a jeUy, is very good cold. Oat Meal Mush.=|= Allow one pint (scant) coarse oat meal (“ B. grade, Akron, German Mills,” is best), to five pints of Avater; a little more meal, if of the finer grades, and a little less, if it is coarse. When the water boils mix in the gTain, and stir frequently the first ten or fifteen minutes, or it will settle to the bot- tom, and scorch. As the mush begins to thicken, set Avhere it wifi, boil or simmer slowly, and let it cook in all, an hour and a quarter. Stir lightly from the bottom, noAV and then, to prevent sticking ; but the less the granules are broken in the operation, the better. Have the mush thin enough to pour, but not too readily. When cooked in a steamer, less water is needed, as there is not so much evaporation; about four pints water to one of meal would sufiice, but more time is required ; two hours’ steaming would not be too long. If a dressing is wanted, stewed fruits or the juices of fruits, are best. Dates, carefully picked over and stirred in Avhole, five to eight minutes before taking the mush from the fire, make a dish which some rehsh. Corn Meal Mush.=|= Stir into boiling Avater coarse corn meal—white “ flint,” if you can get it—putting in very httle at first ; stir con- stantly, and add slowly ; this is done that the mush may have time to cook thorouglfiy before it gets thick. If thePART II.] 153 MUSHES. meal is added fast, the mush thickens in the start; and then it will continue to taste raw, no matter how long you cook it. Repeat the stimng occasionidly, to prevent sticking, and cook from an hour and a half to two hours; do not mirke too stiff. Stewed sweet cm’rants or other sweet fruits, as dried or canned pears, make a good dressing. When mush is left over, cut it in slices the next morning, dip these into corn meal, and lay on a hot griddle, slightly oiled; when evenly bro^\■ned, turn and brown the other side. Young ripe corn, just hard enough to gi’ate AveU on a coarse tin grater, makes an excellent mush; the “golden flint” is the best for this purpose, though the white flint is very good. Tliis grated meal needs no sifting. Graham Mush. Into a pot of boiling water, stir slowly, coarse Graham flour (wheaten meal), to make a tolerably thick mush; less than a pint of flour will thicken two quarts of water. Place over a moderate fire where it will boil without scorching, and cook from ten to fifteen minutes. Stir as Httle as pos- sible; and before dishing, set the pot from the fire a few minutes; it will be less likely to stick to the vessel. Serve lukewarm, with fruit or fruit juice. You may stir in fresh dates five minutes before finishing, care being taken not to break the fruit. Prepared in this way, the mush is good warm or cold; if wanted cold, mould it in cups or a shallow dish, and serve with or without a dressing of fruit. Mush may be made of unbolted rye flour, in the same way as the Graham. Farina Mush. Take about half a cup of farina, and stir it slowly into a quart of boiling water; cook fifteen minutes, stirring fre- quently to keep it from sticking. If this mush is considered r[PABT II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 154 “ flat ” or insipid, stii’ in a very little cream just before re- moving it from the lire. SciTe the same as the last, with stewed or canned fruits, or their juices. PASTRIES. The various kinds of pie-crust desciibed in hygienic cook- books, and shortened with beans, potato, corn meal, etc., have aU been tried, and found to be rather unsatisfactory; they requii'e too much tact in theii' management, for any but the most experienced cook to undertake. The crust when baked, is either hard and tough, or it is soft and moist; which is a great objection, particularly if dyspeptics are to eat it. It is probable that some ai’t, as yet undis- covered, will Anally succeed in making good paste out of flour and water only; and “short” enough to be palatable, by the sunple process of kneading, or “ breaking ” it. Put as this has not yet been done, we must fall back on what may be considered as the next best thing; viz., cream and flour, using very httle of tiie former. Some hygienists ai’e trying cotton-seed oil for shortening, and for oiling bread- pans, pie-pans, etc. They say it gives good satisfaction, provided the cook does not use more of it than is needed, and does not Imrn or scorch it. The secret in mixing pastry, is Arst, to have both the flour and mixing fluid as cold as possible; second, to put it together as lightly as may be; thii'd, to do no kneading— only enough gentle jjresmre to hold the mixture together. When made, it should be rolled out and baked immediate- ly; or if it has to stand, put it in the ice-chest or some other cold place, tiU wanted. Nearly all Graham flom' is ground too coarse for good pastry; and in most of it, the bran is cut in such large flakes that it must be carefully sifted out. A good rule therefore for general use, is to take equal pai-ts of Graham and white flour, both sifted; though if you have “ best Akron ” Graham (which is madePASTRIES. 155 PMtT II.] of white wheat, and the bran well cut), the sifting is unnec- essary. The best white flour in the market is prepared from good wheat, is of a pale buff, or cream color, and is not very fine or smooth when rubbed between the fingers; as the cooks say, it has a “ round feel.” Always keep your flour in a cool dry place, and where the air is pure. Cream Paste.=|= I (scant) cup sw'eet cream—very cold. II cups sifted Graham flour. 11 “ “ white “ If your Graham flour is best Akron (white wheat with the bran Avell cut), it need not be sifted; alAvays sift white flour. Keep the cream in the ice-chest (or in ice-water) till the in- stant 3'ou want to use it. Mix the Graham and white flour well together, and wet with the cream; pour the latter in slowly and stir rapidly, either vfith a spoon or the tips of the fingers; allow no little jmddles of cream to form in the flour, but mix as fast and as lightly as possible, getting all nicely together as if by magic. Do not knead, but gather up the dough, using barely enough pressure to make the mixt- lU’e adhere, and touching it with the finger-tips only, as if it were “ lace and feathers.” Then roll out immediately, and bake—or lay it in tlie ice-chest till wanted; the dough must be pretty stiff. If you have not a marble slab to work on (this will keep your paste the coolest), a smooth-topped table or moulding-board of Avalnut or other hard wood, is the next best thing. Light Cream Paste. =jj= 1 cup sweet cream—part new milk wiU do. cups sifted Graham flour. 1^ “ “ Avhite “ I teaspoonful soda, finely pulverized. 1^ teaspooiifuls ci'eam-tartar.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 156 [part II. Keej) tlie cream in the ice-chest if you have one, and the floui’ in tlie coolest place possible, till the moment they are wanted. When ready, mix the Graham and white flour together, and take out a httle to use in rolling the paste. Then stir in the soda, well pulverized with a knife, and also the cream of taidar; sift two or three times, to blend thor- oughly the powder and the flour. This done, wet with the cold cream, stirring lightly and quickly together, and with- out Icneading, as in the last recipe; you may mix wdth a spoon, if you like, though the fingers are better; have the dough rather stiff. As soon as the paste will hold together, roU it out. If baking-jiowder is used, take tAVO heaping teaspoonfuls to the above quantity of flour; Price’s (or the Royal) is j)er- haps as good as any. Or you may mix with sour cream, and leave out the cream of tartar; if 3^011 do this, stir in the pulverized soda, and sift several times before mixing. Cream Batter Paste.=|= 2 cups sweet cream. 1,^ “ sifted Graham flour. 1^ “ “ white “ f teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1.1 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar, sifted through the flour. This paste miwt not be mixed tiU you are ready to use it; then make a batter of the above ingredients, stirring in the dissolved soda the last thing, and beating well. Your dish having been filled (it may be an apple-cobbler, or other “ family pie ”), spread the batter over the top with a knife, making it as smooth as jiossible; then bake in a quick oven, and serve Avhile the pie is warm. Batter crust is sure to fall, if it stands long. If you use baldng-poAvder, sift it twice through the flour before mixing ; two heaiiing teaspoonfuls woidd be enough.PART II.] PASTRIES. 157 Or, if you mix with sour cream, leave out the cream of tartar, stir a teaspoonful of soda through the dry flour, and sift two or thi’ee times. Cre^vm and Potato Paste. This paste is rarely used except for meat pies, and even for these the light cream jiaste is generally preferred. There are two "ways of mahing it, both of which are de- scribed in Pai-t III., under Meat Pies. Oat Meal Paste. For pies that require only an under crust, and are toler- ably firm in textime, as jmmpkin or squash, the foUowdng malies a jiretty good crust, though it is not to be compared with cream paste. Oil the pie-pans with a little olive oil, butter, or clean beef dripping ; then sift over them a layer of fine oat meal (“A” gi’ade), or oat and corn meal mixed. Dij) in the filling, and bake. Crumb Paste. Oil the pans as in the last recipe, and strew or sift finely grated bread-crumbs over them ; the crumbs should be dry. This makes a convenient paste for puddings that are baked in a cnist. Graham Pies. Many persons wdio can not eat ordinary pastries, or who dislike them because of their greasiness, or their starchy “ flat- ness,” have no difficulty whatever in relishing and digesting Graham pies made according to the following recipes. Prop- erly made and baked, they are both wholesome and palatable ; they may be eaten warm or cold. In winter, wffien brought cold from the cellar, it is a good plan to set them in the oven a few minutes, until they are heated tlmough ; this should be done in time to cool a little, before serving. For158 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT II. patients (and the rule is a good one for well people), the best time to eat pastries is at the beginning of the meal ; they ai-e better digested on an empty stomach, and there is less temptation to overeat. In making fruit pies, mix the paste quite stiff, roll it thin, and liake immediately ; the j)ie-pans, if kept in order, will need little or no oiling ; if any is required, use a trifle of olive oil if you have it, or a very little fresh butter, or beef dripping. When you have placed the under crust put in the filling, sprinkling on a trifle of sugar if it is needed, and add a little water in case the fruit is not sufficiently juicy. Dij) the fingers into cold water and moisten the rim, then lay on the top crust, press the two edges firmly together, and trim off the surplus paste with a knife ; the less crust in the rim of the pie, the better, provided it se- cures the fruit. "When the trimming is done, finish the edge neatly (here is room for lesthetic taste), prick well with a fork for the escape of steam, and if the fruit is very juicy cut a cross-slit in the center, before baking. Or— what is more tasteful—ornament the top crust with a knife before lifting it from the table, by cutting in graceful curves an open work of stems and leaves. Bake in a quick oven, as hot as you can have it without scorching ; if the top blisters, the heat is too great; the pie must brown evenly, Avithout so much as scorching the edge ; and when taken from the oven, be sui’e the bottom crust is thoroughly done. The paste shoidd be light and flaky, free from grease, and very delicate in flavor. Apple Pie.=|= Select good sound apples, not too ripe, and with a rich, sub-acid flavor ; if necessarj% wash and dry them before paring ; this is better than to wash the cut apples, which wastes theii’ juices ; pare and slice, not too thin. Then mix a cream paste as per recipe already given ; the dough mustPASTRIES. 159 PART II.] be quite stiff. Roll pretty thin, line the pie-pans, .and fill with the apples, taking care that the slices are well placed ; add a little water, if the fruit is not sufficiently juicy. Roll out the upper crusts, also thin, and lay them on ; pinch the edges securely together, prick deeply with a fork, and bake in a quick oven, twenty-five to tliii'ty minutes. The apples should be well done, and the crusts delicately browmed, top and bottom. As soon as cooled to lukewarm, the pies arc ready to serve ; or they may be eaten several hours after they iire baked. If kept till the next day, a good plan, pai’ticularly in winter, is to set them in the oven long enough to heat thi’ough before sending to the table ; take out a few minutes before seiwing, if you like them nearly cold. Green Apple PiE.=jf= Select very tart apjfies, full-grown, but not nearly ripe ; pare them, and slice in pretty thick pieces. Mix the paste the same as the last, roll it a little thicker, and put in plenty of apples, adding as little water as will cook them. Bake in a good oven thirty to forty minutes, or till the apples are thoroughly soft; the crusts must be well browned. When done, split open the pie with a knife, lay the two crusts on separate plates, and cover each with the fruit. Sprinkle lightly with brown maple sugar, and eat warm. In the early summer when apples are scarce, this pie is decidedly appetizing. Peach Pie.=|= Pare and slice the fruit, then make and bake the same as apple pie, last recipe but one ; no sugar will be needed, un- less the peaches are intensely sour. If tliis fruit is out of season, canned peaches may be used. Peach and aU fniit pies are best seiwed cold, or very nearly so ; or they may be eaten the day after they are baked.[part II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 160 Cherry Pie-=|H Take tart cherries, wash them, pick over carefully, and seed. Then hne the pie-pans with a stiff cream jiaste, roUing the crust pretty thin ; over the bottom of each sprinkle a little flour, and also the sugar, if any is needed, mixing them together with a brush of the hand ; the flour and sugar in the bottom of the pan, prevent the juices from soaking into the crust. Then put in the fruit, lay on the top crusts thinly roUed, pinch the edges firmly together, and prick well with a fork ; it is also safe to cut a good cross-slit in the center of each, for the escape of steam. Bake in a quick oven, and take out as soon as the crusts are thoroughly done ; it wiU requii’e from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Let the pies get entirely cold before serving. Berry PiE.=jj= Blackberries, raspberries, strawbemes, hucklebeiTies, or any of the ordinary “berries,” may be used. Select fruit not too ripe, look it over carefully, and make the same as cherry pie. Very little sugar wiU be needed, say half a tablespoonful to a pie, or even less. The crust, it wiU be remembered, is to be mixed stiff, put together without kneading, and roUed rather thin. If the fruit is quite juicy, as blackberries or strawberries, dust a little flour over the bottom crust, sprinkle on the sugar, brushing them weU to- gether, and then put in the fruit. Bake in rather a brisk oven from twenty to thirty minutes, or till the crusts are done. If blackberry or raspberry pie is overdone, the fruit will taste bitter. Serve cold. If gooseben’ies are used, take them when they are just heginninrj to ripen, and aUow at least a good tablespoonful of sugar to a pie. Canned fruits, as chemes, raspberries, blackbemes, goose- berries, etc., make excellent pies. If canned for this pur- pose they should be cooked as httle as possible, and put up161 PART n.] PASTRIES. with not too much water ; on opening, if there is more juice than is needed, pour some of it off ; it will make a fine drink, especially for the sick. Grape Pie. Gather the grapes when they are about half grown, and the seeds soft ; then make the same as gooseberry or cherry pie, and eat cold. Currant PiE.=j)= Currants that are about half or two-thirds ripe, make the best pies. Mix a stiff cream paste, line the pie-pans and fin them with the fruit, washing in a colander before it is stripped from the stems ; sweeten moderately. Put on the top crusts, pinch the edges well together, prick with a fork, and cut a good cross-slit in the middle. Bake in a quick oven twenty minutes, or tiU both crusts are done. Serve cold. Raspberry and Currant Pie.=|= Mix equal quantities of raspberries and currants (not so many currants if tliey are scarce), and make the same as the last, using less sugar. Bake in rather a brisk oven, and take out as soon as the crusts are done. Serve cold. Cranberry Pie. Throw out the imperfect bemes, wash well, and stew, allowing about one pint of water to one quart of the uncooked fruit. When soft, rub through a colander, and sweeten ; and unless they are quite ripe, you may add nearly a cup oi sugar to a quart of picked cranberries. Mix a stiff cream paste, line the pie-pans, and fiU with the sauce ; the pans should not be very deep. Then roll out a thin sheet of dough, cut it into narrow strips, and place in two layers over the top, forming diamond squares ; jhnch do^vn theHEiULTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET II. 162 ends, and trim off the surplus paste with a knife. Bake in a, quick oven till the crust is done and nicely browned on the bottom. Serve cold the same day. Plum Pie. Damsons are the best plums for pies ; gather them ripe enough not to be “pucke^y ” when cooked ; they should be about right for good sauce. Line a deep dish witli a firm cream paste, making the crust a quaider of an inch thick ; tlien fill with the jilums, carefully picked over and washed, and sprinkle in the sugar ; it wiU take about half a cup to a quart of plums. Lay on a good top crust, and bake in a quick oven forty to fifty minutes, or until the crusts are done and well browned. Prick with a fork before baking, and also cut a cross-slit in the center. Rhubarb Pie.=-|= Select rhubarb that is young and tender ; wash well, and trim off the fragments of leaves, taking care that no worms are left imbedded in the stalks. Peel these, split each once or twice, making the slices very thin, and cut into inch lengths. Prejiare a stiff cream jiaste, roll it in a thin sheet, and lay the under crust; sprinkle in a Httle flour and a heaping tablespoonful of sugar, brushing the two w’eU to- gether, over the bottom of the pan ; then put in the rhu- barb, carefully placed, and not more than two or three slices in depth. Now roll a thin top crust, cover the pie, and jHHch the edges firmly together ; finish neatly, prick well with a fork, and cut a good cross-slit in the middle. Bake in a quick oven twenty-five to thirty minutes, or till the crusts are evenly broAvned, top and bottom. Serve cold. Rhubarb pie, well made, is very delicate in flavor ; indif- ferently done, it is one of the poorest.PA<5TEIES. 1G3 PART II.] Dried Peach Pie. Take clean dried peaches, trim off any burnt edges, wash cai’efully, and stew till soft; di’ain off and save the juice. Then mash till there ai'e no lumps, either with a potato-masher or with the hand, which is better ; add enough of the juice to make the pies sufficiently moist, mixing it well with the fruit. In the meantime, iirepare a good cream paste, and roU the crusts rather thin ; having lined the pie-pans, spread the fruit sparingly, lay on the top crusts, and press the edges liimly together ; after which, trim with a knife, and finish the rims neatly. Prick well, and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes, or till the crusts are done, but not a moment longer ; if overdone, the fruit will be bitter. “ Turnovers ” are made as follows : RoU the crust pretty thin, and just the size of the ifie-pan ; after placing it on the latter, spread the fniit not too thick, on one half of the ciTist, and turn the other half over it; then pinch the edges together. Finish very neatl}", prick deeply with a fork, and bake as before. Tuniovers, weU made, and with good dried peaches, are not to be despised ; they are convenient for traveling lunches, and are better relished than plain bread. Dried Apple Pie. Dried apple pies have come into very bad repute, owing to the “ depravity ” of theii' makers, rather than of the pies themselves ; these would bo better thought of, if made as tliey ought to be. In the first place, never put into a pie fiTiit that you would not eat out of it; in other words, take good apples, or none. Look them over very carefuUy, trimming off any burnt edges or defective spots ; then wash ([uickly but thorouglily in cold water, rubbing weU with the hands, and lifting the apples out of it to leave any sediment behind ; wash in two waters, if necessary. Then drop into boiling water (enough to cook them), and stew rather fastHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part II. 1G4 tOl soft. When done, drain off and save the juice, and mash the apples very fine, leaving no lumps ; then stir- into them a part of the juice drained off, of which there should be enough to make the fruit rather moist. Line the pie- pans with a cream paste mixed cpiite stiff, and rolled pretty thin ; add the mashed fruit, spreading it less than half an inch thick, and put on the top crusts, also thin. Press the edges well together, trim off closely with a knife, and finish as neatly as possible. Prick deeply with a fork, and bake in a quick oven twenty minutes, or just till the cnists are done, and slightly browned. Seiwe cold ; grape juice is a good accompaniment. Apple Cobbler.=|= Pare good rich apples, moderately tai*t, and not too ripe ; core and quarter, or cut into eighths, and put them into a dish that is two or three inches deep, and made of stone- ware or granitized ii’on. Add a little water, unless the fruit is very juicy, and cover with the ordinary cream paste, roll- ing it about twice the usual thickness ; prick well with a fork. Then bake in an even oven about an hour and a (piarter, moderating the heat toward the last, and taking care not to scorch the crust; you may lay a paper over the top, if it browns too fast. The long, slow cooking gives the fruit a fine, rich taste. Tliis pie m.akes a very good break- fast dish ; it is served in the bake-pan. You may make it in the afternoon for the following morning, or early in the morning for the noonday meal. Another way, very good, is to bake in a quick oven forty to fifty minutes, and serve as soon as cold. Or you may fill the pan with the sliced apples, adding no water, and if the fruit is a mild acid, no sugar ; then cover with either a light cream paste, or a cream batter paste ; if the latter is used, bake an hour, and serve warm.PASTRIES. PART II.] 1(55 Peach Cobbler.=|= Select good peaches, fresh from the orchard, and not over- ripe ; they should he barely mellow ; chngstones are best. A\'ash them, and rub with a coarse cloth to remove the down. If large, pare them, C!U‘e being taken to make the parings as thin as possible ; the best of the fruit lies imme- diately under the skin. If the peaches are small, but rea- sonably fair and smooth, you need not peel; simply wash well, and remove the blemished jiortions. AVlien ready, put tiiem into a deep pan of granitized ii’on, or in a wide and rather deep basin of stone or eai’then Avare, adding cold Avater till it rises jiretty Avell up the sides of the dish. Cover Avith a stiff cream jiaste, mixed as for other j^ies, and roUed about a quarter of an inch thick ; prick weU Avith a fork, cut a good cross-sht in the center, and place in a moderate oven ; bake from an hour and a lialf to tAvo hours, according to the size of the pie. Eeduce the heat as the baking pro- ceeds, and invert a jian over the top if it broAAOis too fast. When done and nearly cold, lift off the crust, and turn half the fruit into a deep earthen boAA’l; then lay back part of the cnist, and pour over it the rest of the peaches ; cover AAuth the crust that remains, placing it right side up, and set the pie aAvay in a cool place for several hours, or OA'^er night, before servung. If the bake-pan is not pretty deep, you had better stew some peaches prepared as for the, pie, and pour over as you break it up ; this will make plenty of juice. Stew the sauce sIoavIv, in not too much water, and cool before adding it. If preferred, leaA^e the pie unbroken, set it aAvay till cold, and serve in the dish, cutting the cnist in regular ^lieces. If freestone peaches are used, peel them, cut in halves, take out the pits, and be careful to remove any bitter poriions about the latter. YelloAv ]ieaches of good rich flavor, clings or freestones, are excellent.1G6 [part II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Pe.vch Cobbler. =1= The pie described in the preceding recijie is a North Carolina dish—or foi*ty years ago—except that tlie latter had both an under and upjier crust. A cobbler more easily made and more tasteful in appearance, is the follow- ing : Take a pan about two inches deep, made of earthen or granitized iron ware, and fill it with ripe peeled peaches, cling or freestone ; if with clingstones, gash deeiilj" with a knife, leaving the stones in ; then add cold water tnl it rises half-way uj) the sides, and cover with a crust of light cream paste, rolled to twice the usual thickness. Prick with a fork, cut a cross-sht in the middle, and bake in an even oven forty to fifty minutes, or till the fruit is done. Serve in the dish as soon as cold, cutting the pie in regular pieces. You may make with cut rhubarb in the same way, using sugar to sweeten, and very little water. Berry Cobbler. =jj= Line a granitized iron pan two inches deep with a firm cream paste, rolling it about twice as thick as for ordinary pies ; then fiU with rijie blackberries, half-ripe goosebei’ries, or other small fimit. Sweeten if necessaiy, lay on a thick crust, prick ■\\dth a fork, and cut a ■\\nde cross-slit in the middle. Bake in rather a quick oven, about foidy minutes ; both crusts must be well done, and moderately browned ; the top must neither blister nor scorch. AVlien taken from the oven, carefully remove the pie from the pan, and set it away on a plate or platter large enough to hold it. Serve cold the same day ; and do not cut before it is needed, as the juice will run out. Cherry Cobbler. Make like the preceding, using seeded cherries instead of beiTies ; the black morello cherries are best, both for piesPART 11. j PASTRIES. 1G7 and sauce. Wliat is known in the markets as tlie English inorello, which has shoid stems, thick llesh, and a small seed, is very good. It is red, not black. Huckleberry Cobbler. Line a bake-dish with a good cream paste rolled twice as thick as for common pie-crust, and fill it nearly full witli hucklebeiT*ies; the dish should be about two inches in depth. Sin-inkle lightly with sugar, and cover with a crust a quaiier of an inch thick ; when you have pressed together and finished the edges, prick weU with a fork, cut a cross- slit in the center, and bake in rather a quick oven from forty to fifty minutes, or till the bottom crust is done. Then slip the pie on a platter, and cool before you serve it. You may use Ikiht cream paste for “ cobbler ” pies ; but the ordinary kind is preferable, particularly when there is an under crust; it is not so apt to burst in baking, and it is sweeter. Apple Dumplings. =jj= Pare sound taid apples of medium size, and not over- ripe ; cut in halves, take out the cores, and then wash quickly in cold water to remove the knife-rust. Make a light cream paste, as per recipe already given ; it must l)e pretty stiff ; pinch off bits of the dough, and roll to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, in a long or ovixl shape, and just lai'ge enough to cover two halves of the apj)les fitted together. Wet the margin of the crust by dipping the fin- ger in cold water, so that the dough will adhere ; then jfiace the fruit within it, bring up the edges, and pinch firmly together. No water is needed, if the apples are juicy and recently waslied. Put the dumidings into a bread-pan, slightly oiled, and space them well apart, so they will not touch each other ; prick on top with a fork, and bake in a moderate oven neai’ly an houi-, or till the apple is done jHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET II. 1C8 tm’H once or twice—if tliey do not stick to the dish—to brown tlie sides more thorougldy. Take out a few minutes before seiwing. If sauce is requii’ed, use stewed or canned rasiiberries ; or you may make a dressing by stewing tail apples (not too ripe) a long time, until the sauce is smooth ; you can flavor the latter by stimng into it a little thick raspbeiTy juice, if you like. These dumplings are very good warmed over the next day, the cnist being more crisp and tender than at first. Baked dumphngs are drier than steamed, and the steamed ones better than boiled. Berry Dumplings.=|= Make a light ci'eam paste, as in the last recipe, mixing it very stiff ; then pinch off bits the size wanted, and roll each into a round piece, fully a quarter of an inch thick. Moisten the rim with a little cold -water, and put in the berries; bring the two edges together, making a long oval-shaped dumpling, and pinch well to secure the fruit. Space in the pan, so they will not touch each other, and bake from thirty to foi-ty minutes, or till the crust is done ; if they brown too fast on top, lay a paper over them. The small fruits re- quire a moderate oven ; if baked too much, the benies taste bitter. A good plan is to set the pan or dish containing the dumplings inside a dripping-pan with a trifle of boiling water in it, and bake till the paste is' done; the moisture from the water prevents the crust (and the berries beneath it) from cooking too fast. It would require about an horn’, if cooked in this way. Berry dumplings are good steamed, provided they cook fad, and without touching each other; it is best to -\\Tap each in a napkin before putting it into the steamer. They should be seri’ed as soon as done, with fruit or fruit juice— or if this is not relished, try cream and sugar.VEGET.VBLES. PART II.] IGO 8 Cherry Dumplings. Seed the cherries, and make as in the preceding recipe. Fruit Kolly-Poly. Prepare a light cream paste, roll it a quarter of an incli thick, and spread on the fruit; you may use raspberries, blackberries, huckleberries, seeded cherries, sliced peaches, or apples sliced or chopped; any of these are excellent; so ai’e di’ied cherries, sweet currants, sliced figs, or other sweet fruits. Or in winter, you may take dried apples or peaches, first stewing them, and mashing till smooth. When the fruit is spread, begin at one end of the jiastry and roll it up tightly, pinching the ends well together to secure the con- tents. Lay the roll in a small iron pan, and bake in an even oven about an hour. Seiwe not too warm. If a dressing is required take stewed or canned fruit, fruit juice, or thin cream. These roUy-polies are very good steamed; make as above, cover with two or three thicknesses of old napkin or table- linen, and lav in a steamer. If the latter has holes in the bottom, put the roll on a pie-jian and set it in, with two or three small bits of wood underneath to let the steam uji. Cook two hours without lifting the lid; then send to the table, and serve warm. Never boil, if you can steam; steamed paste is lighter than boiled, and much more wholesome. \T^GETABLES. The way to make vegetables palatable, is first, to have them fresh; and second, to cook them so as to waste as lit- tle of their own savory juices as possible. To do this, boil or stew them quickly, and remove from the fire as soon as done. The rule that applies with scarcely an exception, is to drop into boihng water (just enough to cook them), cover170 [part II. HE-VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. closely, and cook rajiidly till done. Another rule, not merely for vegetables, but for grains and fruits as well, is never to lill iqi with Avater that is not boiling hot. Most vegetables are excellent steamed ; steamers are now made Avith seAeral chambers, so that tliree or more kinds of foods can be cooked at once, without the slightest admixtiu’e of flavors. In the absence of a steamer, most vegetables should be cooked in vessels that are porcelain-hned, or made of gi-ani- tized iron. Beans, beets, peas and jiotatoes, may be boiled in iron pots ; these should ahvays be Avashed and thoroughly dried immediately after using, and then set aAvay in a dry place to prevent misting. Vegetables, as a rule, should be seiwed at dinner ; and (by invalids certainly) they should never be eaten at the same meal Avith fruits. Those that have been several days in the market, as .string beans, peas, beets, etc., are tougher, and require lon- ger to cook than if fresh from the field or garden. On ac- count of the huckster system which prevails in some cities, most vegetables do not reach the markets until some time after they are gathered ; then they are too stale to be eaten Avith safety, much less Avith a good relish. In cooking vegetables, the following general rules aauU be of sendee ; and by a careful observance of them, there aauU be less need of seasoning, to cover up the insipid taste—or rather, lack of taste—that comes from wasting the fine flavors that belong to them. 1. If possible, have aU your vegetables fresh ; when stale they lose their natural sweetness, as well as their nutritive qualities. Peas and corn especially, should be cooked the day they are gathered ; certainly never later than the fol- lowing morning. 2. Boil in soft, pm-e water, if you have it; should the water be muddy, either filter it, or boil and settle before using.VEGET.VBLES. PART II.] 171 3. For most vegetables, boil in no more water tlian will cook them ; in other words, leave none to drain off, or most of the sweetness will be lost. •1. Boil rapidhj—or steam rapidly ; no slow cooking to soak out the juices. 5. As a rule, do not soak the vegetables before cooking, paidiiadai'ly if newly gathered. If actually wilted with the hot sun, some kinds (as cabbage, cauliHower, etc.) may be improved by lying half an horn' in very cold water. But ordinarily, that which requires soaking to make it palatable, should be thrown away. C. Cook till done, and not a moment longer. 7. Do not seorch in finishing; the moment a vegetable is scorched, its sweetness is gone forever. 8. Serve nearly aU vegetables after they have cooled a httle ; habituate yoiu’self to this, and you will find that the flavor is much more delicate than when eaten hot. 9. Look at the quality of the article you buy ; there is a great difference in “ families,” not only among people and animals, but among plants. It is well, first of all, to look after their pedigree, and then, their “bringing up”; it takes good .stock and good rearing, to secure the best results. If you make your own garden, plant only the hast seed. 10. AVlien you bring the vegetables from market j^ut them in a cool, elcan place in the cellar, till the cook wants them. This means a well-kept cellar, with a cool north room in it, thoroughly ventilated. 11. Charge your grocer, and the market men, not to leave tlieir potatoes and other vegetables standing for hours in the sunshine, or even near a window, as a strong light injui’es them. Potatoes should always be kept in a dry, dark place. (See Hints on Marketing.) 12. Keep one or two porcelain kettles specially for vege- tables, as many kinds can hardly be cooked in iron without being discolored. And if you must use ii’on pots, keepHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part II. 172 them clean and diy ; never let them stand round with water or slops in them. Once more, remember to cook quickly, and take out as soon as done. The Potato. When we consider that the potato is perhaps the most valuable of all the vegetables, it is quite remarkable that so few persons know how to cook it properly. And it is equally strange that not one farmer in ten understands how to grow it as it should be.* Many potatoes are badly injured by not being dug as soon as they are ripe ; they lie in the ground till they are injured by rains which start them to “ growing,” and make them watery. A further damage is done by the gi’ocer or huckster, who exposes them to the light and often to the sunshine, until they are strong to the taste, and almost green in color. So that by the time this vegetable has passed through the hands of the farmer, the market-man, the grocer and the cook, it is no longer the fine mealy potato that we relished in childhood. Potatoes in Jackets.=|= Select potatoes of nearly uniform size, and wash quickly, keeping them in the water as shoid a time as possible. If there are large ones, cut them through the middle. In wet seasons they are often hollow in the center, in which case you must cut them open and trim out the hollow part. After washing, clip off a little at each end (it wdll make them drier), and remove any blemishes ; and just twenty minutes before the bell rings for dinner, droj:) the potatoes into boiling water, having about two-thirds enough to cover them, and boil rapidly till done. The very instant a fork will pierce them easily, lift from the fire ; if they boil a * See Dr. Jolin McLanrin’s little work entitled, “The Model Potato.” For sale hy Fowler & Wells. Price 50 cents.VEGETABLES. 173 PAET II.] minute too long they lose their fine flavor, and are more or less watery. In cold weather, set the tureen and its cover where they will get Avarm ; and when the potatoes are done pour off aU the water, holding the lid rather loosely over the top of the pot. Then ahuf. dosehj to retain the steam, and set the i^ot back in a hot place ; keep it closed till the pota- toes are wanted, which should be immediately. In dishing into the tm'een do it quickly (some lay a folded napkin in the bottom of it to absorb the moistui’e), and put on its lid. Always cover between seiwings, or those helped last will get cold potatoes. Boiled Potatoes.—(Peeled.)^ Potatoes, peeled or unpeeled, should never stand in water; it gives them a washed-out taste, and makes them Avet. It is better therefore in preparing (if they are not actually mudtly), to peel before wetting them, and then wash as quicldy as possible, trimming off any little defects afterward; the large ones you may cut through the middle. Twenty minutes before sitting down to table, droj) the potatoes into boiling water, cover closely, and boil fast; have little more than enough water to cook them. The moment a fork aa'III go through them, take the pot from the fire, and drain as dry as possible; then retium it to the stove, tightly closed, and set in a hot place where any remaining moisture will be converted into steam. Having Avarmed the tureen and its lid, dish quickly, cover at once, and send directly to the table; keep the lid on between servings. When a largo quantity is cooked together, tlie potatoes can be kept fresh for a long time in their OAvn steam, by setting the vessel in a hot place and keeping it tightly covered; the hot steam preseiwes them dry and mealy. The best place for a potato to “ dry out ” is not in the pot, but on one’s plate, bctAveen serving and eating.HKjVLTH in TH12 HOUSEHOLD. [PAET U. 174 Mashed Potatoes. =|= Peel and boil tbe potatoes, as per recipe just given; and as soon as a fork will go through them, drain off all the Avater. Set the pot back in a hot jdace, and mash imme- diately; the moistui’e will evax^orate while you crush them. When free from lumps, beat Avith a fork tiU they are Avhite and flaky. Do aU this very quickly; then dish lightly into a hot tureen, cover closely, and send to the table. Avoid filling the dish too full, or x^i'ossing doAvn the x>otatoes Avith a sx^oon; but leave them as hght and feathery as x^ossible. Li serving, do not skim over the top, but begin at one side and cut thi-ough to the bottom, leaA'ing the mass of the X^otato undistiu'bed; then remove the sx)oon and adjust the cover, to keex> in the heat till the next serving. Model-Cooked Potatoes. This recipe is from the late Dr. Trail’s new cook-book. For potatoes that are good cooked Avith the skins on (not too old or sunburnt), the method here described is no doubt a good one; it requires more time and a steadier heat than the ordinary way : “Select x^otatoes of uniform size; wash quickly in cold water, Avithout cutting; put them in a kettle, or tight-lidded sauce-pan, filhng tlie vessel about two-thirds full; cover tightly, and cook them in their own juices. They should be put in an oven, or over a fire sufficiently hot to conveid the Avater they contain into steam. As soon as softened, they can be x^eeled and x^aced on the table, or served Avith their skins on. Cooked in this manner, potatoes have a rich- ness of flavor unknown to any other method.” Steamed Potatoes. Potatoes, peeled or unpeeled, cook very nicely in a steamer. The water should be boiling and the steamer hot,P.VBT II.] 175 VEGETABIiES. before they are put in ; and they should cook rapidly till done. If they can not bo served inimediatcly, leave them in the steamer, keeping it closely covered till they ai'e wanted. Browned IVLished Potato. =|= Take cold mashed potato, and cnish a second time till there ai'e no lumps; then till a pie-pan or other shallow dish (not too full), smooth the top with a Imife, place in a hot oven, and brown cpiickly. Serve as soon as done. Another method is to form into little biscuits hardly an inch thick, and brown as before. The potato sticks to- gether better, if moistened with a little milk. Browned Sliced Potatoes.=|= Take cold boiled potatoes, cHp off the wet ends, and peel if they are in jackets, throwing out any faulty ones; then slice into a skillet or pie-pan, oiled just enough to keep them from sticking, and set where they wiU brown quickly without scorching. As soon as a thin crust foiTus at the bottom, turn them over, and brown again in the same man- ner; then dish, and seiwe immediately. Potatoes warmed over in tliis way, are dry, crisp and flaky; but if allowed to stand before seiwing, either in the skillet or tureen, they become wet and clammy. Cold mashed potatoes may be warmed over in the same way. Stewed Potatoes. Potatoes can be cooked on short notice, as follows: Wash, peel and slice into a skillet or stew'-pan; put in as little boiling water as will cook them, and stew covered, ten to fifteen minutes; when done, the water should all be evap- orated. Dish, and serve immediately.[part IL 176 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Baked Potatoes.=|= Select smooth potatoes of neai’ly uniform size, and wash thoroughly but quickly, not alloAvmg them to stand in the water. Pai’e off any defects, and place them in a moderate oven, spacing a little apart. If baked too fast they will blister, and not be good; they may require turning once or twice. The very moment they are done, take a clean nap- kin and crash each one in the hand—not into a shapeless mass, but enough to puncture the skin and let out the steam. Then lay them in an open tureen, and send to the table. A baked potato, to be first-rate, should be eaten as soon as done. Wlien this is impossible, the next best thing is to crush each as here described, and keep them in a warm place till wanted. Baked Potatoes.—(Peeled.)^ Peel the potatoes, wash quickhj, lifting them out of the water as soon as possible, and place a httle apart on the grate; the oven should be hot enough to brown moderately without scorching. When done, crash each in a napkin, as described in the last reci2)e; just enough to crack the crust and let out the steam. Put them on a plate, or into an ojien tui’een, and serve. Old iDotatoes, if baked, should always be peeled before- hand. Roasted Potatoes. Wash clean, cover with ashes not too hot, and then with coals; these will need renewing occasionally, unless the roast- ing is done very near the main fire. Potatoes cooked in this way are dry, mealy, and rich in flavor,177 VEGETABLES. PART II.] Sweet Potatoes.=|= In buying, see that they are not covered over with little sprouts; these are caused by heavy rains, which have start- ed the potatoes to “growing”; in this condition they are injured in flavor, and inclined to be w'atery. Sweet potatoes are best either boiled or steamed, and then browned in the oven. Fii’st, wash and trim them, chpping off black or straggling ends; should any be partly decayed, throw them out. If you boil, use as httle water (boding) as will cook them; this makes them drier and sweeter; then cook rapidly, until a fork will go through them rather easily. When done, strip off the skins; if be- neath these, and about the ends of the potatoes, you find a dark substance deposited (due to wet weather), remove that also, as it is very indigestible. Place in a hot oven, and brown thoroughly about twenty minutes; or if rather wet, they may remain in half an hour. If you steam before finishing in the oven, cook till the potatoes are tender, and then peel and brown as before. The chief error to guard against in cooking this vegetable, is in boiling or steaming it too much, making it watery; or in taking it out before it is faii’ly done, which renders it harsh and unpalatable. Browned Sweet Potatoes. =|= Take sweet potatoes left from the previous meal, and if they have not been peeled remove the skins; then mash fine, spread on a pie-pan, and brown in a brisk oven from fifteen to twenty minutes; they are quite as good as fresh. Another way is to slice instead of mashing, and then browm; or you may lay them in the oven whole, after re- moving the skins. 8*178 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part II. Dried S'sv'eet Potatoes. First steam or boil the potatoes, then peel, cut in slices, and dry. To cook them, soak the diaed pieces over night in a closed vessel, having as little water as will cover them; then heat in the same water, mashing and stirring them un- til it is all evaporated. They should be as dry as possible when done. Baked Svtset Potatoes. Sweet potatoes if smooth, and free from blemishes, may be simply washed, and baked in a hot oven; wdien they are rather wet, this is a good way, as it makes them drier than if boiled. A better method perhaps, is to put them into a shallow pan, add a trifle of boiling water, and let them steam a little, before they bake. Tomatoes, etc. Tomatoes, melons, squashes and pumpkins, dietetically considered, must be classed among vegetables, from the simple fact that thej' are more easily digested with these than with fruits. Green corn also—which is an immature grain—does, if anj'thing, better with vegetables, though it can be eaten with either. The tomato is one of the best and most wholesome of the garden products; the Trophy and Livingston are flne varieties. Sliced Tomatoes.=|= Wash good fresh tomatoes, not too ripe, and peel without scalding; then slice very thin, and send to the table. If preferred cold, let them stand in ice-water half an houi', before peeling; or you may set them in the refrigerator after they are sliced. They are good enough without seasoning.179 PART II.] VEGETABLES. Stewed Tomatoes.=|= Pour over the tomatoes boiling water, and as soon as the skins will slip, remove them; slice very thin into a porcelain kettle, and set on the stove; do not add any water. Let them come to a boil, and cook slowly half to three-quai’ters of an hour; fast cooking destroys their fine flavor. Some prefer them stewed longer, until perfectly smooth. Stewed Tomatoes. =|j= Wash, scald, peel and slice, as in the preceding recipe; add no ■water; crumb stale bread—good home-made Gra- ham loaf—into the cold tomatoes, pour all mto a porcelain kettle, and heat to boiling; then set them back a httle, •w'here they will stew slowly at least an hour and a half; stii- frequently, till done. Instead of ordinary bread-crumbs, you may take bits of brown toast; or in place of either, stir in a little thickening of Graham flour and Avater, before heating. A good dish is made by adding one-fourth as much green corn as there are tomatoes; slice the latter very thin, and stew tiU smooth; then stir in the com, thinly shaven, and stew or bake half an hour. Tomato Toast. Stew the tomatoes as in the last recipe but one, cooking till they are fine and smooth. Then take thin slices of loaf bread, and bro-wn evenly till it is quite dry. Pour the hot stewed tomatoes over the toast, and when cooled a little, serve. Baked Tomatoes. =|= Wash, but do not scald the tomatoes; see that they are fresh. Then peel and slice, and add aliout lialf as much broken bread as there are tomatoes; a small portion finely grated, and the rest in large crumbs or crusty pieces; some[part II. 180 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. add a little chopped onion. ]\Iix thoroughly, pour into a granitized ii’on pan, and bake in a slow oven two hours; brown well at the last. This dish, prepared with good home-made Graham loaf (stale), is excellent; the long slow baking makes it rich in flavor. Baked Tomatoes. Wash, scald, peel and slice, add crumbs of stale bread, or slices of nicely browned toast, and stew slowly three- quarters of an hour; stir often; then turn into a dish, and bake one hour in a moderate oven. Another method is to wash and peel the tomatoes, re- moving the hard portions about the stems; then fill the cavities with fine bread-crumbs, arrange in a pudding-dish, cover, and set in the oven. Bake half an hoiu', then un- cover, and brown ten minutes. TomiItoes with Corn. Scald, peel and slice, as in the last recipe, and cook in a porcelain kettle half an hour; then add one-third or one- fourth the quantity of green corn finely shaven, as per recipe (Corn and Tomatoes) described farther on; or you may, if preferred, sjfiit the grains with a knife, and scrape out the pulp. Put the corn in with the tomatoes, and stew slowly from forty to fifty minutes; do not let the mixture stick to the bottom. Or, instead of steiving, turn the whole into an oiled pud- ding-dish ; cover, and bake in a moderate oven three-quar- ters of an hour. Then uncover, and broAvn ten minutes. ScRAJiBLED Tomatoes. =1= Peel without scalding the tomatoes, and cut them in rather large bits ; they should not be too ripe. If of me- dium size you may cut each in two, half way between the stem and blossom ; then cut again, once or twice, in thePART II. j VEGET.ABLES. 181 other direction. Add half or two-thii'ds the quantity of coarse bread-crumbs, from good home-made Graham loaf ; these should be stale. Then put all into a porcelain kettle, set it over a hot fire, and cook about five minutes, stirring lightly, but almost constantly. Lift into a tureen, and send to the table. An excellent dish. Scalloped Tomatoes. Prepare and slice the tomatoes, not too thin, and put a layer of them in the bottom of a pudding-dish ; then alter- nate with a layer of bread-crumbs, or with thin slices of toast; continue till the dish is filled, letting the topmost layer be tomatoes. Cover with an old plate, and bake in a slow oven about an hour ; then uncover, and brown ten minutes. Some bake an hour and a half, or longer if the scallop is deep. Canned Tomatoes. These may be stewed, baked, scrambled or scalloped, as in the preceding recipes ; or in wai-m spring days, they may be eaten cold from the can. If baked, the following is a good method : Drain off the liquor, and pour it over stale bread-ciTimbs. Then cover the bottom of a wide earthen dish with some dry crumbs, put in a layer of tomatoes, and over this the crumbs wet Avith the liquor. Cover with a plate, and bake from forty to fifty minutes. Baked Winter Squashes. =||= Winter squashes may be either stewed, steamed or baked ; the hard-sheU varieties are best for baking. Wash them, and break in pieces with a hatchet; or, if the shell is soft enough, cut in halves and remove the seeds ; cut again into pieces of convenient size, and lay them, shell down- ward, in a shallow dish or bread-pan ; pour in a little boibHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part II. 182 ill" water to staii with, place in a pretty hot oven, and bake from one to two hours, or until soft; the squash should be dry and mealy when done. Stewed Winter Squashes. =|= Wash, cut in halves, and remove the seeds ; then slice and pare ; cut into pieces an inch long, and put them in a stew-pan. Add a little boiling water, sa}'^ nearly a pint to a gallon of the cut squash ; if not very ripe, use less water. Cook fast from forty to sixty minutes, or until tender, not letting the vessel get entirely dry ; should more water be needed, add it boiling hot. As soon as the pieces are soft lift the lid, and let any surplus moisture evaporate ; then mash fine, simmer a few minutes, and dish for the table. Seiwe warm, not hot. Steaming is a good way to cook squashes ; if they have hard shells, prepare as follows : Cut into rather large pieces with a hatchet, and steam in the shell till soft; then scrape out, and send to the table. Or, if the shell wall permit, cut in slices, remove the seeds, and peel ; place in a closed steamer over boiling water, and cook till soft; then turn into a porcelain kettle Avith any water that remains, and evaporate it by frequent stirring, over a pretty hot fire ; mash fine, dish and serv^e. Summer Squashes.=|= If necessary, peel the squashes and remove the seeds ; some varieties when very yoimg, scarcely require either ; the kind called the cymling needs paring, unless it is very young and fresh. Wash, cut in small pieces, and steam or stew. For stewing, put them into a porcelain kettle with boiling Avater enough to cook them, and allow for stewing, half to three-quart,ers of an hour ; some kinds cook quicker than others. When soft lift the lid, letting the Avater nearlyPART II.] VEGETABLES. 183 all evaporate. A little cream added at tlie last, makes a good seasoning. An excellent variety of summer squasli is one with a long crooked neck—it is nearly all neck—and about the color of a ripe orange ; it has a rough, warty surface, but it is very tender and delicious ; if young, it needs no peeling. Pumpkin. After washing, cut in halves, then slice and peel, removing the seeds ; you may steam, or stew. To steam, put the slices into a closed steamer, and cook from an hour to an hour and a half, or until soft; then turn into a porcelain kettle, mash smooth, and simmer with the lid off till the water has mostl}' evaporated. If to be stewed, cut the slices in small pieces, and cook the same as squash, only a little longer ; say an horn’ and a quarter to an hour and a half ; never long enough to turn the pumpkin dark in color, as this injures its flavor. If a little umipe it will be more watery, and will need longer cooking. After mashing, stii’ frequently to jirevent burning. Turnips. =11= Wash, pare, and cut in slices half an inch thick ; if any of the turnips are coarse, stringy or pithy, throw them out; then stew or steam. If stewed, put an old saucer or a small pie-pan, inverted, into the bottom of the kettle to keep the turnips from scorching ; add boiling water enough to cook them, and boil fast until quite soft. Young turnips that have grown quicldy, will cook in thirty to forty minutes ; while old tough ones require nearly or quite double the time. The best test, however, is the fork ; as soon as they are thoroughly tender, remove from the fire ; too much cooking not only discolors, but also makes them strong. There must be very little water left in when done ; mash fine, and simmer a few moments, un-HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAHT II. 184 covered, before disliing. Serve lukewarm. Two or three potatoes cooked and mashed with the turnips, gi^^e an agree- able flavor. If any seasoning is required, stir in a trifle of cream just as you set them off. Swedish, or ruta-baga tuimips, need a much longer time to cook than the white ones ; they should have all of two hours. A httle cream added in the finishing, improves their flavor. If you steam, cook till soft, turn into a porcelain kettle, and if too much water remains, evajDorate it; then mash as fine as possible. Parsnips. =1= Wash well, and scrape with a knife to remove the skins ; then cut the parsnips into halves or quarters, and stew till quite soft, in very httle more water than wiU cook them. It will take from foi-ty to fifty minutes, longer if they are old ; do not let them get dry ; there should be at least a giU of water remaining, when done. Then put them into a pie-jian or shallow eartlien dish, and pour over the sp*up that is left in the pot; place in a hot oven, baste frequently, and brown well before sending to the table. Another way is to mash fine, return to the pot, and finish with cream. Carrots. Prepare and cook the same as jiarsnips, only about twice as long. Tliere is a small variety called the “ Early Horn,” that is read}" for use in July ; it cooks tender in an hour, and is very sweet. It may be boiled in the same pot with young beets. Asparagus. 4= Be sure the asparagus is fresh. If bought in the city market, lay it in cold water and let it soak a short time, be- fore cooking ; then cut off any tough portions, put theVEGETABLES. PAKT II.] 185 stalks into a porcelain kettle, staii; in boiling water, and stew till tender. If fresh from the garden, twenty-five to thiidy minutes ought to suffice ; but much of it that we buy requires from forty to fifty mhiutes. Boil in enough water to about cover ; if yoimg, it is good enough without season- ing. Some hygienists think this vegetable is not very whole- some ; they claun that it, like onions, is so lai'gely thrown off through the excretory organs as to tax them abnormally. Most of the asparagus sold in our city markets, is too old before it is cut; instead of gathering it every day or two, the custom seems to be to cut the stalks only once or twice a week, and a good distance below the surface of the ground ; this gives five or six inches of hard, woody fiber, and one inch of inferior tops. Those who understand raising asparagus, say it should be cut mth a knife as often at least as every other morning, and hardy below the surface of the ground ; and some recommend snapping or breaking it off. This would remove the tender part only ; but if left too long, all the stalk toughens, except the very tip end. MTien quite young, green and tender, it is sometimes boiled as greens, and seiwed with lemon juice. Asparagus Toast. =|- Cook the aspai’agus as in the last recipe ; before it is quite done, slice some good Graham bread, rather stale, and toast it evenly. MTien ready, dip the slices quickly into boihng water, and arrange them on a platter ; then lift out the asparagus and lay it on the toast. Thicken the water in which it boiled with a little cream and flour, heat almost to boiling, and pour it over. Or, if preferred, you may omit the thickening, lay the as^iaragus on the toast, and moisten with the liquor left in the pot.[part II. 186 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Stewed Cabbage. =|= Trim off the outside leaves, see that there are no insects, and wash the head cai'efuUy ; if wilted, soak half an hour in verj' cold water. Then cut it in halves, and with a sharp, thin knife slice it very fine, without chopping, and stew or steam quickly. Slow' cooking spoils this vegetable ; so does cooking it too long. If it is to be stewed—and tliis is the bet- ter w'ay—put it in a porcelain kettle, and add just enough boiling w'ater to cook it; it should be done in hall an hour. Boil as fast as possible, keeping the kettle covered ; the moment it is tender lift from the fire, and dish into an ojien tiu’een ; the water should be about all evaporated. Let it stand uncovered till lukewarm, and then send to the table. Cooked in this way the cabbage is white, crisp and sweet; of course it is dehcious. If preferred, you may trim and wash, cut in quarters, and then steam or boil as before. Cauliel OWER, =1= Remove the gi'een leaves, and clip off the stalks an inch or two below the flowers ; part the latter to see that no in- sects are hidden among them, wash well, and if not directly from the garden sojik in cold water half an hour. Then drop into boihng water, and cook the same as cabbage, taking it from the fire the moment it is thoroughly tender ; it win be done in about thii-ty minutes. Stew in a porcelain kettle ; there should be very little water left when it is set off. If you buy in the market, select the heads that are pure while; those that are tinged wfith yellow or brown, are stale. <4 Spinach, etc.=|= Spinach, cabbage sprouts, and mustard leaves, are good for greens; and turnip tops, young beet tops, dandelions,PART II.] 187 VEGETABLES. leaves of narrow dock, etc., will do to mis with the others. It win take a peck, for a family of five or six persons. Look over every leaf carefully, to avoid worms or insects, and wash very thorouglJy in several waters, lifting the leaves out each time with the hands, to get lid of sediment. Boil in plenty of water till quite tender—young spinach will cook in from twenty to thirty minutes—and when done, take out the greens with two forks placed side by side ; this leaves any sand or gi-it behind. Then di-ain, cool to lukewann, and cut line with a knife before sending to the table. Seiwe with lemon juice—or j>ass the lemons, cut in quaiiers. Boiled Beets. =|= Select beets of nearly uniform size, and twist off the tops; if young, you may leave on an inch or two of the stems ; then wash well, taking care not to cut or break the skins or rootlets, lest the juices should escape. Droj) into boiling water, and cook till very tender ; you may allow from one to two hours, or longer, according to size and age. Prick as httle as possi- ble, as it wastes the sweetness ; and boU in about as much water as will cook them. "Nnien soft, remove the lid, and let the water that remains evaporate ; then lift out the beets, and when nearly cold, slip off the skins. Slice thin, and ser\’e with lemon juice ; dilute the juice by adding half water, and pour it over after they are sliced and cold; do this ten or fifteen minutes before sending to the table. Prepared in this way, they are excellent. If yoimg, sweet and tender, some hke them without a dressing. Baked Beets. Prepare as for boding, and bake till quite tender. If of good size, it will require thi’ee or four hours ; when done, di’op into cold water, and slip off the skins. Slice after thQ188 [PAKT II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. beets are cold, and serve with diluted lemon juice, as in the preceding i-ecipe. String Beans. =|= Select only the tender varieties, and see that they are fresh from the garden. If recently gathered, the stems will not be shriveled. String the beans carefully, and snap into short pieces; then wash well, di-op into boiling water, and stew till very tender in as Httle w'ater as will cook them. If bought in the city market, it will take an hour and a half or two hours ; and the wax beans need half an hour longer; the water should be about all evajiorated, at the last. New potatoes, di’opped in half an hour before finishing, improve their flavor ; and a little sweet cream thickened with a trifle of flour, and stirred in just before you hft them from the fire, is considered a further improvement. A\Tien done, turn into an open tureen, and let them cool a little before serving. Fresh Garden BEiVNS.=jj= Shell them from the pods, drop into boiling water, and stew tin tender, having them rather juicy when done ; they ought to cook in about an hour. If seasoning is requmed, a little cream thickened with flour may be stirred in; cover, and heat through, then dish, and send to the table. LiaiA Beans.=|= Fresh Lima beans are cooked as in the preceding recipe. Dried Limas should be dropped into boiling water, and parboiled fifteen or twenty minutes ; then pour off the water, add more boiling hot, and cook till tender, but not till they fall to pieces ; it will require from two to three hoims, according to age. A little cream and flour, stirred in a minute before lifting from the fire, is the only dressing admissible ; and they are good without any. See that the water is about all evaporated, before adding the thickening.189 PART U.] VEGETABLES. Boiled Dried Beans. =|= Look the beans over carefully, throwing out the faulty ones, and wash in two waters, rubbing them well between the fingers ; then stiud in boiling water, and cook till soft. Allow from two to tlu-ee hours, or longer, according to age and variety ; they should not be cooked to pieces. If more water is needed, add it boiling hot; only a little shoidd re- main when they are done. Never soak beans ; it makes the skins slip off Avhole, and they ai’e very indigestible. White beans, unless they are quite old, should not be pcU’boiled ; the speckled cranberry and other colored beans, which ai’e rather strong in flavor, are best parboiled fifteen or twenty minutes—not longer. Then pour the water off, and add more, boiling hot; cook till perfectly tender, but not tiU they are broken ; allow water enough to make them a Httle moist, when done. No seasoning is needed. Baked BnANS.=f= Prepare as in the preceding recipe, then boil till very soft and half broken to pieces; for most dried beans, it wiU requii’e all of three hours. Let them be quite juicy when taken from the fire ; then timi into a deep dish, cover, and bake rather slowly two to three hours, or until they are of a rich brown color. Do not scorch them in finishing. Baked Beans. Prepare as before, and boil till quite tender, but not till the beans are broken ; the water should be nearly all evap- orated. Then mash fine with a potato masher, put into a shallow pan, and smooth off the top with a knife. Set them into a hot oven and bake half an hour, or until nicely browned. Cold beans are good, mashed and baked in the same way.190 [PAKT II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Steamed Dried Beans. Beans may be put into a closed steamer, cooked till ten- der, and then served; or after steaming you may bake, as in the preceding recipe. Stewed Dried Beans. Look over and wash white beans, put into cold water, and let them come almost to a boil. Lhen place where they will simmer Avithout boiling, and continue the process tiU quite tender ; allow just enough Avater to make them a httle juicy when done. They must not bubble once while cooking ; it will take from tAvo to three hours, according to age and variety. Green Corn. Green corn, though usually ranked among A^egetables, is, strictly speaking, a grain in the immature state ; and like the other grains, it may be eaten A\dth either fruits or vege- tables. The only thing about it that interferes with diges- tion, is the hull, which Avith a httle care may practically be gotten rid of. Boiled Green Corn.=|= Tlie best corn for table use, is the evergreen ; that known as “ StoAvell’s,” is a good variety. If you can not get the evergreen, the white flint is good. Select ears that are well filled, but young and tender; if the right age, the milk should spuri out in a jet when the grain is pierced Avith the finger nail. Green corn shoidd, if possible, be cooked and eaten the day it is gathered, as it loses its SAveetness in a few hours. Remove the husks and silk—or a better way is said to be, to tear off all but the inner husks, turn these back, and pick off the silk ; then puU them over the ear again, tjing Avith a thread at the top. Start in boiling water—not too much, as it wastes191 r.utT II.] VEGETABLES. the sweetness—and boil from twenty to twenty-five miii- iites. When done, drop the ears into a basin of cohi water; this makes the hulls tender mid the corn white ; in two or three minutes lift them out, lay in a tui’een, cover, and send to the table. Before eating, split the rows with a sharp knife, cutting only the surface of the grains ; this is done by (b-awing the knife through each row of corn lengthwise, be- ginning at the larger end of the ear. Splitting the grains, allows the kernels to escape from the hulls, leaving the latter on the cob. If preferred, you may spht the grains and scrape out with a knife, before eating. Stewed Green Coen.=|= Select corn that is young enough to scrape easily from the cob ; after splitting the grains -with a sharp knife and scraping out the pulp, put it into a stew-pan or porcelain kettle, add a little boiling water, and set it over the fire where it wall cook rapidly. Stir constantly to keep it from sticking, and steAv ten minutes or until done. No seasoning is needed. Canned Corn. Select the best brands; the “ Oneida Community,” Oneida, N. Y., is a good one ; and so is the “ Loomis, Allen & Co.,” Cicero, N. Y. Tlie corn put up by these es- tablishments is best evergreen ; it is as fresh, white and luscious, as if just from the field. To prepare it for the table, put it into a clean porcelain kettle, cover closely to jirevent its juices from evaporating, and place over a moder- ate fij’e until it is thoroughly heated through (it must not Doil), then dish, and seiwe. It is good enough without the addition of milk or cream.[part II. l'J2 HKi^LTII IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Corn and Toiviatoes.=|= Peel and slice the tomatoes, and cook slowly half an hour. Then prepai-e the corn as follows, having it young and ten^ der : A\uth a thin, sharp knife shave off the tip ends of the grains, and thi'ow them away. Then slice the rest very thin, until most of the corn (say three-fourths of it) is re- moved from the cob, and with a dull knife scrapie out the remainder. Put it in with the cooked tomatoes, and stew rather slowly half an hour, stirring occasionally to prevent sticking ; then dish. Another way is to take equal quantities of sliced tomatoes and corn cut from the cob, and stew them together thiidy to forty minutes ; the heat must be moderate. SUCC0TASH.=|= Boil white beans—Limas are best—until they are soft, but not broken ; have water enough when done to make them rather juicy. Select good sweet corn, young and tender, cut it from the cob, not too closely, and scrape out what re- mains with a dull knife. Add the corn to the beans (two paids of the former to one of the latter), and stew over a moderate fire twenty to thirty minutes. Stir occasionally^ and see that the mixture does not scorch. Another way to prepare this dish, is to boil string beans (the wax beans arc best for this purpose) until they are nearly tender ; it will take about an hour and a half. Then add the cut corn, and cook half an hour. In making succotash, dried beans can be used, but those fresh from the garden are better ; and in the absence of fresh green corn, canned corn ^may be substituted. Cook this very httle, say ten minutes, after adding it to the beans193 PART II.] VEGETABLES. Roasted Green Corn. Remove the husks and silk, and lay the ears on the grate in a hot oven ; or you may roast over hot coals, or before the fire. Stewed Dried Corn.=|= Soak in a closed vessel over night, in w^ater enough to cover the corn. Cook in the same water, simmering slowly fifteen or twenty minutes ; it must not hoil; then dish for the table. Green Peas.=|= Green peas lose their sweetness very soon after they are gathered ; they should if possible, be cooked the same day. When perfectly fresh, the httle stems are green and un- slu’iveled. There is a great difference of flavor in the several varieties ; among the early peas, the Champion of England is the very best; among the later, the Marrowfats are unexcelled. Having selected the best in the market, shell without Avashing them, and bod moderately thirty to forty minutes ; if young, thirty minutes is long enough ; have only a little more water than enough to cook them. If a dressing is wanted, evaporate most of the water remaining, and add a spoonful or two of cream ; you may thicken this if you like, with a trifle of flour ; then stir aU together, simmer a moment, and take the pot from the fire. The thickened cream and the concentrated juice of the peas, form a rich and excellent gravy. Some, however, prefer them boded simply in water, and eaten without further dressing than the liquor that remains after cooking. Serve in sauce dishes, passing the teaspoons. Dried Peas. If peas are gathered while young and tender, and care- fudy dried, they make a good dish for winter. Boil the 9194 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part II. same as green peas, excej^t that they require a much longer time. They may be served plain, or finished with a dress- ing of cream. Split Peas. Prepare and cook the same as dried beans, either by boil- ing or steaming ; see that they are cooked till tender, but not to pieces. It will take about two hours. Or you may stew them in this way : Put the peas into cold water, and let them come almost to a boil. Then set the pot back, where it will gently simmer vidthout boiling ; if it bubbles at aU, the fine flavor ^vill escape, and the extra labor be lost. As soon as soft, the peas are done ; the flavor is much richer than when cooked in the ordinary way. Onions. Onions are perhaps questionable, as an article of wholesome food. If eaten, they may be cooked as follows : Cut off the tops and rootlets, remove the outer skins, and put the onions into a porcelain kettle with cold water enough to cover. Set them over the fire, parboil fifteen minutes, and j^oiir off the water ; cover again—this time with boiling—and par- boil fifteen minutes longer. Then drain off the water, pour in a little more, boiling hot, add the same quantity of milk, and cook slowly till tender, but not till they fjdl to pieces. When done, pour off the mOk and water, and either serve Avithout a dressing, .or finish with a little cream thickened with white flour. Some A’^arieties of onions need less pai- boihng than others. Lettuce. Lettuce, to be good, must be young and tender, and fresh from the garden. Trim off the defective leaves, look it over carefully, wash clean, and let it stand in very cold water fifteen or twenty minutes. Then send to the table105 PART II.] VEGETABLES. witli fresh lemon juice for dressing ; or, cut the lemons in quaiters, and pass them. Celery. Select stalks that are young and tender, and newly gath- ered. AVash well, and let them He in cold water half an horn*; then trim carefully, leaving on a few green leaves, and send to the table. Cucumbers. Cucumbers to be fit for eating, must be very young, and fresh from the vines ; the snnxUer ones are generally the best. If bought in the mai-kets, select those that are green and white in color, with no tinge of yeUow, and see that they are firm to the touch ; the others are stale. After peeling, lay in very cold water half an houi’, to make them crisp ; then slice as thin as possible, and pour lemon juice over them ; it may be diluted slightly with water, if too acid for the taste. Seiwed in this way, fresh cucumbers are quite harmless to healthy stomachs. Boiled Chestnuts. Look them over, one at a time, to see if all are sound ; then drop into boiling water, and cook till done. Fresh chestnuts will boil sufficiently in fifteen or twenty minutes ; if older, they may need a little longer time. Let them remain in the hot water till wanted ; then remove the shoUs with a sharp knife. Roasted Chestnuts. .Select carefully, as before, and cut a slit crosswise in the shell of each, to prevent its bursting wlien liot. Put them into a pan, and place over a charcoal or other fire ; shake or stii’ them to |)revent scorching, and remove as soon as done.[PAET II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 196 Melons. Melons, wlien eaten, should be perfecllxj fresh. The great mortality resulting from their use in cities, is due, not to the melons per se, but to theii- being eaten stale ; hence, the imjioi’ted article, as weU as those that have been long in the mai’ket, should be strictly avoided. "Watermelons. Watermelons, to be fine, must be of good variety and well gi'own ; they should be neither underripe nor overripe, and should always be fresh. Put on ice, if you have it, several hours before serving, to make them crisp and cold. They should be eaten before the meal, or at the beginning of it; and they should never be served at the same meal with fruits. Cantaloupes. Like watermelons, muskmelons, and cantaloupes are per- fectly wholesome if eaten fresh ; but as found in our city markets they are usually stale, having been puUed several days ; eaten in this condition they are a jarolific cause of cholera morbus, and other kindred diseases. In selecting, notice whether the stems, if on, look fresh, and can lie broken off easily ; if they adhere firmly, the melons are not ripe. See also that they (the cantaloupes) are firm to the touch ; those that ;^neld to pressure, as if half wilted, are stale. They should be served at the fii’st of the meal, and never with fruits. Rhubarb. =1= Rhubarb should always be fresh from the garden ; other- wise, it is indigestible to weak stomachs. After washing, trim carefully, and see that there are no worms left in the stalks. Before stewing, cut the latter into inch lengths, andPART II.] 197 FRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. allow about one pint of water to two quarts of prepared rhubarb ; stew in a porcelain kettle twenty minutes ; and just before lifting- from the lii-e, add two-thirds of a cup of sugai*. Leave the sauce in the kettle till cold, iuid then ixnir into a glass dish—never into tin or glazed ware, as this vegetable corrodes it, and is poisoned by it. This sauce may be canned in glass, for winter use. Or you may stew in a little more water, and strain through a cheese-cloth ; then heat the juice to boiling, and can it for a beverage. SOUPS. For remarks on soups, the best methods of making, etc., the reader is refeiTed to Part IH. In the recipes there given, tlie only unhygienic ingredient employed is the diminutive sou|i-bone, or bit of meat, which can be omitted if desired. Soups are not very well managed by feeble stomachs ; if taken too often, they are apt to cause indigestion. FRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. Nearly all fruits if perfect, and thoroughly ripe, are, in their raw state, sweet enough to satisfy any unjieiwerted iaste. They are also more palatable and more healthful, than when cooked and sweetened. The pear, the peach, the cherry, the strawbeiTy, ripe and perfect—each is richest in flavor when unchanged by heat, and sweetened only with the glad rays of the sun. The same is true of most other fruits. But so transient are many kinds, that to have them in abundance and for any great length of time, cooking becomes a necessity. This is particularly true in localities where fruit is scarce, both in variety and quantity. Here, then, in the preparing and cooking of fruits, is rare opportunity for the finer touches of the culinary art; and that cook is best skilled in her profession, who can best preserve and retainlOS HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [pART II. tliosG delicate flavors with which nature has endowed them. The usujil method, however, is to drown everything in sugar and sjTups, thus obliterating the individualilij that belongs to these delicate products of the earth. In an admii-able little work on “Cooking and Castle- Building,” written by Emma P. Ewing, the reader will find the following excellent remarks: “ Never spice fruits, lest you destroy their jiavor. I always detested nutmeg, allspice and cinnamon, in ajiple pies. I now see the reason. Kich sj^ices and delicate flavored fruits form an unsuitable and imaiTistic combination.” “The fine, dehcate flavor of finits should be preserved as perfect as iDossible; and for this reason they should never be cooked in tin, or stin-ed -uith a metal spoon less pure than silver. A wooden spoon or spatula is the best for the purpose.” “ If it is desii-able to add to the flavor of the fruit you are cooking, add the flavor of another fniit. For instance^ flavor ajiples with either pine-apple, strawberry, quince, lemon or orange. Even the perfume of flowers, like rose- water, may add to the deliciousness of a dish of fruit. But to bury roses in a cake, seems as inappropriate and unnat- ural as to deaden fruit with spices.” “ In cooking fruits of all sorts, whether for present or future use, aim to preserve the flaA'^or of the fniit as far as possible; and to this end, avoid all contact with tin or base metal, and all needless exposure to the air. Cook as soon as possible, after the fruit is in proper condition. Cook in small quantities. Simmer gently, instead of boiling rapidly. The flavor of some fruits is preserved better by canning them without sugar. Peaches and blackberries are finer flavored when canned without sugar. At the time of open- ing and serving, sugar can be added if desired.” In the selection of fruits, the first thing is to trj'^ to secure the best; those that are the nearest perfect, and of the choicest vaiieties. This done, they should be carefullyP-VRT II.] 109 FRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. soi*ted, taking out the bruised and imperfect ones for pres- ent use; such as are not to be cooked immediately, should be put in the coolest place possible. Fruit of every de- scription should be handled with gi*eat care, as any bruise leads to rapid decay. That intended for cooking, ought not to be oveiripe; but if it is so already, it should be used as soon as possible, cooking rather quickly and not too long. Unripe fruits, on the contrary, are gi-eatly improved by cooking slowly, and for a longer time; this changes their starchy matter to saccharine, and makes them more palatable by practically rqjeniny them. Care should be taken in cooking fruit not to break up its organic structure, more than is actually unavoidable; it looks better to be whole, and it is better; the juices are cleai’er, and the flavors more fully retained. The same is true of canned fruits; the nearer whole they are, the better. Dried fruits, having been in reahty once cooked alread}% should pass through the next heating process pretty rapidly. Take, for examine, dried apples, or dried peaches; if dropped into boiling water and cooked rather quickly, care being taken to remove them from the Are the moment they are soft, they wiU be brighter in color and much finer in flavor, than if allowed to simmer slowly, and fall into a dark, shapeless mass; the juice should be mild, but rich in taste, and of a light amber color. No fruits, whether cooked or raw, should be kept where the air is impure, as they will absorb the sinrounding gases, and thus be rendered poisonous. We know how un- pleasant water tastes after it is allowed to stand open for hours in the “ living room,” where by breathing, persons are constantly throwing off carbonic acid from the lungs, and expelling it from then bodies. The cook should there- fore be instiaicted to remove the stewed fruits and any other fluid preparations, from the close kitchen into a cool,200 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLH. [pART II. clean place, where they can be covered, if necessary, as soon as cold. In stewing fruits, do not allow the steam off old tin lids to collect and run down into the kettle, discoloring and poisoning its contents with I'ust. Lids of granitmed iron are light, durable, and free from oxidation. Tin lids, if used, should be kej)t bright and clean; and when the kettle boils so slowly as to cause the moisture to adhere, the cover should be removed. In cooking fruits that have a decided color, as bendes, chendes, currants, graj)es or plums, observe two iTiles: first, stew them slowly; fast boiling darkens the fruit, and injures the flavor; second, keep them from con- tact with the baser metals, as tin, iron, brass, lead, copper, etc. Cook in kettles that are porcelain-lined, or made of gi’anitized iron; and use silver spoons or wooden paddles for stirring. If canned for winter use, put these fruits into glass jars; tin not only discolors, it poisons them. In strain- ing fruit juices a clean cloth is best, as it does not discolor; though an earthen colander, if you can get it, does veiy well. In selecting small fruits, care must be taken that they are newly gathered, else they will lose their fine flavors, and also their healthful qualities. "When they are already beginning to decay, there is no alternative but to cook them—or throw them away. If not too fai’ gone, the heat will expel most of the escaping gases, and render the fruit less hurtful, and less objectionable to the palate; but no amount of cooking can make it as good as sound fimit. A great deal of that sold in our city markets, is in this half stale condition—too long off the trees and vines. On the other hand, much of it has been gathered and shipped be- fore it was ripe; and it is so sour and unpalatable when it comes to us, that cooking and even siveetening seems a ne- cessity, before it can be brought to our tables. Were there at all times an ample suj:»ply of good fruits, neither over-201 PART II.] FRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. ripe nor underripe, but fine in quidity and choice in variety, -sve might reject the inferior grades, and eat the others without even a “ gi’ain ” of sugar. Such, however, is not now the case, whatever it may be in the future. In the following reciiies, it will be observed that fruits with mild acids, as apples, peaches, petu’s and grapes, are cooked with no sugar whatever; and that even the tart va- rieties are jirepiu’ed with very little. And yet, so fine and palatable ai’e they, that persons who have eaten them at our table, can scarcely believe that tliese fruits have little or no sweetening in them, except their own rich juices. One great advantage in dispensing with sugar, is that we ai’e not poisoned with the many deleterious articles now used to adulterate it. Moreover, the liver is not clogged with that constipating, ferment-producing substance (sugar), which at best, is but a proximate principle of food, a dis- turber of good digestion, and like its twin sisters, oil and starch, incapable of sustaining animal life. Some hygienists, as elsewhere stated, have tried mixing the sweet and sour fruits together, making the one sweeten the other. It has been objected that this plan, theoretically good, has some di’awbacks in practice. In the first jilace, the sweet fruits (dates, raisins, figs, etc.) are more expen- sive than sugar. In the next place, it is difficult to get them fresh; and when stale, they are covered over with crystals of grape sugar, which is, perhaps, not more Avholesome than the common article made from cane. And lastly, it is said that the flavor of fruits prepared wuth dates, etc., is not as palatable as when sweetened in tlie usual way. It must be admitted, however, that the method referred to, has, to say the least, fewer adulterations to contend with. As stated in the introductory chapters in this work, some raw fruits, as apples and grapes, are best eaten at the be- ginning of the meal, and at breakfast, rather than supper; and that for persons of feeble digestion, and indeed for 9*HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 202 [PABT II. every one, it is better, as a rule, not to eat too many varieties of fruit at a given meal, but to make the changes from one meal to another. In this way it digests better, and one is not so likely to tire of it. In cool or wet weather, less fruits and less juicy vegetables are needed, than when it is di-y and warm. Something more solid and hearty, as baked beans, parsnips, baked potatoes, sweet potatoes, corn bread, etc., is relished; but when the hot, sultry days return, Ave call again for the cooling fruits and their juices. The following Table of Proportions is for stewed or caimed fruits, and fruit juices; it grtes the proportion of water and sugar by measui’e, for the different kinds : Prepared Fruit. Strawberries Red currants Red raspberries Black raspberries Raspberries and currants Blackberries Gooseberries “ (for pies) May cherries Black morello cherries Seeded morello (for pies). ... G rapes Cranberries Beaches Pears Damson plums Green or blue gage Dried Fruit. Apples (kiln dried) Peeled peaches (kiln dried) .. Unpeeled ‘‘ ‘‘ “ Cherries (tart) Plums (very tart) Water. Sugar. 5 qts. . 1 qt... I enp (1 cup \ pt.) 5 U . 3 qts.. 1 “ 5 U O << 2 ii . .-g- 5 ii . 5 pts.. ^ ‘‘ 5 K ii 1 ii •O . 5 a 3 ** 6 . 2 qts.. 2 CU23S. 6 a .3 pts. .2 ‘‘ 5 u .3 “ . .1 cup. 5 (( .2qts..l “ 5 (( .2 “ .. 2 cujis (heapi 6 .2 “ .. (no sugar). 2 . 3 pts. . 1 cuji. 6 u . 1 qt .. (no sugar). 7 (< ^ ii ii 5 a . 5 pts. . 2 cujDS. 6 .3 “ .. 1 cuji. 1 qt . .2 qts..(no sugar). 1 ii 0 ii (( 1 u .3 pts.. “ “ 1 ic g ii ii ii 1 ii .3 “ .. ^ cup.203 PART n.] FRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. Dried Fruit. Water. Siujar. Prunes (or prunes and plnins). 1 qt . .3 pts. (no sugar). Pears (peeled and cut) 1 “ ..2qts.. “ ‘‘ Sweet currants 1 “ • •■'5 pts. . “ “ R* • "1 li K tfc aisins 1 -a Time of Cooking. In cooking fruits, no very detinito rules can be given as to time; tliis depends veiy much on the ripeness, variety, quality, etc. Making allowance for these, tlie table given below will be found jyroxiTnalcly correct. The heat must be moderate; hard boiling destroys the line flavor of aU fruits, and especially of those known as “ small fruits.” All kind of berries (cxeept cranberries) Red or white currants Grapes and cherries Plums.... Ripe peaches (freestones) Apples and pears—see recipes. Dried apples (kiln dried) “ peaches “ “ peeled .. “ “ “ “ unpeclcd 5 minutes. 5 5 “ 10 “ 3 to 5 “ 80 .30 to 50 .30 to 50 .25 to 30 “ cherries “ plums and prunes Sweet currants Raisins Dried apricots (simmer slowly; 10 to 15 25 to 30 35 40 to 50 hours. The following recipes are intended as a guide in prepar- ing fruits, either for canning or sauce; though for canning, special directions will hereafter be given. Tastes may differ, both as to the amount of water that shovdd be used, and (where it is employed) the quantity of sugar required. The recipes here given are the ones the winter has used for years; and if the testimony of many friends is to be relied on, they have given good satisfaction. In some localities, where there is less heat and sunshine than in other places, the fruits (as raspberries, chennes, etc.) are more juicy.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 204 [part II. and would therefore require less water, in stewing or can- ning. Baked Apples. =|= Select smooth, fair apples of nearly unifonn size, and entirely free from worms; wash carefully, and with a sharp- pointed knife remove the blossom ends, and any little blem- ishes. If the skins are covered with mouldy, dark-colored patches, rub the apples vigorously with a very rough cloth; then place them, stems downward and one layer deep, in an earthen pie-pan, or in a clean dish of granitized iron. If they are tart, crowd them closely together; if sweet, space a trifle aj)art. Put a cup of cold water in the pan, set it in an oven hot enough to bake without scorching, and cover^ if necessaiy; if the apples bake slower at the bottom, tuim them. Do not let them get diy, as it will burn up the juice. Bake rather slowly, adding a little boiling water as it is needed, until they are fully done to the core; then remove from the oven, and set away in a cool place; there should be a good cupful of juice in the bottom of the pan. When half cold lift into a fruit-dish, pour the juice over, and put on the cover. Rich apples baked in this way, are “ flt for a king.” Baked Apples. =|= Prepare as before, and into a deep earthen dish contain- ing a cup of cold water, put two or three layers of rather tart apples, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn them up from the bottom as they cook, and add a little boiling water from time to time; there must be plenty of juice when done. As soon as all are thoroughly soft, remove from the oven and set in a cool place. Serve within a few hours after baking. Baked Sweet Apples. =|= Select apples that are smooth and sound, and not too large. Wash well, remove the blossom ends, and put themFRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. 205 PART II.] in an eaiilien or granitized ii'on pan; lay them stems down- ward, one layer deep, and not too close together. Pour in a httle boiling water, and bake slowly two or three hours, or until quite soft. Cover the tops if they incline to scorch; add a trifle of boiling water as it is needed, and turn them over once or twice. There should be enough syrup at the last to make them juicy; and the apples should be a rich browm color. If too dry when taken from the oven, pour in half a cup of water, boiling hot; w’hen cold enough lay them in a glass dish, and pour the synip over. Baked Apples.—fFared. J=^ Pare and w'ash the apples, removing with a pen-knife, the blossom, stem and core; they should be sweet enough to hold together nicely, when cooked. Put them into an eai’then pan, one layer deep, and spaced a trifle apart; pour in a little cold w^ater to staii with, and bake in an oven hot enough to broAvn slightly, but not to burn or blister. Turn once if necessary, and add a very little boiling water from time to time; cover, if the apples are inclined to brown too much on top. When thoroughly soft remove from the oven; and when cool lift into a fruit-dish, pouring the juice over them. Stewed Apples. =|= Select apples not too ripe, and pare them, removing any blemishes; divide each in halves, cutting through the stem and l)lossom ; then cut each half into three pieces ; tliis enables the cook to take out all the core easily, and without waste. When all are prepared wash hastily, to remove the nist which a steel knife ahvays imparts; put them in a por- celain kettle, add cold water to make them moderately juicy, and cook tiU soft. If they are very tart, stew quicUy; and the moment they are ready to fall to pieces stir thor- oughly, and lift from the fire; or if there are still some20G HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [P.VET n. bits not done, cook five minutes longer. But if the apples ai-e sweet, or sub-acid, you must cook slowly, and not stir ; then the pieces will hold together, each unbroken, and swimming in the clear juice. Set them away in the ket- tle, leaving the lid off till cold; then cover, to keej) out flies or insects; or put them into the fruit-dish, ready for the table. Unripe apples if very tart, are best stewed in about water enough to cook them; stir Avhen done; and while they are stdl hot, sweeten with a little brown sugar—maple, if you have it. Stewed Apples.—( Choice.)-j[= Take apples of a fine sub-acid flavor, and not very ripe; bright, rosy jennetings are excellent; j^rex^are as in the pre- ceding recipe, and start in cold water, allowing enough to make them rather juicy. If necessary, skim when they begin to boil, and set them back where they will gently sim- mer ; if the cover is tin, lift it off as soon as the sauce is thorouglily heated through; if of granitized iron, leave it on. Let the apples cook slowly without stirring, from one to two hours; they must not boil; the top pieces may require pushing down once or twice, to make them cook evenly. Set tliem off when done, and leave in the kettle to cool. The pieces should all be whole, the juice a clear amber color, or a delicate pink (according to the color of the apjiles), and of very fine flavor. In lifting into the dish, be careful not to break the fruit. If the aj^ples ai’e fair and rosy, jmu may prepare as be- fore, except to leave on the skins; then cook in the way just described. The skins impart a rich flavor and color, both to the fruit and juice; you may put in some of the seeds for flavoring, if you like,PART II.] FRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. 207 Stewed Sweet Ai^ples.4= Select sweet ajiples, all perfect, and a little underripe ; pare them nicely, trimming out the blossom ends, but leav- ing in the stems. Wash, to remove knife-rust, and put them into a fruit-kettle, adding enough cold water to about half cover them. Set the kettle over a moderate lire, let it come to a boil, and skim; cook slowly for at least an hour, removing the lid, if tin. Do not stir or break the apples. When done take from the fire, and set awa}^ till perfectly cold; then lift cai’efully into the fruit-dish, and seiwe whole, with their own luscious juices. Stewed Apples.—( Unpared.) Pick out smooth apples with clear skins; bright, rosy ones are best, ’\^dpe them well and cut in halves, removing the stems and blossom ends, and taking out the cores, or any imperfect spots. After washing, put them into a fruit- kettle (by a fruit-kettle is meant either the porcelain-lined, or one of granitized iron ware—never brass, copper or tin), about half cover with cold water, put on the lid, and stew slowly without stuTing, till the apples are soft. Then take from the fire, uncover, and set away in a cool place; when cold, lift cai’efuUy into a dish, keeping the fruit as whole as possible. SrnvMED Apples. Prepare as for baking, leaving the skins on, and steam two or three hours, or until soft. Roasted Apples. =|= Take fine winter apples, tart or sub-acid, wijie each clean, and set them on the sliding grate in a hot oven. As soon as they are soft to the core, take out, cool and eat; they will cook in a few minutes, and you will find them delicious*HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT II. 208 Another way is to roast before a hot fire, turning the ajiples frequently till done. Quinces. Quinces may be pared and stewed the same as apples. They are rather tart unless sweetened, or cooked with fruits of a milder acid. Apples and Quinces. =4= Take sweet apples and quinces in equal quantities—or two parts apples to one of quince ; wash and pare them, cut into quarters, sixths or eighths, according to the size of the fruit, and core well; the slices of quince should be pretty thin. Put a layer of the latter in the bottom of the kettle (as they are longer in cooking), and then one of apples ; repeat the layers, pour in cold water to about half cover, and Avhen the fruit begins to boil set it where it wiU stew very slowly. Cook without stirring, and let it simmer about an hour; cover -with a lid that will not blacken, or else leave it off altogether, '\\dien done remove from the fire, and leave the fruit to cool in the kettle. Another way is to take finely-flavored russets and quinces, three or four parts of the former to one of the latter ; then prepare and stew as before. Crab-Apple Sauce. Stew Siberian crab-apples in a little water, until they are reduced to a soft pulp ; then rub through a coarse sieve or colander to remove the seeds, cores and skins, and sweeten to taste. This sauce has a peculiar, spicy taste, which is very agreeable. Stewed Peaches.=|= Select fruit that is not too ripe ; if wanted for canning, it should be quite firm, entirely too hard for eating. The more sunny and rosy it is, the better the flavor. Wet the peaches to prevent the down from rubbing off. K theyFRUITS AMD FRUIT JUICES. PART II.] 200 are freestones cut them in halves, take out the pits, and re- move any gum that may adhere, as it is extremely bitter. Then with a shai’p thin knife pai’e off the skins, wasting as little of the fruit as possible ; if free from gmu you may pare first, and then take out the pits. Put the peaches into a fruit-kettle, a few at a time, if you want them unbroken, and allow one part cold water to six paids fruit, or enough for the juice required ; too much water will spoil the flavor. Bring slowly to a boil, and skim if necessary. If ripe, the fniit will be cooked sufficiently by the time it is fairly boiling ; if unripe, cook till it softens, which wiU require only a few minutes. Then take from the fire, and with a spoon lift out each half, being careful not to break it ; place the fruit in a dish and pour the juice over. Or you may leave it in the kettle till cold, before dishing. Clingstones should be pared and stewed whole ; if rather green, try with a fork when they begin to boil, and cook only tiU tender ; if very tart, they will be done in nearly no time. Should you remove the pits, stew them in a little water, and take it to cook the peaches. Baked Peaches. I Take good clingstones, wash well, removing any blemishes, but do not peel them. Fill a stone jar or crock nearly full, add a pint or more of cold water, cover, and bake in a very slow oven an hour and a half or two hours. If the peaches are tart and juicy, less cooking and a smaller quantity of water will be needed. Apricots. Prepare and stew the same as peaches, removing the pits. Stewed Pears. =|= The fruit must not be too green, and yet hardly begin- ning to soften ; if too ripe or too green it will be insipid.nEALTD IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part II. 210 Tart pears are always best for cooking, as tlie sweet vari- eties are usually tasteless ; the Bcirtlett is the best. Remove the skins with a sharp thin knife, cut'in halves, or if large into quarters, and take out the seeds. Put them into a ket- tle, and pour in cold water in the proportion of one part water to seven of fruit, or until about half of it is covered ; then place over a slow fire ; it must not be stirred. When it begins to boil, set the kettle back where it will simmer, keeping it closely covered with a clean lid tiU the top pieces are soft; cook slowly, from foity to sixty minutes. If the pears are fair and rosy, the sauce will be of a reddish tint, and the fiavor fine. When done remove from the fire, and let it remain in the kettle tiU cold. No sugar is needed if the fruit is of good quality. Baked Pears. Select pears with a smooth tender skin, not very large and not too gi-een. Fill a stone jar with them, packing them in closely, and then pour in cold or tepid water till the fruit is two-thirds covered. Turn an old plate over, and bake in a slow oven three hours. Apples (as Spitzenbergs or wiiiesaps), peeled and cored, may be baked in the same way. Plums. =1= Plums are of all varieties and flavors ; some are very sweet, others intensely sour ; some are quite insipid when cooked, while others are of fine flavor. The damsons, and the blue and green gages, are best. Pick carefuUy to avoid Avorms, and Avash. If you liave damsons, let them be almost ripe; a little soft to the touch; for every five quarts of pre- pared fruit put in five pints of cold water, steAV sloAvly, and skim when they begin to bod ; then add tAvo cups of sugar, skim again, and cook rather sloAvdy ten minutes. The blue and green gages are not nearly as acid as the211 PAia’ II.] iHUlTS FUUIT JUICES. damsons, and therefore re(|uiro less sugar by at least one- half ; they also take less water. A good rule for these, is three pints of water to six quarts of picked fruit; boil and skim, add one cup of sugar, and cook very slowly till soft ; say from thi-ee to five minutes after the boiling commences. If wanted for canning, the gages must be gathered before they ai’e quite ripe, as they faU to pieces badly. Stiuvwbekkies. =1= Strawberries, in ripe perfection, are not expected to see the fire ; but so transient are they, that we have sometimes to cook in order to keep them. Besides, it is very conven- ient to can them for temporary or future use, and open as they ai'e wanted ; berries that are ripe and sweet, but thor- ouglily firm and sound, are best. If fresh from the beds and free from sand or earth, do not wa.sh them, as it injures the flavor. But if wasliing is necessary, do it quickly, in a colander ; then drain well, remove the caps, throw out any refuse berries, and put those that are not perfect by them- selves, for separate attention. Allow for every five quarts of prepared fruit one quart of cold water, and two-thirds of a cup of sugar—though if fully ripe, little if any sugar is needed. Put the water into a porcelain kettle, and add the berries ; do not crowd it, as the fruit foams very much. Place over a slow fire, and when it comes to a boil, skim ; then add the sugar, and skim again ; stii- down the fruit with a wooden paddle, and cook slowly five to ten minutes ; a little longer, if intended for canning. Fruit Juices. In aU the frait juices, do not sweeten until after the strain- ing is done ; otherwise, a part of the sugar will be wasted. If the fruit is very acid, it is best to strain through a cloth —or an earthen colander—as tin discolors the liquid ; if through a cloth, use coarse linen or cotton, or old flannel;212 [part U. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. common clieese-doth is first-rate, and an ordinary fioui’ sack answers very well. Heat the frait slowly to boiling, then strain, add the sugar, and heat again—very slowly, for fear of darkening the juice. Strawberry Juice. =|= Prepare the fruit as in the recipe for strawbendes (omit- ting the sugar), and cook five minutes ; then strain out the juice, add the sugar, and heat to a boil This is an excel- lent beverage, or a good sauce for mushes ; used as a bever- age, it Avill require diluting with water. If wanted for winter use, put it into cans, boiling hot. Red Currants. =1= Wash in a colander, drain well, and stem without break- ing the cui’rants ; throw out the faulty or discolored ones. Put the fruit into a porcelain kettle, and allow three quarts of cold water and one cup of sugar, to every five quarts of stemmed currants. Cook slowly, skim when the kettle begins to boil, and as soon as the mass is thoroughly heated, remove from the fii’e. Currant Juice.--|= Prepare the fruit as in the last recijie, adding the water, but not the sugar, and cook very slowly ; then strain through a cloth or an earthen colander, put in the sugar, and heat again to boiling. CuiTant juice makes a fine beverage, and a delicious sauce for mushes, etc.; it is also good served with currant scone, or fniit roU. If prepared for drinlving, allow four quarts of water and one cup of sugar, to five quaits of stemmed fruit; strain before sweetening, heat again to a boil, and set away to cool. Or it may be canned for winter use.213 PART II. J FRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. R.\spberries and Cueeants.=|= Wash the currants in a colander, drain them well, and strip carefully from the stems ; all that are bruised and dis- colored should be thrown out. Then look over the rasp- ben'ies, and see that there ai*e no stems or leaves among them; the fruit should not be overripe. xVdd to four quaiis of black raspberries one of red cui’rants (more cur- rants and less berries ai-e better), and allow five pints of cold water to the five quaids of mixed fruit. Put all into a porcelain kettle, heat slowly, and skim as soon as it boils ; then stir in half a cujd of sugar, and skim again ; cook over a slow fire five minutes. If red raspberries are used (and they are excellent), take two quarts of water and two-thirds of a cup of sugai’, to five quails of mixed fruit. Raspberry and Currant Juice.=|= Prepare the berries and currants as in the preceding rec- ipe, and when they begin to boil stew slowly three to five minutes ; then strain through a coarse cloth. Return to the kettle, add the sugar, and heat gradually till the liquid boils ; skim if there is need. If not wanted for immediate use, put it into glass cans boiling hot, and set in a dark place. This juice makes a good sauce for grains, mushes, plain puddings, etc. Gooseberries. =|= Goosebemes, like other fruits, are best ripe, or nearly so; if stewed when beginning to turn red, they are excellent. Remove the stems and blossoms, and wash thoroughly ; put them into a fruit-kettle, and allow two quarts of cold water for every six quarts of hemes. Heat slowly to boiling, and skim ; then add two cups of sugar, cook five minutes, and either put the fruit into cans or set it off to cool. If the ben'ies are sufficiently ripe, the juice will be a delicate pink[part n. m HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. color, and very fine in flavor ; if they are rather green, cook a few minutes longer (never too fast), and use a little more sugar. In eating this sauce, jiersons of weak digestion should not swallow the skins ; the better way, however, would be to remove them by rubbing the fruit through a colander before sending it to the table. Gooseberries for Pies.=|= GoosebeiTies canned when they are beginning to ripen, make excellent pies in winter. For this purpose, prepare and stew as in the jireceding recipe, except that less water is needed ; three pints of water to six quarts of fniit will be enough ; put into cans, boding hot. If, on oiiening, there is more juice than is needed, drain off the top ; it will make a good drink ; or it can be used as a sauce for mushes. AVhen you make into pies, add a little more sugar—say a spoonful to each pie. Gooseberry Juice. =|= Look over the fruit, but do not stem it; the stems and blossoms will strain out with the skins. Wash and stew' as in the last recipe but one ; then strain through a colander, add the sugar, and heat slowdy to a bod. If not wanted for present use, put the juice into cans, and open as it is needed. A good way for winter use is to cook the fruit, SAveeten, and put it into cans Avithout straining ; you can strain through a colander when you open it. There is a double advantage in this method ; it saves all the trouble of strain- ing during the busy season of fruit-canning, and the juice is not so apt to be discolored if put through the colander ('oM. Earthen colanders of fire-proof ware, Avould be lietter than tin ; the tin ones, even when ncAv, will discolor most215 PART II. J PRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. acid fruits ; and they are still more objectionaLlq after being used a season. Gooseberry juice is much hked as a beverage for the sick, particularly when something som- is wanted ; it is also used as a dressing for grains and mushes. Black Morello Cheeries.=4= The black morello is the richest cherry we have, not only for stewing and canning, but also for pies. Wash the fruit and look it over carefully, throwing out any wormy cherries, and putting those that are knotty into a separate dish to seed. The perfect ones ai’e better with the seeds left in ; the flavor is liner, and if canned for Avinter use the cherries keep better. Put into a porcelain kettle two cpiarts of cold water to five quarts of prepared fruit; skim when it begins to boil, add one cup of sugar, and cook slowly three or four minutes. Too much cooking makes the cherries insijnd. i\I AY Cherries. =1= Wash and look over as in the last recipe, leaving the seeds in. StcAv in the same way, except that less sugar and Avater are needed ; to five quarts of picked fruit, three pints of cold Avater and nearly one cup of sugar Avill be ample; and if tlie clierides are particularly juicy, take less water by at least one pint. If intended for canning the seeds should be removed, as they give an unpleasant flavor to the fruit, after a time. The English morello is fine stcAved in the same Avay. The very sweet varieties of cherries are rather tasteless Avhen cooked. Cherries for Pies.=|}= The black morello is the best cheiTy for pics, as Avell as for sauce, though the Ma}' cherry is very good. Wash, look OA^er carefully, and seed ; to five quarts of seeded cheirries, add (if morello) two quarts of cold water andIlEALTlI IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 216 [PAUT ir. two full cups of sugar. If IMay cherries are used, take three pints of water and one lieajiing cup of sugar. When the fruit is fairly boiling, can it, and set it away for Avinter use. Cheri'ies grown in some latitudes are more juicy, and therefore require a little less Avater. Blackbereies. =1= Select fruit not too ripe—it should be a little firm to the touch—and see that it is recently gathered. Stale black- berries turn a dull red color, and are frequently mistaken for undenipe fruit; if eaten in this state Avithout cooking, they often cause cholera morbus. If bought in the city markets, look them over carefully ; then stew in a porcelain kettle, allowing three pints of cold Avater to every five quarts of fruit. As soon as it begins to boil, skim ; then add three- foui-ths of a cup of sugar, and if necessary skim again ; when the kettle is fairly boiling remove from the fire, or put the fruit into cans. If intended for pies, make less juicy ; one quart of Avater to five quarts of berries, Avould be plenty. Blackberry Juice. =|= Prepare and cook as in the recipe just given, except that you strain through a cloth before adding the sugar ; then heat slowly to a boil, and remove the juice from the fire. If Avanted for A\dnter use, put it into cans, boiling hot. This juice makes an excellent dressing for mushes, or plain pud- dings Grapes. 4= Grapes, to be finely flavored when cooked, should be of the very best quality, and fully ripe. Wash in a colander, and then strip from the stems, throwing out all the faulty ones. Put them into a fruit-kettle, Avith nearly enough water to cover ; a good rule, is two quarts of AAmter to six quarts of stripped grapes; if barely ripe, take a little lessPART II. J 217 FHUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. water ; no su"ar is needed. Skim when they begin to boil, and cook slowly live minutes; then remove from the tire, or put into cans. For grapes, plums, blackberries, etc., take a ivooden pad- dle to stir or push down the frait Avhen it threatens to boil over ; iron spoons discolor it, and should not be used. Grape Juice. =|= Simple gi'ape juice, strange to say, is a thing of compar- atively recent manufacture. In St. Louis, where for many years grapes have been grown in great abundance, this ex- cellent beverage was unheard of until about the yeai’ 1872, when it was prepared by the hygienists. AMien the grapes are at their best for eating, they are just right for juice. Prepare as in the preceding recij^e, heating doivUj, and skimming weU; and when the whole mass is boiling hot, strain through a cloth. If a colander is used an earthen one is best, as tin discolors the liquid ; when no more juice will -run through, put the seeds and skins into a coarse linen bag, or one of ordinary cheese- cloth, and express the remainder ; a jelly-squeezer would answer, but it is sure to discolor, more or less. Add no sugar. The less the fruit (or juice) is cooked, the brighter the color and the better the flavor ; like all small or tender fruits, it is injured by long or rapid boiling ; the color be- comes dark, and the fine fresh flavor is gone. After you have done straining and squeezing, put aU the li(|uid l)ack into the kettle, let it come slowly to a boil, and then remove from the fire or seal in cans. This juice put into glass cans or bottles, boiling hot, will keep well for a year, jyrovided it stays in a cool dark placic. With a bit of ice (or better, cooled in the ice-chest) it makes a fine drink in summer ; and in all seasons it is a gi-atcful beverage, for the sick or well. Served witli currant scone, fruit roll, or Graham fruit cake, it is excellent, and when of IQ[part II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 218 rather thick consistency, it makes a very good sauce for mushes. In preparing grape juice for a beverage, it is best to strain it through flannel or cheese-cloth, instead of through a colander. A thin mushn, as that used for floui’-sacks, will do ; this gives the clear j nice, with very little jJulp. Mixed Juices. Very fine beverages and sauces are made, by mixing two or more varieties of small fiaiits in any proportion desii'ed, and then cooking and straining as in the preceding recipes. Strawberries and cherries make an excellent combination ; so do raspberries and cherries, or raspbemes and currants. Huckleberries. Like most small fruits, huckleberries, if perfect, are best in theii’ natural state. But after being shipped to distant points they are often in such a condition as to require cooking. Stew the same as blackberries, Avith little or no sugar. They may be put into glass cans (never in tin), and kept for pies or sauce in winter. Cranberries. =H= In buying cranberries see that they are sound ■ and in. looking them over throw out all the very soft ones, and any that are affected with “ dry rot,” as these are extremely bitter. After washing, put them into a iiorcelain kettle, and add about three pints of cold water to two quails of soiled fruit. This rule is subject to slight variations, some varieties being less juicy than others ; a beiTy not so juicy Avould need more water, almost as much as there is fruit. 8kim as soon as the kettle begins to boil, and stir well Then let it Iml slowh/ from twenty to thii*ty minutes ; take from the fire, press the berries through a colander to remove the skins, and add one cup of sugar. Eeturn the sauce to219 P.VKT II. J FRUITS x\.ND FRUIT JUICES. the kettle, and simmer till hot ; then set it away in a cool place. If the berries are very ripe, more water and less sugar will be needed; say two-thii’ds of a cup of sugai’ and three and a half pints of water, to two quarts of sound fruit. Cranbemes may be canned for winter use, the same as other small fruits. Or, they may be kept under water in a cool place ; they are said to keep in this way nearly or quite aU winter. The water .should be changed occasionally, and the vessel containing it should stand in a clean, cool place, well ventilated. Dried Apples. =|= Ajijiles of first-rate quality, properly diied and cooked, ai'e both good tasting and good looking ; the pieces, whole and jierfect, ai’e light in color, and the juice that surrounds them is rich and palatable. Unfortunately, the article in our markets is not of the kind here described ; the apples (and peaches for that matter) selected for tliis purpose, are gen- er;iUy the very poorest the orcihard affords ; knotty, gnarled, inferior in flavor, and often groAvn in the shade ; and not un- frequently they are half rotted in the process of drying. Instead of the beautifid fruit that used to come from the country dry-house, all in large white quarters, we see a dark mass of scrapjiy-looking apples, full of cores and other im- perfections. Tlie first thing, then, is to pick over the fruit carefully, trimming off any burnt edges or other defective portions ; then wash quicldy in cold water, rubbing the pieces well with the fingers, and lifting them into a separate vessel ; if not thorouglily cleansed, wash again in the same way. Then put them into a clean fruit-kettle, nearly cover with Imliiig water, and cook rather fast till toleraldy soft. Apples that are recently and quich'bj dried, as with steam, will usually cook in half an hour ; but if old or dried in the sun, it mayHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT II. 220 take from one to two houi’s’ fast boiling, to make them ten- der. If cooked too long, however, they will be tasteless. When about half done, more boiling water will probably be needed ; but do not add too much, lest you spoil their flavor. Just before lifting from the fire, put in (if they require it) enough boiling water to make them pretty juicy. If new, steam-dried, and cut in quarters or eighths, the following rule is a good one : Over two quarts of aj^ples, trimmed and washed, pour three quarts of boding water ; cook pretty fast twenty minutes ; then add one quart of water, boihng hot, and cook ten to fifteen minutes longer. If managed just right they will be of a bright color, and rich in flavor. Set them away in the kettle to cool, with the hd off; and in lifting into the fruit-dish for the table, be care- ful not to break the pieces. When the apples are of poor quality, a handful of raisins stewed with them is sometimes an imj)rovement. Duied Peaches and Plums.=||= These are prepared and stewed the same as dried apples ; if cut thin they may require a little less time to cook, and also less water. Deied Peaches. =jf= Look the peaches over, one at a time, throwing out any worthless pieces, and trimming the defective ones with a sharp knife. If unpeeled, wash them through two or throe waters, and rub well with the fingers to remove the down. Start in boiling water, and stew rather fast till tender; if steam-dried, they will usually cook in about twenty-five minutes. Tliey swell less than apples in stewing, and there- fore require a little less water; about two measures of un- cooked peaches, to three of water. Have them just soft, when done; too much cooking or too much fluid, gives the fruit a washed-out taste. The juice, of which there must221 FRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. PART II.] be plenty, should be of a clear amber color, mild in flavor, but good and rich; it is an excellent dressing for mushes. Peeled dried peaches require more juice -when finished than the unpeeled ; so do dried apricots; one measure of fruit to two of water is about right. In cooking the apricots, simmer slowly nearly two hours, or until quite soft. Prunes. =1= See that there are no wormy or imjierfect ones; then wash the prunes through two waters vei'y thoroughly, rub- l)ing them weU with the fingers. If this is not done care- fully, the juice will be dark and muddy-looking; it should be clear in color, not dai'ker than the juice of fine dried peaches. It is often the slovenly j^ueparing that makes (h’ied fruit so unsightly, and so little relished. Stew the same as peaches, allowing three pints of boiling water to a quart of prunes; they wiU cook in twenty-five to thirty minutes. This fruit is greatly improved in flavor by adding a handful of tart dried plums, before stewing; some use instead, a sliced lemon, first removing the rind and seeds; it should be put in when the pinnes are about done. Dried Plums.=|= Dried plums of some varieties, are very good; they are cooked the same as prunes. If quite tart, a little sugar may be added before taking them from the fire. The very tart varieties are excellent mixed with prunes, allowing one part plums to three or four parts prunes. Dried Cherries. These are prepared and cooked the same as plums, ex- cejit that they stew in shorter time; start in boiling water, and take from the fire as soon as done, or they wiU be in- sipid. They usually cook in ten or fifteen minutes.222 [part II. HE/VJLTU IN THE HOUHEHOLD. Other small fruits (dried), as raspberries, cuiTants, black- berries, etc., ai’e done in the same way. Ilasjilierries and currants are best stewed together; and a few dried black- berries stewed with dried apples, are said to be good. Prunes and Plums.4= Take one measure of tart dried plums, and three or fom’ of jirunes; then look them over carefully, wash well, and stew together till done; they will cook in liidf an horn’. The sauce made from this combination is rather tart, but very agreeable to the taste. Allow thi-ee pints water to a quart of mixed fruit; no sugar is needed. Sweet Curr.ants.=|= Inspect very closely, as there are often small flinty stones packed in with the fruit; break uji the lumps that stick to- gether, and throw out wdiat is imperfect. Put the currants into a basin of water, wash with the hands, rubbing well, and lift them out into another vessel; this wdll allow an}’- sediment or stones to sink to the bottom. Then turn them into a colander, and ivaali thoroughly, till clean; put them into a fruit-kettle, add a moderate quantity of boiling water (too much in the staid weakens the flavor), and stew gently, thirty-five minutes. If not juicy enough, put in more bod- ing water, just before finishing. A good rule is the follow- ing: To a quart of currants, picked over and w’ashed, add to start with, tw^o quarts of boiling water, and cook moder- ately twenty minutes; then add one pint more (boiling), and stew fifteen minutes longer. You may try them once or rtvice, toward the last; and the moment they are tender, remove from the fire; too much cooking spoils them. Let them stand till perfectly cold before sending to the table. If well managed the juice Avill be clear, but rich in color and fine in flavor. This is an excellent sauce for mushes, and particularly good for corn mush.FRUITS AND FRUIT JUICES. 223 PART II. J Raisins. Pick from the stems, tin-owing out imperfect raisins; then •wash, and stew in a moderate cpiantity of water, allowing, say, two and a half jiints cold water to every pint of picked fruit. Stew from forty to fifty minutes, or till tender, and let there be plenty of juice when done. If this sauce is too sweet, peel and slice in a lemon after taldng it from the fire. In the absence of lemons, a handful of dried red cui-rants may be cooked with the raisins. OlUVNGES. Oranges if perfect, ai*c a wholesome and finely flavored fruit; but as a rule, they are not easily digested with other fruits. They ai'e therefore best eaten by themselves; that is, between meals—or they may be sei-ved as a dessert, pro^ vided no other fruits fonn a part of the repast. Lemons. Lemons are so extremely acid, that, dieteticaUy speaking, they take the place of a condiment rather than a food. Like oranges, they form a better combination Avith vege- tables than Avith fruits; and they make a fine dressing, either for vegetables or meats. Lemon juice diluted Avith Avater, is often taken on an empty stomach for disordered liver. Bananas. Bananas (for weak stomachs at least) are best not eaten Avith other fmits. In fact, dieteticaUy considered, they be- long, like melons and tomatoes, Avith vegetables rather than Avith fruits. They are best eaten at the beginning of the meal, as they are rather hearty.[part II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 224 POMAKIUS. “ This is a very delicate jelly, formed from the expressed juice of tai*t apples, sound and ripe, with no admixture of sugar or gelatine. The fresh juice is filtered through a thick flannel cloth, and quickly evajiorated, by gently heat- ing it in jiorcelain pans to the consistency of a heavy jeUy. From ten gallons of juice, one gallon of Pomarius is pro- duced. It is found to keep uninjured through the hot sea- son, without being sealed. It iinjiaiis a delicious flavor to all the cereals, and forms a gi-ateful beverage when diluted with water.” This recipe is taken from Dr. Trail’s “Hygeian Home Cook-Book.” DRINKS FOR THE SICK. In preparing fruit di'inks, let none but sound fruit be used. Look it over carefully, and if not perfectly clean, wash through a colander—except raspberries and black- berries, which, being too soft to wash, must be “ taken on trust.” Cook in a vessel that is porcelain-lined, or made of granitized iron ; and if the water used in stewing is not soft, or is saturated with mud, boil thoroughly, and settle till clear. After these drinlis are made set them in the re- frigerator, or in a vessel of ice-water, and cool to the proper temperature; if they are too concentrated, dilute with a little pui’e water. Currant Juice.=|= Allow nearly a quart of water and two tablespoonfuls of sugar, to a full quart of currants stripped from the stems; heat slowly to a boil in a porcelain kettle, and skim. Then simmer five minutes, strain through a cloth, and cool. There is no finer drink for the sick than this; it can bePART II.] DRINKS FOR THE SICK. 225 diluted with water if necessary, and a little more or less sugar used, to suit the taste. Str.vwberry Juice.=||= Add half a pint of water and a tahlespoonful of sugai’, to one quart of capped strawbeiries. Put into a porcelain kettle and heat, skimming when it boils; then stew slowly, hve to seven minutes. Strain and cool; if too rich, dilute with water. This is an excellent drink. Gii^vPE Juice. =11= Select the best of grapes, not overrijie; then jirepare and stew in a porcelain kettle, allowing one pint of water to three pints of fruit, jiicked from the stems. When it comes to a boil, skim it; then simmer slowly five minutes, and strain through a clean flannel cloth or a cotton cheese-cloth. Heat again almost to boiling, remove from the fire, and cool. As a mild sub-acid chink, this is gi’eatly relished. Gooseberry Juice. =§= Select sound berries, fresh from the garden, and about half or two-thirds ripe—pale red benies, not very soft. To a pint of these, picked and washed, add one pint of water, and two tablespoonfuls of sugar. Then heat to a boil in a ])orcelain kettle, skim well, cook five minutes, and strain tlirough a cloth; let the juice stand till it is cold, and drain off the clear pink fluid, leaving the more pulpy portion in the bottom of the vessel. If necessary, dilute with water before serving. Red Raspberry Juice. To one quart of fruit allow a pint of water, and a table- spoonful of sugar; stew moderately (in a porcelain kettle) five minutes, and strain through a cloth. Dilute with water if necessary, and give to the patient when cold. 10*HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part II. 220 Black Easpberry Juice. IVIake as in the preceding, only leave out the sugar. This is often given to childi-en for looseness of the bowels; though the expressed juice (uncooked) of berries fresh from the garden, is quite as good. Blackberry Juice. To a qiiai*t of sound fruit add a pint of water, and stew without sugar; strain and cool. This also is used for lax- ness or diarrhea—and so is the fresh juice of the beiTy. Apple Juice.=4= Pare, core and quarter rich, juicy apples, as pippins, with a tart or sub-acid flavor, and start to cooking in water enough to make plenty of sjwup; a few slices of quince may be added, if the flavor is liked. Then simmer gently one hour, or tiU the fruit is quite soft; when cold di’ain off the juice. No sugar -udll be needed, unless the ajiples are very sour. Tlie juices of canned fruits, diluted with water, make good drinks for the sick, 2^rovided they ai'e put up with lit- tle or no sugar. Dried Apple Juice.=|= Prepare and stew good rich apples, rather tart, allowing water enough to make them quite juicy. After the apples arc done lift off the lid, and let them stand in the juice tiU it is cold; tlien drain it off, diluting with water if necessary. This makes a very agreeable drink. If wanted in haste, pour boiling water on the raw fruit, sliced, and let it stand a few minutes; then drain off, cool, and sei^’e. Dried Peach Juice. Select good fi*uit, free from gum; the peeled peaches are best. Prepare and stew as for sauce, aUowung iflenty ofPART II.] DRINKS FOR THE SICK. ‘2‘27 ^i’ater for juice when done; cool, and dilute to suit the taste. Tart dried plums may be used instead of peaches. Cr.\nberry Juice. Take fine ripe berries, perfectly sound, wash them, add as much water as there is fruit, and stew slowly till soft. Then strain, sweeten to taste, and dilute with water if necessary. Cool before serving. Cold Lemonade.=|= Select lemons that are sound and ripe; the taste of the f/reen fruit is intolerable. The Messina lemons are best in flavor, and full of juice. Eemove the rind, and either slice them or use the lemon-squeezer; put in very little sugar; for some patients, none. Add pure cold water—ice-water if you have it—diluting to suit the taste. If the flavor of the rind is liked, wash the lemons, clip off the ends, and slice thin, removing the seeds; then add the sugar, and fill up with ice-water. Stir well, and after a few minutes, serve. Hot Lemonade.=|= Roll the lemon, cut it in halves, and squeeze the juice into a tumbler; or you may remove the rind, and use the lemon-squeezer. Fill up with hot water, and serve without sweetening. Orangeade. =1= This is made the same as lemonade, using good tari oranges. Raw Fruit Drinks.=|= A very fine drink is made by squeezing the juice from ripe strawberries, and diluting it with cold water; add a trifle of sugar, if desired. Cherries, currants, grapes, and228 [part II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. other small fniits, can be used in the same way; the grapes if ripe, need no sugar. Or you may peel a pine-apple, slice it very thin, and if desired spriiikle on a little sugar. Add enough ice-water to cover the fruit, and set it in the refrigerator an hour or two; then add more water, diluting to suit the taste. Drain, and serve. Tamarind Water. Soak tamarinds in cold water an hour; then pour off the water, strain it, and serve. Good dried apples, rather tart, may be steeped in the same way; and so may prunelles. Apple Tea. Peel tart apples, as pippins or bellflowers, slice very thin, and pour boiling water over them; wdien cold, pour off the water. If preferred, stew in considerable water, strain through a cloth, and then cool and settle; a very httle sugar may be added, if desired. Cranberry Tea. Take ripe cranberries, perfectly sound, mash thoroughly, and pour boiling water over them; let the mixture stand a few minutes, or till cold; then strain off the water, and sweeten to taste. Good tart apples, scraped, and treated in the same way, may be used; and so may dried sour currants, or dried red raspberries. Toast Water. =|= Take Graham bread that is two or tlu’ee days old, but perfectly sweet; the unleavened is best; cut it in thin slices, and toast slowly and evenly till thoroughly dry, and well browned; do not on any account scorch it. Then pour over pure cold water, let it stand an hour, and drain off the water for a drink. Stale loaf bread, home-made (of Gra-PART II.] FOODS FOR THE SICK. 220 liani or white flour), may also he used. If this drink is made with hard water, the latter should he first hoiled, and then allowed to cool and settle. -Another way to prepare toast water, is to have the toast ready, tiU a small pitcher with boiling water, and drop the slices into it; then cool, and set in the refrigerator till wanted. If liked, you may parch wheat, corn, harley, rice, or any of the grains, pour over boiling water, and let the mixtime steep half an hour; the grain should he sound, and well washed and dried before parching. Serve the drink wai*m or cold, without sweetening. Barley "Water. Over a third of a teacupful of fresh pearl barley, poui’ half a pint of boiling water, and let it simmer five minutes; then drain off and throw away this licpiid. Now add two cpiarts of boiling water, and let it boil until it is reduced one-half. Strain, and use without sweetening. Oat Water.=|= Into two quarts of cold water, stir a single handful of fresh oat meal; let it stand fifteen to twenty minutes, or longer. Pour off the water as it is wanted, and serve. FOODS FOR THE SICK. When persons are sick with fever, or other acute disease, there is usually little need of food—the rule being, the kss the hefhT. In long-running diseases, however, as tjqihoid or other low fevers, and in all convalescing cases, more or less food should be given. In the hygienic dietary, there is an abundant variety of wholesome articles to select from. Cooked fiTiits and fruit juices, dry toast, wheat meal crisps, the hard roll, plain boiled rice, oat meal mush, baked po-230 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART II. t.ito,—these, and other plain dishes, furnish an ample variety of the more substantial foods. Some of the raxo fmits, also, as rijie grapes, strawberries, peaches, etc., are very ac- ceptable to the sick. AVhen the patient is too weak for much solid food, and yet feels the need of “ a little some- thing,” selections may be made from the following recipes. Oat Meal Gruel. =|= Over three tablespoonfuls of fresh oat meal pour half a cup of cold water, and stir it well; add a pint and a half of boiling water, and stir thoroughly. Strain through a tea- strainer, or a coarse cloth; if neither is at hand, let the mixture stand two or three minutes; then drain off all the fluid portion, leaving the coai’ser part of the meal in the Oottom of the vessel. Set that which is drained off, over the fire, and stir till it boils; cook ten minutes, and skim. Oat Meal Gruel. Into one quart of boiling water, stir a tablespoonful of oat meid ; boil thirty minutes, and strain through a tea- strainer, or a thin (rloth. Or, you may omit the straining, and cook fifteen minutes longer. This method of makiii'i- takes less meal than in the preceding recipe. Corn Meal Gruel. =jf= Stir a tablespoonful of corn meal into a quart of boiling water, and cook half an hour; stir frequently, and do not scorch the giniel. The meal should be rather fine, and per- fectly fresh. Wheat Meal Gruel. =|= Stir two tablespoonfuls of wheat meal into a quart of boihng water, and cook fifteen minutes without scorching; add the meal very slowly, to avoid lumping. AVhen done, strain through a thin cloth, or fine strainer.PART n.J 2:n POODS FOR THE SICE. Rice Gruel. Look over and wash two tablespoonfuls of rice, and put it into a quart of cold water; set Avhere it will cook moder- ately, and stir or shake at intervals to keep it from sticking. After it begins to boil, cook half an hour; then squeeze through a coarse cloth, or strain through a fine colandei*, mashing the rice with a spoon to press out the fluid. If wanted on short notice, start the rice in boiling .water, and cook till soft ; or soak it beforehand, and boil in the water used for soaking, it will cook in twenty minutes. Rice Musii.=j(= Cook the same as for rice gruel (except the straining), and serve without seasoning. Dry Toast. =1= Take cold-water loaf bread, or leavened Graham bread, two or three days old, and slice it thin; toast slowly to an even In'oicn, leaving the bread free from moisture, and with no burnt edges. It should be eaten dry. Potato Soup.=|= Wash and pare two or three potatoes of medium size; they must be of good quality, and not the least bit sun- burnt; quarter, or cut in thick pieces, but do not slice them. Drop into a pot containing one quart of boiling Avater, cover, and cook fast thirty to forty minutes, stin'ing fre- quently to break up the lumps. If in that time the water has thickened sufficiently, strain through a fine colander, and serve warm. But if after boiling the soup should be too thin, skim out the lumps, mash fine, and return to the kettle; boil a few minutes longer, and then strain. If Avanted on short notice, slice the potatoes as thin as possible, and boil rapidly twenty minutes, with occasional stirring. Then strain, and seiwe.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. m [part II. Dried Peach Soup. Look over, trim, and wash carefully a handful or two of good peaches ; then put them in a porcelain kettle, add enough boiling water to make them quite juicy, and stew moderately till tender. Remove from the fire as soon as done. If there is not sufficient juice at the last, or if what there is looks dark and tastes strong, add a little boiliug water. If the soup is not wanted immediatel}', set the fruit away till cold. When ready to make, take a cup one-third full of cooked peaches, and fill it A^'ith the juice; put this into a small fruit-kettle or tin basin, and set it on the stove. Then add nearly as much boiling water as there is juice; make a little thickening by mixing a teaspoonfid of flour with two tablespoonfuls of cold milk or water, and stir it in. After the soup begins to boil, cook five minutes ; then cool to about blood heat, and serve. FOODS FOR INFANTS. The best food for a babe is its mother’s milk, provided she is in good health. When the mother can not nurse her child, the best substitute is a health}’^ wet-nurse. If the lat- ter is not to be obtained, take the milk of one cow, in healthy condition and properly fed; avoid that of any ani- mal fed on slops or SAvills, as it is not only injurious to the child, but actually poisonous. For the new-born babe, get if possible the milk of a/ms7t cow; and at all times let the age of the calf correspond very nearly to that of the child. The milk should be given as it comes from the cow (the newer, the better), undiluted with water, and Avithout sweetening; if cold, it must be warmed to blood heat. When coAv’s milk can not be had, goat’s will answer, pro- vided the animal is well fed, and healthy. If the infant takes the bottle, always have two on hand, so that one can be cleansed and SAveetened, while the other is filled. ThePART II,] 233 FOODS FOR INFANTS. black rubber nipple is said to be better for tlie cliild than the white. If milk of good quality can not be secui'ed, then make a gruel of either oat or Avheat meal; the grain should of course be the very best, well cleaned, and pro2:>erly ground. The meal too must be fresh, and not very coarse; jirejiare according to the recijies ah’eady given, only make the gruel a little thinner, and cook neiuiy twice as long; strain care- fully. Never give to a babe arrow-root, white crackers, or other concentrated foods; these jiroduce constijiation, and other derangements of the alimentary canal. Most of the arti- ficial foods that are manufactured esjieciaUy for infants, tend to constii:)ate. AVhen there is that condition of the bowels, it is often coixected by giving a little of the juice of ripe cooked fruits, as strawberries, ajiples, yieaches, gravies, etc. ; the juice of cooked dried fruits, as apples, peaches or jirunes, may also be given. As the child grows, and the bones and teeth develop, it is a good i)lan, where it is “ raised by hand,” to give milk and oat me;d gmel mixed, half and half. Kice cooked soft and mixed with milk, is also good. Many young children die annually in our cities from being fed on swill milk, and the milk of slop-fed cows; and many persons of all ages die from eating fniits and vege- tables that are stale. Not a few nursing children are killed indirectly, by the same things; the mother eats the stale material, and the child suffers from it. Another cause of sickness among children, is overfeeding. A young infant, whether it nurses or takes the bottle, does not require to be fed oftener than once in two or three hours—some say a longer time; and after it is three months old, once in four or five hours is sufficient. Nursing frequently through the night, is a bad jiractice, both for mother and child. It is indeed questionable whether a babe that nurses the last[part II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 234 tiling at night, really needs anything more until morning. The truth is, more children die from overfeeding, than from defective nutrition. PRESERVING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. Fruits and vegetables may be preserved hygienicaUy by drying, by refrigeration, and by canning; and recently, -a process which may be called evaporation, has been applied to fruit juice in the making of jelly. Drying Fruits. In the drjdng of fruits, much of theii’ fine flavor escapes by evaporation; and that method is of coui’se the best, which, while it most facilitates the dr^'ing process, is least wasteful of their natural juices. What is known as “Bos- well’s Heater and Drier,” is constructed with this idea in view; and the fruit dried in it is said to be ahnost as fine in flavor as when gathered from the tree. The “ Alden ” jiroc- ess is also recommended; it certainly does its work rapidly, and the apples look well. But it has been questioned whether their flavor is iierfectly preserved ; whether in slicing them so exceedingly thin, a large per cent, of it may not be lost by evaporation, and the fruit rendered insipid. On the other hand, that dried wholly in the sunshine is cured so slowly, and is so much exposed to currents of air, that it loses by long-continued evaporation, much of its nutritive value. A good plan Avith soft, juicy fruit, is to set it into a hot oven, and heat through before imtting it in the sunshine. This starts the juice, and a film forms on the surface of it, which holds in solution the nutrient particles until they are absorbed in the more solid meshes of the fruit. Peaches dried in this Avay are very rich, and fine- flavored. Small fruits, as berries, cherries, etc., are good dried in the following Avay: Put them on old plates or earthen pie-PART II.] PRESERVING I'RUITS AND VEGETABLES. 235 pans, sprinkle a little siij^ar over, and set in the oven till fairly heated through; then hiiish ar’ound the stove, or on shelves above it. As the drying proceeds, stir occasionally, and let the juices that have escaped be reabsorbed. If there is a hot sun, the fruit after it is heated in the oven, may be sot outside to dx*y under fine wire screens, which will keep flies and other insects from it. All fruit that is dried in the ojien air, should be thorouglily heated before it is packed away; this will prevent it from getting wonny. \pples that are tart enough to cook to pieces and make a smooth sauce, may be stewed in as little water as possible, then spread on plates, and dried in an oven or dry-house. AVhen soaked, make into pies, or use for sauce. Peaches and other pulpy fruits, can be dried in the same way. None but the liest rpiality of fruit should be reserved for drying, and it should not be overripe. Drying Vegetables. Some vegetables arc veiw good gathered while green, and dried for winter use; among these are garden peas, Lima lieans, and other shell beans. They must be gathered and dried before they begin to ripen—or when they are just right for the table. Peas especially, if too ripe, lose their sweetness and fine flavor. Green corn is excellent drted as follows: Take ears that are young and tender, either the evergreen, or the white (or yellow) flint; boil ten minutes, or until the milk sets; then split the grains with a sharp knife, and scrape out the corn, leaving the hulls on the cob. Spreiid it on plates, and dry, either in an oven or dry-house, or in the hot sun; stir well from time to time. Be sure it does not sour in the process; when dried in the sun, a good plan is to set the corn, already scraped out, into a prettx' hot oven, and scald or “ cook ” it before finishing out of doors. To prevent its getting wormy, heat thoroughly before putting it away; this[part n. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD, 236 will kill the ova, that may have been deposited by flies. Im- mediately after heating, put it where the flies can not touch it. You can tie it securely in paper bags, and hang in a dry, dark place; or you may put it into stone jars, filling them within an inch of the top, and then tie over each a pajier or cloth, free from holes, and tightly stretched. Corn may also be prepared for drying in this way: With a thin sharj) knife shave off the tiji ends of the grain, and throw them away; then slice very thin, until three-fourths of the corn is removed from the cob, and scrape out the remainder with a dull knife; this leaves the harsher jiaid of the huU on the cob. Put the corn in pans, and dry as before. Sweet potatoes are sometimes dried for winter use as follows: First boil them in very little water, or steam until tender; remove the skins with any defects, slice rather thin, and dry in an oven or dry-house. Pumpkins are dried for pies in winter, in the following manner: Prepare and stew, as in the recipe heretofore given, until a smooth sauce is made; it should be pretty dry when done. Then spread evenly in rather a thin sheet, on a smooth board. Dry before a fire, or in the hot sun. It must be soaked over night in a little water, before using. Pumpkins of fine texture and thoroughly rijie, are some- . times simply cut in slices, and dried the same as apples; when you make into pies, soak the dried pieces over night in just enough water to cover them; then mash fine before mixing the batter. Evaporating Fruit Juices. This is a new process, but one that deserves the attention of hygienists. If by rapidly evaporating the more watery portions, we can presei^-e the juices of fruits with all their delicate flavors, and make them available at all seasons of the year, it is indeed a most valuable aid, and one thatPART II.] PRESERVING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. 237 should he better understood. The following extract, cliiiped from a daily pajier and talcen from the New York Journal of Commerce, is evidently a mere fragment of an aidicle on this subject: “ As the juice ran fresh from the apples, before it could begin to ferment, it was conducted in a pipe to a lai'ge open evaporating-pan over a rude brick fiumace. The cider flowed steadily in a stream into one end of the pan, which was some ten or twelve feet long, meandering through the compartments; it boded as it progressed, and foamed up at the fui'ther end, where it was drawn off and poui’ed into clean new wooden tubs and jiRils (made on the spot), and became a cleiu*, solid claret-colored jelly, without addition of sugar or anything else. It is a method of utdizing cider, reducing it to a form which well repays long transpoidation to niiU’ket; and it adds to the city table a luxiuy fully equal to expensive jellies, at a very low price. The jeUy is sold at the factory for about a doUar a gallon in the package. This is a simple!’, cheaper, and more remunerative, as well as more useful product of apples, than cider brandy; and I marvel now at the orchards loaded with fruit, which I saw two years ago, and this year in New Hampshire, rotting ungathered because it would not pay to pick them. They told me at this cider-mill, that they were paying eight to twelve cents a bushel for apples delivered at the mill. The most accessible railway station is eighteen miles distant, at Shelburne Falls, in Massachusetts. I recommend apple jelly, made without sugar or gelatine, as a capital addition to good mutton.” A process similar to this, if not identicfd with it, is that ah’eady described in the making of an article called “ Po- marius,” under the head of Fruits and Fruit Juices. By this process it would seem that making fruit jellies without the addition of sugar, is not only possible, but (in the near future certainly) practicable.238 HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PjVKT II. Reerigeeation. Fniits and vegetables can be kept for a long time in a room attached to an ice-house, where the temperatui’e will not rise above or fall below forty degrees, Fahrenheit. The passage leading to it should have two or more doors to ex- clude the external aii\ But the method of preserving which is most resorted to, because it is within the reach of aU, is that of sealing in ail-tight jars or cans. Fruits, vegetables, and even meats, are perfectly kept in this way. CANNING FRUITS, Etc.+ By this process, fruits of all kinds may be preserved with or without sugar, by simply stewing them, and sealing, boiling hot, in tin or glass cans from which the air has been excluded. They will keep a year in good condition, losing very little of their fine flavor. General Directions. A day or two before you commence canning for the sea- son, look over all the jars,* covers, etc., and see that they are clean and in order. If the kettles, colander, funnel and other utensils have given out, they must be replaced with new ones. And if some of the jars require sealing-wax, have that on hand, together with a supply of clean tin covers, and the wires that hold them in place. If bottles are to be used, look to the corks; see that they fit well, and are aU clean. Select kettles that are the right size for your stove, and well made; the porcelain-lined are best; those made of granitized iron ^viU answer, though they are so thin that the fruit is apt to scorch in the bottom. Lids made of this material are better than tin, as they do not * The terms, “can,” and “jar," are used interchangeably.PART II.] CANNING FRUITS, ETC. 239 corrode. You will need a funnel and dijiper of the same wai’e; or the latter may be porcelain. Do not use cans made of tin; acid fruits coiTode it, and are jioisoned by it. Besides, much of the tin now made contains large quantities of lead; and this being easily cor- roded is doubly poisonous. Even stone ware is not to be relied on; its surface is usually full of small holes, render- ing it porous; and a gi’eat deal of this ware is lined with lead-glaze, rendering its use dangerous. Grood glass jars are the best, and in the end the cheapest; the “ Mason,” the “ Hero,” and the “ Gem,” have aU been used; the Mason especially, has been a great favorite; but some of recent make are not to be compared with the older jars; the glass is thin and poor, and some of the covers tit badly, owing to the defective finish of the cans. The best materijil for covers, as well as jars, is glass; if they are made of zinc, they should be porcelain-hned. The jars, to be well made, should be of good glass, uniform in thickness, and of sufficient weight; the covers also should be perfectly fitted. "Wdien the fruit is emptied from the cans, the covers and mbbers should be carefully washed, dried, and put away for another season; the rubbers ought not to stand in veiy hot water, as it spoils them. Zinc covers that have been used, must be rubbed with sapolio and water till clean and smooth, and then thoroughly rinsed and dried. Any cans to which covers can not be perfectly fitted, should be set aside; you can sometimes fill them for temporary use, in case you run short of good ones. If tin cans are used, the fruit should all be emptied out, immedi- ately after they are opened; for as soon as the air reaches the inside, the contents wdl be more or less affected by the metal. In preparing for canning put the fruit over the fire, and while it is coming to a boil bring the jars, covers, rubbers, dipjier, fumiel, etc., and lay them on the table; bring also q, Avooden paddle, silver spoon, small dish for emptyings.240 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part II. clotlis for drying, and a wide tin basin to set the cans in while filling. Idace all on a table near the stove, and have plenty of bot water ready. Tlie following method of filling is a good one, and it has the merit of breaking no jars; 'When the fruit is sufficiently cooked, take the wide tin basin, set it as near the stove as possible (either on the stove-hearth, or on a table near at hand), and fill it, say one-third full of very hot, but not boilin" water: too hot to hold the hand in. Then introduce O f a can sideAvise, roll it over and over quickly in the water, and set it right side up in the basin, with the water in and ai'ound it. Introduce another can in the same way, and continue the process till the bottom of the basin is nearly covered; it will hold perhaps four jars. Drop the covers also into a basin of very hot water. Now, the kettle of boiling fruit being at hand, turn down one of the jai’s in the basin of hot water, roU it over quickly, empty it, and adjust the funnel, which should be small enough to fit into its mouth. Then with a dipper pour in, rather slowly at first, a little of the sp-up; follow with the fruit, until you have filled the jar; see if there are any air-bubbles entan- gled in the meshes of the fruit. If so, dip the silver spoon into the hot mass in the kettle, and then introduce it down the sides of the jar and through its contents, in such a manner as to let out the air; if when the latter escapes the fruit has settled jireceptibly, add a little juice, until the jar is almost brimming. This done, wipe the moisture from the top of the can, and place the elastic on smootlily; then lift a cover from the basin of hot water near by, dry it, and screw it on till it clasps the rubber tightly aU around. Do aU this in less time than it takes to tell it—or at any rate, as quickly as possible. If there are any doubts about the jar being air-tight, turn it upside down, and see if bubbles rise through the fniit. If the mbbers are old and stiff, dip them into hot water and then out, wiping dry before using.241 PART n.J CANNING FRUITS, ETC. Now set the jar to one side, and proceed to fill anotlier; if you have an assistant, let her adjust the rubber and cover while you fill the next. After the jiU's are cool enough to handle, screw the tops again; and when fuUy cold, give them another twist. Indeed, the best plan is to let them stand at least twenty-four hom-s, and tighten from time to time. Last of aU, -wipe them clean Avith a damp cloth, and set away in a dark closet; or if you have no dark place, wrap each can in brown paper, to exclude the light; the cooler the place the better, provided the fruit does not freeze. Examine it carefully, every few days for the first two or three w'eeks, and occasionally afterward, to see if it is keeping well. If mould appears, the can should be oj^ened and the fruit used, cai’e being taken to remove the mouldy portion. A plan that is said to be perfect (and it is easier, certain- ly, than the one just given), is the following : Wring a loose crash towel out of warm or tepid Avater, leaving it pretty wet; fold it seA’eral thicknesses, and either lay it in the bottom of an empty basin, or on the corner of the table, close to the fruit-kettle. Place the jar on the folded toAvel, adjust the funnel to its mouth, and then put into the can a long silver spoon which has just been dipped into tepid water ; proceed to fill AAuth the fruit, pouring it in slowly at first. When the jar is full wipe off the moisture, adjust the rubber, and then put on the cover as before. Some fill without the spoon, relying simply on the wet towel; but it is sfl/cr to use the former, as it is a good medium for con- ducting and diffusing the heat. An iron spoon would do just as well, if it did not discolor the fimit; some use a Avire or knitting-needle. A very good plan when one has the proper appliances, is to fill the cans Avith fruit, adding Avater to make it eulh- ciently juicy ; then heat Avith steam to thoroughly expel the air, and seal.[part II. 242 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Sealing with Wax. Fruit can be kept perfectly in glass jars, sealed with wax; the latter is usually made by melting rosin with a little bees-wax, and a very little beef tallow. The following aie said to be good proportions : One pound rosin, two ounces bees-wax, and one and a half ounces tallow, melted to- gether. When the cans are ready to fill, melt the wax, but do not heat it very hot; dip in the fruit, wipe the moistui'e from the top of each jar, and put on the cover ; then slip a wire (bent for the purpose) over the top to keep the cover in place, and pour in enough wax to fill the groove even full. If bottles are used, or jars with small mouths, put in well- fitting corks softened by dipping into hot water ; force them do^vn securel}', and cover well with wax ; if air-bub- bles form in it puncture them, and fill the cavities with more wax. You will need to inspect the tops closely, until the wax is neai’ly or quite cold. Special Directions. Under the head of “Fruits and Fruit Juices,” the reader wiU find details for preparing fruits of all kinds, either for stewing or canning. There is also a table given, showing the relative propoidions, by measurement, of sugar (where any is used), cold water, and fruit—the latter as prepared for the kettle. By a “ cup ” is meant half a pint. The pro- portions given may not suit all tastes, nor aU latitudes, as fruits vary with the climate, both in juiciness and sweet- ness. However, the inles here given will serve at least as a guide ; and it will be an easy matter to adjust the quanti- ties after one or two trials. Bemember always to heat or stew the fruit slowly. For convenient reference--serviceable to those who al- ready understand the details of putting up fmit—the fol’ lowing bare outline is given :213 CANNING FRUITS, ETC. PART II. J Apples.—Take for canning, apples that have a fine suh- acicl flavor ; then quarter and core, or cut into eighths, add cold water enough to make them sufficiently juicy, and cook slowly till soft; the pieces should not he broken. Prepare sweet apples and quinces in the same way, except that you stai-t the quinces half cooking them before the apples are added. Can in glass. Pe.\ches.—Select fine fruit, not too ripe ; it should be firm to the touch. Pai’e thin, remoA'e the pits provided the peaches are not clingstones, and allow about one quaii; of cold water (less for very juicy fridt) to six quaids of peaches, prepared and cut; bring slowly to a boil and can. Kosy “clings” canned with the stones in, make the best sauce. Pears.—The Bartlett or other tart variety is best for can- ning ; remove the paring with a very thin knife, cut in halves, and take out the cores. Then add about one quart cold Avater to seven quarts of cut fruit, bring sloAvly to a boil, and set bacR where the kettle will simmer gently, nearly or quite an hour ; then diji into cans. Keep tho pieces as whole as possible. Plums.—For damsons, alloAv five pints cold Avater to five quai*ts of fruit; cook sloAvly, and when they come to a boil, skim; then add two cups of sugar, cook slowly about ten minutes, and put into glass cans. Green or blue gages require less water and sugar than the damsons, and scarcely any cooking ; three pints Avater and one cup of sugar for six qiiaids of fruit, would lie enough. The plums must be rather hard ; if beginning to soften, they aauII fall to pieces. Grapes.—Take about one-third as much cold Avater as there are grapes picked from the stems—or tAvo quarts water to six quarts fiTiit; bring slowly to a boil, skim, and cook or simmer five to eight minutes ; then can. Gr-vpe Juice.—Add one-third as much cold AV'ater as you[part II. 244 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. have of sti’ipiDed grapes ; for an ordinary kettle, take two quaiis water and six quarts fruit. Bring slowly to a boil, then skim, and strain tlmough a cheese-cloth ; or an ordi- naiy floiu’-sack wiU answer. Or you may rub as much of the pulp as possible through an earthen (or granitized iron) colander, if you have one ; then squeeze the remainder through a cloth. Heat again slowly to a boil, and put into glass cans or bottles. Much cooking or a hot fire, darkens the juice. Strawberries.—Wash quickly (in a colander), if the berries require it; remove the caps, and stew slowly, allowing one quart of cold water to five quarts of fruit, ready for the kettle. Take off the scum as it rises, and then add two- thirds of a cup of sugar—less, if the berries are pretty ripe; and some use none at all. Simmer slowly ten to fifteen minutes ; then put the fruit into glass cans, carefully reniove the air-bubbles by passing a silver s^ioon through the heated mass, and seal securely wdth wax. Further directions for canning this fruit will be given on another page. Stra-wberry Juice.—Prepare the fruit, add the water as above, and heat to a boil; then skim, and cook sloAvly five to eight minutes. Strain through a coarse cloth, add the sugar, and heat again to boiling. Put the juice into cans or bottles, and seal. Currants.—Wash in a colander, strip the cuiTants from the stems, and add three quarts of cold water to five quarts of the prepared fruit. Heat sloAvly to a bod, skim, and stir in a cuf) of sugar ; heat again rather slowly, till the mass is boiling hot, and then can in glass. Currant Juice.—Prepare and stew the same as the last (three quarts water to five quarts stripped currants), and after skimming strain through a cloth ; then add a cup of sugar, heat again to boiling, not too rapidly, and put into glass cans or bottles. Raspberries.—For black caps, allow five pints of coldPART II.] 24f> Canning fruits, etc. water to five quarts of fruit; heat to a boil, skim, and add half a cup of sugar. Cook slowly five minutes, and diji into glass cans. Ked raspberries require less water, and a little more sugar; two quarts of water and two-tliii’ds of a cup of sugar to five quarts of the fruit. R.vspberries and Currants.—Take one quart of currants stripped from the stems, and four quarts of black caps ; add five pints of cold water, and heat to a boil. Skim, add half a cup of sugar, and cook slowly five minutes ; then can in glass. Raspberry and Curr.\nt Juice.—Prepare as above, except to strain through a cloth before adding the sugar; then heat to a boil, and seal in glass cans or bottles. Blackberries.—To five quai'ts of beiTies add three pints cold water, and bring to a boil ; then skim, stir in three- fourths of a cup of sugar, heat again slowly, and jmt into glass cans. Blackberry Juice.—Prepare as in the last, straining through a cloth before the sugar is added ; then heM again to boiling, and seal in glass cans or bottles. Gooseberries.—Select beiTies that are turning red, but noifidhj ripe ; wash w^ell, remove the stems and blossoms, and allow two quarts of cold water to six quarts of fruit. Heat to a boil, skim, and add two cups of sugar ; cook slowly five to eight minutes, then diji into glass cans and seal. Gooseberry Juice.—Never mind the stems and blossoms ; ■wash well, and stew the same as the last, except that you strain through a coarse cloth or colander before the sugar is added ; then heat again to boiling, and fill the jars ; these must be glass. Or—a better way—you may sweeten and can the herrie.fi if you like, and strain when they are opened ; j'ou can then press them through an ordinary tin colander, as the coU fruit does not corrode it.24G HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLl). [PART II. IVIay Cherries.—Wash the cheiTies in a colander, drain well, and stew, rejecting any that are decayed or wormy. If you want the fruit for temporary use, you may let^ve in the seeds ; then, to five quarts of stemmed cherries allow three pints of cold water, and two-thirds of a cup of sugar. If the fruit is very juicy take less water by about one-third. Or if intended for winter use, remove the seeds, and take three pints of water to five quarts of seeded cherries ; bring slowly to a boil, and skim if necessary. Add one full cup of sugar, and as soon as the mass is tliorouglily heated seal in glass cans. Too much cooking destroys the flavor of the cheiTies. Morello Cherries.—Wash, stem, and look over carefully, leaving in the seeds ; the knotty cherries may be pitted, and either canned separately or stewed for sauce. To five quarts of stemmed finiit allow two quarts of cold water ; then bring to a boil, and skim. Stir in one cup of sugar, heat again to lioiling, and fill the cans ; these must be glass. If put up for pics, allow two quarts (rf water to five quarts of seeded cherries, and add two hea])ing cups of sugar. Cranberries.—Pick out the very soft ben-ies, and aU that are affected with “di-y rot.” After washing, allow three pints of cold water to two quarts of fruit. Stew very slowly fifteen to twenty minutes, skimming well ; then add one cup of sugar, cook a moment longer, and put into glass cans. When you open, strain through a colander to remove the skins. You may strain before sealing, if you like ; but in this case use an earthen colander, or a coarse cloth ; the hot juice will corrode tin. If the berries are very ripe, allow a little more water, and less sugai'. Strawberries.—How best to Can. Strawberries are thought to be more difficult to keep when canned than almost any other fruit; and it has puz- zled many to understand just why they should give soPART II. J 247 CANMNG FRUITS, ETC. much trouble. It is believed, however, that the mystery is at last solved ; and that the whole difficulty—after reason- able care in excluding the air-bubbles—comes from the fact that the berries (in the cans that spoil) rise above the juice which should cover them, and begin to mould in consequence of the small particles of aii- confined in their meshes. The proper thing to do in this case is to keep watch of the cans, and as the fruit rises shake it down into the liquid contents below ; in other words, saturate the berries with the juice, until they sink to the bottom by their own weight ; then they w'iU be found to keep, without fxrrther difficulty. Should any can be neglected too long, and mould begin to form on the surface, it must be opened at once, and the fruit used before it is fmdher affected. A lady who cans strawbeiries every year, and whose au- thority must be heeded, inasmuch as she has never lost a jar, gives the following directions, founded on her OAvn ex- perience : “ Have good sound beiTies, put in water to make them quite juicy, and when they begin to l)oil skim off the froth. Cook a few minutes over a moderate fire, till the mass is thorouglily heated through ; and keep the fruit pushed down under the hot liquid. Then dip into glass cans (self- sealing) which you have rolled over and over in very hot water; let out the air-bubbles by running a silver spoon through the beiries, remove any froth that rises, and fill almost to the brim. "Wipe the moisture from the tops of the cans, adjust the rubbers (also dry), and screw on tho covers ; these should be kept in a warm place till needed— though a quicker way is to dip them into hot water, take them out, and dry with a cloth before using. I generally leave out the sugar, as I like the berries better unsweetened ; sometimes I sweeten a few cans, ‘jnst for company.’ As the fruit cools screw the covers again ; and keep up this tightening process for a day or two ; then set the cans248 [P.ART II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. away in a cool, dark place. If after a 811014 time the benies rise to the top—and they frequently do—take each can in your hands and shake it gently, moving it back and forward tin all the fruit sinks to the bottom, or low enough to be en- tirely covered by the juice ; the benies will not rise a second time. I always pursue this plan, and my strawberries never spoil.” Tomatoes.—How to Can. Tomatoes are said by some to be hard to keep. Tliat the fault is in the management and not in the tomatoes, is shown from the fact that some persons have no trouble with them. The whole difficulty is caused by the retention of air-hubbles ; these, if present, can be detected by turning the jar upside down after sealing, when the bubbles will rise through the contents up to the sm'face. If you will care- fully expel these intruders before screwing on the covers, the tomatoes will keep perfectly. To do this, proceed as follows ; If the tomatoes are pretty rqie they will be quite soft when cooked, and the confined bubbles of air will be aU through them. As soon as they come to a boil, push down the top ones, so that all may be thoroughly scalded ; then fill the can, pass a silver spoon through the hot mass, moving it in such a way as to let the bubbles escape to the top ; these can frequently be seen through the glass, dovm the sides of the jar. Wlien jmu feel sure that they are all let out, pour in a little more juice if it is needed (the can should be filled almost to its brim), then wipe off the moist- ure, put on the dry rubber, and screw down the cover. After the jars have partly cooled, give the covers a second twist, then turn each one upside down, and see if any bub- bles ascend ; if so, it must be opened, the tomatoes heated again to boiling, and the can refilled in the same careful manner. A better way, however, if you can get the tomatoes, is240 PAllT II.] CANNING FRUITS, ETC. this: Select those that ai'e not too ripe—a little firm to the touch; smooth, round ones of medium size, are the best. Peel without scalding, as it makes them less soft; the knife must be thin and shaii). Put them into the kettle whole— or if lai-ge, cut once through from stem to blossom; then heat rather slowly, until the whole mass is thoroughly hot, and boiling; skim if there is need. The jars being in order proceed to fill, first pouiing in a very little juice; then lift out the tomatoes, one at a time, and when the can is ahuost filled dip in the juicy portion, at the same time introducing a large spoon, and firmly pressing down the tomatoes, which will send the air-bubbles to the top. AVhen no more juice can be added, dry the moisture from the can, adjust the rubber, and seal as before. The covers must be tightened two or three times; once after the jars are entirely cold. AV'ith these precautions the tomatoes ought all to keep; thougli it is genei’idly 'safe to apply the ted, that of invert- ing the can after it is sealed, and cool enough to handle. The jars must be set in a closet or other dark jilace, and in- spected occasionally the first few weeks, to see that they are all in order; if mould begins to appear the can must be opened, the specks of mould carefully removed, and the tomatoes used. Glass cans that seal with wax, are thought to keep toma- toes better than those that are self-sealing; owing perhaps to the fact that the latter are not always well made. Tin cans are good to exclude the air, but as already stated, Ihe acid corrodes the metal more or less, and the oxide of tin is formed. For this reason glass is always preferable, even for tomatoes. If tin is used, however, it should be of the very best quality, and the cans opened before there is any decided metallic taste imparted to tlieir contents. A^eiw few brands are good after eight or ten months. AVhen the tin is poor, tlie acid corrodes it in a short time. 11*250 [part II. HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. To Can Vegetables. The writer lias had no experience in canning vegetables, except it be the tomato. It is said that the difficulty hither- to experienced in preserving them, is due to not cooking long enough to expel the air; that beans, peas, corn, etc., to keep well, should be cooked till ready for the table, before they are put into cans. Good tin cans, securely soldered, will no doubt preserve vegetables best; though a lady who has tried glass jars, sealed wdth wax, has had no trouble with corn and tomatoes. She puts them uj) as follows: Peel and slice the tomatoes, put them into a porcelain kettle, and jdace over a moderate fire. Then prejiare an equal quantity of corn; with a sharp knife shave off the tip ends of the grains, and throw them away; then slice thin, cutting off nearly all the corn, and scraping out at the last, leaving the coarser part of the hull on the cob. Put it into a separate kettle and cook twenty minutes, or until done. Then turn the corn and tomatoes together, heat till they are boiling hot, and dip into glass cans; seal securely with wax; and if any little air-bubbles form in it, puncture them, and fill Avith more wax. When quite cold, wrap each can in brown paper, and set in a cool, dark closet. mSCELLANY. Storing for Winter Use. Fruits and vegetables should be handled with the great- est care, both in gathering and storing, as every little bruise leads to decay. They keep best in an apaiiment that is dry, and as cool as it can be without freezing. The bin for potatoes should not only be dry and cool, but dark, as they, of all vegetables, are most susceptible to light. Pota- toes in groceries are usually strong in taste, and some of them green in color, from standing near a door or window;PART II.] 251 M1SCELL.VKY. they slioidd be kept in a dry, dark cellar till sold. Sweet potatoes are A'ery susceptible to the touch; they should be handled “ like eggs,” as the least bruising causes them to decay. They keep best in dry sand, in a warm, dry place. The store-room shoidd be well ventilated, and the apples, potatoes, etc., thoroughly aired, rendering them free from moistui’e, before they lue put away in bins or barrels for winter. No decaying vegetables or fruits should be tolerated in cellars or store-rooms; hundreds of cases of typhoid fever, iliphtheria, etc., ai’e directly traceable to neglect in this respect. Packing Giupes. Take the late grapes, pick them carefully, and select bunches that are as perfect as possible, Avith the fruit un- broken. Put them in a cool room, spreading in laj^ers on shelves ; let them remain two Aveeks; then pack in barrels Avith dry, hard-AVOod saAvdust; bran Avill answer. Packed in this manner, the fruit is said to keep Avell tlirough the Avinter. Of natiA'e grapes, the Delaware is thought to keep the longest; good Catawbas are often well preserved till Christmas. After packing, they should be put in a cool, dry place. Grapes AviU keep in good condition for several weeks, by dipping the end of the stem of perfect bunches into melted sealing-Avax, then Avrapping the bunches in tissue paper, and laying or suspending them in a dry, cool place. The more jiaper there is placed betAveen them, the longer they Avill keep. The directions given above for preseiwing gi’apes, are taken nearly verbatim from Dr. Trail’s new Cook-Book. To Keep Fruits and Vegetablus. The following hints on keeping fruits and vegetables, are most of them taken from the Budceyc Coolcerij:252 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PABT H. To Keep Turnips.—When huried deep in the earth, they will keep solid till March or April. To Keep Lemons. — Cover with cold water, changing it every week. This makes them more juicy. Herbs for Flavoring.—Gather on a dry day, just before, or while they ai-e in blossom ; tie in bundles, blossoms downward. AVhen perfectly dry pick off the leaves, pound, sift them fine, and cork up tight in bottles. Keeping Cabbages.—AVhen the weather becomes frosty, cut them off near the head, and cai'ry with the leaves on, to a diy cellar; then break off the outer ones, pack the cab- bages into a tight cask or box, stems upward, and when nearly full cover with the loose leaves; secui’e the box with a lid, against rats. A better way on the farm, is to dig a shallow trench, long enough to hold the cabbages, placing them Uvo deep. Put them in, heads downward, and cover with clean earth tiU the stalks (which must be upright) are half or two-thirds hidden. The cabbages should be buried as soon as pulled, and they ought to keep nicely tOl spring. To Keep Apples. — Apples are usually kept on open shelves, easily accessible, so that the decaying ones may be removed. They are sometimes packed in layers of dry sand, care being taken not to let them touch each othei’. AVhen they begin to decay pick out those that are specked, and stew; then put into self-sealing fruit cans, and use later in the season. Or you may pack in saAvdust, or any grain, as oats, barley, etc., so that they will not touch each other; or if the fniit is fine, wrap each ajDple in paper, and pack in boxes. To Keep Grapes.—Suspend from the ceiling by three cords, a strong barrel hoop, from which grape stems are hung by means of wire hooks attached to the sviall end, the other being sealed with hot wax; let each stem be free from contact with its neighbors. The imperfect grapes must be removed, and the room must be free from frost;253 PAKT II. J MISCEL.LANY. not too moist, and yet not diy enough to wither them; a di’y cellar will answer. The simplest way to keep grapes is to place them in drawers holding about twenty-five pounds each, piling these one above another; or the drawers may be fitted into racks. The graj)es must be matui’e and per- fect. They do not freeze as readily as apples. Packing Veget.vbles. — For present use, they should be laid away carefully in a bin with a close lid (hung on hinges), so that the liglit may be excluded. To keep for a longer time, the best plan is to imll them on a dry day, cut off the tops, and trim and pack in clean baiTels or boxes; place in layers, with fine, clean moss between, such as is found in abundance in the woods. The moss keejis them clean and sufficiently moist, preventing shriveling of the roots on the one hand, and absorbing any excess of dampness on the other. "When moss can not be conveniently obtained, sand is a good substitute, but is more difficult to handle, and the vegetables do not come out of it so clean and fresh. The varieties which come to maturity late in the season are easiest to keep, and retain their flavor longest. Pure Water. Water, either for cooking or drinking, should be soft and pure. Carbonate of lime, and other inorganic substances often held in solution in it, are prohfic causes of chronic affections of the kidneys, and also of acute and chronic diseases in the alimentary canal. If pure water can not be had from wells, running springs, or larger sources, rain water can be caught in cisterns, and rendered pure liy means of a good charcoal filter. That known as “ The Kedzie ater Filter” (now manufactured by J. A. Ranney, Rochester, N. Y.), has given good satisfaction, and is comparatively in- expensive. River water usually contains not only a considerable per cent, of vegetable and animal matters, but more or less[PAKT II. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 254 clay, and other eaidh}^ sediment. These substances are always detrimental to health ; and if we value this, it be- comes a matter of paramount importance to purify the water from their presence. If river water must be used we can at least get rid of the mud by carefuUy filtering, or by boiling anti settling. Some persons imagine that because these waters with their loads of impurities, cause laxuess of the bowels, they are therefore healthful. On the contrary, they render the liver and skin torpid, causing biliousness, and not unfrequently headaches ; they also imtate the mu- cous surfaces of the alimentary canal, causing the laxness in question, which of tens ends in chronic diarrhea. Cooking Utensils. AH fruits and very many vegetables are injured by cook- ing in iron vessels, particularly if they cook sloidy in them. Even tin is not suitable for acid fruits. Brass and copper vessels are wholly unfit for culinary purposes. The por- celain-lined kettle, well made, is excellent; but care must be taken not to let it get dry or stand too near the fire, lest the enamel crack off. The granitized iron ware is good and tolerably durable (though rather thin), but more ex- pensive. There have of late years been patented a number of tin steamers, each furnished with a set of chambers for cooking several vegetables at the same time. They are said to cook perfectly, without the slightest admixture of flavors. Some of these are coming into general use, and will receive fur- ther notice. Loaf bread, pies, and many other articles ai*e better cooked in an atmosphere that is confined as weU as heated ; with an ordinary stove, much of the nutritive value of foods is lost through evaporation. In the olden times, our mothers baked bread and pies in a skillet—^loaves, in a “ Dutch oven ” or bake-kettle—which was placed on a bedIVnSCELLANT. PART II. J 255 of coals near the main fire, and covered with a lid ; the latter had a deep rim which held the coals on top. And such bread as came out of those ovens! so sweet and good! Then, there were the “ brick ovens,” which are still used by the bakers ; they held fifteen or twenty pies and several loaves of bread, idl at the same time. Next to the “ bake- kettles,” these ovens baked the best pies and the sweetest bread that hungry mortal ever ate. But every housewife can not have a brick oven ; and so we are loaiting for some “ ingenious Yankee ” to invent a baking apparatus that shall give us bread equal to the best. Some attempts have been made in this direction ; but as yet, the article invented has been too expensive and too clumsy to be of much value. We need something that we can look into and see how the baking is progi’essing, if necessary; besides, one does not like to lift two or three bulky things, pull them apart, close again, set back in the oven, and then get burned into the bargain. The following are some of the utensils, large and small, that are convenient to have in the kitchen ; several of them are named and described in the Buckeye Cookery: Apple-Parer.—A small machine for paring apples ; costs less than a dollar, and rarely gets out of order. Apple-Corer.—A tin tube, tapering slightly from one end to the other ; costs only a fcAv cents. Can-Opener.—A stout, short knife, very convenient for opening tin cans ; quite inexpensive. Cream-Whipper.—A small syringe, having the bottom per- forated with holes, through which the cream is forced back and forth until it becomes a froth. Costs twenty-five cents. Gra\w-Strainer.—Made of gauze wire, and can be used for other fluids than gi*avy. Tea-Strainer.—A small cup with a finely-perforated bot- tom ; useful to strain gruels and other Hquids. Wire Basket.—A basket of tinned wire, which may bo256 [part II. HEiVLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. lowered into a kettle of boiling water. Very convenient for scaltbng tomatoes. Steaming Kettle.—A small pan with a perforated bottom, lowered its full length into a deep kettle. Used to steam vegetables, puddings, etc. Fish-Kettle.—An oblong kettle for boiling fish ; it has a perforated bottom of tin, with handles at either end. The fish is placed on the perforated tin, lowered into the kettle, boiled, and when done hfted out, and gently slipped from the tin to the platter on which it is to be seiwed. The Bain-Marie.—An open vessel that is fiUed with hot (not boiling) water, and set on the back of the stove or range. In this there are placed tin stew-pans or cups (with handles and tight covers) containing vegetables, sauces, and other articles that ai’e to be kept warm. Porcelain Kettle.—This is an iron kettle, porcelain lined; it is the best fruit-kettle yet invented. Custard-Kettle.—The best is an iron vessel with strong handles, having a smaller one (also with a hantUe) fitted in- side of it, leaving a space around the latter for water. The inside vessel is fined with block-tin. The custard-kettle —sometimes called a farina-kettle—is used for boiling milk, cooking grains, or any articles that are easily scorched. Soup-Kettle.—A kettle with a double bottom, convenient for soup, and other things that require long and careful boiling. Tea-Kettle Boiler.—A long, tapering tin vessel with a handle, and made to lower into a tea-kettle ; it is large enough at the top to fiU the opening, and long enough to reach to the bottom. The cover of the tea-kettle may be used to put over it. It serves for cooking gruels or custards, and as a steamer for puddings, steamed bread, etc., for a small family. Cake-Pan.—The bottom and sides are not permanently attached ; by unfastening the hooks that hold them together.PAM II.] iiS7 M1SCELL/\,NY. the pan opens, leaving the cake standing on the bottom of it, whence it is easily shpped, right side up to a plate. There is also a movable stem, which can be taken off when tlic pan is used for bread, puddings, etc. The Ferris Cooker.—This is a round pile of tin pans placed over an iron dish of boiling water, each ready for any food, as meat, poultry, vegetables, pies, puddings, or —all cooking at once, and all covered closely so as to retain the steam, by a round top that shuts down over every dish, and fits tightly into the reservoir of water beneath. It makes a tall pile on the stove, but takes up no more room than one kettle, and its height does not interfere with any other pot or sauce-pan that may be neai’. The “ closed steamer ” described below is not unlike it. The Warren Cooker is said to be constructed on a similar plan, and is very highly recommended ; it is better known in the Eastern cities than in the West. Closed Steamer.—A closed steamer—so often referred to in this book—differs from the ordinary one in admitting the steam into several chambers at once ; this is done, not by holes in the bottom, but thi’ough flues in the side. Like the Ferris Cooker, it can be used in cooking two or more different dishes at the same time ; the only precautions being, not to let the bottom vessel get dry, and always to keep the water at a fast boil; if this is not done the steam \vill condense, and water collect in the chambers. Of course, the steamer should not be set off the fire unless ab- solutely necessaiy, and then only for a moment. The Geji Roaster.—An iron pan, with a closel3’’-fitting cover of the same material. It is used for roasting or broil- ing meats, fish, etc., and also for baking bread, biscuit, or cake. To roast meat, place it in the pan without water, fit on the cover, and set it into a moderate oven, closing the vent on top. Allow fifteen minutes to the ]iound, and do not uncover till done ; should the meat not be sufficientlyHEALTH IN THE HOOSEHOLl). [I’AiiT n. 258 broAvned, open the vent, and set tbe pan back in the oven ten minutes. To l^iike bread, jDut the dough into the jjau, tilling it two-thirds full; set it in a waiTii jdace till light, then put on the cover, close the vent, and bake tiftj" minutes. Ciike is baked in the same way. For broiling, etc., refer to the directions that are furnished with it. A Toaster.—The simple.st is made of wire which holds the bread in jDlace, and to which is attached a long wooden handle. A better, perhaps, is constmeted out of a sheet of tin large enough to contain six slices of bread. The edges ai’e turned up about half an inch, and bound with wire ; perforations are cut about two inches apart in the shape of a “ V ” tlii'ough the bottom, and the sharp points turned up so as to penetrate and hold the bread in place. A still wire handle is fastened firmly to the middle of the back, so that the toaster is kept at the right angle before the fire ; and if it toasts too rapidly at top or bottom, it may easily be inverted.(259) PART ITT. THE COMPROMISE. In the Compromise many dishes will he found, as pud- dings, custards, meats, etc., that are not so much as hinted at in the Hygienic Dietary, from the fact that they do not belong there. On the other hand, most of those dishes that have already been described, must, in the very nature of things, reappear in this, the “worldly” department. For example, there are some foi^ty kinds of bread in Part II., more than half of which are made without yeast or soda. But since these are not sufficient for the jropular demand, it has been thought necessary to introduce here still other varieties of the “staff of life,” as steamed breads, corn cakes, Graham and conr muffins, Graham cream cakes, plairr r-usks, etc., etc. The steamed breads, though not the most wholesome, ar-e, irr the way of a change, greatly liked by some persons, particularly those who incline to rather sofl lu’cad. In the following recipes, if best Akron flour (made of white wheat) is used, no sifting will be needed. But if, as in ordinary Graham, the bran is cut in large flakes, it maA’’ be necessary to put the flour through a very coarse corn- meal sieve, to take out the rorrgher portions. Iir all steamed breads (or pirddings) use white or golden jiint corn meal, kihr drted and rather coarsely gr'ound, if yoir can possibly get it. The sugar or other sAveetening in these breads, may260 [PAET m. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. be omitted if desired ; or chopped raisins or other sweet fruits may be substituted. If molasses or syrup is named in the recipe, beware of adulterations. You may perhaj^s be foibunate enough to have friends in the country who will furnish you the j)ure article ; good inaiDle or sorghum, free from oil of vitriol, sul2)hmic acid, and other vile things. In making steamed breads mix the batter thoroughly, and beat well; and if soda or baking-jjowder is used, steam immetllately after stirring it in. Having j^oured the batter into a pan, well oiled, cover closely with an inverted jdate or j3ie-j)an, leaving plenty of room for the bread to swell, and set it in the steamer. Then cover the latter, j)lace it over a kettle of boiling water, and steam till done ; keej) the water at a fast boil, and do not Lift the lid till the bread is taken out. The pan in which it is steamed may be tin, earthen, or granitized iron ware ; a wide one, and rather shallow, is best; it gives more crust, and the bread is lighter. Steamed bread can be warmed over nicely, by dipping the remnant quickly into cold water, and laying it in a hot oven till it is Avell heated through. STEAMD BREAD. Whhaten and Indian Bread. 2 cups* coarse corn meal—“ flint,” if you have it. 1 cuj^ G-raham flour. 2 CU23S soul’ milk—or buttermilk. 1 teaspoonfulf soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1 tables2ioonful sugar. Time—two to three hours. Stir the com meal and milk together, and add the Graham flour ; then add the sugar and dissolved soda, and beat very * A cup is half a pint. t A teaspoonful (of soda) is the spoon scarcely more than level.261 STE.1MED SREAD. PAHT III.] thoroughly. Pour the batter into a tin or eai'then basin well oiled, cover closely, leaving room to swell, and set it in a steamer over a pot of boiling water. Steam from two to thi-ee hours, without lifting the lid ; then place in a quick oven, and brown ten minutes. Whkaten and Indian Bre.vd.4^ 2.^ cups coarse corn meal—“flint” preferred. 1 cup Graham hour. 2,'i cups soul’ milk—or buttennilk. li teaspoonfuls soda—dissolved in boiling water. Time— two hours and a half. Form a batter of the meal, hour and milk, then add the dissolved soda, and beat well; pom' immediately into a shallow pan previously oiled, cover, and steam two hours and a half; you must not uncover tiU done. Brown a few minutes in the oven, and send to the table. This bread is better mixed an hour or two beforehand, and the batter set in a warm place; the soda should be added, with thorough beating, the last thing before placing it in the steamer. Wheaten and Indian Bread. 4]^ 3 cups coarse corn meal—“ hint ” is best. 1^ “ Graham hour. 1 cup sour milk—or buttermilk. ^ “ pure molasses—or sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Enough boiling water to scald the corn meal, and form a stiff batter. Time—three hours. Scald the corn meal the night before, forming a batter as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon, and set it in a moder-[part m. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. ately warm place. In tlio morning stir in the Graliam flour and molasses (or sugar), and the cup of milk—or enough to form a batter that wiU pour. Set where it wiU not be very warm, lest it should sour. Thi’ee hours before dinner add the dissolved soda, and beat hard. Turn the batter into an oiled pan, cover, and set in the steamer. Keep the water at a fast boil, and steam three hours; then brown ten to fifteen minutes in the oven. Rye, Wheat and Indian.—(ExcellenL)^ 1J cups coarse corn meal—“ flint,” if you have it. ^ cuj) rye floui\ \ “ cracked wheat. 3 cups sour milk—or buttermilk. teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—fully three hours. Stir the cracked wheat into the sour* milk, and let it soak at least an hour; then stir in the corn meal, rve flour and soda, and boat thoroughly. Steam aU of three hours— longer would be better—and brown ten minutes in the oven at the last. Send warm to the table. Another.—Use the unbolted rye if you can get it, instead of rye flour; and Graham flour for cracked wheat; then proceed as before, except that two hours and a half will sufiice for the steaming, though three would be better. Brown at the last. Rye, Wheat and Indian. 1 j cups coarse meal—“ flint ” is best. 1 cup (unbolted) rye meal.* ^ “ Graham flour. 3 cups sour milk—or buttermilk. * Rye meal is unbolted rye flour.PART III.] STE.VMRD BRE.AD. 2C3 1 tablespoonful supxr. 1.^ tcaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—four hom’S. Make a batter of the above ingi’edients, and beat very thoroughly. Then pom* it into an oiled pan, tin or earthen, leaving room to swell; cover, and set immediately in the steamer. Keep the water constantly boiling, and steam four hours without uncovenng. When done place in the oven, and brown ten minutes before sending to the table. If prefeiTed, the sugm* may be omitted. This bread may be served without browning, as a pudding, with fruit sauce or lemon sauce. If eaten as a pudding, a cup of seeded raisins may be added before steaming. Rye, Wheat and Indian.—(Soft, hut excellent. 2 cups coai'se com meal—“ flint,” if you have it. II “ (unbolted) rye meal. 1 cup cracked wheat. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1 quart soiu’ milk or buttermilk—or enough for a toler- ably soft batter. Time—four hours. Stir together the rye and com meal, add the sugar and soda, and enough soiu- milk or buttermilk to foi-m a batter soft enough to pour. Beat hard, turn into a pan weU oiled, and steam four hours; then brown fifteen minutes in a moderate oven, and turn out on a dish for the table. If the milk is verrj sour, use a little more soda. The sugar may be omitted if desired, and a cup of raisins sub- stituted; and if rye meal can not be had, take rye flour instead. This bread is good served as a pudding, with mock cream or lemon sauce.2G4 [part IIL HEALTfl IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Rye, Wheat and Indian.—(Excellent.):^ li- cups coarse corn meal—“ flint ” is best. 1 cup rye flour. “ cracked wheat. 3 cups sour milk—or buttermilk. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1^ teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—four hours. Mix the several gi’ains together, add the milk and sugar, and stir weU, removing the lumps. Then add the dissolved soda, and beat very hard. Pour into a pan well oiled, cover, and steam four houi’s without hfting the hd. When done, brown ten minutes in the oven, and send to the table. Some like this bread better with the sugar omitted. Rye, Wheat and Indian.—(Excellent.)^ 2 cups coarse corn meal—“ flint,” if you can get it. f cup rye flour. 1 “ Graham flour. -J- “ cracked wheat. 2 cups sour milk—or buttennilk. 1 cup tepid water. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—four hours. Stii’ the grains together, add the sugar, and wet with the milk and water, forming a batter without lumps; then add the soda, and beat very thoroughly. Pour into a round pan, well oiled, and steam four hours without uncovering. BroAvn in the oven ten minutes. The sugar may be omitted if desired; or the same quan- tity of molasses or syrup may be used, pi'ovided you can get it pure.CORN CAKE, MUFFINS, ETC. 2G5 PART III.] Rye, Whe-vt and Indian.—(Soft, but good.):^ 1 cup rye flour—rye meal, if you can get it. 1 “ Graham floiu'. 5 “ cracked wheat. 2 cups coarse com meal—“ flint,” if you have it. 2 “ sour luilk—or buttermilk. 2 tablespoonfuls sugai’—or cup raisins, seeded and chopped. teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boihng water. Enough boiling water to scald the meal and wheat. Time—foui’ hour’s. INIix and scald the corn meal and cracked wheat, making a batter as stiff as can be stii’red with a spoon, and let this stand over night. Set it in a moderately warm place—in winter, near the stove or fire ; in summer, on the kitchen table. In the morning add the Graham and rye flour (or meal), and the sour milk, or enough to form a batter that will pour. Stir well together, and set in a place not so wamr as to sour it. Four hours before dinner add the sugar (or raisins), and the dissolved soda, and beat thoroughly. Pour into an oiled pan, cover, and set in the steamer. Keep the water at a fast boil four hours, and do not uncover the steamer till the bi’ead is done ; then brown fifteen minutes in the oven before sending to the table. CORN CAKE, MUFFINS, Etc. Bachelor’s Johnny Cake.—( Good. 3 cups corn meal. 1 cup Graham flom*. 3 cups new milk. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 1 teaspoonfid soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—20 to 30 minutes. 12HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PABT III. 266 Mix the meal, flour aud milk over night, and set the batter where it will keeii moderately warm but will not som*. In the morning add the sugar and the dissolved soda, and beat hard. Pour into two jians, well oiled, and bake for breakfast; the cakes should not be more than an inch thick when done. It will requii’e a hot oven, and twenty to thii*ty minutes. Coen Cake.—(Excellent.):^ 2 cups corn meal. 1 cup flour, Graham or white. li cups sweet milk. } cup “ cream. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. Time—20 to 30 minutes. Mix together the meal, flour, milk, cream and soda, and beat well. See that the oven is hot, then add the cream of tai-tar, and beat very thoroughly. Dip immediately into gem-pans, well oiled, or pour into two small bread-pans, and bake twenty minutes. The batter should be about as stiff as will droj) from a spoon, but rather too soft to mould with the hands. If it is too thin, add a little meal; if too thick, add more milk. The coarser the corn meal, the more milk will be required. If new milk is used for mixing, no cream will be needed. Kentucky Corn Cake.^^ Take, say two cups of corn meal, and half scald by stir- ring into it a cup of boiling water ; then add cold water or cold sweet milli, to fonn a batter as stiff as can be stirred with a spoon ; beat very thoroughly. Spread it two-thirds of an inch thick on an oiled griddle, and bake ten to fifteen minutes, or till the bottom is well browned; then remove ICORN CAKE, MUITINS, RPC. PART III.] 207 the "riddle from the top of the stove, phico it in a moderate oven, on the toi:>most "rate, and let it bake from thirty to forty minutes ; longer, if mixed with water. If more con- venient, you may dispense with the griddle, pour the batter into a bread-pan, and bake in the oven foi-ty to fifty minutes. Corn Custard.—(Excellent. 1 pint (heaping) corn meal. 2 tablespoonfuls white fioiu’. 1 quart sour milk—or butteiinilk. 3 eggs—yolks and whites separate. 2 teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—20 minutes. See that the oven is just right; then stii’ together the meal, flour, milk, and beaten yoUcs. When these are well mixed add the dissolved soda, and the whites cut to a stiff froth, and beat hard. Pour into two pans, well oiled, and bake immediately. The bread should not be more than an inch in thickness when done ; it should bake in about twenty minutes. Graham Muffins. Into two cups of sweet milk, stir three cups of sifted Graham flour—or you may take half Avhite—and beat very thoroughly. If the batter is too stiff to drop readily from the spoon, add a little more milk and stir again. Then dip into hot gem-pans, slightly oiled, and bake in a good oven thirty k) forty minutes. Giuauam and Corn Muffins.—(Excellent.)^ 2 full cups corn meal. 1 cup Graham flour. 1 “ sweet milk. 2 cups boiling water. 1 egg. Time—20 minutes.[PAET III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 268 Pour the boiling water into the meal, and stii’ well ; let the mixture stand till lukewarm. Then add the cup of milk, or enough to form a batter about as stiff as will di’op from the spoon, and beat well. Set this in a warm jilacc two hours ; then break in the egg, and beat hard. Dip into hot gem-pans, well oiled, and bake twenty minutes in a brisk oven. Cream Gems.4|: 1 cup sweet cream. ^ “ milk. 2|- cups Graham flour—or enough for gem-batter. Time—30 to 40 minutes. Stir Graham flour, sifted or unsifted, into the cream and milk, until a batter is formed that will droji readdy from the spoon. Beat very thoroughl}^, dip into hot gem-pans, previously oiled, and bake in a quick oven thirty to forty minutes. Instead of aU Graham, half white flour (sifted) may be used. Eat warm, but not hot. This bread, though rather moist, is well liked by some persons ; and it ceriainly is more wholesome than the ordi- nary hot biscuit, made of white flour and lard. “Middlings,” “short,s,” or unbolted rye flour, may be mixed in the same way ; and instead of cream, aU milk makes very good gems. Cream Gems.—(With Fruit. Mix as in the preceding recipe, using a little more milk, and then stir in one cup of currants or seedless raisins, well dredged with a portion of the flour ; the currants should be picked, washed and dried, before dredging. Bake in a brisk, but even oven, and be careful not to scorch in finishinsf.269 PART III.] CORN CAKE, MUFFINS, ETC. Potato and Corn Muffins.—(Good.)^ 1 cup cold maslied potato. 1 “ sweet milk. 1 egg, well beaten. 1 cup corn meal—or enough for gem-batter. Time—20 to 30 minutes. Soften the potato with the milk, working out all the lumps ; then stir in corn meal till the batter is just thick enough to drop easily from the spoon ; add the whipped egg, and beat lim’d. Drop into hot gem-pans, oded, and bake in an even oven twenty to thirty minutes. Potato Cake. 2 cups mealy potato, mashed fine. 1 cup sweet cream. 2 tablespoonfuls flour—Graham or white. Time—20 minutes. Stir into the mashed potato the cream and flour, mixing thoroughly; beat lightly with a fork, and then make with tlie hand into little flat cakes, half an inch thick. Bake to a good brown, and send to the table as soon as done. The flour can be omitted, if desired. Another.—Take cold mashed potato, crush till there are no lumps, and stir in a beaten egg; mould into thin flat cakes, pass the rolling-pin lightly OA^er them to make them smooth, and then either bake in the oven, or broAvn on a griddle, slightly oiled. * Rice and Corn Bread.—(Excellent.)ds^ 1^ cups cold boiled rice. 2 “ sour milk. 1 egg, well beaten.HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 2/0 [part III. 1 teaspoouful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 3 cups coarse corn meal—or enough to make a toler- ably soft gem-batter. Time—30 minutes. Soften the rice with the milk, and mash aU the lumps; add the beaten egg, and enough of the corn meal to form a thin batter. Stii’ weU; then add more meal—enough to make a batter just stiff enough to mould with the hands; add also the dissolved soda, and beat hard. Form into small oval cakes, say three inches long and an inch and a half in thickness, and bake in a hot oven, thii-ty minutes. Mush Muffins. Into a quart of boihng water, stir enough corn meal to make an ordinary mush; let it cook ten minutes. MTien cooled to lukewarm beat in two eggs (some use but one), and then thin the mush by stirring in a little milk or cream, so that it will drop readily from the sjioon. Bake in oiled gem-pans, about thii’ty minutes. Bye Drop-Cakes. 2 cups sour milk. 1 egg, weU beaten. 1 teasjioonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1 pint rye meal—or enough for gem-batter. Stir into the milk enough rye meal to fonn a batter that wiU drop from the spoon; then add the egg and soda, and beat weU. Bake on a hot f^iddle, or in gem-pans well oiled; if in gem-pans, the oven must have an even heat, and the cakes should bake half an hour. “Connell,” or “middlings,” mixed in the same way, makes good cakes; and they are far more wholesome and nutritious than the ordinary lard biscuit, or bakers’ bread, used by rich and poor.271 GRIDDLE-CAKES, PART III.] A mixture of half Graham and half lye (meal or flour), wet with sweet milk to the consistency of gem-batter, and baked, makes very good cakes. GRIDDLE-C A T\ blS Griddle-cakes ai'e not expected to form any considerable pai*t of the hygienic dietary. If indulged in at aU, it should only be occasionally, and then without the ordinary accom- paniments of butter and molasses, or syrup. If they can not be relished without condiments, or with the addition of plam fruits, stewed or canned, then they had better be dis- pensed with, altogether. Eaten in this simple manner, as an occasional breakfast dish on a cold morning, and with a good keen aj)petite to aid the digestion, they may now and then make their appearance without causing a bad head- ache, or a dull pain in the stomach. The best of all the grains for batter cakes, is buckwheat. To be first-class, it must be free from gxit, or other impur- ity or adulteration. Most of the buckwheat flour in our markets is largely mixed with poor white flour, “ shorts,” etc., and nearly all of it is too finely ground. Cakes made of good buckwdieat flour shordd brown nicel}’^, and they should be light and sweet. The following is a plain but good recipe for making them. Buckwheat Cakes. II pints (nearly) buckwheat flour. 1 quart warm water. I cup good hop yeast. 1 tablespoonful Graham flour, or fine corn meal— or you may take “ conneU.” Have the water no warmer than blood heat; pour half or two-thirds of it into a large earthen pitcher, and stir the floiu' in, a handful at a time; beat till there are no lumps.272 HEALTH IK THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT IH. Then add the rest of tlie water, the yeast, the Graham flour or corn meal—or “connell,” if you use it—and heal very thoroughly. Mix at night (in cold weather), and set the bat- ter in a moderately warm place till mornfng; it should then be light, but not sour. It will be rather foamy on top, and will rccjuire a vex*y little light stirring 5 if too stiff, stir in a few spoonfuls of tepid water. The buckwheat flour of thiiTy or foiiy years ago, was ground coarser (and it was very much better) than the ai- ticle now sold under that name; it fell like buckwheat, and it tasted hke it; it was also free from adulteration. The batter made from it had both a hghtness and a “ body, that is not now to be found; and the cakes, which w'ere xisuaUy the full size of the griddle, were maiwels of excel- lence. The modern buckwheat flour makes a batter that is too fragile to manage in the same way; hence the rule, to bake three cakes on a griddle of ordinary size, as they ai’e more easily turned without breaking. The batter should be quite thin ; thin enough to spread readily as it is povued on the griddle. Then have a good even fire, the griddle clean and hot, and oiled just enough to keep the cakes from sticking ; a convenient arrangement for this latter purpose, is a stick with a rag ’^’rapped around and tied on the end of it, and well saturated with olive oil or good sweet dripping ; change frequently, or keep scrupu- lously clean. Pour on just enough batter to make three thin cakes (you can hardly get them too thin), and the mo- ment they ai’e ready to turn, jxop them over ; if you let tliem dry out before turning, they will be spoiled. Regu- late the heat of the griddle so that the cakes will brown evenly, but not scorch ; this direction applies to all griddle- cakes. Nothing is worse than a raw or burnt batter-cake. Leave a little of the batter in the bottom of the crock, for a sponge the next evening; it will be better than to use fresh yeast every time. You may do this for a week oy27n GRIDDLE-CAKES. PART in.] two, or as long as the hatter rises well, and is sweet; if you find it sour any morning, the only remedy is to stir in a pinch of soda dissolved in boiling water, and try a little on the griddle ; if more soda is neetled, add it cautiously. Once the batter has soured, you must make new the next time. A mixtiu'e half “middlings” and half buckwheat,makes very good cakes. Whe.\ten Griddle-Cakes. 2 cups sifted “ middhngs ” or “ connell.” 2i- “ warm water. 2 tablespoonfuls yeast. 1 tablespoonful com meal. Mix at night the same as for buckwheat cakes, and bake in the morning on a hot griddle, for breakfast. See that the “middlings” are fresli and clean. Wiieaten Griddle-Cakes.—( Good.)^ 2 cups sifted “middlings” or “connell.” 2|^ “ sour milk or cream. 1 teaspoonfid soda, dissolved in boiling water. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Make a batter of the milk, eggs and flour, add the dis- solved soda, and beat Avell; then bake immediately on a hot gi’iddle. The cakes should be light and tender, and nicely browned without scorching; they are excellent. Graham flour may be used instead of “middlings,” but it is not as good. Crumb Griddle-Cakes. —( Excellent.) 2 cups sour milk—or buttermilk. 2 “ stale bread-crumbs. \ cup sifted Graham flour. 12*274 HEALTH 1"N THE ITOESEHOLfi. [p.VRT III. 1 e"g, well lioaten. 1 teaspoouful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Soak tbe crumbs in the milk till soft; then work tiU smooth, and add enough flour to bind tbe mixture together. Stir in the beaten egg and dissolved soda, beat very hard, and bake to a good brown ; the griddle should be well oiled. If prefen-ed, use pai4 sour cream, and leave out the egg. Green Corn Griddle-Cakes.4}= 1 pint gi'ated green corn. 2 eggs, yoUvs and whites separate. 2 tablespoonfuls sweet milk or cream. 2 “ flour—or enough to thicken a little. Mix together the corn, j'olks and milk, and add the flour, Graham or white—just enough to bind aU together ; better test a little on the griddle before baking, as too much flour spoils the cakes. Whip and stir in the whites, beating thoroughly ; then bake on a hot giiddle, well oiled. Have a good even fire, and bake in small cakes, easily turned. Corn Griddle-Cakes.—(Excellent.):^ 2 cups coarse com meal. 2 “ sour milk—or buttermilk. 1 egg. 1 tablespoonful Graham flour. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Make a batter of the meal, miUi, egg and flour ; if it is too thick, add a little miUi. Then stir in the dissolved soda, beat well, and bake immediately on a hot gi-iddle ; do not scorch the cakes.275 CAKE-MAKING. PART III.] Corn Bre.vd Griddle-Cakes. 1 quart corn bread-crumbs. 1 pint sour milk—or buttermilk. 1 “ cold water. 1 egg, well beaten. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1 cup flour—or enough to form a thin batter. Soak the crumbs in the water over night; in the morning mash fine, add the milk and beaten egg, and mix well. Then stir in enough flour, Graham or white, to bind the mixt- ure together ; add the dissolved soda, and beat hard. Bake immediately on a hot gi’iddle, without scorching. Rice Griddle-Cakes.—f Oood.J::^ 1 cup cold boiled rice. 1 “ sour milk—or buttermilk. 1 “ sifted Graham flour. 1 egg, Avell beaten. teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Moisten the rice with the mflk, and mix them weU to- gether ; if there are lumps remaining, mash fine with a spoon—or a fork, which is better. Stir in the Graham flour and beaten egg, fonning a thin fritter batter ; then the dissolved soda, and beat well. Bake in small thin cakes to a good brown ; the griddle must be clean, and well oiled. Cold samp (fine hominy) mixed in the same way, is ex- cellent. CAKE-MAKING. As might be anticipated, the varieties of cake in a hy- gienic cook-book are rather limited ; but no matter how few in number, or how jilain in the making, the general directions for mixing and baking are essentially the same27G HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part m. ag for riclier ones. First of all, let there be good materials ; the best of flour (sifted), fresh eggs, and good sweet cream. If fniit is used let it be prepared beforehand ; currants should be looked over carefuUy, washed till they are free from all sediment, and then thoroughly dried in an oven that is not more than blood heat ; they must be well dredged with flour before using, and then stirred into the cake-batter the last thing before it is baked. Eaisins, if clean, may be spared the washing and drying ; simply pick from the stems, seed and chop them, and dredge well with floru'. Keep the eggs in a cool j)lace (or drop into cold water) till they are wanted ; and if jDracticable, beat them in a cool room. If more than one egg is needed, separate the yolks and whites as carefully as possible ; then beat the yolks with the sugar, and the whites by themselves ; the latter must be cut to a froth stiff enough to adhere to the plate, turned upside down. Use an eaidhen or stoneware basin, both for beating the eggs and mixing the cake. Before you begin with the batter, have all the ingredients at hand, and in order ; the cream of tartar sifted through the flour, the soda dissolved, the sugar (if not the gi’anulated) rolled fine, and the cake-pan clean and well oiled ; do not heat before oiling, as it makes the cake stick ; have the pan cold or lukewarm—never hot. Look to the oven, and see that the fire is just right ; you will need a steady, even * heat, one that you can depend upon till the cake is done. Some cooks prefer to use the soda without dissolving it; in this case you must mash with a knife till it is perfeotly smooth, and then sift it and the cream of tartar well throuofh the flour, or a part of it. An objection to this method is, that careless cooks do not always pulverize the soda tlior- oughly before sifting. The safest way, certainly, is to (/fs- &oloe it in boiling loader. If instead of soda and cream of tartar, baking-powder is used, mix well with a spoonful or two of the flour, and stir it (with thorough beating) into277 0AKE-MAKIN(J. P.VIiT III.] 2)lain cake, the last thing before baking ; into fruit cake, the last thing before adding the fruit. Buy the kind of baking- jiowder that is least adulterated, if you know which that is. The “ Price ” is said by chemists to be nearly or quite free from foreign ingredients—aside from starch, which, to say the least, is not poisonous. In hygienic cake—if any cake can be so designated—mix as follows : Beat the yolks and sugar together, add a httle of the cream, and stii’ in flom’ to thicken ; then more cream, then more flour*. When all is used, stir in the whipped whites and beat well; then the dissolved soda, and beat very thoroughly, till the batter is light and smooth ; then pour it into the cake-pan, and bake immediately. Never let the Iratter stand after it is mixed ; and never move the cake while it is baking, if it can be avoided ; test toward the last with a broom-straw, to see if the dough adheres to it; when done, the straw should come out clean from the thickest portion. In making cake, and in cooling after it is baked, the Buckeye Cookery says: “Do not s/ir, but beat thoroughlj*, bringing the batter up from the bottom of the dish at every stroke ; in this way the air* is driven into the cells of the batter, instead of out of them ; but the cells wiU be finer if beaten more slowly at the last, remembering that the motion should always be upward.” “The oven should be rather hot for small cakes, and moderate for larger ones. Most kinds of loaf cake may be ttiken from the tins in about fifteen minutes after they come from the oven; but they should not be turned over on the tojr to cool.” A good way is to turn a common wire sieve upside down, and when the cake is taken out of the pan, place it right side up on the sieve till it is thorouglily cold. If not to be eaten till the next day, wrap it in a clean thick towel or napkin, put it into a tin box or stone jar, and cover closely.278 [PAET III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Gilvh.vm Cbeav Cake.4|: 1 cup thick sweet cream. 24 cups sifted Giahpm flour. £ cup sugai*. 1 egg. i teaspoc2if''d eoda^ dissolved in boiling water. I “ cream-tartar, good measm*e. Before mixing, see that the oven is in order ; it must have a good steady heat, but very moderate. Place the above ingredients ah on the table, together with the cake-jian ; oil the latter well, having it cold or barely warm. Now sift tlie cream of taidar thi’ough the flour very thoroughly, and boat the egg and sugar together—or if more than one cake is wanted, double the above jiroportions, and carefully sepa- rate the yolks and whites. Beat the yolks with the sugar, reserving the whites to be whipped by themselves ; let the beating be done by an assistant, if there is one at hand. Add to the yolks and sugar a part of the cream, and stir in enough of the flour to thicken ; then more cream, then more flour ; if the latter is coarsely ground, a little less will bo needed ; the batter must not be very stiff. Wlicn this is mhced stir in the well-whipjied whites and the dissolved soda, and beat thorouglily ; then pour into the cake-pan (or pans), and place immediately in the oven. Bake rather slowly at first, allowing the cake to rise to its full height before the top is hardened ; and if possible do not move it till done. Finish with an even lirowTi, top and bottom, but not the slightest approach to scorching ; if tlie top browns a little too fast, cover with a paper ; if the bottom is in danger, lift oarefvlly, and slide a bread-pan, bottom upward, under it. Wlien nearly done, pass a liroom-straw through the thickest portion ; if it comes out clean add three minutes to the bakincr. and remove from the o—“^hiould the cakeCAKE-JUKINQ, 270 t>ART III.] adhere to the pan, leave it in live to tea minutes ; then turn it carefully out, and set ri<^lit side up on an inveiied sieve to cool. If not wanted for tlie table, wrap when fully cold in a clean coarse towel, or in two or three folds of old table-linen ; then put it into a tin bread-box or stone jar, cover closely, and set it in a cool place. This cake well made, is light, soft and tender ; it usually bakes in from forty to fifty minutes. Sour cream may be used in mixing, and the cream of t;xrtar omitted ; but good sweet cream is preferable, if you have it. Gr.aham Fruit Cake.]]: 1 cup thick sweet cream. 2 cups sifted Graham flour I cup currants, j^icked, washed, and thoroughly dried. “ raisins, seeded and chopped. 1 tablespoonful sugai’. 1 egg. i teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1 “ cream-tartar, good measure. Tlie ingredients being all on the table, and the cake-pan well oiled, look to the oven a moment. Then dredge the fruit with a portion of the flour, alread}' sifted and meas- ured ; beat the egg and sugar together, add the cream, and stir in the flour with the cream of tartar well sifted through it, forming rather a thin batter ; then add the dissolved soda, and beat well. Lastly, put in the raisins and currants, and stir them lightly but evenly through the mass. Bake as in the preceding recipe, allowing a little more time on account of the fruit. Test with the straw, and after it . comes out clean bake five minutes. A\dien taken from the oven, if the cake sticks to the pan leave it in five to ten minutes ; then remove, cool, and wrap, and put awaj'^ as before—or it may be sent to the table as soon as cold.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 280 [pAtiT m. If two cakes are wanted, double the above quantities, beat the yoUcs and sugar together, and the whites separately; these, cut to a stiff froth, should be whipped into the bat- ter just before adding the dissolved soda. This simple cake is more wholesome and palatable, than many that are “rich” (indigestible) with butter, eggs, sugar, molasses, spices, wines, etc. It is best eaten with tai*t, juicy fruit, as strawberries, or stewed cherries; it is verj" good with grape juice. If wanted “for company,” remove from the oven the moment the straw comes out clean, place on a platter, and moisten the top of the cake with the w^hite of egg beaten to a froth; then sift over a little white sugar, and return it to the oven tlmee to five minutes. You can beat a little lemon juice with the egg, if you like. When the cake is set on the table, you may garnish it with clusters of cherries with their leaves; or with bunches of ripe currants or other fruit, natural or “ frosted.” Grahaji Bread Cake. 2 cups light yeast dough. 1 cup seedless raisins—or currants. ^ “ sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 3 tablespoonfuls thick sweet cream. The dough should be rather soft, and light enough for baking; it may be all or part Graham. Dredge the sweet fruit well with flour; and if cuiTants are used, pick, vrash and dry them before dredging. Beat the yolks and sugar together, add the cream, and with a strong spoon stir all into the dough; when well mixed, add the whites cut to a stiff froth, and beat very thoroughljL Then stir in the fimit. lighth", pour into a shallow pan, well oiled, and set in a wann place to rise. When light, place in the oven, and bake from forty to fifty minutes, or until done.CAKE-M.VKING. 281 PAET III.] Apple Cake.^}: Make the same as Graham cream cake, using only half a cup of sugiU' to the other measurements, and bake i-ia two cakes, each an inch in thickness. In the mean time, stew some apples in as little water as will cook them; and when the cakes are done and cooled a little, spread the hot apple between. Serve when neaiiy cold, with cream, or fruit, juice. Strawberries, or ripe peaches thinly sliced, may be used instead of stewed apples; the berries should be very riiie, and chopped a httle before spreading. Huckleberry Cake. 1 cup sour cream. 2 cups sifted Graham flour. 1 cup sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. IJ teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1^ pints huckleberries, fresh and ripe. Dredge the berries with a poriion of the flour; then beat the yolks and sugar together, add the sour cream and stir in the floui’, forming a smooth batter. Whip in the whites cut to a stiff froth, add the dissolved soda, and beat thor- oughly. Lastly, stir the beiTies in carefully, breaking them as little as possible; pour into an oiled cake-pan, not too deep, and bake in a very moderate oven till a broom-straw comes out clean; then add five minutes to the baking, and remove from the oven. In ten minutes more take the cake out of the pan, and set it right side up on a sieve to cool. If jneferred, use sweet cream, and less soda by half a teaspoonful.HEALTU IN THE HOUSEHOLD. .282 [part IIL Graham Sponge Cake.^]: 1 cup (scant) sifted Graham flour. I “ sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 2 “ cream-tartai*. Juice of one small lemon. Sift the cream of tartar through the flour, at least twice. In wann weather, the eggs, which must be fresh, should be cooled by diopping them into ice-water. Beat the yolks, lemon juice, and sugar together, and stir in the flour; then add the soda and whipped whites, beating moderately; poui’ the batter into a cake-pan, and bake in a good oven. The pan, usually of oblong shaiie and with perpendiculai’ sides, shoidd be lined with white paper, well oOed. Test with a broom-straw, after twenty minutes’ baking. In making sponge cake mix as quickly as possible, beat lightly and not too long, and bake as soon as mixed. Graham Sponge CAKE.4j^ 1^ cups sifted Graham floui'. 1 cuj) sugar. “ cold water. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tai’tar. Juice of half a lemon. Beat the yolks, lemon and sugar together, add the water, and stir in the flour through which the cream of tar- tar has been well sifted. Then add the dissolved soda and beat lightly. Last of all stii' in the well-whipped whites, pour the batter into a shallow pan, hned with white paper well oiled, and bake immediately. Have rather a (juickCAKE-MAKINQ. PART III,] 283 oven, and test ^Yith a straw as in tlie last recipe; the cahe should be hardly an inch in tliickness, when done. Layer Cakjb. 1 cup sweet cream. 1 “ sifted Graham flour. f “ “ white flour. A “ sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. ^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1 “ cream-tartiU', sifted through the flour. Beat the yolks and sugai' together, add the cream, and stir in the flour ; mix till smooth, add the whites whipped to a stiff froth, and the dissolved soda, and beat well. Then dip into tins well oiled, and bake in rather a quick oven ; the batter should be about thick enough for griddle- cakes; it will make five or six layers. When these are nearly cold, spread with tart jelly, or with fruit juice evaporated to the consistency of a jelly. Or, prepare a “filling,” as follows: Beat together one egg (or whites of two), half a cup of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. Then grate two tart apples, stir these into the egg, lemon and sugar, and heat in a farina-kettle till all are smoking hot. Kemove from the fire, cool, and spread between the cakes. Layer Cake. Mixke a batter like the preceding, only stiffer; do this by adding to the above measurement, half a cup of sifted flour, Graham or white ; and when the batter is mixed, balco quickly, in thin layers. Then make a soft custard, as fol- lows : Heat half a pint of new milk just to a boil, and thicken it with one tablespoonful of corn-starch wet with a httle cream or milk; beat together one egg and one-third of[part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 284 a cup of sugar, add the hot mi-Kture to it, stirring in a little at a time, and retui-n to the fii’e. Stii* constantly till the custard thickens; then set it off. When nearly cold spread it on the layers, place them on top of each other in a plate, and set away in a tin bread-box, or inside a stone jar closely covered. Serve with canned cherries, or other tart fruit. Another way is to make a batter as for Graham sponge cake (either recipe, doubling the quantities), bake in thin layers, and then prepare the custard as before. Graham RusK.4j^ 1 pint new milk. ^ cup sugar, rolled fine. I “ good hop yeast. 3 eggs, beaten with the sugar. Flour for sponge and dough. Bring the milk to a boil, and cool to blood heat; then thicken with white flour, adding the yeast; the batter should be thin enough to pour from the spoon. Set this sponge to rise over night. In the morning put into the mix- ing-bowl three cups of sifted Graham, and three and a half cnjis of white flour, also sifted ; stir these together. Make a well in the middle, pour in the sponge, and add the eggs and sugar; then mix to the consistency of ordinary bread or a little softer, and knead very thoroughly. Set in a warm place tiU light; when ready laiead again, and mould into biscuits the size of an egg. Let these rise, then brush the tops Avith the white of egg beaten with a little sugar, and bake Lventy to thirty minutes. Graham Rusk. 1 cup new milk. 1 “ 2 sugar.285 FART m.l CAKE-MAKING. ^ cup good hop yeast. 2 eggs. Flour for sponge and dough. Scald the milk, and cool to blood heat; beat the eggs and sugar together, add tlie yeast and milk, and thicken with white horn-, forming a batter not very stiff. Set this in a warm place to rise ; it will require from thi-ee to four hours, according to teiui^erature and strength of yeast. When light, mix with equal parts sifted Graham and white flour, until a tolerably stiff dough is formed ; knead well, and leave in a waian place till risen. Then work into small cakes, let these rise, and bake in a moderate oven twenty to thirty minutes. A good msk is made as follows : Take two cups of raised dough, and work into it two eggs and half a cup of sugar, beaten together ; add enough flour, Graham or white, to make the dough stiff enough to mould. Then knead well, set to rise, and as soon as light mould into cakes ; when risen sufficiently, bake. Mush Eusk. 1 pint hot com meal mush. 1 “ new' milk, scalding hot. ^ cup sugar. 1 “ good hop yeast. 2 eggs. Floui’ for mixing. Time—20 to 30 minutes. Sift into the bread-bowl about a quart each, of Graham and white flour; make a w'eU in the center, add the hot mush, and stir in the scalding milk. Let this mixture cool to blood heat; then add the yeast, and the sugar and eggs beaten together, and w'ork in sufficient flour to make a dough that will mould. Knead thoroughly, and let it rise286 [PAKT HI. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. overniglit; then knucad again, and make into small biscuits; when these have risen, bake in an even oven twenty to thirty minutes. Oat Me.al Snaps. 4^ 1 cup sweet cream. 3 tablesiioonfuls cinished sugar. Fine oat meal, to form a dough that will roll. Stu' the cream and sugar together, till the latter is well dissolved ; then mix with a spoon, adding meal to form a dough stiff enough to mould. Knead slightly with the hand, roll to the thickness of an eighth of an inch, and cut into small round cakes. Then place in a moderate oven, and bake to a light brown ; they should be crisp and tender when done. Feuit Crackee.—(Graham.):^ I cup sweet cream. 1 “ cun-ants, picked, Avaslied and dried. \ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. \ “ cream-tai-tar. Flom- to make a very stiff dough. Put into the tray one heaping cuji of sifted Graham, and the same of white flour ; mix well together. Sift the cream of tartar tlu-ough it two or three times ; then wet with the cream, into which the dissolved soda has been stm-ed, fonn- ing a very stiff dough ; quite too stiff to adhere to the moulding-board. Knead as little as possible, and roll out a very thin sheet, less than an eighth of an inch in thickness. Spread this Avith a good layer of the fruit, enough to cover the dough ; the currants must be thoroughly dried after washing. "WTien the fruit is spread, roll another thin sheet and lay it on ; press well together, and pass the roUing-pin lightly over the whole, to make an even surface, Then cutCAKE-MAKING. 287 PART III.] into small cakes, round or square, prick deeply with a fork, and bake in a moderate oven till thoroughly done and h;ird. Fruit Ciuacker. Substitute “ middlings ” or “ connell ” for the Graham and white flour, and make like the preceding. Or the Lockpoi-t floiu' may be used, instead of middlings. Sally Lunn. 1 pint sweet cream. 3 eggs, yolks and whites sepai*ate. I cup yeast. 1 “ sifted Graham flour. 3^ cups “ white “ — or enough for a stiff batter. Warm the cream to blood heat; then beat and add the yolks, and stir in the yeast; and if the weather is cold have the flour slightly warmed. Thicken with the latter, stirring in first the Graham flour and then the white ; the batter should be pretty stiff. Then stir in the whites whijiped to a good froth, and beat thoroughly ; pour the batter into a pan, well oiled, and set it to rise. When light enough, bake from forty to fifty minutes, or until a broom-straw thrust into the thickest portion, comes out clean ; you will need a pretty hot oven. The cake should not be more than an inch and a half in thickness, when done. Serve warm (not hot) from the bake-pan. Sally Lunn. 2 cups sour cream—or enough for thick batter. 2 “ (scant) sifted Graham flour. 2 “ sifted white flour, 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling Avater. 2 teaspoonfulsj cream-tarf^’, sifted through the flour,[PAET III, HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 288 Make a Lattc'r of the cream, eggs and ilour, add the dis- solved soda, and beat well; then pour it into a small pan, well oiled, and bake in a moderate oven till done ; test with a broom-straw, the same as ordinary cake. Serve fifteen minutes after it comes from the oven. PIES, Etc. Cream Paste. Talve equal parts of Graham and wEite flour, sifted, and stir the two together ; then wet with cold sweet cream ; the colder the cream and flour, the crisper the paste. Mix as lightly and quickly as possible, forming a stiff dough ; do not knead, but gather up the fragments of jiaste, and begin to roll out immediately; or set it in the ice-chest tih wanted. This recipe is so often called for, that it is given here ac well as in Part II., to which the reader is referred for details. Pie-Crust Glaze. In making pumpkin or custai’d pies, or any that are very juicy, as cherry or currant, the crust is apt to become satu- rated with the soft mixture, unless they are eaten as soon as done. To prevent this, a good plan is said to be to roll out the crust and wet it with the beaten white of an egg, before adding the filling; the egg hardens in baking, and prevents the moisture from soaking into the crust. A better way lor fruit pies requiring sugar, particularly if they are juicy, is to line the pie-pans, and sprinkle first with a little flour, and then with the sugar, brushing the two together with the hand; during the baking the flour and melted sugar adhere together, and keep the juice from coming in contact with the paste.280 PIES, ETC. PART III.] Frcit PlES.4t: Nearly all fruits, as apples, peaches, plums, cherries, and all the small fruits, make excelleut pies. Having mixed a firm cream jiaste, roll it tliiu, and line the pie-pans; then put in the fruit, and for ai)ples, iieaches, rasiiberries, etc., that ai’e not very juicy, add a little water. Sweeten to taste, if the fruit is tart enough to require sugar; lay on the toj) crust, secure the edges, and hake in a quick oven twenty to thiity minutes. When done, the upper and under cmsts should he thoroughly haked, and moderately browned; too often the top is burnt or blistered, and the bottom scorched or doughy. Family pies, or “ cobblers,” are made in deep dishes, or bread-pans, having the cnist twice the usual thickness, and the fruit an inch and a half to two inches in depth. If baked without an under cnist, use granitized iron ware, as a common ii’on pan will blacken the fruit. These pies re- quire longer to bake, on account of their size; apple cob- blers made with a top cnist only, will be done in about forty minutes; with a top and bottom one, an hour to an hour and a quarter is needed. Peach cobblers made of clingstones, the fruit not overripe, take nearly twice as long. The small fruits require less time for baking than the others; as soon as the cmsts are done, the pies can be taken out. For particulars in making fruit pies, see Part II., Pastries. Peach Meringue Pie. Peel peaches of fine ricli flavor, remove the stones, and stew moderately in a very little water; then mash fine, adding sugar if desired. Fill a pie-pan lined with ordinaiy cream paste, and bake from twenty to thirty minutes, or till the cnist is well done. Then beat together the whites of two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and the juice of 13290 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT HI. half a lemon; spread this over the pie, I’eturn it to the oven, and brown slightly. Serve cold. Tart sliced apples, stewed in a little water till soft, are made into pies in the same way; and good dried apjiles or peaches, stewed till tender and mashed line, may also be used. Custard Pie. 1 quart sweet milk. } cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 2 tablespoonfuls white flour. In point of healthfulness, custard pies are infinitely in- ferior to fruit pies; the eggs, milk and sugar (w'ithout which a custard can not be made), are all of them heavy and clogging to the liver; and none the less so, from the fact that they are baked together. Many persons object to the “ eggy ” taste in custard pies, and jirefer if they eat them to use less eggs, thicken with a little flour or corn-starch, and then bake in a moderate oven. Others dislike sioeet custards, and think them not only more wholesome but more delicate, when very little sugar is used. If 3"ou have the watered milk of the cities, you can hardly make a custard. First of all, then, take good milk; heat it to boiling, and add the flour wet to a smooth paste with a little cold milk; stir till the mixture comes again to a boil. Then remove from the fire; when nearly cold beat the yolks, whip in the sugar, and stir them in; also the whites cut to a good froth. Line the pie-pans with a very stiff cream paste, pour in the custard, and bake in an oven that heats well at the bottom; take out the pies the moment they arc firm in the center, and be sure the crust is done. If flavoring is wanted, beat together the whites of two eggs, a tablespoonful of sugar, and the juice of half aPART III.] PIES, ETC. 291 lemon; siJread this over the top, and brown slightly. Serve soon after the pies are baked. To prevent the custard from soaking into the crust, a good plan is said to be to moisten the latter with the beaten white of an egg, before filling. All custard pies should be removed from the pans and put on plates, as soon as they come from the oven; this allows the moisture to escape from the bottom, and prevents the crust from getting wet and heavy. Ai^ple Custard Pie. 3 cups sweet milk. 3 “ apple, grated or stewed. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 1 tablespoonful white flour. Prepare the apples by stewing in as little water as will cook them; then mash fine and smooth; they must not be very tart. Beat the yolks and sugar together, and whip them into the apple; then stir in the flour, and add the milk. Stir in also the whites, well beaten, and pour the cus- tard into pie-pans lined with a good cream paste; the latter should bo mixed cpiite stiff, and made of ecpial parts Gra- ham and white flour, sifted. Bake in a moderate oven till the custard is set, but no longer; see that there is sufficient heat at the bottom to brown the ciaist. Dried apples, stewed in a little water till they are tender, and then mashed fine, may be used in this pie. Rice Custard Pie.—(Excellent. 3 cups sweet milk. 2 “ boiled rice. 3 tablespoonfnls sugai’. 2 eggs, yoUvS and wliites separate.292 [part hi. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Tlie rice j^liould be boiled in water till tborougbly soft, but not broken. Cold rice left over wiU do, but it is not so good; if this is used put it into the milk, warm to blood heat, and mix thoroughly, crushing the lumps with a fork. Beat the yolks and sugar together, stir them into the milk and rice, and mix well; then stir in the well-whipj>ed whites. Line the pie-pans with a firm cream paste, set them in the oven, and fiU with the rice custard. Bake with a slow even heat till it is barely set, and seiwe as soon as cooled to liikewarm; see that the crust is well done. This is a plain but very delicate pie, and easily made; the above mixture will make three jiies of ordinaiy size. Cocoa-Nut Custard Pie. 1 quart new milk. ' ^ cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 1 cocoa-nut, pared and grated. 1 tablespoonful corn-starch. The fiber of the cocoa-nut is apt to give trouble to weak stomachs; for this reason, it is best to dispense with all but its juices. Stir the grated nut into the milk, pour the latter into a farina-kettle, and bring it slowly to a boil, stirring once or twice; then mix in the corn-starch wet in a little cold milk, and cook one minute; remove from the fire, and when cool enough strain through a coarse cloth or fine colander. Beat the yolks, then the sugar with them, and sth’ them into the strained milk; add also the cocoa-nut milk if it is perfectly sweet, and the whites whipped to a good froth; stir well together, and bake in two pie-pans lined with a very stiff cream paste. Have a moderate oven, and bake only till the custard is set; then slip from the pans to plates, as soon as the pies come from the oven. Serve cold, the day they are baked.PART m.] PIES, ETC. 293 Corn-Starch Custard Pie. 1 quail; sweet milk. f cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 3 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. Juice of one lemon. Heat tlie milk to a boil, stir in the corn-starch dissolved in a httle cold milk, and cook one minute, stii’ring constantly, llemove from the fire, and while it is coohng jirepare a stiff cream paste, half Graham (sifted), and line the pie-pans with it. Set these in the oven to heat through; beat the yolks and one of the whites together, whip in half a cuji of the sugar, and stir them into the milk. Then fill the jians Math the custai’d, and bake in an even oven tiU it is just set; beat the remainder of the whites, the lemon, and the rest of the sugar togetlier, and spread over the tops; close the oven, and heat tiU the meringue tinges. Take the pies out, slip them on plates, and set in a cool place; serve cold or nearly so, soon after baking. Legion PiKijj: 2 cups sweet milk. 1 cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. Juice of two lemons. Heat the milk almost to boiling, and stir in the corn- starch wet with a little cold milk; let the mixture boil five minutes, stirring constantly. Then remove from the fire to cool; beat the yolks, lemon and sugar together, and when the milk is nearly cold stir them into it; then the whites, beaten to a stiff froth. Fill the pie-pans, lined with a firm cream paste (equal parts Graham and white flour, sifted),HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. ^94 aud bake in a inoderate oven till the custard is barely set; the crust must be well done. Serve cold the same day; the above will make one large or two small pies. Lemon Pie.—[ With Meringxm.)^ 2 cups boiling water. 1 cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. Juice of two lemons. Wet the corn-starch with a little cold water, and pour the boding water over it, stining well meanwhile ; let this get nearly cold. Then beat the yolks, first by themselves, then with the lemon and two-thirds of the sugar, add the coin- starch water, and stir thoroughly. Then dip the mixtui’e into two pie-pans lined with a stiff cream paste, and bake in an oven not too hot; brown well at the bottom, and take out the moment the pies are done. Beat the whites to a stiff froth with the rest of the sugar, and spread over the tops ; return to the OA’^en, close the door, and brown slightly. Seiwe cold, soon after baking. Irish Potato Pie. 44 1 quaid sweet milk—or paid cream. 1^ cups mashed potato, dry and mealy. 4 cup (nearl}') sugar. 3 eggs, yollcs and whites separate. Juice of one lemon. Mix the potato wed with the milk, and put through a colander to remove lumps. Then beat the yolks, lemon and sugar together, and stir them in ; add the whites cut to a stiff froth, and stir well. Line tliree pie-pans with a good cream paste mixed stiff, fill with the batter, and bake in an even oven till the pies are done ; see that the crust is well browned. Serve cold the same day.Part hi.] PIES, ETC. 295 Irish Potato Pie. 3 cups new milk. 1 cup (heaping) mashed potato, diy and mealy. ^ “ sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites sepai’ate. Juice of one lemon. Mix the millv and jiotato thoroughly, and rub through a colander ; then beat together the yolks, one of the whites, half the sugar and half the lemon ; stii’ these into the milk and potato, and bake in two pans, lined with a stiff cream paste ; the oven must be moderate. As soon as done cover with a meringue made by beating together the two whites, and the rest of the lemon and sugar, heat till it changes color, and take the pies from the oven. Eat cold. Sweet Potato PiE.^t^ 3 cups sweet milk. 1 cup “ potato. 1 “ sugai'. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Juice of half a lemon. Boil the sweet potatoes, good sound ones, in a little water till tender. Eemove the skins, and trim off any de- fective spots on the surface or ends ; in wet seasons, there is often a dark layer just beneath the skin. Grate the po- tato or mash fine, till you have a cupful; mix this well with the milk, leaving no lumps ; or you may put the milk and potato through a colander. Then beat the yolks, lemon and sugar together, and stir in the milk and potato ; add the well-whipped whites, and mix thoroughly. Line two pie- pans with a very firm cream paste, set them in the oven, and fill wdth the potato batter ; bake rather slowly until the center is thickened, and almost firm. Then remove the pies from the oven, slip from the tins to plates, and set in a cool place. Serve cold the day you make them.296 [PAET III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Pumpkin Pie. 4^ 1 quart sweet milk. It} piuts stewed pumpkin. 2 even tablespoonfuls sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. In preparing the pumpkin, wliicb should be lipe and of good quahty, peel, slice and cut, removing the seeds ; then stew tm tender, but not long enough to change its color. Let it get thoroughly soft before you stii* it; and staii; in so little water that it will not be too wet when done ; you can, if necessary, add a trifle of boihng water as it stews. After stirring, cook very little ; much cooking destroys the fine fresh flavor of the pumpkin, which is its greatest excellence. The best for pies or sauce, is one that is known est as the “ Yankee ” pumpkin ; it is largely cultivated in New Eng- land, and is the color of a very ripe orange. When stewed add a portion of the milk, and rub through a colander or mash fine, to remove the lumps ; if it is sweet and ripe, no sugar will be needed. If only of ordinary quality, add the sugar to the yolks, and boat well together ; stir these into the pumpkin, add the whites whipped to a stiff froth, and beat thoroughly. Then stir in the\est of the milk, and dip into pie-pans lined with a stiff cream paste ; make this of equal parts Graham and white flour, sifted. Have a moderate oven, heating well at the bottom, and bake till the pies are barely firm in the center ; then take them out, slip from the tins to plates, and set in a cool place. Serve warm or cold ; they are best, eaten an hour after baking. Pumpkin Pie.—('Wi/h less Eggs.):^ When eggs are scarce, a very fair pie may be made by using only one egg to two pies ; and a good way is to stir half the milk into the pumpkin, heat the other half to boil-PART III.J 297 PIES, ETC. ing, and stir it into the cold batter tlie last thing before baking. It is better when few eggs are used, not to mix too thin ; you may take nearly as much pumpkin as there is milk ; luid a little tloui' stii'red into tiie batter before whipping in the eggs, is an improvement. Bake till the pies are tii’m in the center, and eat the day you make them. In the absence of cream paste, you may oil the pie-pans, and sift either line oat meal A” grade), or tine corn meal over them, and then hll with the batter, and bake. Or you may oil the pans, and sti’ew with tuiely grated bread-crumbs, thy and stale ; or roiled crackers, if you have them. Of coLU’se, a crust made after either of these methods, will not be eipial to good cream paste. PuMPEix Pie.—( Without Eggs.) 3 cups sweet milk. 3 “ stewed jiumpkin. 2 tablespoonfuls molasses or syrup. 2 (even) tablespoonfuls white flour. If you have not pure molasses use melted sugar, brown or maple. Mix the flour to a smooth paste, with a little cold milk or water; then stir it into tlie milk, and bring the latter to a boil. Heat in a farina-kettle, or a tin bucket set in a pot of boiling water, and stir often. Mix the molasses through the cold pumpkin, and beat thoroughly; then stir in the hot milk. The pumpkin should be stewed rather dry. Dip immediately into pie-pans lined with a firm cream paste, and place in a moderate oven; the mixture Avill make one large, or two small pies. Bake till they are done in the center, but no longer. If to be eaten the same day, slip them out of the pans into plates. They are good cold or warm—not hot. If in- tended for the next day, set away in the pans, provided these are free from rust; when w'anted for the tq-ble, place 13*HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 298 [part III. OH top of tiic stove -whero the crust Nvill heat through quichly, witiiout scorchiug; this iu:rkes it crisp and tender, as if fresh from the oven. Squash Pie.4|: Stew the squash tiU soft, having it rather moist; then mash line, h oi three pies take three eggs, four cups of milk, and two of squash; and if the latter is not pretty sweet, add to it one iieajring or two level tablespoonfrds of sugar’. In mixing, first add a cup of the milk to the squash, and rub through a colander or fine sieve; then beat the yolks and sugar’ together, and stii’ them in; add also the whites whqrped to a stiff froth, and beat hard. Stii’ in the rest of the milk, and fill the pie-pans lined with a stiff cream paste; bake till the batter is thick in the middle, but not a moment longer. When done remove the pies from the pans, put them on plates, and set in a cool place. Eat the day they are baked—or better, half an hour after they leave the oven. Lemon Tart. I cup sugar. 1 “ boiling water. 2 lemons—juice of. 2 even teaspoonfuls corn-starch. 'Wet the corn-starch with a little cold water, and pour the boiling water over it, stirring well to prevent lumping; then add the lemon juice and sugar, and stir all together. Bake in a single pie, with upper and under crust of good cream paste. In this, as in other tarts, roll the crusts thin, and bake quickly. Green Apple Tart.^}: Pare, core and slice tart June apples, not quite ripe, and fiU two pie-pans lined with a stiff cream paste; make this of equal parts Graham and white floui’, sifted. Fill thePAUT III.] PIES, ETC. 290 pans pretty full; and unless the apples are very juicy, add a trifle of water. Cover with the paste, and bake in a quick oven till the fruit is well done, and the bottom and top crusts nicely browned. Then take out the pies, and slip from the pans to plates ; split each one open with a knife, lay the top crusts on separate plates, and spx’ead half the apple on them. While stiU hot, sprinkle weU with good brown sugar, maple if you have it, and send (on the four plates) to the table. Serve with or without a dressing of cream; they are excellent. CUEILVNT TaBT. Take red currants that are about half or two-thirds ripe, strip them from the stems, and All your pie-pans lined with a good cream paste; sprinkle with sugar, lay on tlie toj) crust, and make the edges secure. Then prick well with a fork, and cut a cross-slit in the center; or, Avhat is prettier, ornament ■s\'ith a knife, making “leafy sprays,” for the escape of steam. Bake quickly till the crusts are done, then set away to cool. Raspbekry and Curuvnt Tart. Pick the ripe cun-ants from the stems, and mix with them an equ:d quantity of red or black raspberries; then proceed as in the last recipe. Strawberries, blackbemes, hucklebenies, and seeded chen-ies, are made into pies or tarts, the same as currants ; except that the fruits which are not so acid, require less sugar. Crea^i Raspberry Tart. Scald a cup of milk or cream, and stir into it half a tea- spoonful of corn-starch wet with a little cold milk; boil two minutes, stirring constantly. Then beat a tablespoonful of sugar into the whites of two eggs, and stir them in; cook a minute longer, and remove from the fire to cool.300 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part hi. In the mean time make a stiff cream paste, and line a dish that is two inches deep; fill it two-thii’ds full of rasp- beriies, sprinkle lightly with sugar, and cover with a crust; do not pinch it down at the edge. Both crusts should be somewhat thicker than for an ordinary pie. Bake in a good even oven till done, toj) and bottom. When taken out lift off the upper crust, and pour the cold custard over the hot fruit; then rejfiace, and set the pie away till perfectly cold. Serve in the bake-pan. If preferred, make the top crust of light cream paste, in- stead of in the ordinary w’ay. Strawberry Tart. Make the same as the last, and seiwe cold. Gooseberry Tart. Select fine, fresh berries that are beginning to ripen; remove the stems and blossoms, and w^ash in a colander. Then line the pie-pans wuth a firm cream paste, fill with the fruit, and add sugar to taste; cover with a crust, prick weU, and bake quickly till the pastry is done. Eat cold. Damson Tart. Look over and wash the plums, and fiU the pie-pans, lined with the ordinary cream paste. Add sugar to sweeten, lay on the top crust, and pinch the edges securely together; then either ju’ick with a fork, finishing wuth a cross-slit in the center of the crust, or ornament with a knife in such a way as to let the steam out in baking. Have a good oven, and bake till w^ell done, top and bottom. Serve cold. Cranberry Tart. t Pick over the ben’ies, rejecting all that are not sound ; then -wash, and stew in a porcelain kettle, allowing, say WoTHE GRAINS. PART III.] 301 parts water to three of fruit, by measure. Stew very slowly twenty to thirty minutes, and strain through a coarse col- ander, pressing through aU but the skins. Then return to the kettle, and add sugar, allowing half or two-thii’ds of a cup to a quart of the picked berries. Heat the sauce to a boil, stir well, and set it off to cool. Put into pie-pans under crusts of stiff cream paste, and fill with the cran- berry ; roU a bit of dough very thin, cut it into strips less than a quai’ter of an inch wide, and lay in cross-bars three- quaiders of an inch apart over each pie, leaving the sjiaces diamond-shaped. Pinch down the ends, trtm off the dough, cutting it close to the rim of the pan, and finish the edges neatly. Bake till the pastry is well done; then slip from the tins, place on plates, and set away to cool. Rhubarb Tart. Wash and skin the stalks, split them once or twice (the thin way of the stidk), and cut in inch lengths. Then add a little water, and stew in a porcelain kettle till tender ; sweeten to tasde, just before lifting from the fire ; it wiU re- quu-e nearly half a cup of sugar to a quart of cut rhubarb. Line the pans with the usual cream paste, mixed stiff, and fill with the sauce ; then cover with cross-bars of thin paste, and bake till the crust is done. An excellent tart is made as follows : Take a granitized iron ])an two inches deep, fill it Avith cut rhubarb, sweeten to taste, and cover with a light cream paste ; jirick well, cut a slit in the center, and bake. Serve cold. THE QRAINS. Minute directions have been given in Part H. for steam- ing the grains. It is needless to say that they are very good and very wholesome—provided you do not spoil them by serving with cream and sugar. “Hoav shall Ave eat them ? ” is the question often asked. AVith the rare fruitHKVLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 302 [part III. juices, of course; try them. Preiiaro these in summer when fruits are plenty, and seal in cans for winter use. (You will find special directions for making them in Part II.) The juices of strawberries, raspberries, currants, or raspberries and cuiTants mixed, are truly delightful; so are those of cherries, blackberries, grapes and goosebemes. Or the fruits, either stewed or canned, make a good dressing. To the unperverted palate, the grains and mushes are very good eaten simply with the hard Graham roU, or with dry toast. A little mashed potato, dry and mealy, just enough to “ feather ” the bit of mush or grain on the end of the fork, is not a bad accompaniment. If you do not like this combination, and have not the fruits, then the next best plan is to stir into the dish of grain, just as you take it from the steamer, a very httle cream ; not more than a third of a teaciijiful to aU the family will eat. If they can not relish the grains in any of these ways, let them try the “ fruit and bread ” diet for a few days, which will be all the better for the stomach. Should so plain a regimen fail to satisfy,is the proper remedy. MUSHES. These are seiwed the same as the grains ; the methods of preparing mushes are fully described in Paid II. PUDDINGS. Puddings, at best, are scarcely considered hygienic ; as usually made and served, they are decidedly objectionable ; but as they might be made, they are perhaps as healthful as half or two-thirds of the other dishes that will be found in Paid in. In other words, they are “ at home ” with cakes, custards, custard pies, fancy desserts, eggs, omelets, fish, poultry, game, and an endless variety of meats and meat prepai’ations—to say nothing of worse things notPART III.] 303 PUDDINGS. herein mentioned, and that have long since been banished entirely from tables making any pretensions to hygiene. Those who really desire to Hve hygienically—and there- fore healthfully—wiU find it to their advantage to select in the main from Part II., leaving Part III. for only occasional reference. Many of the puddings described in the following recipes, are made chiefly of fruits and cereals, and contain an little as possible of that very unhygienic combination, “milk, eggs and sugar,” which is so bad for the hver. vVnd the dressings, when any are used, are most of them as j)lain as the puddings themselves ; they contain no brandies, sher- ries, or other wines ; no sjiices, no butter, and not a large amount of sugar. A number of the ver>j plain jmddings, are httle else than simple fruit preparations, to be eaten cold ; they are conven- ient to have in summer, when meals are prejiared with as little fire as possible. And many of the puddings that are to be eaten “ lukewarm,” may be served cold, if desired. When bread-crumbs are used in the making, have them dry, and rather stale ; and part at least, of good home-made Graham loaf, unsweetened. If sweet fruits, as currants or raisins, are among the ingredients required, look them over carefully, wash in a colander tiU they are free from sediment, and then dry thoroughly before dredging with flour. Use no spices or pungent flavorings, and of course no wines or brandies, either in the puddings or sauces. Butter, too, had lietter be omitted from both ; when it is cooked or heated, it is particularly indigestible. If eggs enter into the com- bination, see that they are fresh ; and sejiarate the yolks and whites carefuUy before beating. In oiling the dishes have them cold, to prevent sticking ; take for this purpose the fat from clean dripping, or a little pure olive oil. If the ordinary Graham flour is used, you may have to put it through a coarse sieve. Endeavor to "et pure sodtiiHKVLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. 304 and cream of tartar, and take these instead of baking- jiowder, unless you know the latter to be free from adulter- ations. The “Price,” or the “Koyal,” is thought to be as good as any ; these powders are said to contain no foreign ingredient, except starch—of which there is about 33 per cent. ; so that in measuring, it is necessary to heap the spoon ; whereas, a “ teaspoonful ” of soda or cream of tiirtar, is the sjioon filled not above the level. In making with Indian meal, particularly if the pudding is to be steamed, get the yellow flint (golden), if possible, though the white flint is good. And in steaming, endeavor, first, to keep the water constantly at a fast boil; second, if any has to be added, to put it in boiling hot; thii’d, not to open the steamer till the pudding is done ; fourth, to send to the table as soon as it is taken out. In either steaming or boiling, allow plenty of room for the pudding to swell; if you boil, Avring the bag out of hot water, and flour it well inside before filling. Allow for swelling a space equal to at least one-third the volume of the pudding ; then tie securely and boil, keeping plenty of water in the pot, and the latter closely covered ; turn the bag over from time to time. In boiling a roily-jioly, a good plan is simply to baste a cloth loosel}^ around it, flouring weU inside, and allowing. room'to swell. Puddings that in baking incline to stick to the bottom or sides of the pan, as batter puddings, green corn jmddings, etc., should be poured into a dish (the latter well oiled), and then set in the oven Avithin a shallow pan of boiling water. Custards, and all puddings that contain milk and eggs, should be managed in the same way, baked vei'y sloicly, and only tiU the custard is set. If the milk is to be heated, do it in a farina-kettle, or a tin bucket set in a pot of boiling Avater ; then there is no danger of scorching. When it begins to boil, lift from the fire ; and either cool to luke- Avarm before stiiTing it into the beaten eggs, or add it ft little at a time, to ]irevent curdling.SELECTION OP PUDDINGS. 305 PART m.J SELECTION OF PUDDINGS. Biud’s-Nest Pudding. 1 quart sweet milk. 12 apples, rather tail;, medium size. § cup raisins, seeded and chopped. 1 “ currants, picked and washed. “ sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 2 tahlespoonfuls floiu’. Time—for custard, 20 to 30 minutes, slow oven. Pare and core the apples, place them closely together in a shallow pudding-dish (eai-then or granitized iron), and fill the centers with the raisins and cuiTants. Then add a little water, just enough to cook them, and bake tiU the apples are soft, but not broken to pieces. When done remove from the oven, and while the fruit is cooling beat the yolks, whip in the sugar, add the milk, and stir in the flour. Then beat the .whites to a stiff froth, add them, and stir again; pour the raw custard over the apples, and set the dish into the oven, inside a dripping-pan containing a little Ijoiling water. Bake slowly till the custard is sot, Imt not till it separates; it will take from twenty to thii’ty minutes. Serve lukewarm, without a dressing ; this pudding is excel- lent. If you have not the sweet fruit, use a little sugar instead. Bread and Fruit Pudding. 3 cups sweet milk. 2 “ (scant) fine bread-crumbs, stale. 2 “ finely chopped apples, rather tart. 1 cup raisins, seeded and chopped, and dredged with flour. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—an hour and a quarter, slow oven.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 30G [PAKT IIL Prepare the crumbs, or part of them, from good home- made Graham loaf if you have it ; scald the milk, pour it over them, and mix lightly. Then stir the sugar’ into the beaten yolks, and add the bread and milk, a little at a time; or you may wait till the latter is cool enough not to curdle the eggs. Then stir in the weU-whi2rped whites, and also the fruit; pour the batter into a j)udding-dish, and set it, covered, in the oven, inside a shallow jran with boiling water in it. Bake in a moderate oven, aUomng an hour and a quai’ter to cook the fruit. Serve nearly cold, without a dressing. Huckleberries may be substituted for the raisins, using two cujrs instead of one, and adding to the milk a jrinch of soda, dissolved in a very little boiling water ; the soda must be stirred in before the fruit is added. Grated Apple Pudding. 2 cups sour cream—or part sour milk. 3 “ grated (or scrajied) aj^ides, rather tart. 2 “ sifted white flour. 1 tablesjioonful fine corn meal. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—40 to 50 minutes, slow oven. Beat the yolks, Avhij^ the sugar into them, add the cream, apifies, meal and flour, and stir well; then add the whites cut to a stiff froth, and also the dissolved soda, and beat thoroughly. Pour into a shallow pan, well oiled, and place immediately in a very moderate oven ; or a better way is to set the dish in a dripping-pan, containing boiling water. Bake from forty to fifty minutes. The pudding should not be more than an inch and a half or two inches thick when done ; and it should be delicately bro^vned, top and bot- tom. You may send it to the table in the bake-dish ; or itSELECTION OP PUDDINGS. t-UlT III.] 307 can, w ith care, be turned out on a plate, and cut in pieces as you serve it. It is best eaten warm (not hot), and is good enough without sauce—though the little woman who used to make this pudding “to perfection,” passed it to her guests with genuine maple molasses. Sweet cream or milk may be used for mixing, instead of sour ; in this case add two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, sifting it through the flour. If preferred, use only two eggs. Rhubarb Ch.arlotte.4^: 3 pints cut rhubarb. 3 cups fine bread-crumbs, stale. I- cup cold water. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. Time—40 to 50 minutes. Wash, trim and peel the stalks of rhubarb, taking care that there are no worms hidden away in the body of them. Sjilit each stalk once or twice, and cut into very short bits. Prej^are the bread-crumbs from good home-made Graham loaf, rather stale ; then fill a pudding-dish with alternate layers of the crumbs and choj)ped rhubarb, beginning with the latter, and ending with the former. Make each layer of rhubarb twice as thick as the crumbs, and sprinkle the sugar over as you put it in. When the dish is full pour the water over the whole, and set it, covered, in the oven, inside a shallow pan of boiling water, and bake slowly half an hour ; then uncover, and brown quickly. Serve nearly or quite cold, with or without a dressing ; it is very good with mock cream, or lemon sauce. Gooseben'ies, just beginning to ripen, may be used in- stead of rhubarb. Sweet-Apple Pudding.—(Excellent. 3 quails new milk. 1 quart sweet apples, finely chopped.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 308 [part III. I cup sugar. 1 pint (nearly) coarse corn meal. Single handful white flour. Time—three to four hom’s, slow oven. Pare, core and slice the sweet apples, and chop them fine, having a full quart in all. Then put into a stone or eaiihen crock, or a farina-kettle, two quarts of the milk ; if new milk can not be had, add a cuji of cream to the skimmed. Set it on the stove, and bring just to a boil; if heated in a crock, see that the indk does not scorch in the least. Then stu’ in the corn meal, and beat very thoroughly to remove lumps. The batter, when the meal has had time to swell, should be almost too thick to pour, or about the consistency of good corn mush. Let the mixture again come to a boil, and cook, stin’ing five to seven minutes ; then remove from the fire, and add the quart of cold milk ; this wiU make the batter thin enough to pour readily. Now stir in the ajiples, sugar and flour, and beat well. If the mixing has been done in a crock, set it directly into the oven ; if in a fanna- kettle, pour the batter into a deep pudding-dish, and set it in the oven, within a dripping-pan containing a pint or more of boiling water. Bake slowly, stirring several times the first hour ; the pudding should cook from three to four hours in aU, and be moderately browned on top when done. This excellent dessert is sensed cold or warm (not hot), and without a dressing ; though the juices of certain fruits, as raspberries, cherries, etc., make a v^ery good sauce for it. In the mixing, molasses or syrup may be used instead of sugar; but the pudding is less delicate to the taste. And when sweet apples are not to be had, those of a mild but rich sub-acid flavor, can be substituted. Tliis has been called, “The sweet-apple puddmg of the olden times.” And one who remembers, says of it : “ More than fifty years ago, when the woods covered the hiUs and valleys of Otsego County, N. Y., my mother used to makeSELECTION OF PUDDINGS. PAJiT HI.] 300 2 cups dry bread-crumbs—home-made Graham loaf. this pudding, and hake it slowly in an old-fashioned hake- kettle, which stood on legs two inches in length, and had an iron cover on which we put coals and hot emhers when we wanted to hro-wn the top. We hung the kettle on the crane in the capacious fire-place, and let it cook slowly all the forenoon, or afternoon, according as it was wanted for dinner or supper. Or if there was a stone or hrick oven, it was jDut in a little before the bread, unless that happened, as it often did, to he aU rye and Indian, when it was put in at the same time, and baked from three to fom* hours, according to size.” Lemon Pudding.—(Choice.)^ 3 cups sweet milk—new is best, cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 2 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. Juice of two lemons. Time—20 to 30 minutes, slow oven. Pour the milk into a farina-kettle, and bring it to a boil; then stir in the corn-starch, wet with a Httle cold milk or water. Boil five minutes, stii*ring constantly to prevent lumping, and remove from the fire. Whip into the beaten yolks the sugar and lemon, and when the mixture is almost cold, stir them into it; then the whites, cut to a stiff froth. Pour the custard into a dish, set it inside a shallow pan of boiling water, and bake slowly twenty to thiriy minutes, or until barely set. Serve warm or cold. For a larger pud- ding, double the quantity of ingi’edients ; though less eggs will do. This pudding is very delicate in flavor. Lemon Meringue Pudding.—(Good.J:\^ 3 cups sweet milk. 1 cup “ cream.[part III. 310 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. f cuj) sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Juice of two lemons. Time—30 to 40 minutes, slow oven. Turn the milk and cream together, and soak the crumbs in it half an houi’ ; if you have new milk, take a quart of it and leave out the cream. Stii' into the beaten yolks half the sugar, and half the lemon ; then add the bread and milk, pour all into a pudding-dish, and place in a drij)ping- pan with boiling water in it. Bake slowly thirty to forty minutes, or until the custard is set. When firm, cover with a meringue made by beating together the whites, and the rest of the sugar and lemon ; close the oven, and brown moderately. Seiwe lukewarm ; no dressing. An orange pudding is made in the same w'ay ; the oranges should be fresh, rich in flavor, and tart or sub-acid. Bread Pudding. 1 quart sweet milk. 1 pint broken bread, stale. ^ cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—20 to 30 minutes, slow oven. In all bread puddings, use good home-made loaf, stale and dry, but iierfectly sweet; Graham or part Graham (always unsweetened), is best. Soak the bread in tlie milk till soft, but do not stir ; then beat the yolks, stir into these the sugar, and then the bread, milk, and the weU-whii:»2)ed w'hites. Stir all lightly together, i->our into a iiudding-dish, and set in the oven, within a shallow pan of boiling water. Bake slowly twenty to thirty minutes, or till the pudding is barely firm in the center ; if a little creamy, it is aU the better ; and on no account let it cook till watery or wheyev. If wanted on short notice, scald the milk, j-joiTi* it overPart hi.] 311 SELECTION or PUDDINGS. the bread, and add these, little by little, to the sugar and yolks beaten together ; then stir in the whites whipped to a good froth, and bake as before. Serve nearly cold, with- out a dressing. Bread Pudding.—( With Meringue.)^ 3 pints sweet milk. 1 pint dry bread-crumbs. 1 cup currants—or seedless raisins. 1 “ sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—an hour and ten minutes, slow oven. Heat the milk, and pour it over the bread without stir- ring ; beat the yolks, and add to these the bread and milk, mixing in a little at a time; then stir in the sweet fruit, di-edged with floiu’. Pour the batter into a pudding-dish and place in the oven, inside a shallow jian of boiling Avater, and bake covered, very slowly, an hour and ten minutes, or till the raisins are tender. When done, cov^er with a mer- ingue made by beating together the whites and sugar, and brown slightly. Seiwe lukewarm, without a dressing. Another pudding with the same ingredients, is made as follows : Shce the bread instead of crumbing, and cover the bottom of a pudding-dish with part of it; streAV on a portion of the raisins, and moisten well with a raw custard, made of the milk, eggs and sugar. Repeat the process until the dish is nearly full, having the last layer of bread, well soaked; then pour the remainder of the custard over the pudding, cover, and bake as before. Queen of Puddings.—( Good.)^ 1 quart new milk—if skimmed, part cream. 2 cups (heaping) dry bread-crumbs, finely grated. 1 pint strawberries, raspbemes, blackberries, huckle- berries, or sliced peaches.312 [part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. § cup sugai'. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Juice of one lemon. Time—30 to 40 minutes, slow oven. Soak the crumbs (good home-made Graham loaf) in the milk, without stirring; then beat the yolks, whip into these half the sugar, and add the bread and milk, stirring as little as possible. Pour all into a dish, filling it not quite fuU, place within a pan of boding water, and bake very slowly thirty to foidy minutes—or till the custard is firm in the middle, but not till it separates. Then spread with a layer (not too thick) of ripe fruit, as strawberries, blackberries, raspberries, huckleberries, or ripe peaches, the latter peeled, stoned, and thinly sliced. Cover immediately with a mer- ingue, made by beating together the whites, the rest of the sugar, and the juice of the lemon. Return to the oven, and brown slightly. Seiwe nearly cold without a dressing, or with a little cream. In winter, spread this pudding lightly with raspberry jam, thick cranbeiTy sauce, or smooth apple sauce prepared with very little water; then cover with the meringue as be- fore, and heat till it tinges. Cocoa-Nut Pudding. 1 quart new milk. 2 cups fine bread-crumbs, dry and stale. ■| cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 1 cocoa-nut, pared and grated. Juice of one small lemon. Time—to balce, 30 to 40 minutes, slow oven. If the milk of the cocoa-nut is perfectly sweet, save it in a separate vessel. Having pared off the brown or outer portion of the nut, and gi'ated the rest into the mOk, putPAET III.J 313 SELECTION OF PUDDINGS. the latter into a farina-kettle, and place on the back of the stove, where it will keep warm but not cook; stii’ occasion- ally. After an hour or more, heat the mixture slowly, until it is ready to boil; then remove from the fire, let it stand tni nearly cold, and strain thi-ough a coai’se cloth, removing the grated nut; squeeze well, to get out all the essence. Then pour it over the crumbs, and when they have soaked a little stir the sugar into the beaten yolks, and add them; put in also the milk of the cocoa-nut, and mix thoroughly. Pom' the custard into a j)udding-dish, well oiled, set the latter inside a dripping-pan with boiling water in it, and bake in a slow oven thii-ty to forty minutes, or tiU the cus- tard is just set. Then beat together the whites, the lemon, and the rest of the sugar, spread the froth on top, and heat till it colors a little. Ser\’e cold or nearly cold; no dressing. j\Iany persons with weak stomachs can not digest the cocoa-nut fiber, no matter how long it is cooked; hence the precaution to strain it out, altogether. PnvcH Batter Pudding. 2 cups sweet cream. 3 cups sifted flour—half Graham. f teasjDoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. H teaspoonfvds cream-tartar, sifted through the flour. 2 quarts peeled peaches. Time—at least an hour; good oven. Rather tart clingstone peaches are best for this pudding- peel and wash them, leaving in the stones if you take clings; and if not pretty ripe, slash deeply with a knife in several places, so that they will cook faster. Then lay them in a pudding-dish, and if not very juicy add a tablesj^oon- ful of water; cover with a batter made by mixing together the cream, flour, and dissolved soda, and bake in an even oven one hour, or till the fruit is done; if the crust browns too fast, cover Avith a paper. If freestone peaches are used, 14HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 314 [part m. select those that are rather firm, peel them, cut in halves, and then make hke the preceding; if the fruit is quite tait, add a httle sugar before putting on the crust. Serve warm, with or without a dressing of cream. This pudding must not stand after baking, or the crust will be heavy. Canned peaches (whole ones if you have them) may be substituted for fresh ones ; di’ain off nearly all the sju’up , and if you like, save it to serve with the pudding, instead of cream. If you use baking-powder, rather than soda and cream of tartai’, take two heaping teaspoonfuls to a j)int of cream. Or you may mix with sour cream and soda, using a teaspoonful of the latter to a pint (two cups) of the former. Apple Batter Pudding. 2 cups sweet cream. 1’- “ sifted Graham flom*. 11 “ “ white “ I teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boHing water. II teaspoonfuls cream-tai*tar, sifted through the fiour. 3 quarts apples, peeled, quartered and cored. Time—one hour. Select ajDples of a rich, sub-acid flavor; and if they are average size, or larger, cut the quarters once through be- fore baking. Wash these quickly in clean water, and lay evenly over the bottom of a pudding-dish ; this should be about ten inches square ; or it may be eight inches wide, and twelve long ; if larger, the crust made from the above propoidions of flour, etc., will not be thick enough. The water adhering to the apples in wash- ing, will make the pie sufficiently juicy. Form a batter of the other ingredients, beat till smooth, and pour it over the fruit; bake in a moderate oven, one hour. This is a plain but excellent pudding, particularly if the apples are fine ; rosy jennetings, not too ripe, are very good; so are Bald,-315 PART III.] SELEOi’ION OF PUDDINGS. wins, or wiiiesaps. Semi it to the table as soon as done., and serve warm from the bake-dish, with or without a di'e.ssmg of thin cream ; it is very good without sauce. Beery Pudding.—(Light and Good.Jdj^ 2 cups sweet milk—new, if you have it. 2 “ sifteil Graham Hour. 2 “ “ white “ 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 1 teaspoonfid soda, dissolved in boiling water. 2 teaspi)onfuls creiun of tm’tar sifted through the hour. 1 quart blackberries, raspberries, or huckleberries. Time—two hours. Dredge the fruit with a portion of the flour, and sift the cream of tartar through the remainder. Whip the yolks and whites separately, make a batter of the milk, eggs and flour, stir in the dissolved soda, and beat thoroughly. Then, add the dredged fruit, stirring it in lightly, so as not to break it. Pour the batter into a well-oiled pudding- dish, cover the latter closely, leaving plenty of room to swell, and set in the steamer, over a pot of boiling Avater. Cook tAvo hours, keeping the steamer tightly closed (it should not be opened once), and the Avater at a fast boil. When done, send immediately to the table, and serve warm with fruit sauce, mock cream, or cream and sugar. Huckleberry Pudding. 1 pint new milk. 1 “ sifted Graham flour. 1 “ (nearly) sifted Avhite flour. ^ cup good hop yeast. 2 eggs, well beaten. I teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boding water,[PAKT III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 316 1 quart berries, well dredged with flour. Time—two hours. If the milk is uot new it must be boiled, and cooled to blood heat; sth- in the flour, yeast, beaten eggs, and dis- solved soda, forming a smooth batter, and set it where it win keep warm ; it should be light in from two to three houi-s, if the yeast is good. When risen, stii’ in the fruit hghtly, pour the batter into a round pudding-dish, well oiled, and steam as in the last recipe ; it will require about two hours. Serve as soon as done, with cream and sugar, mock cream, or other plain sauce. Blackberries, or other small fruits, may be used instead of huckleberries. Baked Blackbekry Pudding. Make the same as the last, using either blackberries or huckleberries, and then bake instead of steaming ; it will require about an horn-, in an even oven. Serve the same as the last. Steamed Rolly-Poly.—(Excellent.)^ 1 cup sweet cream—or enough for rather a firm dough. 1^ cups sifted Graham flom*. 1^ “ “ white “ 1 teaspoonful soda. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. 1 quart (nearly) of berries, seeded cherries, chopped apples, or sliced peaches. Time—two hours. Mix the Graham and white flour together, then pulverize the soda finely with a knife, and add it to the cream of tartar ; stir these well through the flour, and sift two or three times. Wet witli the cream, forming a tolerably stiff dough, and handhng as little as possible ; roll into an oblong sheetSELECTION OF PUDDINGS. r.VRT III.] 317 a qu;irter of an inch thick, and cover with the fruit, leaving a little margin at the edge ; sprinkle lightly with sugar, if the fruit is taid. Then begin at one end and roll up tightly, leaving the fruit inside ; pinch the edges firmly together. Wrap a clean dry napkin around the roll, allowing jilenty of room to swell, put it into a tin basin, and cover closely ; then place in a steamer over a pot of boiling water, and steam two hours without uncovering. If you have to use a steamer with holes in the bottom, jxit two small sticks or bits of wood in it, and set the basin on top of these, leaving room for the steam to enter beneath ; keep the water at a fast boil. "When done remove the cloth, and send directly to the table. Cut across the roll, in slices half to three- quarters of an inch thick, and serve with mock cream, fruit sauce, or cream and sugar. This pudding may be boiled, but steaming is better. If you boil, wring the pudding-bag out of hot water, flour it well inside, and put in the roll, leaving ample room to swell ; the space allowed after the bag is tied, should be equal to at least one-third the size of the roll. If the bag is too wide for it, baste to the required size but not too snugly, as the pudding will swell sidewise as well as length- wise. Drop it into a pot of boiling water, and boil without stopping, for an hour and a half ; turn frequently, and keep the pot well filled up, adding water boiling hot. "Wlien done plunge quickly into cold water, take it out, and then remove the bag ; lay the pudding on a hot plate, and send immediately to the table. These fruit rolls are diier and more wholesome baked, than boiled or steamed; but they require a little care in the oven, else the top will brown too much before the dough is done inside. In mixing the batter, sour cream may be used, and the cream of tartar omitted.318 [part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Baked Fruit RoLL.4i: Make the same as the last, rolling the dough in one Avide sheet; when the fruit is secured inside, lay the roll in an eai’then or granitized iron pan, slightly oiled. Place this in a dripping-pan containing a little boiling water, and bake in a steady oven ; turn another pan over the top, if it browns too fast. At the end of half an hour remove the dish from the pan of Avater, and bake, covered, three-quar- ters of an hour longer ; this wiU. broAATi the bottom as Avell as the top ; * and the half hour’s baking in the steam of the boiling Avater, will make the crust softer, and less liable to crack open and let out the fruit juice. Take the roll from the oven some minutes befoi’e sending to the table, as it should be jiartly cooled before cutting. Serve Avith fruit sauce, or cream and sugar ; or it may be eaten AAdthout a dressing. If properly made and baked, this is a most ex- cellent dessert, and as wholesome as it is good. Cherry Roll. Wash, stem and seed the cherries, haAung a quart of them after the pits are removed. Then make a light cream paste, the same as for Steamed Rolly-Poly (last recipe but one), and roU in an oblong sheet. CoA’er Avith the cherries, leaving a good margin at the edge, and if the fruit is soiu’ sprinlde Avith sugar ; then roU up snugly, and pinch well at the ends ; you may bake, steam, or boU. If you bake, manage the same as in the last recipe, except that you make two roUs instead of one ; lay them a little apart in the pud- ding-dish, and bake the first half horn' in a pan containing boiling water ; then bake, coA'^ered, three-quarters of an hour in the dry oven. If the pudding is to be steamed, roU a clean napkin around it, leaAnng plenty of room to swell; put it into a coA’ered tin basin, and place in a steamer over a pot ofSELECTION OF PUDDINGS. 319 I'ART III.] boiling water. Cook two hours without lifting the lid of tile steamer, and keep the Avater constantly boiling. If you prefer to boil, rather than steam or bake, put the roll inside a bag Avrung out of hot Avater, and Avell lloured inside; tie it securely, alloAving ample room to SAA'ell, and boil Avithout stopping, an horn- and a half. Have plenty of water, keep the pot covered, and turn the bag ov’er frequently. When the pudding is done plunge quicldy into cold Avater, lift it out, and remove the bag. If steamed or boiled, send to the table as soon as done. Serve Avith mock cream, fruit sauce, or cream and sugar. Baked Batter Pudding. 2 cups sAveet milk—part cream, if you have it. 1 cup sifted Graham flour. 1 “ “ white “ 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. ^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1 “ cream-tartai*. Time—fully an hour. Mix the Graham and white flour together, and sift the cream of taidar through it; beat the yolks, add the milk, and then the flour, stining to a smooth batter ; add also the whites whipped to a stiff froth, and beat well; then stir in the dissolved soda, and beat very thoroughly. Pour the batter into a pudding-dish, well oiled, place in a moder- ate oven AAuthin a shallow pan of boiling water, and liake half an hour ; then remove from the pan of Avater, and bake in the dry oven another half hour. It is a good plan in batter puddings to test wuth a broom-straw, by passing it through the thickest portion ; when it comes out clean, bake three to five minutes longer ; then take from the oven, send directly to the table, and serve with fruit sauce, SAveet fruit, or cream and sugar, Some prefer simply cream;320 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. others like a spoonful of fruit, as stewed rasiibcrries, with, a little cream over the whole. This, like aU batter puddings, is excellent warmed over ; diji the piece left into cold water, lay it on a pie-jian, cover with another, and then place in a hot oven till thoroughly heated through. Stewed or canned fruit, as raspberries, strawberries, etc., make a good dressing for it. Steaivied Batter Pudding. i}:f: 1 quart sweet milk. ^ cup sifted Graham flour. I “ “ white “ ^ “ sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—an hour and a half. Beat the yolks and sugar together, add the milk, and stir in the floiu’; then add the whites whipped to a stiff froth, and beat hard. Pour the batter into an oiled pan, filling it not quite full; this wiU give room to swell; then cover, place in the steamer, and steam an hour and a half wdthout lifting the lid ; keep the water at a fast boil. Send to the table as soon as done, and serve with cream, fruit, or fruit juice. Steamed Batter Pudding. 2 cups sour milk—or sour cream. 1 cup Graham flour.. 1 “ white “ 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 1 teasj^oonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—two hours. Make a batter of the flour and milk, add the whipped yolks and whites, and the dissolved soda, and beat thorough- ly. Steam the same as the last, only half an hour longer ; and when done, serve with mock cream, fruit sauce, or cream and sugar.Part in.] 321 SELECTION OE PUDDINGS. Steamed Batter Pudding.— 1 cup sour milk—or buttermilk. 11 cups sifted Graham flour. 2 “ “ white “ § cup finely powdered beef suet. ^ “ pure molasses—or pure syrup. 1 “ currants—or seedless raisins. f teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time— two hours and a half. Dredge the sweet fruit with a portion of the flour, and through the remainder of it rub the finely powdered suet; if currants are used, they must be carefully picked over, and washed and dried before di’edging. Mix the molasses and milk togetlier, and stir in the flour to form a batter; then add the dissolved soda, and beat hard. Stii’ in the dredged fruit, and pour the batter into a basin well oiled, filling it not quite full; cover with an inverted pie-pan, or other closely fitting lid, set it in a steamer, and steam two hours and a half. Do not uncover tiU the pudding is done; and keep the Avater at a fast bod. If you have not a steamer, pour the batter into a tin bucket, well oded, spread over the top a clean napldn or cloth AATmng out of hot water, and floured wed on the under side ; press the lid in tightly, turn the ends of the cloth back OA'er it, and pin them together ; tlien set the bucket inside a pot of boding water, and cook two liours and a half, as before. The water must not come up to the top of the bucket; and if it has to be reneAved, add it boiling hot. This pudding may be put into a bag and boiled, instead of steamed ; if boded adow two hours, turning the bag frequently, and keeping the pot wed fided Avith boiling water. Serve as soon as done, AA'ith lemon sauce, fruit, or fruit juice ; or it may be eaten Avithout a dressing. 14*HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 322 [PAET HI. Christmas Plum Pudding.—(Excellent.)^ 2 cujis sour milk—or buttermilk. 1 cup sifted Graham floui-. 1 “ “ white “ 1 “ stale bread-crumbs, finely grated. ^ “ finely powdered beef suet. ^ “ chopjDed apjDles. ^ “ currants, picked, washed and dried. ^ “ raisins, seeded and chopped. ^ “ citron, finely slu’edded. “ sugar. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—tw'O hour’s and a half. Fu'st, dredge the sweet finiit with a portion of the flour ; then make a batter by stirring together the crumbs and milk, the rest of the flour, the suet, sugar, and dissoh'ed soda ; beat A^ery thoroughly. Then stir in the dredged fruit, the chopi^ed apjile and citron, and mix all lightly together ; pour the pudding into a round tin basin, previousl}'^ oiled, cover with an inverted plate or pie-pan, and place in a steamer. Keep the water constantly boiling, and do not, lift the Hd till done ; it wiU require two hours and a half. ^\dien taken out send directly to the table, and seiwe with tai-t fruit (as canned egg-plums), or with lemon sauce ; the latter is best. This pudding is plainer than most plum puddings, there being so little sweet frait or sugar in jiropoidion to the milk, flour and bread-crumbs. The spices also are omitted, together Avith the “ brown shemes ” and brandies, these being an abomination to all hygienists. Graham Pudding.—( With Fruit. 1 cup sour milk or cream. 2 cups sifted Graham flour.PART HI.] SELECTION OP PUDDINGS. 823 1 cup raisins, seeded and chopped. ^ “ cuiTants, picked, washed and dried. 3 “ pure molasses—or pure syrup. 1 egg, well beaten. ^ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—two hours and a half. After dredging the fruit with a little of the. flour, stir to- gether the milk, tlour and molasses, add the whipped egg and dissolved soda, and beat hard ; then stir the fruit in lightly. Poiu' the batter into a pan well oiled, cover, and set in the steamer ; keep the latter tightly closed, and steam two hours and a half. Sers^e as soon as done, with fruit, fruit sauce, or lemon sauce. If pure molasses can not be had, melt a third of a cup of sugar in a little boihng water. Graham Pudding.—( With Fruit. 1 cup sweet cream or milk. 2 cups sifted Graham flour. 1 cup raisins, seeded and chopped. ^ “ sugar. 1 egg, well beaten. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. Time—two hom's and a half. Dredge the raisins with a portion of the flour, and sift the cream of tartar through the remainder. Beat the egg and sugar together, add the milk, and stir in the flour, forming a smooth batter ; then add tlie dissolved soda, and beat well. Stir the fruit in last, mixing it evenly through the batter, and steam as in the preceding recipe. A third of a cup of citron, finely shredded, may be added with the raisins, if desu’ed. Serv^e with lemon sauce, fruit, or fruit juice.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. 324 Bared Indian PuDDiNG.4f: 2 quarts sweet milk. 1 j)iHt cold water. 2 even cups coarse corn meal—golden “ flint ” is best. ^ cup Graham flour-. I “ sugar-. Time—an hour and a half, slow oven. Scald the milk, j^om- it over the meal, and mash with a spoon tdl there ar-e no lumps ; let the mixture stand five minutes. Then stii- in the sugar, pour the batter into a farina-kettle, or tin bucket set in a pot of boiling water, and heat to scalding. Stir into this a batter made of the Gra- ham flour, and the pint of cold water ; mix all well together. Then pour the pudding into a dish slightl}^ oiled, and set it in the oven, inside a drqDj)iDg-pan with boding water in it; cover- arid bake, stirring frequently the first half hour. Have a very moderate heat, and bake in all an hour and a half, or untd the pudding thickens sufficiently. Seiwe wann (not hot), with mock cream or lemon sauce ; the latter is prefer- able. Baked Inttlvn Pudding.—(Excellent.)^ 1 quart sweet niilk. 1 cup (scant) corn meal—“ flint,” if you have it. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 eggs, yoUvs and whites separate. Time—one hour, slow oven. Heat the milk to a boil, and stir in the com meal; if coarse “flint” is used, make the measure scant. Let the batter stand tdl cold, then beat the yolks and sugar to- gether, and stir them into it; add also the whites whipped to a stiff froth, and beat hard. Pour it into a pudding- dish, set this inside a shallow pan of boiling water, and bake, covered, one hour, or until the pudding has the proiier consistency. Serve warm or cold, -with cream, fmit, orSELEOTlOK OE PUDDINGS. I’AIiT 111.] 325 lemon sauce ; or it is good without a dressing. Some make with less eggs—three eggs to two quarts of milk. Baked Indlvn Pudding.—f (?ood.^4t^ 1 quart sweet milk, boding hot. 1 cup cold “ 1 “ coarse corn meal—“ flint ” preferred. ^ “ pm-e molasses—or pure syrup. Time—an hour and a half, slow OA^en. Pour the hot mdk OA'er the meal, and stir till there are no lumps. Then add the molasses (or syrup) with thorough beating, pour the batter into a small but deep dish, and place in the oven within a diijipiiig-pan containing boding water. Cover and bake, stirring the pudding from the bot- tom several times the first half hour ; at the end of that time stu’ in the cup of cold milk—some use cold water— and bake in a slow oven an hour longer. Serve warm or cold, with or without a dressing of fx’uit juice, or lemon sauce ; the latter is best. If pure molasses or syrup is not to be had, try melted sugar; or you may get good majile molasses or sorghum, from an honest fanner. Indian Pudding with Fruit.—f Choice. 3 pints sweet milk. 1 cup rather coarse corn meal—golden “ flint ” is best. 1 “ sifted Graham flour. II cups raisins, seeded and finely chopped. 2 tablespoonfids sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boding water. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar, sifted through the flour. Time—one hour, moderate oven. Scald a pint of the mdlv, and wet the meal with it; stirHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 32G [PAET III. well, to prevent lumping. Let tlie mixture stand till luke- warm ; while it is cooling, make a batter with the flour and another pint of the cold milk, and when the scalded meal is cool enough stir the two batters together. Then heat the remaining pint to a boil, beat the yolks, whip in the sugar, and stir into these, little by little, the hot milk ; pour this custard into the mixed batter, add the w’hites whipped to a stiff froth, and beat very hard. Lastly, put in the fruit, previously di’edged with a portion of the flour, and mix thoroughly. Pour aU into a pudding-dish, set this in a shallow pan of boiling water, and bake, covered, in a mod- erate oven. Stir once from the bottom, as the pudding begins to thicken ; and continue the cooking about an hour. Serve with cream, fruit, or lemon sauce. Stewed or canned rasjiberries, mixed with currants, make a plain but good dressing. Seedless raisins, or currants, may be substituted for the sweet fruit in this pudding ; they cook sooner, and are very good. Steamed Indian Pudding. 2 cups sour milk. 1 cup “ cream. 2 cups coarse corn meal—golden “ flint,” if you have it. 1 cup Graham flour, unsifted. i]- “ sugar. 1 teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—two hours. Meal that is made from white or yello-w “ flint ” corn, and rather coarsely ground, is best in aU steamed breads, or steamed Indian puddings. Mix together the meal, flour, mUk, cream and sugar, stiiring aU to a smooth batter ; then add the dissolved soda, and beat thoroughly. These corn meal puddings are always better for being well beaten. Pour immediately into an oiled pan or mould, flUing it notSELECTION OP PUDDINGS. 827 PAwr III.] quite full; then cover, and steam two houi’s, keeping the water at a fast boO ; the steamer should not be opened till the pudding is done. Serve with mock cream, fruit sauce, stewed plums, or lemon sauce ; or a soft custai’d may be used as a dressing. Steamed Indian Pudding.—(Excellent.):^ 3 cups sour milk—or buttennilk. 2 “ coarse corn meal—“ flint,” if you can get it. 1 cup Graham flour, unsifted. 1 “ currants—or seedless raisins. 1 “ finely powdered beef suet. 2 tablespoonfuls piun molasses—or pure sjTup. IJ teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—two hours and a half. Dredge the sweet fruit with a httle of the flour; if cur- rants ai’e used, pick them carefully over, and then wash and dry before dredging. Stir together the meal, flour, suet, milk and molasses (you may take maple or sorghum), and beat well; then add the dissolved soda, and beat very thor- oughly. Stir in lastly the fruit, mixing it evenly tlu’ough the batter, and pour all into a round pan, well oiled ; you must not fill it quite full. Set this in a steamer, cover with an inverted pie-pan, and steam two hours and a half. Serve warm with fniit sauce, tart fniit, or lemon sauce; the latter makes an excellent dressiug. This, and all steamed Indian puddings, may be wanned over, and served at the next meal, or the next day; dip the remnant quickly into cold water, lay it in a pie-pan with another turned over it, and then place in the oven long enough to get thoroughly hot, all through. It will be quite as good as at first.[part hi. 328 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Eice Pudding. 3 pints sweet milk. 1 pint water. 1 scant cup rice, picked over carefully and washed. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar—omit, if preferred. Time—two hours, very slow oven. Put into a jiudding-dish the rice, milk, water and sugar, stir all together, and bake, covered, in a slow oven, two hours. Stir from the bottom several times until the pudding begins to thicken, and do not fail to keep the oven at a sIoav heat. It is better to set the dish inside a shallow pan Avith boiling water in it, while baking ; the pudding should be of a creamy consistency when done, and delicately browned on top. Serve lukewann, with or AAuthout a dressing of fruit. This plain but excellent pudding is very good eaten cold; you may make it on Saturday, and have it cold for Sunday dinner. SerA^ed in this way, it must be quite milky Avhen taken from the OA'en. If jireferred, you can add a handful of raisins to the rice. Rice Pudding.4|: 1 quart SAveet milk. 1 jiint water. cup rice, picked over carefully, and Avashed. 2 even tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 egg. Time—one hour, sIoav oven. Soak the rice in the Avater one hour; then set it on the stove with the Avater in which it soaked, and let it come slowly to a boil. Cook ten minutes, stirring once or tAvice, and remove from the fire. ’WTien nearly cold, beat the ecc and sugar together, add the rice Avith the water in which it boiled, and also the quart of milk. HaAung stirred all to- gether, pour the batter into an oiled pan, cover, and jilace329 PART 111.] SELECTION OF PUDDINGS. in a moderate oven within a dripping-pan of boiling water; bake very slowly one horn’, or till the pudding is thick and creamy in the center. Serve not too warm, without a dressing. If preferred, omit the sugar, and add a cup of sweet fruit, as seedless raisins or cuiTants (the latter jiicked over and washed carefully), and bake as befoi*e ; the fruit must be soaked and heated with the rice, before baldng. Or you may leave out the egg, and use more rice ; say two-thirds of a cup. Pudding of Cold Rice. 3 cups sweet milk. 2 “ cold boiled rice. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 eggs. Time—one hour, slow oven. Mix the rice and milk, working out all the lumps; beat the yolks and sugar together, and stir them in ; then add the whipped whites, and beat thoroughly. Pour the batter into a pudding-dish, set it in the oven, inside a pan of boil- ing water, and bake slowly one hour, or till the pudding is barely set; it must not begin to separate. Seiwe lukewarm, without a dressing. Cold samp (fine hominy), cracked wheat, or barley, may be used instead of rice. Manioca Pudding. 3 pints sweet milk. I cup manioca. 1 “ sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—40 minutes, moderate oven. Manioca is much finer for puddings than tapioca; it is also more expensive, and consequently is in slight demand;[part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 330 only the larf^er grocers keep it. In making this pudding, mix the manioea in one quart of the milk, heat it in a farina- kettle, and stii- almost constantly till it comes to a boil Then lift from the fire, and stir in the rest of tlie milk; when the mixture is about cold, stir the sugar into the beaten yolks, and add them; add also the whipped whites, and beat well. Pour the custard into a pudding-dish, and set this inside a dripping-pan with boiling water in it; then cover, and bake in a moderate oven forty minutes, or until the pudding is of a creamy consistency. Serve warm or cold, with or without a dressing of fruit, or fruit juice. This pudding is very good with the eggs omitted. Tapioca Pudding. 1 quart sweet milk. 1 cup tapioca, washed and di’ained. ^ “ sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—45 minutes, moderate oven. Get, if you can, tapioca that is not too coarse; you will need to begin the soaking soon after breakfast; cover with cold water, and soak two hours—longer, if it is in large lumps. Then drain thorouglily, pour on the cold milk, and set the vessel containing it on the back of the stove, where its contents will Avarm sloAvly to blood heat; stir occasionally. An hour and a half before dinner beat the yolks and sugar together, and the whites by themselves ; stir all into the milk and tapioca, and bake, covered, inside a shallow pan of boiling water. Stir well from the bottom ten minutes after the pudding goes into the oven, and bake rather s1ow1a% until it is of a creamy consistency ; it will require about forty-five minutes. Uncover toward the last, if the pud- ding is not sufficiently browned. Cool to lukewann, and serve without a dressing. A plainer pudding is made by331 SELECTION OF PODDINQS. PART III.] taking equal parts milk and water, and using only one or two eggs. Much of the tapioca sold in tlie groceries, is in such great lumps that it is difficult to soak soft. Mliy it is manufac- tured in this way, is a question of interest, at least to the cook. Manioca, which is essentially the same thing as tapioca, is without a fault in this respect; it is in fine grains, easily dissolved, and is truly dehghtful for puddings ; hut for some cause or other, its high price places it beyond the reach of most people, as an article of frequent use. There is a preparation of tapioca called the granulated, which is in little round lumps not much larger than grains of barley; it dissolves rather easily, but it is said to be badly adulter- ated, and therefore infenor to the ordinary article. Apple T.vpioca Pudding. 4]: 8 tart juicy apples, pared and cored. ■| cup tapioca, washed and drained. “ sugar. 1 quart cold water. Juice of one lemon—if desired. Time—for baking, one hour ; good oven. Pour the cold water over the tapioca, and set it back on the stove to warm a little ; stir once in a while. Do this soon after breakfast, if the tapioca is in large lumps. Two hours before dinner, place where it will get thoroughly hot; stir often, and continue to heat and stir till the tajiioca is soft, and almost clear. In the mean time have ready the apples, and arrange them, not too closely, in the bottom of a pudding-dish ; fiU their centers with the sugar, squee^ic into the latter the lemon juice, and then pour over the tapioca. Set the dish in a good oven, inside a dripping- pan with a little boiling water in it, and bake, covered, one hour, or until the apples are done. Seiwe nearly cold, ’Ruth332 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. cream, fruit, or fruit juice ; stewed or canned raspberries, blackberries, cherries, etc., make a good dressing , and so does the mixed sauce. This pudding may if desired be made without the lemon, and less sugar used. Or you may use manioca instead of tapioca, which needs no soaking ; poui' boiling water over to dissolve it, and bake one hour. Lemon Tapioca Custard. ^Excelleni^) 1 pint sweet milk. 1 quaid cold water. f cuj) tapioca, washed and drained. I “ sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Juice of two lemons. Soak the tapioca in the quart of cold water, keeping the vessel covered ; if the tapioca is iiretty fine, three hours will suflfice ; but if you have the common coarse kind, it Avill need five hours to soak. An hour and a half before dinner, heat the milk to a boil in a farina-kettle, or a tin bucket set in a pot of boihng water ; add to this the tapioca, and the water in which it soaked. Stir till the mixture boils ; then cook ten minutes, or until the tapioca is well dissolved, using the spoon constantly. Set back the kettle while you beat together the yolks, half the sugar, and the juice of one lemon ; stir into these a little of the hot mixt- ure, then more, and finally tm’n aU together. Heat again to a boil, stirring meanwhile, and cook five minutes, or till the custard thickens ; then pour it into a dish, cover with a meringue made by beating together the whites, and the rest of the sugar and lemon, and brown slightly. Serve cold oi lukewarm, without a dressing.SELECTION OF PUDDINGS. 333 fART III.] Lemon Tapioca Pudding.—( Good.)^ 1 cup (scant) tapioca, Avasbed and drained. f “ sugar. 1 quiU't cold water—for soaking. 2 eggs—Avbites of. Juice of two lemons. Tune—for cooking and broAAUiing, an hour and three- quaiders. Put the tapioca to soak early in the morning ; before breakfast, if it is in hu*ge lumps ; set the pan containing it on the stove, Avhere it Avill AA^arm to blood heat but will not cook ; stir now and then. Two hoiu’s before dinner pour it into a fiU’ina-kettle, add half the lemon and half the sugt'U’, mixing Avell, and set it Avhcre it Avill get thoroughly hot ; stir frequently. Cook an hour and a half, or till the tapioca is clear ; then pour it into a pudding-dish, beat to- gether the Avhites, and the rest of the lemon and sugar, and spread over the top. Place in the oven ten minutes, and broAvn slightly. Serv'e cold or neaiiy cold (the pudding will keep till the next day), with cream, fruit, or fruit juice; or it is A^ery good Avithout a dressing. Sago may be used, instead of tapioca ; it need not be soaked beforehand. Tapioca Pudding with Fruit.—( Choice.):^ 1 cup tapioca, washed and drained. i “ sugar. 1 pint strawberries, raspben’ies, currants, or seeded cheiTies. 1 quart cold water. Time—an hour and a half. Soak the tapioca in the water, as in the last recipe ; two hours before dinner stir in the sugar, and set it on the stove Avhere it will heat thoroughly. Cook till clear ; then334 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET HI. stir in the fruit, and continue the cooking five to eight minutes longer. Serve cold or nearly so, with cream or fruit; or it may be eaten without a di*essing. This and the jireceding pudding make convenient dishes for warm weather, as they can be eaten several hours after they are made. Instead of the fruit, a cup of fruit juice may be substi- tuted ; this makes a truly delightful dessert ; stir in the juice ten to fifteen minutes before the kettle is taken from the fire. The pudding may be eaten lukewarm, or it can be jioured into cups wet with cold water, and moulded ; you can serve it for supper if you like, or the follo^rtng day, with mock cream, fruit sauce, or cream and sugar. * Another excellent method is to cook the tapioca till clear, sweetening as before ; when done, serve with fresh rasp- berries, adding cream and sugai*. Sago Pudding. 1 quai’t sweet milk. I cup sago. I “ sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—45 minutes for baking. Pour the milk into a farina-kettle, or a tin bucket set in a pot of boiling water ; wash the sago in cold water, and drain weU ; then stir it into the milk and heat half an hour, or tiU it has had time to swell ; use the spoon frequently. Remove from the fire, and when the mixtui’e is half cold add the yolks and sugar, beaten together ; also the well- whipped whites, and stir thoroughly, Pour the pudding into a dish, set it inside a shallow pan of boiling water, and bake about three-qu.arters of an hour, or till of a creamy consistency. Stir from the bottom, five minutes after placing it in the oven. Serve nearly cold without dressing; or with a little juicy fniit.335 PART III.] SELECTION OF PUDDINGS. Sago Pudding with Fruit. 1 quart boiling water. I cup sago, washed and drained. ^ “ sugai*. 1 pint strawberries, raspberries, or seeded chenies. Time—30 minutes. After washing, pour enough cold water over the sago to cover it, and let it soak an hoiu’; drain weU. Then add the sugar and pour over the boiling water, stu’ring all the while to prevent lumping. Put the pudding into a farina-kettle and cook Inilf an hour, stirring freiiuently. Then mix in the fruit, and cook three to live minutes ; strawberries need very little heating. Serve cold or lukewarm, with cream, fruit, or cream and sugar. Farina Pudding.—(Excellent.)^ 3 pints sweet milk. 3 tablespoonfuls farina. ^ cup sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—50 minutes, slow oven. Heat the milk in a fanna-kettle, and when ready to boil stir in the gi'ain rather slowly, to avoid lumping. Continue the stirring and cook ten minutes, or tdl the mixture thickens. Then set it off to cool; beat the yolks and sugar together, and when the mush is nearly cold stir them in; add also the whites whipped to a stiff froth, and beat thor- ouglily. Pour the batter into a dish, set it in a dripping- pan of boiling water, and bake in a slow oven fifty minutes, or till the custard is set. Cool to lukewarm, and serve without a dressing. Green Corn Pudding. 4^= 1 quart sweet milk—new, if you have ft. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate,HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD, [part hi. 336 12 eai's of corn well filled, or tln-ee pints pulp. Time—an hour and a half, slow oven. Select perfect ears, well filled, hut young and tender ; the “ evergreen ” is hest j if field com is used, the white or yellow “flint” is excellent. Split the grains half theii’ depth by drawing a sharp knife down the rows of corn, be- ginning at the larger end of the ear. Then with a dull knife scrape out the pulp; this is done by scraping from the large to the small end of the cob ; if you draw the knife in the other direction, it teai’S out the grains, hulls and aU. Beat the yolks and whites separately, the latter to a stiff froth ; stii’ these with the corn, and beat hard ; then add the milk, a little at a tune, beating as you add it. When aU is in, pour the batter into a well-oiled pudding-dish, and place in a di’ipping-pan of boiling water. Have a slow oven, and bake covered, an hour and a half ; stir once from the bottom, ten minutes after the dish is set in the oven. The pudding should be an inch and a half to two inches thick ; you must not hurry the baking ; it should be mod- erately browned on top, when done. Serve warm from the dish ; it is good enough eaten without butter, or other dressing. Green Corn Pudding. i[ji 1 quart sweet milk. 1 “ grated corn. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—an hour and a quaider, moderate oven. Stir into the grated corn the whipped yolks, and beat well; add a little of the milk, and the whites cut to a stiff froth, and beat again ; then stir in the rest of the milk, mixing thoroughly. Pour the batter into a pan, well oiled, set this within a shallow pan of boiling water, and bake in a moderate oven an hoiu- and a quarter, or till the pudding thickens in the center. Serve without a dressing.PABT m.] OTHER RUDDINOS. 337 » A very good pudding may be made with half the milk, and the eggs omitted. OTHER PUDDINGS. Apple Pudding.—( Without Eggs. 1 quai-t sweet millv. 8 apples pai'ed and cored, and not too tart. 2 cups stale bread-crumbs. ^ cup sugar. Time—an hour and a quarter, slow oven. Soak the crumbs in the milk till soft; then stii’ in the sugar, and pour the batter over and around the apples, wiiich you have placed in the bottom of a pudding-dish, not too closely together. Set the dish in a diijiiDing-jian of boiling w'ater, and bake an liour and a quarter in a slow oven ; cover till nearly done. If prefeiTed, take sweet apples pared and cored, and cut each two-thirds through, but do not separate ; then aiTange and bake as before, al- lowing a little longer time if the apples are not done. Seiwe with cold cream, or stewed raspberries ; or you may eat without sauce. Graham Apple Pudding. 4|^ 3 pints sweet milk. 11 “ sifted Graham flour. 1 quail finely chopped apjiles. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—one hour, rather sIoav oven. Mix the milk and floiu* to form a batter, and then stir in the beaten yolks, chopped apples, and Avhites cut to a stiff froth. Beat thorouglily, pour into a pudding-dish Avell oiled, and bake one hour, or until the apples are done. Serve cold or lukewarm, Avith fruit sauce, or cream and sugar. 15338 UE.VLTU IJ^ THi: HOUSEHOLD. [PAET III. Berry and Bread Pudding. 1 quart sweet milk—new, if you have ih 1 “ berries, seeded chen-ies, or other small fruits. 1 pint stale bread-crumbs—home-made Graham is best. ^ cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites sej^arate. Pinch of finely pulverized soda in the milk. Time—40 to 50 minutes, slow oven. Pour the milk into a farina-kettle, and bring it to a boil; when you have beaten the yolks and sugar together, add the hot milk, a little at a time, stirring as you pour. "Wliij) the whites to a stiff froth, and add a poition of the hot mixture to them, in the same cautious waj'; then stir well together ; if properly managed, the eggs should not ciu’dle. This done, fiU a pudding-dish not quite fuU, with alternate layers of the bread-crumbs and ripe fruit, beginning and ending with the bread. When aU is in, pour the hot cus- tard over the layers, saturating the whole, and let this stand fifteen to twenty minutes, or tiU the bread is thoroughly soaked. Set the dish, covered, in the oven, inside a drip- ping-pan containing boiling water, and bake very slow4y forty to fifty minutes. Uncover and bro'wui quickly at the end. Serve warm or cold, with thin cream. Blackberries, raspberries, huckleberries, seeded cherries, or sliced peaches, may be used in making this pudding ; and if preferred, you may take less eggs. Huckleberry and Bread Pudding. 1 quart sweet milk. 1 pint dry bread-crumbs—good Graham loaf. 1 “ huckleberries. 3 tablespoonfids sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—40 to 50 minutes, moderate oven.OTHER PUDDINGS. O jart III.] Heat the milk, and pour it over the bread; cool, and add the beaten yolks, the sugar, and the well-whip2')ed whites. Then stii' in the benies dredged with flour, pour the batter into a pudding-dish, and bake in a moderate oven within a pan of boiling water, forty to fifty minutes. Serve nearly or quite cold, with or without a di’essing of cream. Ste.\med Apple Pudding. Take good tart ai:»ples, rich in flavoi', pare, core and quai-ter them, or better, cut in eighths; then place about three layers deeji, in a bake-dish. Add a spoonful of water, and cover with a light cream paste rolled a third of an inch thick, and made as per recipe ah’eady given; the pudding should not quite reach the top of the dish. Then turn over the latter an inveiied plate or pie-pan, to keej) the water out, and steam an hour and a lialf without uncovering tlie steamer. The water must be kept at a fast lioil. Send to the table as soon as done, or the crust will becoraer heavjg serve 'with mock cream, fruit sauce, or cream and sugai’. Damson Plum Pudding. Line a deep pan well oiled, with a light cream paste, fiU with damson plums picked over and washed, and cover with a good crust, pinching the edges securely together. The dough should be rolled to the thickness of nearly half an inch; and the top crust must not be pricked. After putting on the latter tie a thick clotli over (the corners turned back and pinned), leaving it loose enough to allow room to swell; then set in a pot of boiling water, and cook two hours. Keep the pot closely covered, and the water at a fast boil; it must not reach the top of the pan. Or, if you have a steamer, you can make the pie in a round basin of granit- ized iron, lay a folded towel or napkin over it, and steam two hours without lifting the lid. Take out as soon as done, and serve with mock cream, or cream and sugar.HELVLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PABT III. 340 Blackberries, raspberries, huckleberries, gooseberries (just beginning to ripen), or sliced ai)ples or peaches, may be substituted for plums. With apples or peaches, the under crust may be omitted if desired. Apple Batter Pudding.—( Oood.):^ Pare and core the ajiples (eight or ten will be enough), put them in a pan with a trifle of water, and bake, covered, till they are neai’ly soft, but not broken; the apples should be rich in flavor, but not very tart. Then make a cream batter paste, as per recipe already given, pour it over them, and bake in a brisk oven about an hour. Send to the table as soon as done, and serve with or without a dressing of cream, or cream and sugar. « Children’s Rolly-Poly. Take a bit of light yeast dough, and knead it veiy thor- oughly; that made with a third or fourth part Graham flour is best. Then roll out a thin sheet, and cover with rasp- bendes, blackberries, or other small finit; sprinkle lightly with sugar, roll up closely, and pinch the ends securely to- gether. Wrap in a clean napkin, leaving plenty of room to swell, place in a ’covered tin basin, set the latter in the steamer, and steam two hours. Keep the water at a fast boil, and do not uncover till done. Serve with mock cream, or cream and sugar. Baked Batter Pudding, 1 cup sweet mills., \ “ “ cream. 1 “ sifted Graham flour. 2 cups “ white “ 1 tablespoonful sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate.m OTHER PUDDINGS. P.UW m.] teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1 “ creain-taidar. Time—one Lour. Stir together the Graham and white flour, and the cream of taiiar; then put all through the sieve, two or thi-ee times. Beat the yolks and sugar together, add the cream and milk, and stir in the flour; then add the dissolved soda, and the whites cut to a froth, and beat thoroughly. Pour the bat- ter into a dish well oiled, and place inside a cb’ipping-pan with a trifle of boiling water in it; bake half an hour; then remove from the pan, and bake another half houi' in the dry oven. Better test with a straw, and bake five minutes after it comes out clean; it will take about an hour in aU. Seiwe as soon as done, with cream, fruit, or fruit juice. This pudding may be steamed, as follows: Pour the bat- ter into a tin basin well oiled, cover, and set in a steamer over a pot of boiling water. Steam an hour and a half witliout hfting the lid, then take out, and send straight to the table. Puff Pudding. 2 cups sweet milk. 1 cup “ cream. 1 “ sifted Graham flour, 2 cups “ white “ 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—25 to 30 minutes, quick oven. Beat the yolks, add the milk and cream, and stir in the flour, Graham and white; when a smooth batter is formed, whip and add the whites, and beat hard. Then dip into cups, or hot gem-pans slightly oiled, and liake in a quick oven twenty-five to thirty minutes; brown nicely without scorching, Seiwe warm, with fruit, fruit sauce, or cream and sugar.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part IH. 342 Boiled Batter Pudding. 2 cujis sour milk—or sour cream. 1^ “ sifted Graham flour. 2 “ “ white “ 1 cup seedless raisins. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—an hour and a half. Dredge the fruit with a httle of the flour, and beat the yolks and whites separately; then stu’ together the yolks, the milk, and the rest of the flour, to form a batter. Add the whipped whites and dissolved soda, and beat very thor- oughly. Last of all put in the fruit, stirring hghtly, but mixing it in evenly. Wring the pudding-bag out of hot water, flour it well inside, and pour in the batter; then tie securely, leaving plenty of room to swell, di’op into a pot of boiling water, and boil constantly an hour and a half. Add more water—always boiling hot—as it is needed; timi over now and then, and keep the pot closely covered be- tween times. When done, plunge the bag into a basin of cold water, and remove instantly; then turn the pudding out on a plate, and send directly to the table. Serve with cream, fruit, or fruit juice. This pudding may be steamed by pouring the batter into a basin well oiled, and j^lacing it, covered, inside a steamer, over a pot of boiling water ; steam two hours without un- covering. Do not fill too full, as the pudding must have room to swell. Corn Custard Pudding. 1 quart sweet milk. 1.1 cups fine corn meal. ^ cup sifted Graham flour. ^ “ sugar.I’AUT III.] OTHER PUDDINGS. 343 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 4 teaspoouful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 1 “ cream-tartar. Time—20 to 30 minutes, moderate oven. Heat the milk to a boil in a farina-kettle, if you have one. While doing this, sift the cream of tartar through the Hour; as soon as the milk is hot stir the corn meal into it, and cook ten to fifteen minutes, stirring well from the bottom. Then pour the batter into a bowl to cool; when cold, add the yolks and sugar beaten together, and stir in the Gra- ham flour; then add the whipped whites and dissolved soda, and beat hard. Bake in deep gem-pans, well oiled; or you may pour the batter into a pudding-dish, place in a pan of boiling water, and bake twenty to thirty minutes, or until the custard is set. Seiwe warm or cold, with cream, fniit, or lemon sauce; or eat without a dressing. Boiled Indi.an Pudding. 2 cups sour milk—or buttermilk. 1 cup boiling water. 24 cups coarse corn meal—“ flint ” preferred. 1 cup Graham flour, unsifted. I “ pure molasses—or pure syrup. I “ finely powdered beef suet. 14 teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—two to three hours. Scald the meal with the cup of boiling water, and let it stand till you have powdered the suet, and worked it into the flour. Then add to the first mixture the milk and mo- lasses, beating them well together; stir in the flour, add the di.ssolved soda, and beat very thoroughly. Wring the pud- ding-bag out of hot water, flour it weU inside, and pour in the batter; tie securely, leaving plenty of room to swell, and boil without stopping, from two to three hours—all of Ihree,344 [PAKT HI. Health in the household. if there is time. Keej^ plenty of water in the pot (always adding it boiling), and tuim the bag over frequently; the pot must be kept closely covered. If preferred }'Ou can boil in a covered mould, well oded; the water must not reach the top of it. Send the pudding to the table as soon as done; cut it in slices, and serve with lemon sauce, fruit, or fruit sauce. A fine dressing is a spoonful of stewed or can- ned rasiiberries to each slice, and then a mock cream or soft custard poured over. If pure molasses or s}Tup can not be had, and your “country cousins” have faded to bring in the genuine maple, or sorghum, then try melting some gramdated sugar in a little water. You may steam this pudding if preferred, instead of boiling. Steamed Indian Pudding. 3 cujis sour milk—or buttermilk. 2 “ coarse corn meal—golden “ flint ” is best. 1 cup Graham flour, unsifted. 1 “ currants, seedless raisins, chopped apples, dried cheiTies, or huckleben-ies. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1^ teaspoonfuls soda, dissolved in boding water. Time—two hours. The fruit must be carefully picked over, washed and dried, and then dredged with a little of the Graham flour. Mix together the grains and mdk, forming a smooth batter, then add the sugar and dissolved soda, and beat hard. Stir in the fruit lightly, pour the batter into a pan or mould well oded, cover the latter, leaving room to swell, and steam two houi’s; keep the water at a fast boil, and do not lift the lid till the pudding is done. Serve warm, with cream, fruit, or lemon sauce; the latter is best. In making this pudding, almost any of the dried fniits may be used; even dried apples, carefully picked over and345 PART III.] OTHER PUDDINGS. washed, cut in small bits, and stirred into the batter before steaming, make a fair substitute for other and more expen- sive fruits. Ste.\med Indi.\n Pudding. 4}: 2 cups SAveet milk—or enough for soft batter. “ boiling water. 2 “ coarse corn meal—“ flint ” is best. § cup (unbolted) rye meal. 1 “ Graham flour, unsifted. I “ sugar—or pm*e molasses. 1^ cups raisins, seeded and chopped. 1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. 2 teaspoonfuls cream-tartar. Time—three to four hoiu’s. Dredge the fruit with a j^oidion of the flour; then scald the corn meal with the boiling water, and let it stand till nearly cold. Mix the cream of tartar through the Graham flour, add this and the iwe to the scalded corn meal, and then Avet with the milk, stirring till a batter is formed that AviU pour readily. Add the sugar (or molasses) and dis- solved soda, and beat till light; then stir in the dredged fruit. Pour the batter into an oiled pan or mould, leaving room to swell, cover, and set it in the steamer; steam tliree to four hours, and do not open till the pudding is done. Serve with stewed or canned fruit, fniit sauce, or lemon sauce; or it may be eaten with a soft custard. Strawberry Indian Pudding. 1 cup sour milk. 3 cups boiling Avater. 2 “ coarse corn meal—yeUoAV “ flint ” preferred. 1 cup Graham flour, unsifted. 1 quart straAvbeiTies. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, 15*34G [part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 1 egg, well beaten. 1 teasjioonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—two bom's. Scald the meal with the boiling water, and mash with a spoon till there are no lumps ; then add the sour milk, Graham hour, egg and sugar, and stir well; stir in also the dissolved soda, and beat thorougldj. Add lastly the fruit, mixing it lightly through the batter ; pour into a well-oiled pan, filling it not nearly full, cover securely to keep out the moisture, and place in *a steamer over a pot of boiling water. Steam two hours without uncovering, and keep the water at a fast boil. The pudding must not stand after it is mixed. Serve warm or cold, with mock cream, or cream and sugar. If a piece is left over, it may be dijiped into cold water, and laid, covered, in a hot oven till it is well heated through, EaspbeiTies, seeded cherries, or chopped apples may be used instead of strawberries. Huckleberry Indian Pudding. 3 cups sweet milk—or enough for a soft batter. 2 “ coarse corn meal—golden “ hint ” is best. 1 cup “middhngs.” 1 quart hucldelieiTies. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Time—two hours and a half. Mix the above, stinlng the fruit in lightly at the last, and forming a batter that will pour readily ; the berries slioidd be w^eU dredged with fiour. Oil a round pudding-dish, pour in the batter, cover, and steam two hours and a half without lifting the hd of the steamer. Serve with whq^ped cream, or cream and sugar.OTUEU rUDDIXCrS. 347 r.vnx iii.J Rice and Raisin Pudding. 3 pints sweet milk. 1 quai4 water. 1 Clip rice, picked over carefully, and washed. 1 “ raisins, “ “ “ “ “ Time—two hours, slow oven. Put the rice and raisins into the water, add half the milk, and set the dish on the back of the stove where it will heat slowly to a bod ; cook ten minutes, and take from the fire. Add the rest of the nidk, poim the pudding into a disli, and place it inside a shallow pan of boding water ; bake, covered, in a slow oven two hours, or till the pudding thickens. Stir from the bottom once or twice, the first had hour ; wlien done it should be tJiick and creamy, rather than firm. Serve cold or lukewarm without a dressing, or with juicy fruit, stewed or canned. If you have not the raisins, you may take currants in- stead ; or you can leave out the fruit, and add a third of a cup of sugar. Rice and Berry Pudding. 2 cups sweet mdk. 2 “ cold rice, samp or barley. 2 “ raspberries, blackberries, seeded cherries, or chopped apples. ^ cup sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—one hour, slow oven. Soften the cold rice (or other grain) with the milk, work- ing out aU the lumps ; then stir in the yolks and sugar beaten together, and also the well-whipped whites. Add the fruit, mixing it in lightly ; pour the batter into a dish, set in a dripjiing-pan of boiling water, and bake slowly ono hour. Serve cold or lukewarm, with or without a dressing of cream,[part III. HE.'VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 348 Rice and Apple Pudding. 4^ 3 quarts sliced apples, rather tart. 1 cup rice, picked over carefully, aud washed. 1 “ cold water. 2 cups boiling water. Tinie—two hours, slow oven. Cover the bottom of a pudding-dish with a layer of the sliced apples, and sprinkle over them a portion of the lice , then more apples, then rice. Continue till they are all used, making the last la^'^er apples. Some like the addition of a cup of currants, or seedless raisins, sprinkled between the layers. Pour over the whole a cup of cold water, and set the disli, covered, in the oven, within a dripping-iian con- taining boiling water ; bake slowly, one hour. At the end of that time, pour over it a cup of boiling water, and bake half an hour ; then add another cup of water, boiling hot, and bake another half hour. Serve lukewarm, with cream, fruit, or fruit sauce. Manioca Pudding.—(With Fruit.) \ cup manioca. I “ sugar. pints strawberries, raspberries, huckleberries, sliced peaches, or sliced apples.. 1 quart boiling water. Time—one hour, moderate oven. Pour the boilmg water over the manioca, stirring mean- while to prevent lum^iing ; then stir in the fruit and sugar, and bake in an even oven one hour, or until clear. If small fruits are used in the making, serve the pudding with cream and sugar ; if sliced apples or peaches, serve with fruit (stewed or canned), or fruit juice—or, you may take cream and sugar. It may be eaten cold or warm. In making this pudding, fruit juice is better than the berries ; a cupful would be enough,OTHEK PUDDIJIGS. 34i) r.MiT iii.J Tapioca Pudding.—( With Eaisins.Jd^ 3 pints sweet milk. 1 cup tapioca, washed and drained. 1 “ raisins, seeded and chopped. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and Avhites separate. Time—an hour and ten minutes, moderate oven. Soak the tapioca in the cold milk one to two hours ; then tiu’n it into a farina-kettle and bring to a boil, stirring fre- quently. As soon as it is soft throughout, set it off to cool ; beat the yolks and sugar together, and when the tajiioca-milk is nearly cold stir them in. Then add the well-whipped whites, and the raisins dredged with a little flour, and beat thoroughly. Pour the batter into a pudding- dish, set this in a dripping-pan with boiling water in it, and bake, covered, an hour and ten minutes. The oven should be moderate ; and if the pudding is not already browned, uncover ten minutes at the last. Seiwe nearly cold, with or without a dressing of fruit, or fruit juice. Apple Tapioca PuDDiNG.^j^ 12 apples pared and cored, and not very tart. 1 cup tapioca. i “ raisins, seeded and chopped. ^ ^ “ currants, picked over carefully, and washed. ^ “ sugar. 3 pints cold water. Juice of one lemon, or half a cup of currant juice. Time—an hour and a quarter, good oven. Wash the tapioca, and after draining pom’ the cold water over it; warm gradually to blood heat, stirring now and then. Continue the soaking and warming three hours, or until the tapioca is soft; then increase the heat and cook tin clear, or nearly so. Arrange the apples, pared and cored,350 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART III. in a jiudding-disli, witliout crowding tliem ; fill tbeii’ centers witli the sweet fruit, and saturate the latter with the lemon (or currant) juice. Then pour over the tapioca, and bake, covered, an hour and a quarter in a pretty hot oven ; the dish should be set in a shallow pan with boiling water in it. Serve cold or lukewarm, with cream, fruit, or fruit juice— or with a mixed sauce of raspberries and cream ; the rasp- berries may be fresh, stewed or canned. Apple Tapioca Pudding. 41= 3 quarts sHced apiiles, tart. 2 “ ' cold water—for soaking. 2 cups tapioca, washed and di’ained. Time—three hours, slow oven. Pour the water over the tapioca, and set it where it will get shghtly warm ; let it soak three to four hours, and then drain off all the water. Wash the shced apples, and while they are still wet put a layer of them into the pudding-dish; then sprinkle over these a jiortion of the tapioca, and repeat the process till the dish is fuU, making the last layer apples. Cover closely, and bake in rather a slow oven about three hours; Avhen done, the whole mass should be in a jelly. Seiwe cold or lukewarm, with fruit juice, fruit sauce, or cream and sugai’. Sliced or canned peaches may be used instead of apples ; and they make a pudding equally good. Sago and Apple Pudding. 3 pints boiling water. 12 tart apples, pared and cored. 1 cup sago. I “ raisins, seeded and chopped. “ currants, picked over carefully, and washed. i “ sugar. Juice of one lemon. Time—an hour and a half.PART m.] 351 OTHER PUDDINGS. AVash the sago, cover with cold water, and soak one hour; then drain well. Fni the centers of the apples with the sweet fruit, and place them in the bottom of a piulding- dish. Then dissolve the sago by poimng the boiling water over it, and stii-ring constantly to prevent lumping ; stu' in the lemon and sugar, and pour it over the apj)les. Set the dish in a moderate oven, within a dripping-pan of boding water, and bake, covered, an horn* and a half. Seiwe nearly cold with cream and sugar, fruit, or fruit juice. Granula Pudding. 3 pints sweet milk. 1 cup granula. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Time—one hour, sIoav oven. Granula is made by heating bits of Graham bread in the oven till brittle, then pounding or breaking them in small pieces, and gilnding in a hand-mill. These are more properly, h^^gienic “rusk crumbs”; they may be soaked in milk half an hour, and then eaten. Sometimes they are used for puddings ; a very good one is made with the above ingredients, as follows : Pour the milk into a fanna-kettle, and bring to a boil; then take it from the fire, stir in the granula, and soak till the mixture is nearly cold. Beat the yolks and sugar to- gether, and stir them in; then the well-whipped whites; set the dish in a slow oven, and bake one hour, or till the pud- ding is firm in the center; cover the top while baking. Serve lukewarm, without sauce. Cracked Wheat Pudding. 2 cups sweet milk. 2 cold cracked wheat.352 HE.VLTII IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT III. 1 cup seeded clierries—or red or black raspbenies. ^ “ sugar. 2 eggs, yolks aud whites separate. Time—one hour, slow oven. Mix together the milk, fruit aud wheat, add the yolks and sugar beaten together, and also the w'hipped whites ; stii’ thorougUy, pour into a dish, and place covered, inside a drijiping-pan -with boiling water in it. Have rather a slow oven, and bake about an hour. Serve cold or lukewarm, with mock cream or fruit sauce; or the pudding may be eaten Avithout a di’essing. Canned cherries with the juice di'ained off, may be used instead of raw fruit; and cold rice, samp or barley, may take the place of cracked wheat Ibish Potato Pddding.^I^ 3 cups sweet milk—new i? best. ^ cuji sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 8 potatoes, medium size. Juice of one lemon. Time—40 minutes, slow oven. Wash, peel and boil the potatoes, taking finun the fire the moment a fork will go through them easily ; drain off all the water, and mash fine. Then add the mdlv stir the po- tato well into it, and rub through a colandej.’. Beat the yolks, lemon and sugar together, and stLr them in ; add also tlie whites Avhijiped to a stiff froth, and stii* thoroughly. Pour the batter into a pudding-dish, well oiled, set it •nuthin a shiiUow pan of boiling water, and bake in a slow oven foi-ty minutes. Serve nearly cold, without a dressing. Sweet Potato Pudding. 3 cups sweet milk—new, if you have it. 3 “ “ potato, finely mashed.353 I'.VET lll.j PLAIN DISSERTS. ^ cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Juice of one lemon. Time—40 minutes, slow oven. Select good dry sweet potatoes, and steam or boil till a fork will go through them easily. Then remove the skins, and trim off any defective spots, or stiingy ends. Masii fine, mix Avith the milk, and put through a colander to re- move any lumps, or fibrous poiiions. Then beat the yolks, lemon and sugar together, and stm them in ; add the Avhites cut to a stiff froth, and beat thorouglily. Pour into a pud- ding-dish, slightly oiled, place in a shallow pan of boiling water, and bake slowly forty minutes. Serve cold, or luke- warm, without a dressing. PLAIN DESSERTS. The following plain desserts are most of them mushes, or simple fruit preparations, that may be served Avith a dressing of steAved fruit, fruit juice, or cream and sugar ; or instead of the latter, Avhipped cream flavored with fiiiit may be used. They Avill be found convenient, both on ac- count of their simplicity, and the readiness Avith whicli they can be prepared ; and most of them can be served cold, as AveU as warm. Dried Fkuit Puddino. 2 cups SAveet milk. 2 “ cold water. 2 “ stale bread-crumbs, finely grated. 2 “ dried fruit—cheiTies, peaches, apples, etc. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Time—an hour and a half, slow oven. Cook the fruit in A'ery little water f ill nearly done, but not broken to piec':'s ; Tmn set it off to cool. In the meanHE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part IIL 354 time, soak tlie crumbs in tbe milk and water; w'lien the bread is soft turn all together, add the sugar, and stir hghtly. Pour the batter into a deep dish, cover, set within a shallow pan of boiling water, and bake in a very slow oven an hour and a half. For double the quantity, bake twenty to thirty minutes longer. Serve with juicy fruit, or with cream ; the pudding maj' be eaten cold or wai’m. Brown Betty. 3 pints tai-t, juicy apples, chopped. 3 cups grated bread-crumbs, stale. 1 cup seedless raisins—if desired. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Juice of one lemon. Time—one hour, rather slow oven. Oil the pudding-dish, and put into it a layer of the apples, about an inch thick ; then add a hght sprinkle of sugar, a portion of the raisins, and some of the lemon juice. Fol- low with a layer of crumbs—good home-made Graham loaf, if you have it—half an inch thick ; then another of apjdes, twice tlie thickness. Continue in the same order until the dish is full, ending with a very thin laj'er of fine crumbs. If the apples are not j^retty juicy, pour a third of a cup of water over the pudding before baking. Cover the dish, place inside a dripping-pan with boihng w'^ater in it, and bake slowdy, at least an hour ; with the raisins, a little longer would be better. Uncover at the end, and brown quickly. Serve luke-wann, with or without a dressing of cream, or cream and sugar. Strawbenies, raspbenies, seeded cherries, or other small fruits, may be used instead of apples. The lemon can be omitted, if desired. Child’s Fruit Pudding. 1 quaii sweet miUc—new, if you have it. 1 “ fine bread-crumbs, stale.365 I’ART III.] PLAIN DESSERTS. 2 quai’ts benies, cherries, or other ripe fruit. 1 to 3 tablespooufuls of sugai’, according to tartness of fruit. Pinch of soda, finely pulverized, in the milh. Time—50 minutes, slow oveD. Bring the milk to a boil; then fill a pudding-dish with alternate layers of crumbs and fruit, beginning and ending with the crumbs. Sprhikle each layer of fruit lightly with the sugar ; or if fully ripe and not very tail, the sugar may be left out. The dish must not be too full; pom’ the hot milk over the pudding, cover closely, and bake in a slow oven within a shallow pan of boiling water; it will require about fifty minutes. Serve warm or lukewai’in, with mock cream, fruit sauce, or cream and sugar. Instead of small fruits, taii apples finely sliced or chopped may be used, and the pudding baked all of an horn”. Bre.ad and Fruit Dessert. Fill a pudding-dish with alternate layers of thinly sliced bread and stewed fruit, as raspberries or blackberries ; the fruit should be boiling hot. If the bread is shghtly toasted, it is an improvement; home-made Graham loaf is best. Before juitting in the fruit, drain off most of the juice into a separate bowl; then place the layers of bread in the dish, spreading each with the fruit, and when all is in pour the hot juice over. Cover with a plate, and set in a cool place till time to serve ; in cold weather, it is best to wai’m the dessert tlirough in the oven, before sending to tlie table. It may be eaten with or without a dressing of mock cream, stewed fruit, or cream and sugar. This is a convenient dish in hot weather, for dinner or lunch, as it requires little or no cooking in preparing it.356 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. O Boiled Suet Pudding. 1^ cujis sour milk—or buttermilk. “ sifted Graham flour. 2 “ “ white “ ^ oup beef suet, flnely powdered. 1 (scant) teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. Time—an hour and a half. Make a batter of the milk and flour, stir in the suet, add the dissolved soda, and beat well. Then jiour it into a floured bag, or an oiled mould with closely fitting cover, leave plenty of room to swell, and boil an hour and a half without stopping. Or you may pour the batter into a basin well oiled, cover with an inveided pie-pan, and set in a steamer ; steam two hours, keeping the water at a fast boil, and the steamer tightly closed. Serve as soon as done, with lemon sauce, or cream and sugar. Suet Dumplings. 1 cup sweet milk. 1 “ sifted Graham flour. 2 cujis “ white “ I cuji beef suet, finely powdered. § teaspoonful soda. 1^ teaspoonfuls cream-taidar. Time—15 minutes. Turn the Graham and white flour together, and sift the soda and cream of tartar through it several times; these must be finely pulverized. Then rub the powdered suet through the fiour very thoroughly, and wet with the milk to form a moderately stiff paste; knead as little as possible. Pinch off the dough in small bits, drop these into a pot of boiling water, and boil rapidly fifteen minutes ; keep the pot closely covered. Serve immediately, with lemon sauce, or cream and sugar.PART III.] 357 PLAIN DESSERTtJ. Rice and Apple Pudding. Take cold boiled rice, weU moulded, and cut it in slices bidf an inch thick; put into a pudding-dish a layer of the rice, and one of equal thickness of grated or stewed apples. Rejjeat these until the dish is fidl, ending with a thin layer of the apples; then set the dish into another containing boiling water, and bake covered, in a moderate oven, one hour. Serve warm with cream and sugar, stewed fruit, or fruit sauce. The layers may be made with rice and raspber- ries, seeded cherries, or other small fruits, which if taid, may be hghtly sprinkled with sugar. Frumenty. This haiwest dish, sometimes called “ furmity,” is made by taking the whole wheat newly cut, and rubbed or threshed out, and boiling it in water till soft. The recipe, which is an “ old country ” one, taken from a British jour- nal on Dietetics, is as follows : “ To cook it (the wheat) put it on in cold water, let it come to a boil, and then stew gently till every grain bm-sts open like a little mealy po- tato.” It will require several hours’ steaming or boihng; and the wheat should be as new and tender as possible. The best plan is to start it in plenty of cold water—say one paid wheat and four or five parts water—and cook in a farina- kettle; this saves the trouble of stimng, and prevents stick- ing. "WTien done, you can stir in a little cream or milk, if you like, and simmer five minutes; some add sugar and a beaten egg, along with the milk,—^though that is a depart- ure from the original method. This dish is said by those who have eaten it, to be delicious. Farina Musii.^j: To a quart of boiling water allow half a cup of farina ; add it verj" slowly, and stir well to prevent lumping. CooktIE.\LTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD, [PAHT HI. ten to iifteen minutes, or till tlie mush tliickens, stimng coustiinlly; then pour in a third of a cup of cream, and cook two minutes longer, using the spoon till done. Serve warm with cream, fruit, or fruit juice ; stewed rasiibeiTies (or rasiiherries and currants mixed), make a good dressing ; so do stewed cherries. Farina MusH.ijj: Heat a quaid of water to a bod in a faiina-kettle, and stir in two-thirds of a cuj) of farina; cook fifteen minutes, stir- ring almost constantly. Then add a pint of mdk (new, if you have it), and cook five minutes longer, stin'ing once or twice. Serve the same as the last. Graham Pudding.—f With Fruit.) Make a mush with Graham flour, cooking over a moder- ate fire twenty minutes; then stir in fresh clean dates— being careful not to break the fruit—let the mixture heat two minutes, and pour it into cups or moulds dijiped in cold water; if into cups, fill half or two-thirds full. When moulded turn out on a plate, and seiwe with cold cream, or stewed fruit. Minute Pudding. 1 quart sweet mdk. 1 “ water. 1 cup sifted Graham flour. 3 “ “ white “ Time—15 to 20 minutes. The “ minute ” pudding, so called, is a misnomer, as it can not be cooked in sixty seconds. Tinm the milk and water into a farina-kettle, and heat to a boil; then stii’ in first (very slowly), the Graham flour, as it is less liable to lump. Fodow vnth the white flour, a little at a time, and cook fifteen to twenty minutes, stirring as little and asS59 PART m.] PLAIN PRSSERTj?. O lightly as j^ossible; keej) the kettle covered between times. As soon as done lift from the fire, but leave the pudding three to five minutes with the hot water around it, before taking it up. If you have no farina-kettle, you may make in a stone or earthen crock set on top of the stove, and cook ten minutes, stirring lightly two or three times. Take from the fire a few moments before dishing for the table. Serve lukewarm, -with cream, fruit, or fruit juice—or if you liaA'e it, with strawbeiTy cream. If you make of “ best Akron ” flour, use all Graham to thicken. Blackberry Musn.^j: 2 quarts blackberries. 1^ pints water. 1 cup sifted Graham flom\ 1 “ “ white “ Time—about 20 minutes. Put the berries and water into a porcelain kettle, and bring to a boil; heat slowly five minutes. Then thicken with the Graham flour, taking care that there are no lumps; stir in also the white flour, cover the kettle closely, and set it where the mush will continue to cook, but will not scorch. Let it remain about ten minutes, stirring once or twice ; then set it back on the stove, and in a few minutes pour into a mould to cool; dip the latter into cold water before filling it. Serve with mock cream, or cream and sugar. If preferred, thicken with farina or corn-starch (using nearly a cupful), and cook as before. DujrPLINGS.4}: For fruit dumplings, see Part II., under Pastries. They may be served with or without a dressing of cream, or cream and sugar.SCO [p.VET ILL HEALTH IM THE HOUSEHOLD. PUDDING SAUCES, CREAMS, Etc. The pudding sauces that are here given, are all of the plain kind, properly so cialled; no wines, no brandies, no spices, no “ flavoring extracts,” no buttei*, and only a mini- mum cpiantity of sugiu-. After rejecting all these, we still have left every variety of choice fruit, with the addition of sweet cream; add to these a httle sugar and lemon, a trifle of corn-starch or flour, and an egg or two, and there is no end to the dressings that can be made. Really, a imdding . that needs pungent sj^ices, salty grease (butter), “ quantities of sugar,” and alcoholic spirits to make it palatable, had better be let alone. The raspberry and other creams that follow these sauces, may if prefeiTed, be used as a dressing for jinddings, mushes, moulded grains, etc., instead of plain cream and sugar. Sweet Cream. The sauce needing least preparation, though by no means the least jDolatable, is good sweet cream, with or Avithout the addition of sugar; in cities, however, this is not always easy to get. If sweetened, two tablespoonfrds of sugar to a pint of cream, is sufficient; a better w^ay, however, is to serve the sugar separately, and then pass the cold cream, unsweetened. Mock Cream. 41^ 1 pint good sweet milk—new, if j'ou have it. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 even tablespoonfuls coni-starch. 2 eggs—wdiites of. Heat the milk to scalding, in a faiina-kettle; stir in the sugar, and the corn-starch wet with a little cold milk; bring just to a boil, stirring constantly; then set the kettle up where the mixture will keep hot without boiling. HavePUDDING SAUCES, CUE.VMS, ETC. 3G1 PART III.] ready tlie \vliipped wliites, add a little of tlie Lot milk, and beat well as you pour it in; tLeii add more in the same way, and linally tui’u all together. Poui’ the whole back into the farina-kettle, return to the hre, and stir till it thickens to the consistency of cream. Seiwe cold or lukewarm. If preferred, you may use one egg, yolk and white, in- stead of the whites of two. Soft Cust^uid.^]: 3 cups good rich milk. 3 tablespoonfuls sugai’. 2 teaspoonfuls white flour. 1 egg. Juice of half a lemon. Wet the flour to a smooth paste with a httle of the cold milk; then thin it by stirring in more mflk, say one cup; put this into a farina-kettle and heat almost to boiling, using the spoon every moment. Add the rest of the milk, and heat again tiU ready to boil, but no more; stir well, and set it off. Then beat the egg, lemon and sugar together, and pour over these the hot millv, a httle at a time, mixing well. Eetimi the custard to the kettle, and boil till it thick- ens, stirring constantly; then remove from the fire. Let it cool to lukewarm before using. If a thicker dressing is wanted, take two eggs instead of one; and when you have stiiTod the flour iuto the milk and heated it to boihng, lift off the kettle; then beat together the yolks, lemon and sugar, and proceed as before. Stir in the whites as soon as you t:ike the custard from the fire- Lemon Sauce. 1 pint boiling water. 1 desseri spoonfid corn-starch. § cup sugar. Juice of two lemons. 16[part III. ouJ HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Poiu’ the boiling water into a small porcelain kettle, and set it over the fire; wet the corn-starch to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and stir it in; cook five minutes, or till the mixtm-e thickens. Then squeeze the lemon juice into the sugar, and stii- it in also; boil one minute, stirring constantly, and take from the fii’e. Leave the sauce with the hot water around it, ten minutes; then cool to blood heat before sending to the table. This plain but excellent sauce is quickly and easily made, and may be used cold or warm. It should be about as thick as cream. In making lemon sauce, use always a porcelain or granit- ized ii*on kettle; by no means brass, tin, or glazed ware, as lemon coiTodes it. Fruit Sauce. 1 quaid fruit juice—unsweetened, 2 tablespoonfuls com-starch. 3 to 4 tablespoonfuls sugar, according to acidity of fruit. Prepare the fruit juice as per recipes given in Part II., Fruits and Fruit Juices, leaving out the sugar; then put it into a iDorcelain kettle, sweeten, and heat to a boil. Stir in the com-starch wet with a little cold water, boil gently, stirring constantly, and cook ten minutes, or till the mix- ture thickens; it must not taste raw. Send to the table cold or lukcAvarm. Another way, hardly as good, is the following: Take one pint of milk and one of fruit juice; sweeten the latter while hot (two tablespoonfuls of sugar to a pint of the juice is ample), then heat and thicken the milk, stir in the juice, and cook as before. The juices used in this sauce may be prepared in sum- mer, and put into glass cans for winter; the best fruits for this purpose, are raspberries, strawberries, and currants. In stewing the fruit preparatory to straining and canning.PUDDING SAUCES, CREAIMS, ETC. PART 111.] cook just loug enough to heat the mass thoroughly. Then jmt it through an earthen colander (a tin one discolors the hquid), or squeeze through a cloth—a coiU’se linen, or caocse-cloth, if you have it. Heat again to a boil, and put the juice into the cans. Mixed Sauce. Many plain puddings ai'e excellent seized with a mixed dressing, as follows: Over the slice of pudding served to each person, put a spoonful of stewed (or canned) rasp- berries, strawberries, or other fruit, and then add to it a little cold cream, mock cream, or soft custard. This makes a more Avholesome dressing than the custard alone, and the fruit unpaids an agreeable flavor. Dressing of Fruit. A very good dressing, and one that is well suited to some of the plainer puddings, is simple stewed or canned fruit, or fruit juice, sw'eetened if tart, wdth a little sugar. Straw- berries, raspberries, blackbeinies, cherries, plums, peaches, or apricots, are excellent used in this w'ay; and they are faP more wholesome than even the “ plain sauces,” made -with milk, eggs, sugar, corn-starch, etc., to say nothing of the wane, brandy, butter, bitter almonds, etc., etc., that so often find their way into these dressings. "Whipped Cream. 1 pint thick sweet cream. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 2 eggs—whites of; some use but one. Set the cream on ice (or in the refrigerator) until it is thoroughly chilled; you may put the eggs also in the ice- chest till cold. Then beat the whites, add the cream ivith the sugar stirred into it, and wloip with an egg-beater, o«[part IU. 3G4 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. wliijj-cliuru, until a froth forms on top. If you can spare the time, lay the latter on a sieve as it rises, and return to the bowl or chui*n the cream that diips thi’ough. When no more wiU rise, put the cream in a glass dish, and pile the froth on top. Some think it best to sweeten and whip the cream by itself, adding the beaten whites at the last, or after the cream is 2Jartly wliipjied; j'ou can tr}' it. This is a fine dressing, either for j)uddings or fruit; place the ijudding, benles or other fruit in the center of a glass dish, and surround with the cream. Or if jireferred, serve the fruit separately, and pass the cream afterward. Snow Cream. Prepare and whip the cream as directed in the last recipe—not in July, but during the “cold and stormy months ”; then stir in newly fallen snow that is light and feathery, and you have “ ice-cream,” or rather, snoiu-cream, ready-made. Strawberry Cream.—f' Choice.)^ 1 j)int sweet cream. 1 “ rijie strawberries—caps removed. § cuii sugar. 2 eggs—whites of. Sprinkle over the berries about half the sugar, and then chop moderately with a silver knife—or you may jiaiily crush them with a spoon. Set them in a cool place for an hour, then strain through a clean linen cloth, exjiressing all the juice, and stir in the rest of the sugar. If you have not a whip-churn, i:)ut the cream into a small pitcher (one that holds two or three pints), as that is most convenient to whij) in. Then 2>ut the eggs, cream, and fruit juice all in the ice- chest, and let them remain till chilled. When the cream is thoroughly cold, set the pitcher into a basin of ice-water, and whip with an egg-beater till the froth begins to rise ;365 PART III.] PUDDING SAUCES, CRE.VMS, ETC. then add the cold juice, and whip again. Let an assistant beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; this should be done in a cold room ; add these to the strawbeny cream, and continue the whipping till no more froth will rise. It should be served as soon as possible, after it is prepai’ed. In winter, when strawberries iU’e out of the question, use strawberry or other fruit syrup, and omit the sugar. To a pint of whipped cream, add two or three tablespoonfuls of the syrup, and Avhip again; then beat in the whites cut to a stiff froth, and serve. Currant CimvM.4j: Wash the currants, drain well, and strip from the stems. Then make the same as the last, only use a trifle more sugar ; and when you have partly whipped the cream, stir in the cmTant juice, a httle at a time, for fear of curdling. Have aU the ingi’edients very cold, and seiwe as soon as possible after the cream is made. Raspberry Cream, 1 pint sweet cream. 1 “ raspbenies, red or black. ^ cup sugar. 2 eggs—whites of. Put half the sugar over the berries, partly crush them, and after they have stood an hour strain through a clean thin cloth. Add the rest of the sugar, and set the juice in the ice-chest, along with the cream and eggs; when they are all thoroughly chilled, beat the whites, add them to the cream, and whip (in a smaU pitcher) with an egg-beater. You may add the fruit juice in the staid, or after you have partly Avhipped the cream. When no more froth will nse, send it to the table. If red raspberries are used, take a little more sugar; two- thirds of a cup will be enough.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 3G6 [part III. Raspberry and Curilvnt Cream. 4^ 1 pint sweet cream. 1 cup currants, stripped from tlie stem. 3 cups raspberries, red or black. § cup sugar. 2 eggs—whites of. Mix the raspberries and currants together, and make the same as the last; let the cream, eggs, and juice, all be as cold as possible ; and use a whip-chui-n, if you have one. Bhvckberry and Other Creaais. Blackben-y cream is made like raspberry ; and huckle- berry cream the same. Cherries, if carefuUy picked over and seeded, may also be used, the very acid varieties re- quiring more sugar—say three-fouiihs of a cup to a pint of seeded fruit. Lemon Cream. 1 pint sweet cream. 1 cup sugar. Juice of one lemon. 2 eggs—whites of. Put the cream, lemon and eggs into the ice-chest till they are very cold ; then beat the whites, add them to the cream, and whip well together. When about half done whipping, beat in the lemon juice (sweetened with the sugar), a little at a time, for fear of curdling the milk ; and when done, serve immediately. In this and other prepared creams, condensed milk diluted with two or three times as much water, is often used instead of ordinary cream. Orange Cream. Select oranges of fine flavor, and not too ripe ; then make the same as lemon cream, using less sugar by about one- third. Take two oranges to a pint of cream.PUDDING SAUCES, CREAMS, ETC. 367 PAKT III.] Pine-Apple Cream, 1 pint sweet cream. 1 ripe pine-apple. § cup sugar. 2 eggs—whites of. Peel the pine-apple, cut it in very thin slices, and sprinkle the sugai’ between them. Set these, covered, in a cool place ; after two or three hom’s, chop the fruit up in the syrup with a silver knife, and strain through a coai’se cloth. Put the juice in the ice-chest, together with the cream and eggs ; when all are very cold, beat the juice gradually into the cream, keeping the latter in a vessel of ice-water ; then stir in the whites of the eggs, well whipped, and beat all to a good froth. A small pitcher is the best to beat in, if you have not a whip-chiu-n. Quince and Other Creams. Peel and slice the quinces, and stew in enough water to make them tolerably juicy ; then take the stewed fruit, strain through a coarse cloth or sieve, and make the same as pine-apple, using a little more sugar, and having the in- gredients very cold. Seiwe this, and all the creams, as soon as possible after they are made. Apples and pears may be used instead of quinces ; make in the same way, sweetening according to the acidity of the fiTiit. The latter must l)e of fine rich flavor. Peach cream is made -with good ripe fruit, uncooked. Peel and slice the peaches, sprinkle on the sugar, and after the juice starts strain through a colander, or coarse cloth ; then finish the same as pine-apjfie. Do not make too sweet; half a cuji of sugar to a j^int of sliced fruit, would bo enough. Put all in tlie ice-chest to get as cold as possible, before making the cream,[part hi. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 368 CUSTAKDS, BLANC-IMANGES, Etc. For several reasons, custards, like cakes, jellies, presences and pickles, can not be considered as any paid of a strictly bygienic dietary. In the first jilace they consist essentially of milk, eggs and sugar, mixed together, and either baked or boiled. The tendency of these articles, particularly when they are cooked together, is to congest the liver and lead to biliousness; and the more eggs and sugar the custard contains, the more unwholesome it is. Add to the ingredients named, the various spices, extracts, essences, etc., that are put in as flavoring, and we have a comiiound that deserves to be consigned to that department of modern cookery, known as the “ Devil’s Corner,” xoilh no index. In this “corner” there would be ample room for the “just sjDlendid ” cakes, the “ choice ” pickles, the “ elegant ” pre- serves, jollies, jams, etc., etc., found in the ordinary cook- book ; to say nothing of the tea, coffee, ale, beer, wine, egg-nog, claret jiunch, cherry bounce, and other inventions of his Satanic Majesty. Eeturning to the custards—if they must be eaten, it might be well to suggest that they make their appearance only scnu’-occasionally, and in weather that is cool and brac- ing, rather than warm and debilitating. It might be fuidher recommended that the loorst things in them be left out; and the next to the worst used in limited quantities. In fact, those who habituate themselves to very plain and simple habits of eating, Avith few condiments, are on the whole, better pleased Avith less sugar and eggs, and feAver flavoring extiacts, than the average appetite demands. In the recipes here given, the only flaA^oring recommended, is lemon juice, or fruit jellies ; the latter being used for ornament and SAveetening, as Avell as flavoring. In making custards, then, observe as nearly as possible, tfie foUoAving iniles:PAKT III.] :iGO CUSTARDS, BLANC-MANGES, ETC. 1. Make them only in cool or cold weather, and not too often. 2. Use as few eggs as are necessary, and as little sugar as the palate will tolerate. This latter (the palate), it must be remembered, is susceptible of education or training, either in right or wi'ong directions. 3. Have milk that is free from imler, and otherwise of good quality ; without good milk you can not have good custard. 4. See that the eggs are absolutely fresh; the worst of dishes is a custard made with stale eggs. 5. Have the eggs colJ, separate the yolks and whites with the greatest care, and beat by themselves—the whites to a stiff froth. G. Whip Avith an egg-beater, in an earthen or stoneAvare dish, neA^er in tin ; and if possible, beat the AA’hites in a cold room. Do not let the eggs stand after they are beaten. 7. For a plain custmal, never take more than four eggs to a quart of milk—less AviU do, if a little flour or corn-starch is used to thicken. You can strain the yolks if you like, through a fine wire strainer kept for the piu’pose. 8. If flavoring is desired, use lemon juice or fruit jellies, whij^ped into the whites, and spread on top. 9. For boiled custards, heat the milk till it rises, either in a farina-kettle, or a tin bucket set in a pot of boiling water; then stir in the corn-starch, heat again, and lift from the fire. Whip the sugar into the beaten yolks, and add to them the hot milk, a little at a time, stirring meanAvhile to prevent curdling. When all is in, return it to the kettle, and heat till the custard begins to thicken, using the spoon constantly ; then lift from the fire, beat in the whipped whites, and pour into cups. Or if preferred, leave out the Avhitcs till the custard is cold, and either stir them through it, or pile the froth on top. 10. If the custard is to be baked, heat the milk nearly to boiling, and add it to the beaten yolks and sugar in the 16*[part III. UEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 970 manner just described. Then stir in the well-whipped whites, and hake very slowly. This last is imj^erative ; you can hardly have the oven too moderate, if it bakes at all. Baked Custard. This is about the poorest of all the custard preparations ; it has in it neither “ fruit nor fariuacea ”; and the method of cooking is not particularly in its favor. Boiled custards, ju'oiierly made, are certainly more wholesome, and in flavor they are far more delicate. The baked ones, however, are greatly improved by heating the milk almost to a boil before the eggs are added, by usmg these and the sugar in moder- ation, and by extremely slow cooking in the oven. See that the milk is free from admixture with water, and other- wise of gocxl quality ; if not new, a httle cream added would be an improvement. To one quart of good rich milk, allow from three to four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and three large, or four small eggs. Heat the milk not quite to boiling, and hft from the fire ; beat the yolks moderately, whip in the sugar till light, and add to these the hot milk, a little at a time, stirring con- stantly. Then stir in the whipped whites, pour into stone- ware cups, place these inside a chripiiing-pan with boiling water in it, and bake in a very slow oven. As soon as the custard sets, it is done ; indeed, there is only one correct way in this process, and that is to bake slowly, and not a moment too long ; if cooked till it separates, the custard is spoiled. Serve nearly or quite cold, from the cuj)s. If desired, cover with a meiingue made bj" beating to- gether a tablespoonful of sugar, the whites of two eggs, and the juice of half a lemon ; spread it over the top the moment the custard is set, and close the oven door till it tinges a little.CUSTARDS, BLANC-MANGES, ETC. 371 PART III.J Boiled Custard. 41= 1 quart new milk. ^ cup sugar. 1 teaspooiiful corn-starch, wet in cold milk. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Heat in a fai'ina-kettle, or a tin bucket placed in a pot of boiling water ; when the milk rises stir in the corn-starch, cook five minutes, and set it off. Having whipped the sugar into the beaten yolks, stir into them a little of the hot milk, then more, then turn all together ; heat again, using the spoon, tiU the custard begins to thicken. Then remove from the fii’e, stir in the whites cut to a stiff froth, and when cool enough, pour either into a deep glass dish, or into glass or china cups. Serve neaily or quite cold. If you like, beat the whites of two eggs with a little sugar and lemon juice, and drop a spoonful of the froth on the top of each cup, before sending to the table. Another way—and it is a good one—is to use onl}’’ the yolks in making, and then stir in the whipped whites the last thing before the custard is seiwed. Boiled Custard.41= 1 quart new milk. f cup sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls corn-starch. 2 eggs, yolks and whites sejiarate. Juice of half a lemon. Heat the milk nearly to boiling, wet the corn-starch with a little cold milk, and stir it in ; use the spoon constantly, till the mixture rises in a foam. Then set uji the kettle, where it will keep hot till you can beat together the yolks (previously whipped a little) and half the sugar ; stir into these a few spoonfuls of the hot milk, then more, then all.[part III. HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 372 Retui-n to the kettle, and cook till the custard begins to thicken ; then take from the fire, whip the whites, lemon, and the rest of the sugar together, stir them in, and beat till the custard is nearly cold. The lemon can be omitted, if desii’ed, and the beating dis23ensed with. Floating Islands. 1 quart sweet milk. I cup sugar. 4 eggs, yolks and whites sejiarate. Juice of half a lemon. Pour the milk into a farina-kettle, and heat till it rises ; then beat the yolks a little, whij) in half the sugar, and stir into these the hot milk, a httle at a time. When all is ad- ded, return the custard to the fire and boil till it begins to thicken, stirring constantly. When cold, pour it into a wide glass dish, and droji on in little “ islands,” the froth made by beating together the whites, lemon, and the rest of the sugar. A more ornamental dish is made by substituting for the sugar and lemon juice, half a cup of cranberry or other bright jelly; beat this into the whites, a teasiioonful at a time, and then droji on the froth as before. The islands may be further ornamented by placing upon each, bits of the jeUy, laid on in a jiattem. Floating Island. 1 quart new milk. ^ cuj) sugar. ^ “ cranberry or other bright jelly. ^ “ strawben’ies, ripe but firm. 4 eggs, yoUis and whites separate. Make the custard the same as the last, using all the sugar; and when cold, i^our iuto a glass dish. Then whip the jeUy, a little at a time, into the whites, spread it evenly over thetART III,] CUSTARDS, BLANC-MANGES, ETC. 373 top, aud ornament as follows: Cut the strawberries horizon- tally into little “ wheels,” and aiTange them (the cut sides {dways uppermost) in double rows on the meringue, either in the form of a cross, or some other handsome pattern. Or if it is not the strawberry season, use bright jellies, cut these in diamonds or straight strips, and lay on in a similar wa}L Kock-Work. 1 quai't sweet milk. I cup sugar. 5 eggs, yolks and whites separate. Make a soft custard according to either of the preceding recipes, using the yolks, milk, and half the sugar ; the mo- ment it thickens lift from the fire, and when cold jiour into a glass dish. Beat the whites and the rest of the sugar to- gether, till a stiff froth is formed. Then take it up, a spoon- ful at a time, lay it upon boding milk, and carefully with- draw the spoon; as soon as the underside is cooked, slip the spoon beneath, and turn the froth over; when done lift c:irefidly, and lay it on the custard. Continue the process, heaping the masses iiTegidarly over the surface, to form the rock-work. Set the dish in a cold place. Trifle. Slice a stale cream cake, frait cake, or sponge cake, and lay in a glass dish; then prepare a strawbeiTy cream, as per recipe already given, and pour it over. Or you may whip the cream by itself, pour it over the slices, and lay on some bits of bright jelly. Strawberry Trifle. Put into the bottom of a glass dish a layer of sliced sponge cake, moistened with cream; then cover with ripe strawbenles, sprinkled with sugar; red raspberries, or ripe374 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [pART III. peaches peeled and sliced, are equally good. Rexieat the layers till the dish is two-tliirds full. Then prepare a boiled custai’d, as follows: Beat together the yolhs of three or fom’ eggs, and whip in a third of a cuii of sugar; stir gradually into these a quaiT of milk brought just to a boil, and then heat till the custard thickens, stirring constantly. When this is cold pour it over the cake, cover with the whipjied whites beaten to a stiff froth with a little sugar, and orna- mented with red berries, or bits of bright jelly, tastefully aiTanged. Charlotte Eusse. 1 pint rich sweet cream. ^ cup sugar. 2 eggs—whites of. One large Graham sponge cake, or two small ones. Cut the cake into half-inch slices, and line a quai*t moidd with them; have the bottom lining all in one piece, if con- venient. Put the cream in the ice-chest till very cold; then whip in a small pitcher, or beat in a whip-churn till no more froth win rise; keep the cream in ice-water while the whip- ping is done. When this is finished stir in the sugar, and the whites cut to a stiff froth; then pour all into the lined mould, filling it nearly fuU, and set on ice till wanted. Another way is to put half an ounce of gelatine into a gill of cold milk, set it in boiling water, and heat (stirring) till dissolved. Wlien cold, beat it into the whii^ped cream after the eggs and sugai’ are added, fill the mould, and set on ice as before. Charlotte Eusse. Make like the preceding, only prepare a strawberry or other fruit cream, instead of the plain.PART Ill.j CUSTARDS, DLANC-JIANGES, ETC. 375 Tapioca Custard. 1 quart sweet milk. • 3 tablespoonfiils tapioca, washed and drained. ^ cup sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites sejiarate. Soak the tapioca in a pint of water several hours, or over night; heat the milk nearly to boiling in a farina-kettle, and put in the tajuoca with the water in which it soaked; stir constantly, till the mixture is ready to boil. Then set it off, beat the yolks moderately, whip in the sugar, and stm the hot milk and tapioca into them, a httle at a time; return to the kettle and cook five minutes, or tdl the custard thickens, still using the spoon. Then remove from the fii’e, beat the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in ; pour the custard into a bowl, and set it away to cool. Tapioca cream is made the same as the custard, except that the beaten whites are not stiiTed into it, but spread on top after the cream is cold. Both the cream and custard should be seiwed cold. IVIanioca makes a better cream or custard than tapioca ; the method of making is nearly the same as for tapioca, ex- cept that the manioca requires no soaking. Put it into the cold milk, bring to a boil, and cool to blood heat; then stir in the yolks and sugar beaten together, and bring again to boiling; cook till the custard thickens, and stir in the beaten whites. Cool before serving. Sago Custard. Soak the sago in a pint of water one horn*, and then make the same as tapioca. Mountain Custard.—(Junket.) 1 quart sweet milk—new, if you have it. 1 tablespoonfid sugar. 1 “ liquid rennet.HEALTH IK THE HOUSEHOLD. 376 [PAET in. Warm tlie milk to blood heat, then stir in the sugar and rennet; you ■will get the latter at the drug store, possibly of your grocer. After you have "put in the rennet pour the milk into a glass dish, and set ■where it ■will keeji a little ■warm. If at the end of an horn' it has not commenced to coagulate, stir in more rennet; it should be firm, in one to two hours. Set on ice to cool, and serve with cream, or cream and sugar. This is what the Scotch people call “curds and cream”; they omit the sugar in the making. It should be eaten within an hour after it has foimed; if it stands too long, it will become wheyey. Cold Fruit Custard. Throw sugar upon strawberries, raspberries, sliced pine- apple, or other fruit; take, say a gill of the S}Tnip which forms in the bottom of the dish, to flavor and sweeten a quart of new milk. Then add to the latter a cup of sweet cream (though this can be omitted), and also a tablespoon- ful of liquid rennet. Stii’ well together, and pour into the dish from which the custard is to be seiwed; then set it in a warm place till the milk is coagnilated, which should be in from one to two hours. If the rennet is not of usual strength, you may have to stir in more at the end of the first houi’; but if the milk has begun to coagnilate, do not disturb it. When firm set on ice, and seiwe as soon as cold, with cream and sugar. This is said to be a delicious des- sert. Cottage Cheese. Take milk that has soured till thick enough to form a clabber, but not any older; it should be as fresh as possible, but fuhy coagulated. Set it on the stove and heat gradu- ally, till the whey rises to the top; then i^our off the latter, and put the curd into a clean linen bag to drip. Let it377 r.mT iii.J CUSTAKDS, BI^VNC-MANGliS, ETC. liaug live or six hours, or over uight; turn it into a bowl, chop moderately with a knife or wooden spoon, and add a httle sage if it is liked. Then pour in pai't of a cup of sweet cream, stu* it lightly tlirough the curd, and set in a cold place. Serve while it is fresh. Irish Moss Bianc-Maxge. 2 quarts sweet milk. 2 even tablespoonfids sugar. 1 scant cup Irish moss. Pour the milk into a farina-kettle, or tin bucket set in a pot of boding water, and wtirm to blood heat; then pick over the moss, wash thoroughly, and stir it weU through the jnilk. Keep the mixture warm, and let it stand undis- tiu’bed till it thickens; then strain through a thin cloth, fine sieve, or strainer, and stir in the sugar. Pom’ it into a mould or cups wet with cold water, and set on ice, or in a cool place. When the blanc-mange is quite cold and firm, turn it out on a glass plate, and eat with cream. Or you may omit the sugar in making, and serve with cream and sugar. Manioca Blanc-Mange. 1 quart sweet milk—new prefeiTed. 3 tablespoonfids sugar. 3 “ manioca. Soak the manioca in the milk one hour, then stir in the sugar, and heat to a boil; stir constantly, and cook ten to fifteen minutes, or till the mixture thickens. Then remove from the fire, and pour into a mould dipped in cold water. Serve Avith cream, fruit, or fniit sauce. If preferred, omit the sugar in the making, and add it with the dressing.[PABT IIL HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 378 Tapioca Blanc-IVIange. 3 cups sweet milk. 3 “ cold water. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar. 1 cup tapioca. Wash the tapioca, and soak it several houi’s or over night in the cold water; heat the milk almost to a boil in a farina- kettle, put in the tajiioca with any water that may remain, and cook fifteen minutes, stming constantly. Then lift from the fire, pour into a mould or cups wet with cold water, and set away till cold. If put into cujis, fill them about half full. Serve with cream, fruit, or fruit juice; stewed chenies, damson plums, rasiiberries, or raspbemes and currants mixed, make a good di-essing; and a spoonful of the latter with a little cream added, is excellent. Tapioca jelly is made as follows : Soak, say one cup of tajDioca in a quart of cold water, several hours; then put it into a farina-kettle with the water in which it stood, and cook till clear; stir in the juice of one lemon, and take the jelly from the fire. Pour it into cups w'et wdth cold water, and set in a cool jdace. Serve the same as the blanc-mange. Sago Blanc-Mange. Make the same as the preceding, only use less sago than tapioca, and soak it a shorter time; three-fourths of a cup is sufficient, and an hour is long enough for soaking. Corn-Stakch Blanc-Mange. 1 pint sweet milk. 1 “ cold w'ater. cup sugar. 4 tablespoonfuls com-starch. Pour the milk and water together (some use all milk),379 CUSTAKDti, 13L.ANC-MAMGES, ETC. r.mT III.] luid heat just to a boh; then wet the coru-stai’ch \vith a lit- tle cold water, and stir it in; add also the sugar, and cooh seven to ten minutes. Then take from the hre, and pour into a mould or cups wet with cold water; if into cups, fill them about half full. When cold, caiefully timi the blanc- mange out on a glass dish or plate, and serve with cream, fruit, or fruit juice; whipped cream flavored with fruit, is a fine dressing. These blanc-manges may be prettily ornamented Avith strips of jelly, laid on in a pattern; or with rasiiberries or strawberries, arranged in the form of a cross, or other figure. Thirty-two benies (red or black raspberries) ar- ranged in a double row, make a cross of good proportions. The safest Avay is first to j^lace them on a clean white plat- ter, and see that the proportions ai*e correct; for after the fmit is laid on the blanc-mange, you can not move it with- out leaving a stain. Instead of using a pint of water in the making, you may, if you choose, take hidf a cup of strawberry or currant juice, expressed from the fruit, and only a cup and a half of water. IMix the milk and water together, add the sugar, and stir in the corn-starch; let this cook a little before adding the juice, and then proceed as before. Farina Blanc-Mange. 1 pint sweet milk. 1 “ cold water. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. 4 “ farina. Mix the milk and water, and heat to boiling; stir in the farina and sugar, and cook fifteen minutes, using the spoon constantly; make in a farina-kettle. Then remove from the fire, and pour into a dish or mould wet with cold water; or if preferred, use wet cups, filling them half or two-thirds full. Serve with stewed or canned fmits, or their juices;380 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET IH. clierries and blackbeiTies are excellent; so are raspberries and ciuTants mixed. Or you may use as a dressing, whipped cream, fruit sauce, or cold cream. Strawberry Blanc-IVIange. 1 quart fruit juice. 1 cup sugar. 4 tablespoonfuls corn-starch. First prepare the juice by stewing the fruit, allowing one pint of water to five jiints of capped strawberries; stew till soft, and strain thi’ough a cloth. Then put the juice (one quart) into a porcelain kettle, add the sugar, and bring to a boil; wet the corn-starch with a little cold water, stir it in, and cook ten to fifteen minutes, or till the mixtm’e thickens and ceases to taste raw; stir constantly. As soon as dene lift from the fire, and pour into moulds or cups wet with cold water; the cups should not be filled more than half or two-thirds full. When cold, turn carefully out on a wide plate or dish, and serve with cold cream, rich fruit, or a soft custard. If preferred, make this and the two following blanc- manges without sugar, and eat them with whipped cream, sweet fruit, or cream and sugar. Raspberry Blanc-Mange. Stew the raspberries, allowing one quart of water to two quarts of black caps ; if red raspberries are used, take five pints of fruit. Then strain out the juice, put a quart of it into a porcelain kettle, add two tablespoonfids of sugar, and bring to a boil; stir in four tablespoonfuls of corn- starch wet with a little cold water, and cook and mould, the same as the last. Seiwe with fniit sauce, sweet fruit, or cream and sugar—or any of the whipped creams. Currants, cherries (especially the morello), blackbenfies and huckleberries, make good blanc-manges. In making381 CUSTARDS, BLANC-MANQES, ETC. P.UIT III.] these with fruit, some take equal parts of fruit juice and sweet milk; the color is not so dark, but the flavor is less delicate than where no milk is used. Another way is to leave out the sugar in the making, and add it simply in the di’essing. Farina Blanc-Mange.—( With Fruit.) 1 quart fruit juice. 4 tablespoonfuls farina. 2 to 3 “ sugar, according to acidity of fruit. First prepare the juice ; do this by stewing the fruit in a porcelain kettle, allowing water (no sugar) in the propor- tions given in the table, under Fruits and Fruit Juices, Pai't II. Bring the fruit to a boil, skim, cook three to five minutes, or until soft, and then strain through a cloth. Easpberries, cm-rants (or the two mixed), strawberries, black- berries, or cherries, may be used for this jiurpose. Put the juice back in the kettle, add the sugar, and bring to a boil; stir in the dry farina, being careful to have no lumps, and cook fifteen minutes, stirring constantly. Then lift off, pour into moulds or cups wet with cold water, and set in a cool place. Sen'e the same as the last. Corn-starch (wet with a little cold water) may be used in- stead of farina ; it will cook in half the time. Variegated Beanc-Mange. Make a plain farina or corn-starch blanc-mange, according to the recipes heretofore given ; and at the same time make a fruit blanc-mange, as in the last. When they are cold and a little stiff, pour into deep moidds or cups wet with cold water, a layer of the white ; as soon as this is firm enough to bear the weight of the second layer without mix- ing, pour in an equal quantity of the dark. Let this stiffen a Httle, and jmt in another of the white ; and so on, alter-HKAT.TH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 382 [part IIL uately, till the mould is filled. Let it stand in a cold place several hours, or till well formed ; then turn out on a glass or china plate, and serve with whipjied cream, fruit sauce, or cream and sugar. If the blanc-mange adheres to the mould, loosen it cai’efuUy around the edges with the fingers. MOULDED EARINACEA. The following dishes are aU very plain, but very conven- ient for warm weather ; and they are far more wholesome than rich puddings, cakes, etc. Nicely moulded in cups, scalloped dishes, or plain oval ones, and carefully turned out on a pretty plate of glass or china, they are handsome as well as palatable. And if you care to take the trouble, these and the blanc-manges are suscejitible of further orna- mentation, by a tasteful arrangement of ripe fruits (as strawberries, raspbeiTies, or currants), or bits of bright jeUy, laid on in a pattern. The dark fruit blanc-manges look well Svith bunches of “ frosted ” currants laid over them ; but they must be served soon after, or the “ frost ” will melt by coming in contact with the moist surface. Moulded Farina. 1 quart (nearly) boiling water. ^ cup sweet cream, i “ farina. Stir the farina into the boiling water, and cook fifteen minutes ; using the spoon almost constantly. Then add the cream, and cook two minutes longer, stining meanwhile. Pour into cups wet with cold water, filling them half or two- thirds full, and set them in a cold place several hours, or till the next day. Before serving, invert the cones on a broad ^ass dish, taking care not to break them. If you choose, you can ornament these with strawberries or red raspberries, by making a slight cavity on top withPART III.] MOULDED FABINACEA. 383 the point of a spoon, and inserting the berries ; they can be aiTanged (five smiiU ones) in the form of a cross. Or .bits of cranbeny or cun-ant jelly, cut in strijJS or dice, may be laid on in a neat pattern. If berries are used, have also a separate dish of the fruit, and serve as follows : Place in a wide saucer the cone of moulded fai'ina, with a spoonful or two of berries about its base ; when aU are helped, pass the sugar, and then the cream. Fruit, or fruit juice, makes a plain but good di’essing for moulded fai-ina. Moulded Corn-Starch. Make hke the preceding, with or without the addition of sugar, and cook about half as long ; boil five minutes before adding the cream, and two minutes afterward. Mould and serve the same as the last; or eat with mock cream, or a soft custai’d. Moulded Graham. Make a mush by stiirtng Graham flour slowly into boil- ing water ; it must not be too thick ; cook ten minutes, using the mush-stick as little as possible. Then stir in a few spoonfuls of milk or cream, and also a cup of fresh dates ; cook two minutes longer, taking care not to scorch in the bottom. Pour into a mould or cups wet with cold water, and set it away till cold. Serve witli cream, fruit, or fruit sauce. The milk (or cream) may be omitted in the making, if desired ; in warm weather there would be less danger of souring. Moulded Wheat. 4^ Take pearl or cracked wheat, and steam it four hours ; then mould the same as the last. Serve with cream or fruit.HE-VLTH IX THE HOUSEHOLD. [part irt. 384 Moulded Rice. 4^ 3 cups cold water. 4 cup sweet milk or cream. 1 “ rice, picked over and washed. Staid the rice in the cold water, and cook foidy to fifty minutes, or until tender ; stir once or twice the first five minutes, lest it stick to the bottom of the vessel. Or you may cook on top of the stove in a covered tin basin or kettle, shaking it from time to time ; this is better than stirring, which breaks the grains, and makes the rice sticky. When about done dieat the milk almost to boiling, and stir it in gently, breaking the grains as little as possible. Cook a few minutes longer, and then put the rice into moulds or cups, and set it away to cool. Serve the next day—or it may be prejiared in the morning for supper—with a dress- ing of rich fruit (as stewed or canned plums), fruit sauce, or cream and sugar. Fresh dates, stirred in five minutes before the rice is taken from the fire, make a good addition; and they look well in the moulded mass. Rice and Raisins. 4j= 3 cups boiling water. 1 cuj) sweet milk. 1 “ rice, picked over carefully and washed. ^ “ raisins, picked from the stems. Mix all Avell together, and steam an hour in a closed steamer ; or you may cook in a farina-kettle, or in a tin bucket set in a pot of boiling water. When done, pour the rice and raisins into a dish or mould wet with cold water ; or you may put it into cups, and set in a cool place. T^dien cold turn out on a plate, and serve with cream or fruit, or with mixed sauce.fAllT III.] 385 MOULDED FAlllNACEA. Rice Snow-Balls. 2 quiU’ts boiling waier. 1 pint sweet milk. ^ cup “ cream. 2 cups rice, picked over carefully and washed. 2 eggs, yolks and whites separate. 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. ^ 1 teaspoonful corn-starch. Boil the rice foidy to fifty minutes, or until perfectly soft; stir as little as possible, so as not to brealv the gi’ains. If you have a closed steamer, or farina-kettle, you can cook without distiu'bing it. A good w'ay is to cook in a tin basin or granitized iron pan, covered, and set on top of the stove; sluike it from time to time, instead of stirring. When the rice is tender mix in the cream, and heat five minutes longer. Then pour into small cups w-et with cold water, and set away to mould ; when ready turn out the “snow- balls,” and place them in a glass dish. Make a boiled cus- tard of the eggs, milk, corn-stai'ch and sugar, and as soon as cold pour it over the moulded rice ; do this half an hour before seiwing. If preferred, omit the boiled custard and serve with cream and sugar, or with stewed or canned fruit. Rice Snow. 1 quart sw'eet milk. 5 tables2)oonfuls rice-flour—or corn-starch. ^ cup sugar. 4 eggs—whites of. Heat the milk to boiling, in a farina-kettle ; mix in the rice-flour (or cora-starch) wet with a little cold milk, and cook tin it thickens ; stir all the while. Then add the sugar, heat and stir three minutes, and remove from the fire. AVlien cold beat the whites to a stiff froth, and whip into 17[PAET HL 880 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. them the thickened milk, a little at a time, until aU is weU mixed. Pour this into small cups, or a mould, wet in cold water; the next day turn out the rice “ snow ” on a plate, and seiwe with cream, fruit, or fruit juice. OTHER DISHES. Rice Apples. 1 quart sweet milk—half water, if prefeiTed. 1 cup rice, picked over carefuUy and washed. ^ “ currants—or seedless raisins. 8 or 9 apples, rather tart. 2 eggs—whites of. 1 tablespoonful sugai’. Juice of one lemon. Put the milk and rice into a farina-kettle (or tin bucket set in a pot of boiling water), and cook forty minutes or until tender. In the mean time pare and core the apples, fill their centers with the currants or raisins, and place them in the bottom of a pudding-dish. Then squeeze the lemon juice into the sweet fniit, put a trifle of water in the dish, and set it in the oven, closely covered ; bake till the apples are tender, but not broken. When the rice is ready put it neatly around the apples, leaving their tops uncover- ed ; return to the oven, cover the pan to keep in the steam, and bake twenty minutes. Tlien uncover, spread with the whites and sugar beaten together, and browm slightly. Serve in the bake-dish with cream and sugar, fruit, or fruit juice ; stewed or canned raspberries, blackberries, or cheiTies, make a good dressing. Baked Apples. Pare and core apples that are not very tart, but of fine rich flavor; they should be sweet enough not to fall toOTHER DISHES. PART III.] 387 pieces when cooked. Wash quickly, to remove knife-rust, put into earthen pie-pans placing them not too closely to- gether, and add a little cold Avater. Set in an even oven, and hake Avithout scorching till thoroughly tender ; they may require turning, once or tAvice ; though they look better not to be disturbed till done. If they broAvn too fast on top, cover Avith an old plate, or a pie-pan of granitized iron ; and if necessary, add a trilie of hot Avater once or tAvice, Avhile they are bilking ; it may be well to iiour in a little, boiling hot, just before you tixke them from the oven ; there should be considerable juice Avhen the apples are done. Set them away in the pans till nearly cold, then lift carefully into a glass dish, and pour the juice over. This dessert, properly prepared, is both attractive and palatable ; the apples, smooth and unbroken, should be of a light buff color, with the tliick amber juice at the base. They may be served with cream, though they are good enough without. If fair and rosy, and pretty SAveet, they are very good baked Avithout paring ; simply Avash them, remove the blos- som ends with a pen-knife, leave in the stems, and bake as before ; or you may place tAvo or more layers in a deep dish, add a cupful of AA'ater, and bake uncovered in a mod- ei'ate OA'en ; they wiU need to be turned as they cook, and the bottom ones brought to the top. When done put the apples in a dish, and drain the juice over them. Stewed Apples. Pare and core good i-ich apples, not too npe, and SAveet enough not to break in steAAung ; Avash quickly, and lay Avhole in a porcelain kettle, adding enough cold Av'ater to about one-third cover them ; then place over a slow fire. Cover with a plate, if you have not a granitized iron lid ; tin ones, unless bright and neAV, darken the fruit by the steam that collects on them. Stew gently, or rather siin- mer, one hour, or till the apples are not only tender, but[part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 388 rich in color and flavor ; there should be a good cupful of juice in the bottom, when done. Set the kettle away wdth tile fruit in it, till cold or nearly so ; then put the aiDjiles in a glass dish, pour the j'uice over them, and when ready, serve, with or Avithout cream. Baked Peaks. The fniit if unpeeled, should be of fair quality, and barely ripe. Wash the pears, trim off any defects, and pack closely into a stone jar or crock till full; sjirinkle the layers lightly witli sugar, and pour in enough water to about cover the fruit; then bake three hours in a A^ery moderate oven, keeping the jai’ closely covered. When done and nearly cold, jout the j^ears into a glass dish, pour the juice over them, and set in a cool place. Serve with or without a dressing of cream. If the pears are large and not nearly rijAe, or the skins tough, peel them, remove the blossom ends, and bake as before. Stewed Pears. If wanted choice, select good fruit Avith a fine sub-acid flavor; the Bartlett, Scckel and White Doyenne, are choice varieties. The pears must not be too ri])e; they should be “turning,” but not meUoAAf. Some A'arieties have a very tough skin, and need peeling; the ones named, if smooth and fair, do not require it. Simifly AA’ash them, remove the blossom ends Avuth a pen-knife, put into a porcelain kettle, and pour in water till the fruit is about oiie-third covered ; if not rich in flavor, add a little sugar. Then cover Avilh a clean lid or plate, bring sloAA'ly to a boil, and simmer nearly or quite an hour. As soon as done, set the kettle off, and leave the pears in it to cool; there should be plenty of juice in the lAottom. When cold lift out the fruit, put it into a glass dish, and pour the juice over.PART III.J 880 OTHER DISHES. Apple Cream. Select fine apples, fair and smooth, and rather taid; wash well, trim out the blossom ends, and either bake or stew in a little water, till cpiite soft. Remove the skins, cores and seeds, mash till smooth or rub through a haii’ sieve, and sweeten while hot; when cold, stir into a pint of the sauce half a cup of good cream; beat till light, and serve. Apple Ice. Take apples of a good rich flavor (as the Spitzenberg, or bellflower), grate them fine, sweeten to taste, and freeze. T’he ice is said to be delicious. Pears, peaches, or rpiinces, may be j:>repared in the same way; or you may mix apple and quince together, and then sweeten and freeze. These frozen mixtures can not be rec- ommended as particulai-ly good for weak stomachs. Apple Snow. 6 tart apples—pippins or bellflowers. 2 cups sweet milk. I cup white sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and wdiites separate. jMake a boiled custard of the yolks, millq and half the sugar, and cook till it thickens; when cold, pour into a glass dish. Beat the whites and the rest of the sugar to a stiff fi’oth; then peel the apples, gi*ate fine, and stir them imme- diately into it, to prevent their changing color; beat till very light, and heap the “ snow ” upon the custard. Serve as soon as possible, after making. Apple Float. 1 pint tart apple sauce. 1 “ sweet milk. ^ cup white sugar. 3 eggs, yolks and whites separate.iiEAT/m i:r the nouSEHOLD. [part III. 390 Prepare the sauce by stewing the apples in vei'y liitlo Avater; they should be rich in flavor, fine in texture, auvl rather tart; a few slices of quince stewed with them is an improvement, for those who like the flavor of that fi*uit. Stew quickly, in a porcelain kettle. In the mean time, malce a soft custard by heating the milk to a boil, adding the yolks and half the sugar beaten together, and cooking till it begins to thicken; then set it off to cool. Mash the apple sauce tiU fine and smooth; you may rub it tkrough a hair sieve, if you have one. When perfectly cold, whij) the whites and the rest of the sugar into it, and beat tiU the mixture will stand alone; then pour the cold custai’d into a glass dish, and pile the float on top. Or if you prefer, omit the custard, heap the whipped sauce in the dish, and pour the cold cream around it. Serve immediately. Apple Puffs. Stew the apples as in the last recipe, and sweeten to taste while hot; add a little lemon juice, if desired. When cold, whip the whites of two eggs into a pint of the sauce, and bake in open crusts; make the latter of ordinai*;\' cream paste, and roll it rather thin. You may ornament the top with strips of thin paste laid on in a pattem; finish the edge neatly, and bake in a quick oven till the pastiy is done. JELLIES, JAMS AND SYRUPS. Jellies, jams and SAorips, as ordinarily made, are in no sense hygienic, owing to the amount of sugar they contain. There is a process of converting fruit juices into jellies by evaporation, which, if successfully applied, would make them both wholesome and delicious. But as yet, the aid is so little understood, that generally speaking it is of no prac- tical value. No doubt the time ?c?7/ come, when the juices of fruits can be preserved in this form Avithout impairingPART III.] JELLIES, JAMS AND SYRUPS. oOt or destroying tbeir exquisite delicacy of flavor, with that intense, siKjary taste which comes from adding pound for pound. For the jiresent, we must he content to use tlic jellies, if at all, as we do sugar; simply for sweetening (or flavoring), as in puddings, creams, etc.; or for decorating those dishes (custards, cakes, etc.) that ai*e intended to he ornamental, rather than useful or wholesome. Making Fruit Jellies. The general directions for makmg ordinary fruit jellies, are as follows: Cook the fruit slowly till soft, strain out the juice, and hoil the latter over a very moderate fire, twenty minutes; then add diy sugar, allowing a pound to every pint of juice; heat again, stining constantly till the sugar is all melted; then lift from the fire, and pour into glasses. The three following paragraphs, more in detail, are from the Buckeye Cookery: “ Always make jellies in a porcelain kettle, if possible; hut brass may he used if scoui’ed very bright, and the fruit removed immediatelv on taking from the fire. Use the best refined or gi-anulated sugar, and do not have the fruit, especially cuiTants and gi’apes, ovenfipe. “To extract the juice, place the fruit in the kettle with just enough water to keej^ it from huniing; stir often, and let it remain on the fire until thoroughly scalded. Or a bet- ter but rather slower method, is to place it in a stone jar set within a kettle of tepid water, boil until the fruit is well softened, stirring frequently, and then strain a small quan- tity at a time through a strong coarse flannel or cotton bag, wrung out of hot water ; after which let it drain, and squeeze with the hands as it cools, emptying the bag and rinsing it off, each time it is used. The larger fmits, such as apples and quinces, should be cut in pieces, the cores re- moved if at all defective, and water added to just coverHE.A.LTH IN THE HOUiSEHOLD. [part 111. 392 thorn; then boil gently till tender, turn into a bag and place to drain for three or four hom’s, or over night. Make no more than two or three pints of jell}" at a time, as large quantities require longer boiling. As a general rule, allow e(pial measures of juice and sugar. Boil the juice rapitUy, ten minutes from the first moment it bubbles; skim, add the sugar, and boil ten minutes longer. Or, spread the sugai’ in a large dripping-jian set in the oven, and stii* often to prevent burning; boil the juice just twenty min- utes, add the hot sugar, boil up once, and iioui* into jelly- glasses. “To test the jelly, drop a little in a glass of very cold water, and if it immediately falls to the bottom it is done ; or drop into a saucer and set on ice, or in a cool place; if it does not spread, but remains rounded, it is finished. Some strain through the bag into the glasses, but this involves waste ; and if the skimming is carefully done, it is not nec- essary. If the jelly is not very firm, let it stand in the sun, covered with bits of window glass, or pieces of mosquito netting, for a few days. Never attempt to make jellies in damp or cloudy weather, if firmness and clearness are de- sired. Currants :ind berries should be made up as soon as picked ; never let them stand over night. When readv to put away, cover with jiieces of tissue or wilting paper cut to fit, and pressed closely upon the jelly ; then put on the lid, or cover ivith thick paper, brushed over on the inside with the white of an egg, and turned down on the outside of the glass.” Equally to the iioiut are the suggestions given below", from Marion Harland : Currant, Blackberry, Strawberry, etc. “ Put the fruit into a stone jar, set this in a kettle of tepid water, and put it upon the fire. Let it boil, closely covered, until the fruit is broken to pieces ; strain, pressingPart hi.] 393 JELLIES, JAMS -VND SYRUPS. the bag (a stout coarse oue) hard, puttiug in but a few handfuls at a time, and between each squeezing burning it inside out to scald off the pulp and skins. To each pint of juice allow a pound of sugai’. Set the juice on alone to bod, and while it is warming divide the sugiu' into several different poiTions, and put into shallow pie-dishes or pans that wdl lit in yoiu’ ovens; heat in these, opening the ovens now and then to stii’ it and prevent burning. Bod the juice just twenty minutes from the moment it begins fairly to bub- ble. By this time the sugiU should be so hot you can not bear your hand in it. Shoidd it melt ai’ound the edges, do not be alai'ined. The buimcd parts wid only form into lumps in the syrup, and can easily be taken out. Thi-ow the sugar into the boding juice, sturing rapidly ad the whde. It wid ‘ hiss ’ as it fads in, and melt very quickly. AVithdraw your spoon when you lue sure it is dissolved. Let the jedy just come to a boil to make ad certain, and take the kettle in- stantly from the fire. Kod your glasses or cups in hot water, and fid with the scalding licjuid. If these directions be strictly fodowed, and the fmit is at the proper state of ripeness, there need be no dread of fadure. I have often had the jedy ‘ form ’ before I filled the last glass.” “ If jellies are not so firm after six or eight hours as you would have them, set them in the sun, with bits of window glass over them to keep out the dust and insects. Remove these at night, and wipe off the moisture collected on the under side. Repeat this everv'^ day until the jedy shrinks into finnness, filling up one cup from another as need re- quires. This method is far preferable to boding down, which both injures the flavor and darkens the jedy.” Raspberry and Currant Jelly. “To two parts red raspbenries, or ‘black caps,’ put one of red cmrants, and proceed as with other deny jcdies. 17*894 HE.\LTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET III. “ The flavor is exquisite. This jelly is especially nice for cake.” Quince Jelly. “Pare and slice the quinces, and add for every five pounds of fruit a cup of water. Put jieelings, cores, and Jill into a stone jar; set this in a pot of boiling water, and when the fruit is soft and broken, proceed as with other jellies.” Crab-Apple Jelly. “ Cut Siberian crab-apples to pieces, but do not pare, or remove the seeds. The latter impaid a peculiarly 2ileasant flavor to the fruit. Put into a stone jar, set in a pot of hot water, and let it boil eight or nine hours. Leave in the jar all night, covered closely. Next morning squeeze out the juice, allow pound for 2>int, and manage as you do cui’rant jelly- “ Should the apples be very dry, add a cup of water for every six pounds of fruit.” Apple Jelly. Make the same as crab-ajiple.—A good jelly is said to be made without sugar, from sweet a^iples; express the juice as for cider, and boil till the liquid is reduced one-eighth, or a pint to the gallon. Mould the same as other jellies. Cranberry Jelly. Make like currant or any “ berry ” jeUy, skimming if there is need when it comes to a boil. Other Fruit Jellies. Nearly aU fruits can be made into jellies, but some are lietter for this purpose than othei’s ; usually those fruits are selected that are choicest in flavor, and that make the hand- somest jellies. Of these, the ones ab’eady given are the best, or among the best.395 JELLIES, JAMS AND SYRUPS. PART III.] For all small fruits, as berries and ciu-raiits, a lady who has had iiiueh experience in jelly-making, recommends the following method: Crush the fruit, put it into a stone jar, set this in a vessel of boiling water, and heat over a slow lire till you can express the juice; after squeezing out the latter, add by measure an equal (piautity of water, and boil twenty minutes. Then put in a pound of sugai* (dried in the oven) for every pint of the mixed fluid, heat till the sugar is melted, and put into glasses. Jelly made in this way is said to keep perfectly, and to be very delicate in flavor. Jams. Jams are too sweet and too concentrated, to be used in an}' other way than simply as a condiment; and then, the less the better. They give a rich flavoring to puddings and cakes, which like themselves, are, to say the most, very dis- tanthj related to hygiene. The process of making them hero given, and taken from the lhicke)je Cookery, is briefly stated, and accurate: “In making jams, the fruit should be carefully cleaned and thoroughly bx-uised, as mashing it before cooking pre- vents it from becoming hard. Boil fifteen or twenty min- utes before adding the sugar, as the flavor of the fniit is better preserved in this way; allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fniit, and then boil half an hour longer. Jams require almost constant stirring, and every liousekeeijer should be provided with a small paddle with its handle at right angles to the blade (similar to an apple-butter “ stiner,” only smaller), to be used in making jams and marmalades. “ To tell when any jam or marmalade is sufficiently cooked, take out some of it on a plate and let it cool. If no juice or moisture gathers about it, and it looks dry and glistening, it is done thorouglily. Put up in glass or small396 [part iu. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. stone jai-s, and seal or secm-e like jellies. Keep jellies and jams in a cool, dry and dark place.” Currant Jam. “Pick from the stems and wash thoroughly with the hands; put into a preserving kettle, and boil fifteen or twenty minutes, stu’ring often, and removing any scum that rises. Then add sugar in the proporiion of tlu-ee-foui’ths of a pound of sugar to one pound fruit; or by measui’e, one coffee-cup of sugar to one pint mashed fruit; boil thu’ty minutes longer, stirring almost constantly. When done, pour in small jars or glasses, and either seal or secui’e like jelly, by first pressing down, close on the fruit, paper cut to fit the glasses, and then covering with larger papers, brushed on the inside with white of egg, and the edges tui’ned down over the outside of the glass.” Gooseberry Jam. “ Stew the berries in a little water, press through a coarse sieve, and return to the kettle, adding three-fom’ths of a pound of sugar to each pound of the pulped gooseberry. Boil three-quarters of an hour, stirring constantly ; pour in jars or bowls, and cover,,as directed for curi’ant jam.” Grape or Plum Jam. “Stew in a little water, and press the fruit through a colander or coarse sieve, adding a Httle more water to the plums to get all the pulp through ; then add the sugar, and finish as in other jams.” Raspberry Jaiw. “Make by itself, or better, combined with currants, in the proportion of one-third currants to two-thii-ds raspber- ries ; mash the fruit well, and proceed as in cuiTant jam.”397 JELLIES, JAMS AND SYRUPS. PAET III.] Strawberry and Blackberry Jams. Mash the fruit, and make the same as cuiTant jam. Fruit Syrups. Fruit syrups may often be used instead of sugar, in the making of puddings, creams, cakes, etc.; in some of these dishes they are better than sugar ; they not only sweeten, they flavor, as well. You may seal in small jars or bottles when you make them, and open as they are wanted. Lemon Syrup. Squeeze the juice of sound lemons into a porcelain ket- tle, and add a pound and a half of sugar to a pint of juice. Bring the syrup to a boil over a moderate fire, simmer ten minutes, and then put into simrU cans or bottles, and seal. The juice of oranges, with a little lemon juice added, may be made into syrup in the same way, except that less sugar is requii’ed ; a pound of sugar to a pint of juice is enough. Strawberry Syrup. Heat tin the berries are soft, the same as for jelly ; then strain out the juice through a clean cloth. Put this into a porcelain kettle, allow a pound of sugar to a pint of juice, and bring to a boil ; skim if necessary, boil moderately ten minutes, and seal in small cans or bottles. Other berries are made into syrup in the same way ; so are cuirants, seeded cherries, and other small fruits. Quince and Other Syrups. Make the same as jelly, only boil the syinp ten minutes instead of twenty ; then seal. Quinces, apples, peaches, etc., may be used. Mixed Syrups. Syrups of excellent flavor are made by mixing two differ- ent fruits together, as raspbenaes (red or black) and cur-008 TTF.AT.Tir IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part 111. rants, or rasjiberries and clierries. Or lemon juice may be added to ajiple or other fruit juice. Pine-aj>ple is a fine addition to many of the fruits; but it is rather expensive for general use. EIPE FRUITS FOR DESSERTS. There is nothing in aU the food products that can begin to compare, either in beaut}^ of form or color, or in rich- ness of flavor, lA'itli those rai’e gifts of the eaidh which we call, “Fruits.” So exquisite are they in rounded outlines and tinted hues, to say nothing of their fineness of textui'c, that no artist can truly represent them ; they are indeed “ painted by the sun.” And the delicate ai’oma of some of them, is scarcely more than equaled by the perfume of the choicest flowers. They appeal to our aesthetic natui’e, and at the same time gratify the appetite, with a fine dehcacy of flavor that does not belong to the strictly vegetable prod- ucts. When perfect in groAvth and fully rqie, they are indeed luscious. By all means, let us have the choice fimits on our tables. What is more inviting, or more ornamental on the weU- spread board, than fruits and flowers tastefully arranged with green leaves? And what more healthful than npe fruits, each in its season, eaten with good bread, and tho well-cooked grains? These alone (the fiaiits and grains), once they find their proper place at our tables, wiU send into hopeless obscurity the venders of “ anti-bilious pills.” The following slip from the Buckeye Cookery, may be ap- propriately cited here : “The arrangement of fresh fruits for the table affords play for the most cultivated taste, and not a little real inventive genius. Melons, oranges, and indeed all kinds of fruits, are appropriate breakfast dishes; and a raised center-piece of mixed fruits, fuimishes a delicious dessert,399 RIPE FRUITS FOR DESSERTS. PAKT III.] anti is an indispensable ornament to an elegant dinner- table.” Fruits, as a rule (as elsewhere explained), should never be eaten at the same meal with vegetables; in weak stomachs especially, these are inclined to quarrel with each other. It is better therefore to banish fruit entirely from all “ vege- table dinners ”—though for invalids it is sometimes pref- erable to banish the vegetables, and retain the fruits. In other words, a dinner simply of fruits and gi'ains, or gTain preparations, is often better for dy speptic stomachs, than one in which vegetables proper form pail of the repast. But for further hints on this subject, the reader is re- ferred to the chapter on Food Combinations. Apples. Apples, in our northeim chmates, stand at the head of all the fruits; they are gi’own in abundance, in many of the States; and with proper care, they will remain good and sound for more than half the year. Some varieties will keeji tdl June, or even later; and with a sufficiently low temperature, as in an ice-house, they have been preserved much longer. Tlie flavor of the apple is much improved by keeping the tree in good condition; judicious pruning is needed, to let in the sunlight, and to prevent over-bearing. Eipe apples are Avholesome, nutritious, and to the normal appetite, pal- atable. Children are always fond of them—as they are in- deed of all the fruits; and it seems a pity that they can not have them in abundance. And if children of a larger gi’owth, Avould in the morning on sitting down to table, “ break the fast ” by eating a good fine apple, there Avould be feAver liver complaints, and headaches.—But, says one, “Fruits do not agree with me, and especially apjiles; they make me sick.” A frank confession, this, that there is so much bile in the liver that the presence of acid fruits at once starts it to floAviiig, and causes nausea, or other un-HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [tart III. 400 pleasant feelings. Or perhaps you are a drinker of tea and coffee; and these, as is theii’ wont, are “ cpiarrehng ” wdth the ajiples. Or the greasy foods, it may be, do not go well with the acids. There is a great deal in the sori of company in which these foods are found; one worihless companion will often demoralize the whole lot. Apples do their best work, eaten at or before breakfast; or they may form a part of the mid-day meal, provided the latter consists of bread and other cereals, to be eaten Avith fruits. If of good variety and in fair condition, they need no further prejiaration than wii)ing with a damp cloth, to remove any dust that may have lodged on them. Do not rub them till they shine, as this not only detracts from their ajipearance, but it arouses an unpleasant suspicion that you may have bought them of the man at the corner, who is in the habit of “ polishing up ” his ajiples by rubbing them on the knee of his breeches. Place them in an ojien fruit basket or other receiver, taking care to display their bright rosy cheeks, with stems and blossom ends not altogether out of sight. Oranges and apples mixed (the latter of handsome hue), make a fine combination of color; a few sprigs of green leaves, tucked in here and there, will heighten the effect. PE.VCHES. There is every variety of jieach in our markets, from the little green snarl, bitter as quinine, to the gi’eat lucious fniit, ripe and rosy, but too often kept in the stalls or in tranutu, until its natural flavor is gone, and a sharp, dis- gTeeable acid has taken its place. Peaches, of all fruits, lose their exquisitely fine flavor by becoming stale. If fresh and ripe, and otherwise of good qual%, they require nothing to make them palatable except paring; hardly that, as the best of the fruit lies directly under the skin. Ai- range them tastefully in your basket or fruit dish, showing401 RIPE FRUITS FOR DESSERTS. PART III.] to advantage the pink and cream tints, or the mottled lines where a leaf has fallen, and intercepted the ra}'s of that “ royal arch ” painter, the sun. Add a few hunches of glossy leaves from the tree, if they are at your command, and place the fruit on the table. If “ peaches and cream ” ai-e the order of the evening, begin the work of jiaring as late as practicable, before the time of serving, as the finit will discolor if it has to stand. Peel as thin as possible. And whatever you do, keep the sugar off it, for two good reasons; in the first jfiace it a\t11 start the juices, discolor the fruit, and destroy the fine peach flavor; and instead of “ fi*esh peaches and cream,” you will have a bowl of brown, sloppy material, as unsightly as it is insipid. In tlie next place, if the finit is rich and good, some will prefer it either without a dressing, or with cream only. Then see to it that the peaches are pared, stoned, and cut in eighths, not hnrjo.r than half an hour be- fore supper; set them on ice till they are wanted for the table; and after seiwing, pass round the cream and sugar, so that the guests can suit themselves. Served in this way, the color and flavor of the peaches are well pre- seiwed. Pe.\rs and Plums. Pears are at once the poorest and the best of fruits; a few choice varieties, as the Seckel, Bartlett, and "Wliito Doyenne, are perfectly delicious; they are fine in texture, rich in flavor, and very juicy. There are others that com- pare favorably with these, and still others that are coarse, tough in the skin, and insipid. Ripe pears need no prepa- ration for the table, except care in the selection. They look well in the basket with peaches, and if you are fortu- nate enough to get hold of a few leaves, either from the pear or peach tree, they will set off the fruit to advantage. Plums of good flavor, if they are clean, ripe, and free from woiTus, are ready to be seiwed.402 [PABT III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Oranges and Bananas. Oranges are best eaten by iheviselces, as they seem not to do well mixed with other fruit acids. Or they may be used as a dessert, at vegetable dinners. The banana is a very heaiiy fruit, and is better digested at the beginning of the meal; or at least on an empty stomach. If eaten at the end of a full meal, it often does not “ set well.” In winter or spring, when fruit is scarce, you can make up a very acceptable basket of fruit with oranges and bananas. Or if your purse wdl afford it, you may substi- tute for either, some California peai’s; or a few fine bunches of gi’apes, directly from the “Golden Gate they look well, laid over other fruit. Stua^vtjerries. The writer once ate strawberries in Aberdeen, Scotland, in the middle of September; and the market-women said they had had them steadily, since Jidy. The berries were fidly twice as large as any that come to our own markets— not quite as bright in color, or so highly flavored, but very good. The strawberries in our large cities, are often carted through the streets in open fruit boxes till they are ju’etty well sprinkled Avith dust, or fine sand; you may not see it on them, but you will find the grit between your teeth, when you eat them; and the only alternative is to remove it by careful washing. If you live in the country, or a country village, you may be spared this trouble ; and the berries Avill lose nothing in flavor. In that case, all that is needed, provided they are fully ripe, is to cap them, put in a fniit dish, and send to the talfie; if a little firm however, remove the caps half an hour before seiwing, and sprinkle a trifle of sugar over them; just enough to start the juice. But in the city, where you get the dust-covered beirriesi>.VKT III.] liIPE I'KIIITS POU DESSERTS. 40:^ of the market, you had better set them in a cool clean place, until about an hour before they are wanted ; then turn the fruit into a colander, run the water rapidly over it, and drain thoroughly before removing the caps. Put it into a glass dish, sprinkle lightly with sugai', and set in the refrig- erator till called for. If not sweet enough to suit every one, the sugai’ can be passed with the berries. The above directions presuppose that the fruit is to be served in its own rich juice; that is, without cream. Cream is rather a bad dressing for strawberries, any w’ay you take it; in the first place, it curdles the moment it touches them, rendering the dish unsightly. In the next place, it destroys their fine flavor, by forming -sritli them a mixture somewhat akin to sour milk, in taste. And lastly, it is apt to cause disturbance, in stomachs not proof against the combined effects of milk, acid and sugar. If, however, nothing will do but “ strawbeiTies and cream,” keep the sugar off till the berries are served ; then pass it, along with the cream- trusting that the eater -will see the necessity of “ prompt- ness and dispatch,” before the fruit is converted into a shapeless mass of curds and whey. Raspberries, Blackberries and Dewberries. These fniits, gathered fresh from the vines, need little preparation except to pick out an occasional stem, or over- ripe beiTy. Put them into a glass dish and serv'e, sending the sugar, the whijoped cream, or cream and sugar. When fuUy ripened, the fruit is good enough by itself. Currants. Cun’ants turn red long before they are ripe; in this con- dition, they are good only for cooking. To be fit for table use, they should have the benefit of many days’ ripening in the warm sunshine; then they are delicious, eaten from the stems. And as if to invite us to “ pluck and eat,” they hang404 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [past III, long on the bushes, refusing to hill, or go to waste; the very end of the season, when they are red, ripe and lus- cious, gives us the best. Unfoiiunately, the “ heathen round about” find them, long before they reach this period of perfect ripeness, strip them from the stems, and make them into jelly. Indeed, the bushes are usually bare, very soon after the fruit reddens. If served at table in the raw state, the usual method is to gather the CLU-rants as ripe as ijossible (or get them from the markets), wash weU in a colander, and pick carefully from the stems; then put them into a glass dish, and sprinlde fauly with sugar. It is weU to do this half an hour before you eat them; when the sugar is added, stir it well through the fruit; and if the currants are parily crushed, it will make them all the more juicy. Set them in the ice-chest or other cool place, tiU wanted. Cream is sometimes served with them ; but if the fruit is at all broken, it makes a curdled mixture. Raspbeeeies and Cuerants. Raspberries and currants are excellent mixed—either half and half, or two to three jiarts raspberries, to one of currants picked from the steins. The only dressing they need, is a little sugar; though cream would suit them very much better than it does strawi^enies. A good way is to take equal parts currants and raspberries, half cnishing the latter ; then sweeten to taste, stir weE together, and seiwe. Gooseberries. Goosebenies, properly cultivated, are really a very fine fruit. In Scotland and England, where they are gi’own to ' perfection, and where the soil and climate are adapted to their highest culture, they are of numerous varieties, and are very large and luscious. If fresh and rijie, they are hardly surpassed by the choicest of the small fniits. In40S t>ART III.] RIPE PRlTrrS FOR DISSERTS. this country they do not grow to half the size, and the flavor is very different. The quality of the fruit here could be greatly improved, by keejiing the bushes well trimmed ; this Av^ould give fewer berries, but much larger ; and it woidd let in the sunshine, without which no fniit is perfect. GoosebeiT*ies are finest in flavor when not overripe; drop them into cold water fifteen minutes, then drain, and send to the table in a glass dish. They are eaten from the stems, rejecting the skins. Huckleberries. HucklebeiTies rarely appear in our western markets; and still more rarely in good condition. Those who have eaten them on theii’ native hills, in the Eastern and Middle States, sa}" that they are excellent served without a condiment, and very good with cream and sugar’. Cherries. Cherries ai’e a beautiful fi’uit; and nicely arranged, they make a fine ornament for the table. Pick them in bunches, a few leaves with them, if possible, and arrange with flow- ers, in a basket. Pass the latter to the guests, and let them pick orrt the cherries ; or if you like, fill the basket with button-hole bouquets, and brrnches of cherries; the latter heaped in the center, and the flowers arranged around the border’. Sweet cherr’ies, which are usually white or cream-colored, with a little blush, are generally favorites; though there are other varieties with a rich, srrb-acid flavor, that are fine when frrUy ripe. In preparing them for the table, see that there are no wormy ones. Grapes. Grapes, fully ripe, and fresh from the vines, are ready for eating ; birt by the time they reach the city markets, they are covered with well-trodden plebeian dust. ThisHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 406 [part Hi. must of course be washed off, even tLougli Ave detract from the exquisite beauty of the fruit, by destroying in a meas- ure that indescribable coA^ering, the “bloom,” Avdiich no artist can ever hope to paint. The best thing to do Avith them, when the bunches come heated, and laden with dust, is to droji them into cold water—ice-water, if you have it—and let them stand ten to fifteen minutes, before serving. Then lay the bunches loosely, on a wide but shaUoAv glass dish; or, arrange them with other fruit, as pears or peaches, by filling a dish with the latter, and laying the grapes on top. They are fine, eaten the first thing at the breakfast table, particularly on a warm morning. Fresh Figs. Fresh figs and fresh dates, are said to be very good, eaten either Avithout a dressing, or Avith milk or cream; but since Ave rarely see them in this climate, there is little opportunitj^ to know much about them, either as to quahty, flavor, or modes of serving. Frosted Fruit. Take fine bunches of currants, and dip them, one at a time, into the beaten white of an egg, moistening the en- tire surface of the fruit. Then roll each bunch in poAvdered sugar, and lay them a little apart, on an inA^erted sieve, on which has been placed a clean white paper. Put them into an oven, slightly warm, or on top of the stoA^e, to dry. Cherries on their stems, and in clusters if you can get them, are beautiful, jirepared in the same Avay. Or you may take plums, grapes or apricots, dip each into the egg, and lay a little apart on the paper; then sift the sugar OA^er them, and dry as before. Fruits frosted in this manner, are used for garnishing cakes, and other dessert dishes; or they may be tastefully arranged in a dish by themselves, or with other fruit.407 VEGETABLES. PAUT III.] VEGETABLES. Full directions have already been "iven in Part II., for cooking vegetables in the hygienic way; if seasonings are wanted, as salt, sugar, etc., the cook will have no trouble in adding them to suit the taste; though in a sanitary point of view, the foods would be better without these condiments. All then that is needed in Part III., on cooking vege- tal)les, is to give in general terms the best methods of boil- ing, baking, stewing, etc., along with the little “ finishing ” with either milk or cream, that makes the hygienic dishes more acceptable to the ordinary palate. As elsewhere stated, the flavors natural to these products should neither be soaked out, nor burnt out; nor should the vegetables be half cooked, nor yet “cooked to death”; but each should have its own intrinsic goodness cai’efully preserved, and individualized. What is known as modern cookeiy, might very properly be styled, “The ai*t of spoiling foods”; their essence is wasted in preparing and cooking them, after which a feeble atonement is attempted, by adding pungent and stimulating condiments, the effect of which is to cover up the otherwise obvious “ flatness,” and to tickle and de- ceive the palate. It will be observed, that about the only dressing named in the following recipes for vegetables, is a litlh cream—to which it may be objected, that this aiiicle is not always to be had; and rarely in almndance. The objection is not weU taken, as the lawyers say; in the first place, it is only “a little” that is wanted; and in the next place, the disuse of butter—were it general—would afford aU the cream that is required; for the latter is necessarily consumed in making the former. However, if the people mud have butter, and can not afford to jirovide the cream, then they will simply have to substitute the one for the other, in the recij^es here given; that is, for “cream,” read, “fresh but- ter,” using it sparingly.408 [P.VRT III. niLVLTII IN TU13 lIOUSEllOLD. Most vegetables can either be cooked in a closed steamer (one with flues in the sides, instead of holes in the bottom), or boiled in a kettle; if a steamer is used, the water in the pot below must be kept at a fast boil. Some vegetables, as turnips or tomatoes, should never be put into an iron vessel; it is well to keep a j)orcelain-lined kettle for these. Potatoes. The potato may be called the king of vegetables, as wheat is chief among grains. It perhaps more nearly sup- plies aU the wants of the body, giving the fluids and solids in the right proj)Oi*tions, than almost any other of the vege- tables j)roi)er. It is a gi’eat misfoilune that this tuber is handled in such a reckless manner, both before and after it comes into the hands of the cook; the individual just named, soaks out its nutritive substance before it goes into the i^ot; then she boils it in a large quantit}^ of water, and wastes another portion; lastly, she saturates it most thor- oughly with salt and other condiments, to disguise the insipid taste that necessarily follows such wasteful man- agement. Potatoes, unless they are very muddy, should be jjeeled before washing, and tlie latter process should be gone through with very quickly; if washed first, you have either to (by them Avith a cloth before peeling, or else wash again, afterward. There are almost endless ways of cooking potatoes, the principal of which are to bake, boil, or stew; and though these and other methods have already been pointed out in Part II., it has been thought best to go over the gi'ound again, in Part III. Boiled Potatoes, ijj: Peel, Avash quickly, lifting the potatoes immediately out of the water, and then drop them uito the pot; have the water409 VEGET.VBUES. PAET ni.] boiling, and not much more than will cook them. Covei’, and boil fast; and the very moment you can run a fork through the largest, cbrain as dry as possible, keeping the lid on to hold in the steam; this must not escape. Set the pot back on the stove, where it will keep hot without scorch- ing in the bottom; and do not uncover till you dish the potatoes for the table; Jilways keep them in their own hot steam till wanted; they will evaporate sufficiently on your plate. When cooked in a Kght stew-pan, with a handle, and a closely-fitting lid, it is a good plan to shake them (covered) after draining. If the cook has learned how to “ time ” her vegetables, she will put the potatoes in the pot just twenty minutes before she rings the beU for dinner; then they will not have to stand, after they are done. When all is ready, disli them into a hot tureen, cover quickly, and send to the table; and in helping your guests, always close it between servings, removing the spoon; this keeps the potatoes hot to the end. If they are sunbui-nt, and therefore strong in flavor, you will have to take off rather a thick paring, and boil in more water. IVLvsnED Potatoes. 41^ Peel, wash, and l^oil the potatoes, the same as in the pre- ceding, taking care to drain off all the water, the moment that the fork enters them easily. Then mash tiU there are no lumps, and stir with a fork till the potato is light and flaky; do this quickly, with the pot over the fire. Then dish lightly into a hot tureen, filling it not too full, cover, and send directly to the table. In serving begin at one side, and cut with the spoon to the bottom, each time; this leaves the rest of the potato undisturbed, and therefore hot. Cover lietween seiwings, always taking the ?poon out before you lay on the lid. X8410 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT m. PoT’ATOES IN Jackets. Potatoes cooked iu their skins must not be sunburnt. Wash them quickly but carefully, trimming off any gashed or imperfect spots on the sui’face, and clipping a small bit from each end. At the proper moment di-op into boding Avater, and the instant the fork goes rather easdy through them, drain closely, keeping the hd on; then set the pot back in a hot place, tightly closed. If the skins have not already cracked in boding, you may half crush each jiotato in a napkin, as you lay it into the hot tureen. Put on the cover, which should also be heated, and send to the table. Baked Potatoes.:^ "Wash the potatoes thorougldy but quickly, so as not to water-soak them; trim off any defects, and bake iu a good steady oven tdl you can crush them, hid not a moment longer. It wiU requme usuaUy thirty to fifty minutes, according to size, variety, and heat of oven. Baked potatoes should be sent to the table as soon as done; if that is impracticable, crush each one in the hand (holding it in a clean napkin) tdl you break the skin, and permit the steam within it to escape. Then put them into a hot dish, uncovered, and set in a warm place tdl wanted. Baked Potatoes.—( Peele-d.)-^ Peel, and then Avash, doing the latter very quickly ; trim ui imperfect s^iots, and pare out the “ eyes,” if they are leep. Lay the potatoes on a clean grate in the oven, anti bake, browning a little (Imt not burning or blistering), till you can crush each in the hand, holding it in a cle.au napkin. They are extra good, baked in this w.ay ; and old potatoes are usually too strong to bake in any other,411 VEGETABLES. r.viiT III.] Stewed Potatoes. Pare and quai’ter, or cut into thick slices; or if the pota- toes are small, into hcilves. Drop into boiling water, having scarcely more than wiU cook them, and boil rapitUy till a fork Avill pierce them easily; do not cook too long. If there is liiore than a spoonful of water remaining, hft the lid, and let it evaporate; tlien add half a cup of new milk (cream, if you have it), thickened with a little lioiu-; some add a trihe of chopped piu’sley with the milk. Stii’ once, and after two or tliree minutes dish into a hot tiu'een. Old potatoes, a little strong, lU’e good cooked in this way. New Potatoes. If tlie potatoes are newly dug, wash quickly in cold water and slip off the skins. If they have been out of the ground sonie days, you will need to scrape them with a knife; and if yoiu’ market-man has kept them in the light till they are no longer milk-white, but a httle greenish under the skin, you may have to peel them in the regular way. Then drop into boiling water, just enough to cook them, provided they are fresh from the field; a little more water, if they are slightly sunburnt; boil fast. AVhen a fork will go through them, di-ain thoroughly, and add half a cup of milk (ci’eam is bettor) thickened with a trifle of flour; cover, bring to a boh, and dish. Creamed Potato. Peel, wash quickly, drop into boiling water, and cook only till a fork will go through the largest. Then drain off every paidicle of water, and set the pot back on a hot jmrt of the stove. Mash rapidly and very thoroughly, leaving no lumps; then stir with a fork. Have ready and hot a pai't of a Clip of crea7n, or good new milk; pour this into the potato, and whip again with the fork, makijig the ma,sg412 HK\LTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAHT III. light and flaky. Dish immediately, and as lightly as possible, into a hot tureen, not filling it so fuU as to jam the potato; then put on the cover, and send to the table. Another way is, after adding the cream, to beat in the white of an egg wliijjped to a good froth, then heap the potato hghtly on a dish, and set it in the oven long enough to crust a httle on the sui’face. Potato Snow. Peel potatoes that are very dry and mealy, and drop into boiling water, having not much more than wdll cook them. Boil pretty fast; and as soon as a fork will go through them cb’ain off all the water, and mash over the fire till there are no lumps. Then rub the potato through a coarse wii-e sieve, or a colander with large holes, letting it fiill into a hot dish in light spiral threads; do this as quickly as possible. When all is through, set the feathery mass into a quick oven two or three minutes, or just long enough to renew the heat without crusting. Potato Puff. Take one egg, one cup of cream or milk, and two cups of cold or hot potato; this must be mashed till there are no lumps. Beat the egg—some take only the white—stir the millc or cream into it, and then add the potato; beat all well together, pour into an oiled pudding-dish, and bake in a quick oven till the top is nicely browned. Browned Potato. Oil the bottom of a skillet with a bit of fresh butter, or with a little fat from clean beef dripping; a piece twice the size of a hazel nut is enough. Slice cold potatoes pretty thin, and when the skillet is hot put them into it. Cover, and cook fast, but do not scorch them; no stilling is needed. As soon as they have bro^vned on the bottom, turn then)PART III.] 413 VEGETABLES. over with a knife, cover, and brown again; then dish, and serve hninediately; they must not stand after they are crusted. Properly done, the potatoes ai'e light and flaky with crisp brown edges, and free from grease; you can warm a dishful in ten minutes, if the fire is just right. Cold mashed potato can be wai-med over in the same way. Hashed Potato. Put a skillet or stew-pan where it will get wann ; oil the bottom of it slightly with fresh dripping or butter, hash the cold potatoes into it, and then put in half a cup (more or less) of milk or thin cream. Cover closely, heat rather slowlv, and stir once or twice. In ten to fifteen minutes the milk whl have disappeared, and the potato will be heated all through, and ready for serving. Sweet Potatoes. Sweet and Irish potatoes are often injured by wet weather, before they are dug. When you see the little sprouts coming out aU over them, you -will take note ; the potatoes will be either watery, or sticky; if you snap off the ends, you will find them sliglitly discolored inside; and often there is a dark deposit all over the tubers, lying just under the skin. This substance is very indigestible, and unwholesome; it is most conspicuous after the potatoes are boiled ; if you find it, remove, by peeling carefully after boiling, before you brown them in the oven. Boiled Sweet Potatoes, Select potatoes of nearly uniform size; wash well, drop into boiling water, and cook till a fork will go through them rather easily ; if boiled too long, they will be wet; if too shoi*t a time, they will be harsh and tasteless. Have veiy little water in the pot when done ; none at all is better. If the potatoes are the least darnaged by rains, peel after boU-HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [past III. 414 ing; you A\ill see auJ remove the dark layer ou the surface, as you turn back the skius; thou brown in a hot oven, ten to tiitecu minutes. Do this very faithfully, and you will be am^ily rewiuxled by the rich tine flavor of the jiotatoes. If you have more than will be eaten, do not jieel or brown them; next day remove the skins, and lay in a hot oven; they will be quite as good as at lii-st. Cold sweet po- tatoes are excellent jieeled, mashed, and then browned. Baked Sweet Potatoes. If you bake, the potatoes must be free from that dai*k bitter dejiosit, wliich comes from soaking rains. AVash w^eU, and trim if necessary; then bake in a good oven, till you can crash them by pressing between the thumb and fingers. Roasted Swt^et Potatoes. Wash, cover with ashes, and then with coals, and roast till done. Eat at picnic parties. Tomatoes. The tomato can be cooked in a great variety of ways, nearly all of which are palatable; and most persons are veiy fond of it without cooking. Dietetically, it belongs with vegetables, rather than with fruits. It is one of the most healthful of the garden products; like the acid fruits, it is a better “ anti-bilious remedy ” than all the “ chola- gogues ” in the drag shops. The only haraaful ingi'edients about it (not in it) are the seasonings, as salt, pepper and sugar, that are too often added in the preparing. Sliced Tomatoes. Never buy an imporfed tomato, or melon ; have them fresh, or do without them. Wash, peel without scalding, and shce thin into the dish from which you serve; theVEGETABLES. 415 PART 111.] knife sliould have a thin blade, and a keen edge. Set in the ice-chest half an hour, if you want the tomatoes cold. Stewed Tomatoes. Pour boiling water over the tomatoes, and tlie moment the skins will slip, remove them; they must not remain in the water till soft. Then shoe very thin into a kettle, and stir in a few bread-crumbs, fine and dry; these must be put in wliile the tomatoes ai-e cold, else the bread wiU become clammy; there should be enough to thicken a httle—say a cup of crumbs to a quart of tomatoes. If 3^011 have no bread, use rolled crackers, or a little thickening made of Graham or white flour, and milk or water. Stew moderatel}’ (fast cooking ruins the sauce) for an hour and a half, or until perfectly" smooth ; stir often. If any season- ing is wanted, add before dishing, a spoonful of thick cream to a quart of sauce, or a bit of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Canned tomatoes ma^' be used instead of fresh ; and the thickening can be omitted, if desired. Or j^ou may mix to- gether one paid coarse crumbs from Graham loaf, and three or four parts tomatoes, and stew as before. Tomato Toast, Stew the tomatoes till smooth, and then pour them over nicety toasted slices of good home-made Graham bread, un- sweetened. SCRAIMBLED ToMATOES.^f: Select tomatoes not ovenTpe, peel without scalding, and cut into rather coarse bits. Add about two-thirds the quan- tity of bread-crumbs, good home-made Graham loaf ; have the bread stale, and the crumbs not very fine. Put all into a porcelain kettle, add a bit of fresh butter or a spoonful of cold gravj', and cover till the tomatoes are hot; then stir41G HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [p.ART III. lightly every half luiuute till finislied ; it will take five to eiglit minutes, according to quantity. Lift from the fiie as soon as done. This is a good dish, easily and quickly made. Scalloped Tomatoes. 4^^ Scald, peel and slice, and if not very ripe, chop them. Then fill an earthen dish, well oiled, with alternate layers of tomatoes and bread-crmnhs, beginning and ending with the tomatoes ; use good Graham loaf, stale and home-made. Moisten each layer of crumbs Avith a spoonful of cream, or meat gravy; or if you have not these, dot the tomatoes Avith little bits of fresh butter. Cover, and bake in a moderate oven an hour and a half ; longer, if the scallop is large. Brown at the end. Another.—Fill the dish Avith successive layers of toma- toes, crumbs, and cold beef or mutton, the latter finely hashed, and moistened AAuth a little cold graA-y or meat juice, if you have it. Begin and end with the tomatoes ; make the scallop pretty thick, and bake in a moderate oven all of two hours. Canned tomatoes may be substituted for fresh; if canned ones are used, drain off the liquor before arranging the layers, and take it to moisten the crumbs. Baked Tomatoes. Mix together one part bread-crumbs, not too fine, and three or four parts sliced tomatoes; steAv in a porcelain kettle half to thi-ee-quai-tcrs of an hour, cooking moderately, and stirring very little. Then add a trifle of cream or fresh butter, or a spoonful or two of cold meat gravy (sweet) from the bottom of your dripping-bowl; pour into an earthen or granitized iron pan, well oiled, and bake, covered, one hour; longer, if you like the dish rather dry, making it a sort of tomato bread. Another way is to mix as before, and bake without stew-l’x\JlT III.] VEaETABLES. 417 ing; cover tlie pan, and bake in a good oven from one to two llOlU'S. Broiled Tomatoes. Tomatoes are sometimes broiled, by holding the slices between the wires of an oyster-broiler until the surface is shghtly browned. Or you may lay them into a skillet, well oiled, and smoking hot; when one side is seiu*ed, turn and brown the other. Stuffed Tomatoes. Scald the tomatoes (not too long), and remove the skins; then slice off tlie blossom ends, and take out the inside; chop this tine, and add grated bread-crumbs, ^moistened with milk or cream; some use butter, or cold beef gravy. Or you may omit the milk or cream, and add to the crumbs and tomato, half or two-thirds the quantity of finely hashed beef or mutton ; moisten the meat with a spoonful of cold gravy, if you have it. Fill the hollow tomatoes with this dressing, and replace the top slices; then arrange in an earthen or granitized ii-on pan, pack the dressing that re- mains between them, and bake, covered, forty to fifty minutes. Another way is to fill tlie tomatoes with a force-meat made of crumbs, tomatoes, and gi’ated green corn, in about e<[ual quantities; stir in a little cream, butter or dripping before filling, and bake as before. Still another method, is to take chopped cabbage instead, of corn, and a chopped onion (parboiled) if you like it. Mix with the tomato, and moisten with cold gravy or sweet cream; then fill and bake. Potatoes and Tomatof.s. Peel some potatoes, slice them into a porcelain kettle, and stew in a very little water, ten minutes; then add one-third as many peeled and sliced tomatoes; these should be peeled 18*418 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAIIT III witliout scalding, and slioold not be more than half riiie. Stir together, and cook ten to fifteen minutes longer, adding a spoonful of cream, cold gravy, or a small bit of fresh butter, three minutes before taking the kettle from tlie fii'e. Boiled Geeen Cokn.^^^ The evergreen corn, of which Stow’ell’s is a variety, is the best; and by means of successive plantings, one can have it almost continuously from July to the coming of frost. To be sweet aud luscious, the ears must be newly gathered from the field; like green peas, much of their sweetness is gone in a single night. After the evergreen, the next best is the white or yellow “flint.” The ears should be so young and tender, that the milk will spurt from the grains, when they are pressed on and broken. Having removed the husks and silks, drop the ears into boiling water, not more than will cover them, and bofl. twenty to twenty-five minutes, or until the milk is fully set. Then lift out with a fork, and droj) into a basin of cold water, letting them remain in it a minute or two; this will make the hulls more tender. Then lay the corn into a tureen, cover, and send to the table. If before eating, you split the grains half their depth by drawing a sharp knife down tlie rows, the kernels will slip out (provided the corn is not too old), leaving the hulls on the cob. Stewed Green Corn.^I^ Select ears that are young enough for the milk to escape in a jet, when the grain is pierced; always get the evergreen, if you can. Remove the husks and silks, and split the rows half the depth of the grain, with a thin sharp knife. Then scrape out the pulp, beginning at the large and scraping to the small end of the ear; this leaves nearly or quite all the hulls on the cob. Put the scraped-out corn into a tin or porcelain kettle, add a very little water, and set it over thePART III.] VEGETABLES, 419 fire; cook rapidly, stirring all the time; it will be done in ten minutes. Just at the last, stir in a trifie of cream, or good sweet milk—say half a cup to a pint of pulp—heat a moment and tuim into the tureen. This is an excellent dish, and very good without any seasoning, even the milk. Try it. Corn cut fro.m the Cob. 4}: When you have husked and silked the ears, take a sharp thin knife and shave off the tip ends of the grains, tlirow- ing them away. Then cut the corn, shcing (or rather shav- ing) as thin as you can, till you come near the cob; then with a dull knife scrape out the rest; it must not be too old; simply the grains well filled. Put it into a tin or por- celain kettle, add about a cup of boiling water to a quart of cut com, and stew, covered, fifteen to twenty minutes; stir frequently; then add half a cup of cream, and let it come just to a boil, stirring once from the bottom. Dish, and serve. If you have no cream, add a httle new milk, or sweet butter. Corn and Tomatoes. 4]^ Peel and slice the tomatoes, and stew moderately half an hour, in a porcelain or granitized iron kettle, Tlien add an equid quantity of gi*een com, cut from the cob as in the last recipe. Stew another half hour, stirring freijuentlVj and cover the kettle between times. When done, stir in a little cream or milk; or if you have neither, add a small bit of fresh butter, and heat a moment; then dish into the tureen. Do not serve too hot. Baked Sweet Corn, Split the grains with a sharp knife, and sci'ape out the pulp; always sc;rape from the lai'ge to the small end of the ear. The corn must be young an<l tender, or the liuUs will[part III. HEA.LTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 420 come off. Pour it into an oiled pudding-dish, cover, and set in the oven; cook ten to fifteen minutes, stin’ing once or twice. Then stii’ in half a cuj) of cream or milk (more or less, according to quantity of corn), and send to the table. A good dish, quickly made. Cabbage. Remove the outer leaves, and lay the cabbage into cold water half an hour; if the head is not com2iact, shake and rinse it well, and be sure there are no insects between the leaves. Cut it in halves, and with a sharp thin knife shave it in slices as thin and fltik}’^ as possible; shce from the center of the head (beginning with the stalk) to the surface. Do not chop. You can steam or boil, as is most convenient. If you boil, j)ut the cabbage into a jiorcelain kettle, or very clean jDot (never in a tin or co2iper-bottomed vessel), and add only enough boiling water to cook it; cover closely, boil fast till tender, and not a moment longer. Cabbage overdone, is insi2nd; and if cooked slowly, it is stringy and watery. Watch that it does not scorch; if water has to be added, 23^1 if iu boiling hot. A head of medium size (sliced), will cook in thirty minutes. Wlien done lift the lid, stir from the bottom to let the water all eva2iorate, and then add a ver}" little thick sweet cream; stir again, moistening the cabbage all through, and lift quickly from the fire; there must be no puddles of cream and water in the bottom. Dish immediately, and leave the tureen uncovered five to ten minutes (cabbage is better not too hot), and you Avdl have something good, and digestible—2^^0''^i^^6d you have a good cabbage to begin with; those grown on some soils are strong to the taste, no matter how you cook them. Cabbage and Tomatoes. Cook as in the last, and at the same time stew in a sepa- rate kettle some tomatoes, 23eeled and sliced. When the421 PART III.] VEaETABLES. cabbage is just done, turn the tomatoes in with them, and stir all together; have about half as much tomato as cab- bage. Then stir in a little cream if you have it, and dish immediately; or you may add half a spoonful of fresh but- ter, when you put in the tomatoes; though the vegetables are good enough without seasoning. Cauliflower. 4f: Be sure you do not buy the stale aidicle; if fresh, the flowers win be a clear white. See that there are no insects; after soaking in cold water fifteen to twenty iniimtes, put the asparagus into a porcelain kettle, add a little boiling water, and stew till tender. If the water gets too low, add a little more, boiling hot; this vegetable will recjuire from thirty to foidy minutes to cook, according to size and age. When done, drain off the water, if more than a spoonful remains; then add a little thick sweet cream—or such as you have— stir well from the bottom, and dish into the tureen. Leave the cover off a few minutes before sending to the table ; these tender vegetables are more delicate in flavor, if served not too warm. The French people cook cauliflower as follows: Boil it till tender in clear water, enough to cook it; then drain. In another vessel stew two or three tomatoes, till quite soft; strain these through a sieve or colander, return to the fire, and thicken with a very little flour w'et with milk or water ; add a small bit of fresh butter, and after cooking a few minutes, pour the sauce over the vegetable. This is a very good dish. Asparagus. If you raise your own asparagus, cut it (or snap it off just below the ground) every other morning. Then all you have to do is to wash it, put it into a porcelain kettle, and about cover with boiling water; stew twenty-five to thiidy422 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART III. minutes, and it is ready to disli; the stalks will Ije tendox throughout. If you buy in the city market, wash well, cut off the hard woody fiber, oi’ paid of it, scrape the rest, and soak it some minutes in vei'y cold water. Then lay the stalks into a porcelain kettle, cover with boiling water, and cook forty minutes, or until tender. When done, have read}’^ some slices of good hot toast, made of stale home-made Graham loaf ; dip these quickly into boiling water, and sjiread them on a platter ; then lift out the asparagus, and lay it on. Now stir into the asparagus liquor two or three table- spoonfuls of cream, thickened a little with fioiu’; let this just begin to boil, pour it over the toast, and send to the table. Cold biscuits, split open and toasted, may be used instead of loaf bread. Many like young asparagus simply boiled, and served without a dressing. Green PEAS.4j: The time of cooking these wiU vary, and so will the sweetness, according to age and variet}^; twenty-five to thirty minutes is usually long enough for young peas, just from the garden ; if older, it may take from forty to forty- five minutes. They should be pulled as soon as (almost be- fore) they are of full size; and if not cooked the same day, much of their sweetness will be lost. When newly gathered, the little stems are green and fresh. Shell the peas, and either cook without washing, blowing out the shriveled blossoms, or wash as quickly as possible, in cold water. Then put them into a porcelain kettle, add half or two-thirds of a pint of boding water to a quart of shelled peas, and stew slowly till tender. There should be a few spoonfuls of water left, when done; then pour all out together, and sen*e without a dressing. Or if prefen'ed, stir in a very little cream, thickened a trifle with flour; boilVEGETABLES. PAKT III.] up just a moment, and take from the fire. Serve in sauce dishes, and pass the teaspoons. If the pods are fresh and young, you may simmer them (or pai-t of them) in a little water fifteen minutes, then drain it off, and use it for boiling the peas. Or you may drop a few of the tenderest pods in with them, and remove before serving. Canned Peas. The best canned peas are the marrowfats; though a brand called the “ Extra Early,” is fine. Drain off the liquor, and throw it away; then put the peas into a porcelain kettle, stir in a little thickening of cream and flour, heat barely to boiling, and dish. Canned string beans are served in the same way. Okr.\s. Pick tlie fresh, young okras, wash them, drop into boil- ing watin-, and cook until tender—in a porcelain kettle, as iron discolors; do not boil in too much water. When done drain off the little that remains, add part of a cup of fresh cream, or a bit of butter, stir once or twice, and lift from the fire. This is a plain but good dish, easily prepared String Beans. If you buy in the markets, beware of stale beans; exam ine the little stems, and see that they are green and fresh; not dry and half shiiveled. String beans, to be good, must be cooked till thoroughly tender; most varieties require an • hour and a half to two hours, particularly if they have been gathered two or three days, or longer. String them carefully, rejecting any imperfect ones, or blemished portions ; then snap into inch lengths, and wash well in cold water. Put them in a porcelain kettle, cover with boiling water, and cook steadily; test now and then,HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 424 [part hi. after an lioui’’s time, to see if they are done ; too much cooking is as bad as too little. By all means do not let the pot go dry; if you do, the beans will be worthless. If water is needed, have it boiling hot; and add so sj)aringly that when done, there shall be scarcely more than a sj)Ooaiful left in the bottom. If by chance too much has been put in, lift the lid a few minutes before finishing, stir occasional!}", and let it evaporate. When the water is nearly all out, add, say a third of a cuj;) of cream thickened with a little flour ; let this barely come to the bod, and then dish into the tureen. If you have no cream, a bit of fresh butter w"iLl answer ; but do not droion the beans in grease. After dishing let them stand with the cover off, for at least ten minutes, be- fore you send to the table; they are best not too warm. If there are some left over, never wai’m them, but serve cold. Wax Beans. 4t^ This bean has a cream-colored jjod; it is very tender and good, if cooked sufficiently. It has but little string, and that little can not be removed except with a knife; you can either go to this trouble to get rid of it, or leave it on. Break off the ends, and snap into bits an inch long; then wash, drop into boiling water, and cook till done; these beans bought in the market, often require rtyo hours or two and a half, to boil tender; early in the season, if newly gathered, they will cook in less time. Finish with cream or butter, the same as the last, and seiwe warm, not hot. Shelled Beans. The time recpiired to cook fresh shelled beans, will de- pend upon their age and variety; you may allow.from forty to sixty minutes; and if they stand a few moments at the last, it will not injure them. Having finished the shelling, cover with boiling water, and cook moderately; if they threaten to go dry, add a little more, boiling hot. A\TienPART UI.] 425 VEGETABLES. done the beans sliould be soft and juic}^, but not broken. If any dressing is wanted, add a spoonfid or two of cream, one minute before hfting from the lire. Lima and Butter Beans. Fresh Lima, or butter beans, ai’e not good till they are full-gi-own, and white in color. Shell them, cover with boiling water, and cook till tender, but not till they ai'e broken to pieces; they will require from foidy to sixty min- utes. If they need more water, add it boiling; there should be only two or three spoonfuls in the kettle, when done; if too much, lift the lid at the last, stii’ a little, and let it about all evaporate. Then thicken, say a third of a cup of thin cream with a trifle of flom*, stm it in, and boil up a moment before dishing into the tureen. There is no better way to cook Lima beans than this. Succotash. Succotash is best made of one paid Lima beans, and two parts coni. Bod the beans over a moderate fire, as in the last recipe; cook nearly an hour or until tender, but not till they are broken. There must be only a moderate sup- ply of water in the pot when done. While these are cook- ing, cut from the cob double the quantity of fresh evergi-een corn; have a sliaiqi knife, shave off the very tip ends of the grains, and throw them away—or, to your chickens. And in cutting off the grains, do not shave quite down to the cob; leave a little, to scrape out at the last. By these pre- cautions, you will get rid of most of the hulls; and the rougher pari of them. AMien the T)cans are done enough put in the corn, and simmer slowly half an hour, stirring frequently. If any dressing is required, add a little cream or fresh butter, just as you take the pot from the fire. Butter beans, or common shell beans, may be used for succotash, instead of Limas,[part hi. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 426 Boiled Dried Beans. 4^ Look them over carefully, thi’owing out all discolored ones; then wash in several waters, rubbing well with the hands. Never soak; it toughens the hulls, and makes them shp off whole; it also injures the flavor of the beans. If they are a year old, and therefore a little strong in taste, cover with boiling water, and parboil ten minutes; then di-ain it aU off, and add more, boihng hot. But if reason- ably fresh, simply wash them, drop into boiling water (never into cold), and boil rather briskly the first half hour; this makes the hulls more tender. Then stew very moder- ately, adding more boiling water if necessary; cook till done, but not tiU they have fallen to pieces. It will take, usually, from two to three hours; though a good deal de- pends upon the age and variety; the white maiTowfats will cook in less time, unless they are very old. The beans should be moderately juicy, when finished; if a dressing is wanted, a trifle of cream is the best; add it one minute before dishing. Some like a soup-bone, or a bit of beef or mutton rib, boiled with this vegetable; the meat should be brought to a boil and skimmed, before putting in the beans. The speckled cranberry, or other beans that are of a dark color, are milder in flavor if parboiled, as follows : after washing thorouglily, cover them with boiling water, and cook rapidly fifteen minutes; then drain, cover again with water, boiling hot, and cook as before. Some add a little milk or cream, just at the last; and some use a lump of fresh butter. Stewed Beans. Another way of cooking beans that is very good, is to cover them vdth cold water, and set the pot back where it will simmer, but not boil; it mmt not tmbble owe; keep the lid on, and cook till done. For diied beans it wiU requiiePART III.] 427 VEGETABLES. about three hours to make them tender. Finish with a lit- tle milk or cream, if you want a dressing. Baked Be.vns.4]= Stew the little soup bean, white kidney, or white marrow- fat, as in the last recipe but one. Cook rapidly two hours, or until the beans ai'e not only soft, but beginning to fall to pieces; have plenty of juice in them. If you want them extra good, stir in half a cup of milk or cream, then pour into a deep dish, smooth the top with a knife, and bake in a slow oven two to three hoiu's, or until the beans are a rich red color throughout. If a nearer approach to “ pork and beans ” is desirable, omit the milk, or cream, and put in a bit of fresh beef rib, rather lean, and previously stewed in a little water till ten- der; place the meat in the dish, poiu’ the stewed beans ai’ound and over it, and bake as before. A Httle fresh beef CTavv, stirred in before baking, is not a bad substitute for the meat. Parsxips.4]: Wash and scrape the parsnips, and if large, split in halves or quarters; cover them with boiling water, and stew mod- erately three-quarters of an hour, or till thorouglily tender; if they are old, it may take an hour, or longer. There should be nearly a cup of liquor in the pot, at the end. Put them into a liake-pan, pour all the liquor over, and place in the oven to brown. Bake twenty to thirty minutes, basting frequently; the liquor should all be evaporated when done. No seasoning is required. Another way, much liked, is this : After cutting in halves or quarters, remove the hard or stringy portion in the center of the parsnip; then boil till quite tender, having the water all evaporated at the last. Mash till perfectly smooth, stir in a little cream or fresh butter, and heat a moment; then dish. They are excellent.428 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. Turnips. These vary so much in size, age and variety, that it is hard to give a rule as to time of cooking. The common white kind cooks in less than half the time that is ie(^uiied for Swedish, or ruta-baga turnips; the latter need all of two hours* boiling ox* steaming. ^\hite tuinij)s, if veiy young, will sometimes cook in thii'ty minutes; but if old, an hour OX’ longex’ is genex’ally necessax’y. A safe way, howevex, is to start them ixx good season, and test with a fox’k toward the last; they are better cooled to lukewarm, before serving. Wash and peel them, rejecting all that are pithy, or coarse and stx'ingy; a single bitter one will sometimes spoil the whole mess. Cut them into slices of half an inch; then place in the bottom of the pot an old saucer, invexded, or a small pie-pan, put ixx the turnips, and cover with boil- ing water; have about enough to cook thexn, leaving vexy little to drain off. Boil rapidly, and watch that the pot does not go dxy; if this happens, you will lose the sweetness of the turnips; and if cooked too long, they will turn red and taste strong. You may cook in a closed steamer, if you like; in which case, steam rapidly till tender. As soon as a fox'k will pierce the slices easily, set up the steamex’, turn them into a por- celain kettle or other flat-bottomed vessel, and drain in all the liquox'. Place over the fire, and when the water is about all evaporated mash with a potato-mashex*, stir in a few spoon- fuls of cream, and dish for the table. The Swedish turnip must not be cooked too dxy; it is better left pretty moist, before you stir in the cream. Boiled Carrots. There is a little carrot called the “ Early Horn,'*’ that matures in July, and boils tender in an hour. Winter car- rots gx’ow larger, and take longer to cook; they are usedPART III.] 429 VEGET.VBLES, chiefly for soups. If boiled by themselves, wash and scrape them, and leave in cold water awliilo before cooking; if large, cut them lengthwise, in slices not too thin, and boil the same as turnips, only longer; they usually require an hour and a half, or two hours. When done, the water should be about all evaporated.—You may add in starting, a pint of vegetable soup, or the boilings of beef or mutton, if you have feara tliat tliey will taste “ flat.” Some season with cream or butter, putting it in at the last; and some mash fine before adding the seasoning, then heat a moment, and dish. Stewed C.uiROTS. Take four or five large-sized carrots, wash and scrape them, and cut lengthwise into thin strips; take tlmee or four of these at a time, and cut into short lengths, in a slanting dii-ection. Put them in a pot, just cover with water, and boil one or two hours, or until perfectly tender. When about done, prepare a sauce by taking a lump of butter half the size of an egg, one even tablespoonful of floiu’, and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley; put these in a pan, and simmer a few minutes over the fire, until well incorporated; do not brown. Then di’ain from the carrots the water left from boiling, and turn it into the sauce; pour all over the caiTots in the pot, shake, so as to mix well with the gravy, and dish for the table. Boiled Beets, Twist off the tops, not too close to the beet; if young, you may leave two inches of the stems, and when done serve these with the sliced beets. Wash well, but do not break the little rootlets, else the sweet juices will escape. Put the beets into a pot, barely cover them with boiling water, and cook from one to two hours or longer, according to size and age. You may liave to add boiling water, once or twice; but let it be neaidy all evaporated when done; if the pot is entirely)'UK\LTn IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 430 [part III. dry at the last, the beets will be all the better. Test as little as possible with the fork, as much pricking “ bleeds ” them; be sure they cook till tender. Then remove from the fire, and when cool enough to handle drop the beets into a pan of cold water, sliji off the skins, and lay in a dish to cool. Fifteen minutes before seizing, shoe thin, squeeze out the juice of one or two lemons, according to the quan- tity of the beets you have, add as much cold water as there is juice, and poui’ this dressing over them; they must be entirely cold before you add the lemon. Serve in sauce- dishes, with plenty of the juice. Spinach. You will need a good peck of spinach, for a family of five or six persons. Look it all over very carefully, cutting off or throwing out any imperfect 2^oi*tions; then wash thor- oughly two or thi’ee times, in jilenty of cold water. St:u’t to cooking in boiling water, and if young and tender allow twenty minutes ; in winter it will require about twice as long. When done, lift it out with a couple of forks jilaced side by side, and held in one hand, laying it on a jilate; this will leave any sand or sediment in the liquor. Cover the j)late with another, and drain well; then choji the spinach fine, put it into a tureen, and send to the table. After serving, pass the lemons, cut in quarters. Siiinach is best served nearly cold; it is well therefore to commence boiling an hour before dinner. Salsify, or Veget^vele Oyster. This vegetable is rather insijiicl without more or less seasoning. One of the most ajiproved methods of cooking it, is stewing. Wash and scrajie well, drojiping each jilaut into cold water as soon as cleaned, to jirevent its being dis- colored. AVhen all are prepared put them into a porcelain kettle, just cover with boiling water, lay on the lid, and cook431 VEGETABLES. PART ni.] till tender. Then drain off most of the liquor that remains, and add a cup of good milk; boil or simmer ten minutes, and either put in a bit of butter with floim rubbed into it, or make a httle thickening of cream and floiu*, and stir it in. Boil up once, and pour it over slices of dry toast. Or you may add more milk, heat a moment, and serve with oyster- crackers. If preferred, you may stew the plants in a little water till tender, tlrain off what remains, then mash well, and moisten Avith milk or cream; some add a beaten egg, or a bit of butter; make into thin cakes, dip these in cracker-dust or fine bread-crumbs, and broAvn each side on a hot griddle, well oiled. Egg-Plant. This is another vegetable that calls for a good deal of “ management ” to make it jjalatable; it must be young and tender, or it wdl be bitter. Peel, cut in sHces, and let these lie in cold water half an hour; then put them into a por- celain kettle, just cover with boding water, and stew till ten- der. Drain off the little that is left, mash fine, and stir in a small bit of fresh butter, or half a spoonful of meat gravy; pour the vegetable into a dish, sprinlde well with cracker- dust, and set it in the oven twenty to thirty minutes. Or you may take the shces out of the cold water, wipe them dry, dip into beaten egg, then in cracker-dust, and brown on a well-oiled griddle. Another way is to boil the plant whole, ten minutes; then slit it down the side, and remove the seeds. Fill with a dressing of bread-crumbs, as for stuffed turkey, tie it to- gether with a string, and then either bake, or stew; test Avith a broom-straw to see if it is tender. Add some clean dripping or cold gravy, if you have it, to the water used in basting or steAving; thicken the gravy at the last with a little cream and flour, and pour it over the plant,HK^LTn IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT III. 432 Summer Squashes. Summer squaslies are of numerous varieties, and the time of cooking varies accordingly. One of the best but not the most common, is known as the “Summer Crook-Neck”; it is a long slim squash, mostly “ neck,” and often very crooked; it is orange-colored, and rough or waidy on the surface. Fresh from the garden, these little squashes stew tender in half an hour, or less time. When very young they need no peeling, or removing of seeds. Wash, cut in thick slices, and start in not too much boiling water; cover, cook rapidly, and have them almost di'y when done. Finish with cream or butter. The little scalloped squash, so common in the markets, should be well peeled; and if not very young, the seeds must be taken out. Then slice it, and lay in a closed steamer—not one with holes in the bottom; or you may put it in a porcelain kettle, with just enough boiling water to cook it; if young and tender, forty minutes is about the time required. The squash should be pretty dry at the last; if too much water remains lift the lid, and let it nearly aU evaporate. When done remove from the fire, mash fine, and add a little cream, or a lump of fresh butter. Set the kettle back on the stove, heat a moment, stirring once or twice, and then lift to the tureen; do not send to the table too hot. Properly managed, this dish is excellent; indiffer- ently done, it is almost woidhless. Winter Squashes. Winter squashes rijien in the fall, but may be kept in a cool dry place, nearly or quite till spring. They ai'e of various colors, shapes, sizes, and qualities; some have hai’d shells, and some soft. One of the finest varieties raised, is the Buttman; it is something like the Hubbard, only much milder and finer in flavor; it keeps well all winter. TheVEGET.U3LES. PAET in.] common green anti white striped-neck squash, which ripens early in the fall, is fine for stewing, and also for pies; and if thoroughly ripe, it bakes well. Stewed Winter Squashes. If the squash has a very hard shell (as the Buttman or Hubbai’d), do not try to slice or peel, but break it in pieces with a hatchet, and remove the seeds. Then wash, and either lay in a closed steamer, or stew in a kettle with enough boihng \water to cook soft; it will require all of an hour; if the water gets too low, add a little, always boiling hot. When done scrape from the shells, and mash till smooth. The varieties that have soft shells, you may slice and peel, removing the seeds; then cut in small bits, wash quickly, and jiut into a steAV-pan; add a little boiling w^ater, and steAV till thoroughly tender. Or you may cook in a closed steamer till the pieces are soft, and then turn them into a porcelain kettle. Evaporate all or nearly all the water, by lifting the lid a few moments; then remove from the fire, and mash fine; if liked, stir in a little cream or new milk, before dishing. If any is left over, you can make it into pies the next day. Baked Winter Squashes. 4|= Wash, cut into pieces of convenient size, and take out the seeds; then place in a dripping-pan, shell downward, add half a cup of boiling water, and bake in a hot oven till done. Serve in the shells. PujiPKiN Sauce. 4]: Select good ripe pumpkins; the “ Yankee pumpkin,” which is of a bright orange color, is the best. Peel, slice, remove the seeds, and cut into inch bits; then wash, and either steam or stew. If intended for pies, cook only till 194:U UE.VLTII IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET 111. teucler, and not too dry. If wanted for sauce, stew till pretty well done, but not till it changes color; dry out the water at the last. Then add a good cup of cream or rich niilh, stir well, and dish. Not a bad sauce, in 'wintei. Khubaub.4^ Trim off the leaves or their fragments, and see that there are no Avorms imbedded in the stalks; skin the lattei, and cut into shoil; bits. Then Avash in cold water, put into a porcelain or granitized iron kettle, and for e\^eiy tA\o quaits of cut rhubai’b alloAV one pint of cold water, and two-thii‘ds of a cup of sugar. Stew moderately tAA’enty minutes, and take from the fire; let the sauce stand in the kettle till quite cold. Never stew rhubarb in tin, as it corrodes the metal; and never pour it into a glazed earthen A’essel. Celeey. Wash and trim the stalks, and let them lie in cold Avater some time, before sending to the table. Arrange in a celeiy- glass, and serve Avith meats, fish, or any hearty dish of meat or vegetable preparation. Celery has a flaA^or very much like that of nuts. Young Onions. Onions if eaten, are best parboiled, and then finished in milk and Avater. Young onions Avill boil tender in thirty minutes, or less time. Cut off the rootlets and part of the tops, wash well, and lay in cold water half an hour; then imt them into a small tin or porcelain stew-pan, cover Artth boiling AA^ater, and cook ten minutes; drain this about all off, add a cup of milk, and boil fifteen minutes or until tender. If a dressing is wanted, drain nearly or quite dry, add a little cream thickened with flour, heat almost to boil- ing, and take from the fire.lU.] VEGETABLES. 485 Old Onions. 44 These require fully twice as long to cook, as young onions; it will take an hour or longer, if they ai'e of good size. Cut off both ends close; then peel, drop into cold water, and soak half an hour. Put them in a porcelain kettle (never into iron, as it blackens them), and cover with boil- ing water; cook fifteen minutes, and drain. Then add half milk and half boding water, and simmer tdl the onions ai’e tender, but not too soft; drain again, add paxi; of a cup of cream thickened with white dour, stii’ all together, and bring almost to a bod.. If you have no cream use milk, and a bit of fresh butter rolled in doui’. Lettuce. 44 Select good fine heads of lettuce, young and tender. Wash well, and lay in cold water twenty minutes, befoi’e sending it to the table. Seiwe on small jxlates, with lemons cut in halves or quai-ters. Some spilnkle it with sugai’, but the lettuce is more wholesome with simply the lemon juice. CucuMBEES.44 It is hard to say whether this much-abused vegetable has suffered more from the market-men, or in the hands of the cook. For everj' fresh cucumber in the stalls, there ai*e usually fifty stale ones; these, eaten with salt, pepper and ■sdnegar, or peiliaps filed, are enowjh to give one cholera morbus. But gathered fresh from the garden, and served with nothing more hurtful than diluted lemon juice, they are as harmless as a beet. Select only those that are green and ivhite (not gi’een and yellow), and firm to the touch; the others are stale. Or if you live on a fann, gather the cucumbers early in the moi’ii- ing, and lay them in a cool place till wanted. Then peel them, I'emoving aU the “green,” and drop into ice-watexHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 43G [part 111. Lalf an hour; this makes them crisp, as well as cold. Put into the ice-water a lemon or two, also; when aU are thor- oughly chilled, slice the cucumbers as thin as possible, into a cold dish, squeeze the lemons over them, and add nearly or quite as much ice-water as there is lemon juice. Stir aU together, and send directly to the table. Melons. Watermelons, muskmelons and cantaloupes, are all in bad repute; not because they are harmful in themselves, but owing to the fact that they are carted and shipped from place to place, and then eaten stale. And if 3’^ou want to “die certain"—not composedly, like old Mr. Jones, who lived to “ eighty-eight and upward,” but at thirty-five or younger, and in the writhing torments of cholera morbus— eat stale melons ! Ordinarily, melons should not be pulled more than a day before they are to be seiwed; and the same day would be better, particularly if the w^eather is warm. If you have your own patch, take the melon from the vines in the cool of the morning, and put it in the coldest place possible; on ice, in ice-water, or on the bottom of a cold cellar. If eaten at meal-time, serve it before the rest of the repast, not after; or it may be eaten an hour before dinner, on an empty stomach. SOUPS. In making soups observe the following niles ; 1. Start the meat in cold water; let it heat slowly, and remove the scum as it rises. It should boil long enough to extract all its juices; and where there are bones or joints, they should be broken or crushed before boiling. In soup that is not strained, ilie meat must not be boiled to rags; if there is danger of this, lift it out before the soup is done. 2. Slice or chop the vegetables, put them on in time toSOUPS. 437 PAKT III.J cook tliorouglily, and keep the pot closely covered. Stew very slowly, and on no account let the soup scorch; con- tinue the cooking until the flavors are all well blended to- gether; and if any flUing up has to be done, add the water boiling hot, and at least an hour before the souj) is finished. AYhen cabbage, tuniips, or parsnips are used, a good plan is to soak them in cold water, half an hour beforehand. 3. If there are fragments of meat, bone, or vegetables in the soup, strain it through a colander when done (unless preferred as it is), and heat again to boiling before dishing into the tureen. Keep the latter covered till the time of seiwing, and have the soup-plates warm. 4. If a portion is left over tiU the next day, heat it slowly to boiling, but no more; it wiU be better than at first. In cold weather, a very good way when meat is used, is to boil it the day before, cooking slowly, and till the meat is ready to fall to pieces. Then strain through a colander to get rid of the bits of meat and bones, and set tlie liquor away in a cold place; next morning remove the fat, and add the remainder to the contents of the soup-kettle. Potato Soup.^f: 4 quarts cold water. 2 “ boiling water. 5 pints quartered or cut potato—not sliced. 2 onions—if liked. 3 stalks celery, chopped fine. Ten cent soup-bone—fresh joint of beef. Time—four houi-s. Crack the knuckle or joint, drop it into the pot, and cover with the cold water; then put on a clean, closely-fitting lid, and heat slowly. As soon as the scum rises, remove it care- fully; and wlien the water begins to bubble, set the pot where it will simmer gently, as hard boiling destroys thQ438 [part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. flavors of tlie meat. Prepare the potatoes by paring, wash- ing and quartering them; or if large, cut into smaller jiieces, say an inch thick. If the onions are used, slice them thin, and chop fine. At the end of two hours add the j)otatoes, onions and celery, and the two quarts of boil- ing water, and cook slowly an hour and a half, keeping the pot closely covered; then take out the lai’ger bits of bones with any meat adhering, and 2^ut the remaining contents of the kettle through a colander. Peturn the souji to the fire, and cook half an hour longer; stir frequently, if there is the least danger of scorching. When done stir AveU from the bottom, dij) the soup into a hot tureen, cover, and send to the table. A pint of canned. j)eas or canned corn, added before straining, is an imjDrovement to this souji. Another.—Prejmre a quart of i^otatoes, cutting them in small bits—not slices; drop these into two quarts of boil- ing water, and cook jJTctty fast, keejiing the jiot covered. Boil nearl}^ or quite an hour, stirring occasionally to break uj) the lumps; then add a jiint of milk or cuj) of cream, thickened with a heaj)ing tablespoonful of flour, and boil a few minutes longer. Serve with diy toast, or crackers; this is rather a good dish, quicldy j3rej)ared. Tomato Soup.—(Good.)^ Put two pounds of beef or mutton (or a ten cent soujd- bone) into three quarts of cold water, bring it to a boil, and skim well. Add a shced onion if lilmd, and a pint of cut potatoes, and steAV slowly two hours and a half; then put the meat and liquor into a porcelain kettle, and skim off any grease that rises; add a quart of canned or chopiied tomatoes, a spoonful of chopped parsley, if you have it, and cook again, three-quarters of an hour. Then lift out tlie meat, strain the soup tlirough a colander, return it to the fire till steaming hot, and dish for the table. Serve withSOUPS. PART III.] 439 diy toast, or liard Graham rolls. You can leave out the potatoes, if you like the soui) very thin. Potato and Tomato Soup. 6 quarts cold water. 5 pints cut potato. 1 can toihatoes. 2 stalks celerv, cut fine. 1 onion thinly sliced. Ten cent soup-hone, cracked. Time—three hours and a hsilf. Set the kettle on the fire with the meat and water in it, heat slowly to a boil, and skim; simmer gently one hour, then add the celery and onion, and the potatoes peeled and quartered, and cook an hour and a half, stirring occasion- !iUy; j)ut in the tomatoes, stew an hour longer, and strain the soup through a colander; skim off any grease that rises; return to the kettle, heat again till hot, and dish into the tureen. Seiwe with bits of dry toast, or hard Graham rolls. If the flavor is liked, add a cup of gi’ated green corn, half an hour before the soup is done. Bardey Broth. 1 gallon cold water. ^ cup barley. 1 turnip, peeled and cut into dice. 1 onion, finely minced—this can be omitted. 1 spoonful chopped parsley, if liked. 2 lbs. lean mutton—the neck. Time—three hours and a half. Use a soup-kettle, if you have one. Drop the meat into the cold water, heat slowly, and skim well; then put in the onion and barley, and cook two hours and a half; then the turnip and chopped parsley, and cook an hour longer. TheHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. 440 kettle must not Loil fast at any time; and if there is danger of scorching, stir once in a while. Take out the meat before it is in rags; and when the broth is done, dish for the table; you may send the meat also. Serve with dry toast, or with thin cakes of plain corn bread, baked with a good crust. Barley l^roth, as the Scotch peojde know it, is usually made for the sick, and contains only the meat and barley, with perhaps a little pai'slej", or other sweet herb. Barley and Tomato Soup.—(Excellent.):^ G quarts cold water. -1 jiint pearl barley. 1 quaid canned tomatoes. 4 potatoes, medium size. 2 onions, thinly sliced, and chopjied. 3 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley. Ten cent soup-bone. Time—four hours. Crack the soup-bone, but do not crush it; start it in the cold water, heat gradually, and skim wdien it boils. Then add the barley and chopped onions, and stew gently two hours and a half. At the end of that time skim off any gi'ease that rises, and put in the canned tomatoes, first pressing them through a coarse sieve or colander. Then peel the potatoes, boil them in a little w^ater till soft,'and mash till perfectly smooth; add them and the parsley, and continue the cooking an hour longer. When done take out the meat, and dish the soup into a tureen. Seiwe with hard Graham rolls, or dry toast. Some add one or two sliced carrots, with the onions ; or you may substitute for these and the parsley, an ordinary soup-bunch.PAliT III.] sours. 441 Okra and Tomato Soup.4]= 1 gallon cold water. 1 quai4 okras, tliinly sliced. 2 quai-ts tomatoes, peeled and sliced. 2 lbs. lean beef. Bunch of sweet herbs. Time—three hours. Make this soup in a porcelain kettle, as iron blackens and ruins it. Cover the meat with the cold water, bring it to a boil, and skim well; put in the sweet herbs, and cook slowly one hoiu\ Then add the sliced okras, and stew or simmer an hour; skim as often as necessary, using a wooden or silver spoon; now put in the tomatoes, and cook another hour. If liked, you may add with the tomatoes two or three potatoes, cut in small pieces. Strain the soup through a colander when done, heat again to boiling, and lift from tlie fire. Serve with dry toast, or hard Graham rolls. Corn and Tomato Soup. 4^ 1 gallon cold water. 1 quaid. sliced or canned tomatoes. 1 pint grated green corn. Ten cent soup-bone. Time—three hours and a half. Drop the soup-bone (cnished) into a gallon of cold water, skim when it boils, and cook slowly. In the mean time pre- pare the tomatoes; wash and peel good ripe ones, and fresh from the garden; the “Trophies” are fine. Slice as thin as possible, put them into a porcelain kettle, cover with a clean lid, and stew moderately half an hour, or until tlie lumps disappear; stir often to break up the tomatoes, and reduce to a smooth mass. While these are cooking, take good ever- green corn, the ears well filled but not overripe., split the gi-ains half their depth by running a sharp knife down the 19*442 HK\LTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part in. rows, and then scrape ont tlie pulp, leaving all the hulls on the cob; diTiw the knife from the large to the small end of the ear. If the corn scra^ies out easily, it is not too old. As soon as the tomatoes ai’e done enough add the corn, and hft from the fire ; there should be one pint of pulp, or half as much as you had of the shced tomatoes. When the meat has cooked two hours put in two or three small jiotatoes, peeled and quartered; and after another hour’s boiling lift out the soup-bone, skim off the grease that floats on top, pour the liquor in with the corn and tomatoes, and stew or simmer half an hour longer, stirring often. Then strain through a colander, heat again to boiling, and serve with dry toast, Graham crackers, or hard Graham roUs. In making this soup you ma}" use canned tomatoes, and canned corn, cooking a shorter time; twenty minutes for the tomatoes, before the corn is added; then ten to flfteen min- utes, after turning all together. Split Pea Soup.4|: 5 quarts cold water. 1 quart siilit jieas, jiicked over carefully and washed. 3 stalks celery, cut fine. 1 onion (if desired), sliced very thin. Ten cent soup-bone, cracked. . Time—four hours. Start the meat in half the cold Avater, and the peas in the other half ; heat slowly to boiling, skim the meat, and then turn the two together ; add the other vegetables, and sim- mer gently four hours. If you have not a kettle with a double bottom, you had better set the one you have on the top of the stove ; and unless you have a very slow fire, it may be necessary to slide something under it, for fear of scorching. Stir now and then, oftener toward the last; the least approach to burning will utterly ruin the soup ; and hard boiling is almost as bad, since it destroys the fineSOUPS. 443 PART III.] flavor of the vegetables. Tlie practice of adding water (even boiling), is injurious to all soups, and especially to this; if water has to be added, it must be put in boiling hot, and at least an hour’ before the soup is done. Ten minutes before serving, remove the pot from the fire, lift out the bones, skim off all the grease, and put the soup through a colander. Then return it to the pot, and heat to the point of boiling; stir well from the bottom as you dish into the tureen, and also in serving. Make this soup on a cold day, as it is very hearty; and have on the table a plate of hal’d Graham rolls, or di’y toast. Tomato aijd Pea Soup.^^ Make like the preceding, except that }^ou add a pint of raw sliced tomatoes, or the same measui’e of canned ones, an hoiu' before the soup is done; strain thi’ough a colander, if not perfectly smooth. Pea Soup without Meat. 5 quarts cold water. 1 quart split peas, picked over carefully and washed. 1 carrot. 1 tui’nip. 1 onion, if desired. 2 tomatoes. 2 stalks celer}’-. Time—three hours and a half. Prepare the vegetables by Avashing, peeling, etc., cut the caiTot, turnip, and celery into small bits, and slice the to- matoes and onion very thin. Put all into the pot, with the peas and water added, and bring to a boil; stew slowly, or rather simmer, three hours and a half, stirring now and then. Another half hour would be better, 2‘>i'ovided the soup does not thicken too much; be sure the vegetables do[part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 444 not stick to the bottom, or scorch. This soup may be put through the colander (and again heated to boiling), before sending to the table ; though if sufficiently cooked, it will do very well without. Serve with dry toast, or hard Gra- ham rolls. Bean Soup. 4^ 1 gallon cold water. 2 quarts boding water. 1 quart dried (or fresh) beans. 2 stalks celery—or one onion. Ten cent soup-bone, if desired. Time—foui- hours. If the soujD is made of di*y beans, the little mock-turtle “ soup-bean ” is best; though the common “ navy ” is very good. Crush the bone, or rather, have the butcher do it, and start in half the cold water; as soon as this comes to a bod, skim. Then, having jiicked out aU the faulty or dis- colored beans, wash thoroughl}- in two or three waters, rub- bing wed with the hands, and put them into a separate pot, with the other half of the cold water ; when they have reached the boding point, turn them in Avith the meat, add the celery (or onion) cut fine, and stew or simmer slowly, two hours and a half. Stir frequently, covering the pot closely between times, and see that there is no settling or sticking to the bottom. By this time the beans wdl be soft; now add the two quarts of boding Avater, cook half an hour longer, and rub through the colander, being careful that you get aU out except the dry skins — particularly if the soup is not quite as thick as you woidd like it. Return it to the kettle, skim if there is any grease on top, and cook slowly another hour, stirring often. When done dip out, stirring wed from the bottom, cover the tureen, and send to the table. The juice of a lemon, squeezed in ten minutes before dishing, is said to improve the flavor,445 PAUT III,] SOUPS. This soup is better bleed by some when the beans are not rubbed through the colander; but as the skins are I'athcr difficult to digest, most persons prefer to get rid of them. Fresh garden beans (white) of some varieties, make excel- lent SOU13; they boil in less time than the di’ied ones, are milder in flavor, and the skins if left in, are less objec- tionable. Bean and Tomato Soup.—(Good.) Make the same as the last, only add a pint of sliced toma- toes, or an equal quantity of canned ones, an hour before finishing. When done, strain through a colander, heat again to boibng, and poui’ into the tureen. Turnip Soup. 5 quarts cold water—or three, if Ibones are used. 8 turnips, medium size. ^ cup rice, picked over carefully and washed. Scrag of mutton, two pounds—or bones of cold quarter of mutton. Time—an hour and a half. If you take fresh meat, cook it the day before. Cut it in small pieces, cover with the five quarts of cold water, bring slowly to a boil, and skim web. Stew slowly three hours, or until the meat is boiled to pieces; then strain through a colander, and set the liquor away in a cool place. Next morning remove the fat, before putting in the turnijis and rice. If bones are used, they must be fresh and sweet; put them into the soup-kettle, and add onl}’^ three quarts of cold water. Then wash and peel the turnips, and cut in thick slices; put these in with the bones (or liquor, if that is used), add the rice, and stew gently an hour and a half, or till the bits of turnip are soft; they should not be much broken. You will need a double boiler for this soup; for if it scorches in finishing, it wiU be spoiled. When done lift out the11(3 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART III. l)ones, and dish the soup into a tureen. Serve on a cold da}^ with baked potatoes and warm corn bread, the latter with a good crust. Some like this soup strained; it is good made with a soup- bone of fresh beef. Vegetable Soup.^f^ 1 gallon cold water. 2 quarts boiling water. 1 pint chopped potato. 1 “ “ cabbage. 2 carrots, sliced and chopped. 2 turnips, “ “ “ 2 onions, “ 2 stalks celery, cut fine. f cup pearl barley. Ten cent soup-bone, uncrushed. Time—four hours. When you buy the soup-bone have it cracked or partly l)roken, but not crushed to pieces. Four hours before dinner put the meat into the cold water, heat slowly, and skim as soon as ready. Then put in the barley, keep the pot closely covered, and stew gently one houiq then add two quarts of boiling water, cook another houi’, and put in the vegetables; they must all be sliced very thin, and chopped fine; it w’ill take some time to prepare them. When you add these put in the other two quarts of boiling water, cover, and cook slowly two hours longer, taking care that the soup does not scorch. Then lift out the bone, and dish the soup into a tureen; skim off any grease there is on top, and send directly to the table. Seiwe with hard rolls, or bits of dry toast.PART in.] SOUPS. 447 Vegetable Soup.—( Good.):i^ 5 quarts cold water. 1 cup green peas—or one jiiut canned ones. 2 carrots, washed and sliced. 2 onions, if desired. 6 potatoes, medium size. 2 turnips, “ “ Sprig of parsley—or other sweet herb. Ten cent soup-bone—or bones and trimmings of a sirloin steak. Time—three hoims and a half. Put the bone—or meat with the fat removed—into a pot or soup-kettle, add the cold water, and jilace over a slow tire; then prepare the carrots, onions, potatoes and turnijDS, slicing them thin, and chopping fine. As soon as the meat comes to a bod, skim it, add the prepared vegetables, and also the sweet herbs, cut fine; if j>ai’sley is used, put it in ten minutes before finishing. Cook three hours, stirring occasionally; then add the quart of boiling water, and also the peas, and cook half an hour. When done strain the soup through a coarse colander, return it to the fire, bring almost to a boil, and dish for the table. If there is g_ease on top, remove it before serving. Vegetable Soup. 5 quaids cold water. 2 stalks celery. 3 carrots, medium size. 4 potatoes, “ “ 4 tuniips, “ “ 1 parsnip, if you have it. Scrag of mutton. Time—four hours. Cover the meat with the cold water, and place over a slowHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part i::. 418 fire; then prepare the vegetables, slicing and chopping them all fine. Skim when the meat boils, add the vegetables, and stew slowly thi-ee hours; take out the meat before it falls to pieces; if you do not wish to serve it, you can make it into a hash or stew the next morning. When the soup is done skim off the grease, strain through a coarse colander, return it to the fire till hot, and then dish into the tureen. French Vegetable Soup. 1 gallon cold water. 1 cup grated jiotatoes. 1 “ “ caiTots. 1 “ turnips, sliced and chopped. 1 “ chopped cabbage. 1 “ “ tomatoes. 1 tablespoonful choiiped parsley. 1 large onion, sliced and choj)ped. Piece of mutton or lamb—^the leg is best. Time—three hours. Trim the meat of aU its fat, put it in the soup-kettle, and add the cold water; bring it slowly to a boil, and skim Avell. Then add the vegetables, except the tomatoes and jiarsley, and simmer slowly two hours and a half; stir now and then. At the end of that time put in the tomatoes, and cook an- other hour; add the parsley ten minutes before the soup is done. If the meat is likely to boil to pieces, take it out be- fore it is in rags, and finish the soup afterward. Serve A\dthout straining. This soup inclines to scorch, any time after the grated vegetables are added; it is best therefore to make it in a soup-kettle, with a double bottom. If you have not this, use an ordinary iron pot, and chop the carrots and potatoes, instead of grating them.MEATS, ETC. 440 PART III.] “ All the G.arden ” Soup.—(Excdloit. G quai'ts cold water. 4 potatoes, medium size. 4 tomatoes, “ “ 2 onions, “ “ 2 carrots, “ “ 2 turnips, “ “ 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley. 2 stalks celery, if you have it. 1 cup green peas, shelled—if jou have them. 1 “ chopped cabbage. 1 small parsnip. Ten cent soup-bone. Time—three hours and a half. Crack the soup-bone without completely crushing it, cover wdth the cold water, and when it comes to a boil, skim. Then prejiare the vegetables, sHcing and chopping all—save the peas—till they are fine; and as soon as the meat is skimmed add them (except the peas and parsley), and stew moderately two hours and a half. Then strain the soup through a coarse colander, and skim off any fat that rises; return it to the kettle, put in the cup of green peas, and cook another hour befoi’e dishing into the tureen. Add the ]);irsley, finely chopped, ten minutes before finishing. Later in the season, substitute for green peas, either a junt of canned ones, or a cup of shelled beans fresh from the garden; put the beans into the pot with the j^otatoes, turnips and other vegetables. If canned peas are used, add them half an hour before the soup is done. IVIEATS, Etc. If meat fonns any part of the dietary, special attention should be paid, first, to its selection, second, to the best method of cooking it, and thii’d, to the manner of eating it. In450 [PAET III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. otlier words, to get the most nutriment out of meat, it must be fresli and otherwise of good quality; it must be cooked in such a way that its nutritive properties will not be lost, or seriously impaired; and it should not be partaken of too frequently or in large quantities. If it were eaten not oftener than once a day in cold weather, and rarely if ever in warm weather, and the table supj)lied with an abundance of good home-made Graham bread, with fresh fruits and vegetaT)les—these taken ivith few seasonings or condiments, and without the addition of rich jiastries or desseids—we should witness less breaking down in health at thirty-five, fewer cases of confirmed dyspepsia, and not so many calls for tonics, ‘ strengthening bitters,” mineral w^aters, and other “ aids ” to the digestive organs. There is no doubt that the free use of animal foods and especially meats, taxes the vital machinery unnecessarily, and wears it out prematurely. To aid in the selection of foods in general and meats in particular, read the “ Hints on Marketing,” in the latter part of this book. The fact that tlie larval form of the tape-wonn is found in both beef and mutton (and also in swine), is sufficient hint to avoid the use of rare meats; for aside from the habit of totally abstaining from animal foods, the next best safeguard against these parasites, is thorough cooking. Even the hateful ti’ichinse, according to some authorities, is not confined to swine’s flesh. In cooking meats, never wash them, unless it is absolutely necessary; if your mutton, fish and fowl require rinsing, do it thoroughly but quickly, in cold water, as all soaking ab- stracts the juices of the meat. Cook immediately after purchasing, or keep in an ice-chest, or other very cold place. Roast, broil or stew, in the way that will involve the least waste, and that will render the meat the most nutritious with the least purely stimulating effect. This latter suggests the leaving out of seasonings, in toto. Salt and pepper, so freely451 MEATS, ETC. P.VRT III.] used by most cooks, not only impair tlie quality of meat bj" bardening the tibriu, and rendering it cbfficult of digestion, but the}' also inflame the stomach itself, and Avaste the di- gestive fluids, by stimulating unduly the organs that secrete them. For a fuller elucidation of this whole theme, the reader is referred to the articles on “ Salt,” “ Meat as an Article of Diet,” etc., in Part I. Suffice to say, in this short para- gi’aph, that meats if eaten, should be taken without season- ings, and not oftener than once a day; in warm weather (and w'arm climates), once a week would be better. And on no account should they form any part of the evening meal; at mid-day, that is, at dinner, when the digestive organs ai-e usually at their maximum of strength, is the better time for both meats and vegetables. Fresh meats are infinitely bettor than salted—for reasons that have elsewhere been given. If Sixlted meats are used, let the salt be soaked out as thoroughly as possible, before cooking; and in boiling, start in plenty of cold water, skim when the pot begins to boil, and cook slowly till done. Fre.sh meats should be dropped into boiling water (the scum removed as it rises), and cooked rather slowly till tender. If filling up is needed, add the water boiling hot; the amount necessary to start w’ith, depends very much upon the size and shape of the vessel; a deep, narrow one witli little evaporating surface, wiU require less water than one that is wide and shallow; and when the meat almost touclies the sides of the pot, it will take very little water to cover it. For boiled or stewed meats (fresh), the general dircdioi'.s are, to drop into boiling water, not more than is needed to cook them, skim at the proper moment, cover closel}', and stew or simmer slowly until a fork will readily pierce the thickest portion. Tliis will require firtocn to Iwentv-livc! minutes to the pound, or longer, according to ilie toughness of the meat and the palate of the e.iter. Home like their[part hi. HEALTH m THE HOUSEHOLD. 452 meats rare; some -want them well done; and some very weU done. Mutton usually requii-es less time than beef. There should be httle or no water in the pot, when finished. To roast meats, allow about the same time as for boiling or stewing; fifteen to tw'enty minutes to the j^ound, if liked rare; longer, for well done. In starting, a good plan is to lay the roast in a hot skillet, and sear the sides of it before putting it into the oven. Or if this is not convenient, you may dash a pint of boiling water over it, before jfiacing in the pan. Start without w'ater, in a brisk oven, and roast moderately tiU a fork wdl go through the thickest portion easily. You can cover, if the top browns too fast; no bast- ing is needed. If you use the “ Gem Roaster,” place the meat in it without water, close the vent, and roast in a very moderate oven, allow'ing fifteen minutes to the pound. Do not open tdl the time has expired; then, if the meat is not sufiiciently brownied, open the vent, replace the cover, and leave it in the oven ten minutes. In broiling, use no biitter or grease, except it be a httle suet to oil the gridiron; meat is best cooked and eaten in its own juices; not soaked in butter, or other oils. If you broil in a skillet have it hot, and use no gi’ease; tium fre- quently, searing both siu’faces in the very beginning, and then finish in ten minutes; cover closely between turnings. The art of broiling, is to heat quickly, imprisoning the juices in the outset, and to cook without scorching. If per- fectly managed, there will be very httle grease in the bot- tom of the skhlet, when done; only a spoonful or tw'o of gravy, which should be poui’ed over the meat. Roasted or boiled meats, if of good quahty, are generally better sliced cold than w^armed over; but if the latter jdan is decided on, do it as quickly as possible; as soon as the meat is thoroughly heated through, remove it from the fire. Never use the liver or kidney of an animal; both are depurating organs, strictly speaking, and are therefore filthy.BEEF, MITTTOX AND IAMB. PART m.J 453 BEEF, imJTTON AND LiUIB. Broiled Beef-Steak. 4^ In selecting a beef-stealc, the preference is usually given to the poiier-houso or sMoin steaks. The “ round ” or Hank is tougher, and may retpiire pounding, or hacking; if so, take a dull carving-knife, too blunt to cut, and hack the meat closely from end to end, first one side and then the other. Or if you have a steak-mallet, or hea\'y hammer, 3 0U may pound it hard, breaking and separating the tough libers. AVhen ready, lay tlie steak on a clean gridii’on—a steel one with slender bars is best—and place it over (not on) a bed of live coals, free from smoke. Or a better plan is said to be, to have the gridii’on fitted under the grate; this pre- vents the dripping of grease on the coals, with the unpleas- ant odor and smoke. Turn, every two or three minutes, not allowing the juices to drop, or to collect on the upper surface of the meat. A steak of usual thickness, say half to three-quarters of an inch, should cook in ten to twelve minutes. If properly done it will be free from burnt edges, or the flavor of coal smoke, or burnt drippings. "Wlien sufficiently cooked lift it to a hot platter, cover with another, and send to the table. In the absence of the necessary apparatus for broiling, try the following exceUont substitute: Set a clean skillet on the stove, heat it hot, and lay in the steak, jiressing it smoothly down; no water, grease or Inittcr, but simply the steak. Cover two or three minutes, or until tlie meat is well seared (not scorched) on one side; it will stick fast at first, but when lightly browned it can be loosened with a knife. Then turn it over, press it down smooth, and brown the other side in the same way; keep the skillet or broiling-pan hot, but do not scorch. Turn frequently, not allowing the juices to escajie, and cover closely between turnings. About454 [part III. HEALTH IX THE HOUSEHOLD. ■ien minutes is tlie time required for tliis luetliod of Toroiliiif"; when done lay the steak on a hot platter, and if a trifle of f^Tavy remains in the skillet, jiour it over the meat; cover with another platter, also hot, and send to the table. If weU managed, the steak will he fully equal to one carefull}' broiled on the gridiron. Tough Eouxd Steak. The method of preparing and cooking given in the last recipe, ought to he sufficient for ordinary steak; if very tough, the following is said to he a good plan: Put on the stove a deep skillet, or a pot with a wide hot- tom, and let it get hot enough to sear the meat without scorching it. Lay in the steak, sju'eading it as smooth as possible, and brown on one side; then turn, and do the other, covering between times. Timn frequently, until the sui’face is all well browned; then add warm water enough to keep the pot from going diy, and stew or simmer, tightly covered, half an hour, or until the meat is tender. Slice in an onion if you like, at the same time that you add the Avater. A^dien done lay the steak upon a hot platter, thicken the gravy in the pot with a little broAvned flour, and poiu’ it over. Or if preferred, you may chop the steak fine after stew- ing it tender, then thicken the gi’avA', and put back the meat; stir all together, let it boil up a moment, and pour it over nicely browned slices of dry toast. A little cream added to the flour, wetting it to a smooth paste, and stirred in just a minute before lifting the pot from the fire, is an improvement. Broiled BIuttox Chops. 4^ Trim away the unnecessary fat, lay the chops upon a gi'id- iron, and place the latter over (or under) a bed of bright coals, free from smoke ; then broil, turning eA'ery minute or two, till they are done ; five to eight minutes Avill cookPART in.] BEEF, MUTTON AND LAMB. 455 them. Or you may lay them in a clean hot skillet, cover and seal’, or slightly brown, then turn and sear the other side. In short, cook just as you would a beef-steak, only not so long ; they should be done in about eight minutes. Lamb chops are cooked in the same way, and arc consid- ered extra good. For mutton or lamb a wire gridiron is best, as it holds the meat better. Stewed Mutton Chops. Tiim most of the fat from two or three pounds of chops, and remove the bones ; put tliem into a stew-pan, bai’ely cover with boiling water, and take off the scum as it rises. Then slice in one onion, one carrot, and two small turnips, cover closely, and stew very slowly one hour ; add five or six potatoes, cut in small pieces or sliced rather thick, and one or two sliced tomatoes, if they are lilced ; put in also a stalk of celery (minced), or a spoonful of sweet herbs finely chopjied, and cook half an hour, keejiing the pot well covered. Then dish all together, and sei’\’e with dry toast. A beef-steak, cut in small bits, may be stewed the same way, only longer ; cook till thorouglily tender. The chops are very good stewed with only an onion, and the gi’avy thickened at the last with a little browned flour wet with cream ; set off the pot and remove the grease, before thickening. Baked Beef-Steak. Take one or two large sirloin steaks, or one largo round steak—though it is not so good—and flatten it well with a rolling-pin, or the side of a hatchet. If sirloin steaks are used, remove the bones liefore beating, and make a separate roll for each steak. Wlien ready, cover with a plain dress- ing, made as follows . Add to stale bread-crumbs, finely gi'ated, a little chopped parsley, or a pinch of sage if liked ; some add half an onion, or a shallot minced fine; thenHE.A.LTH IN THE HOUS5EHOLD. 456 [part in. moisten a little milk or water, and a beaten egg, if you have it. Make the dressing not too wet, and work it half smooth, though very lightly, before spreading. Cover the meat well with it, forming a layer nearly half an inch thick; let the dressing come well out to the edge of the steak. Then roll up tightly, and tie with soft twine or wrapping-thread ; put an oiled paper (white foolscap) around the meat roll, tie again at each end, and lay it in a small iron pan. Pour over a cup of boding water, cover closely with another pan, and bake in a good oven tiU done ; it wiU requii’e at least an hour, if the steak is large. See that the pan does not get dry, and if necessaiy, add a few spoonfids of boding water; baste frequently, and turn occasionaUy ; uncover and brown a little, before taking the rod from the oven. When done lay it on a plate, thicken the gi’avy in the pan with a trifle of browned flour, and let it boil up a moment; then cut the outer strings, re- move the paper, and pour it over. Clij) the remaining strings in several places, take them off carefudy, and send the steak to the table. Baked Beef-Steak. Prepare the steak or steaks as in the last recipe, oidy leave off the oiled paper; tie securely at each end, to hold in the dressing. If you have a little dripping, heat it hot in a frying-pan or skillet, lay the rod into it, and brown wed on ad sides by frequent turnings. Then put it in an iron j)an, add a cup of boiling water to the dripping, and pour it over the meat. Cover closely and bake as before, basting often ; turn several times, and bake an hour, or until tender. As soon as done clip and remove the strings, and lay the roded steak on a plate ; when you have thick- ened the gravy in the pan with a little browned flour, and boiled it up a moment, ponr it over. If you have no drippings, omit the browning j)rocess inBEEF, MUTTON AND LAMB. 457 PART III.] the beginning ; uncover at tlio end and brown moderately, basting two or three times ; then remove the roll from the pan, and thicken the gravy as before. Baked Mutton Chops. Dip the cutlets or chops, neatly trimmed, into a beaten egg, and then in cracker-dnst; lay them in a hot skillet, and when one side is browned, turn and brown the other. Then have ready a small dripping-pan, slightly oiled, and heated in a hot oven ; lay the chops into it, and bake quickly, having the oven very hot; they should be done in fifteen minutes. When taken out, add to the gravy in the dish a little boiling water, thicken a trifle with browned flour, heat a moment, and pour it over the meat. Baked Mutton Chops. 41^ Take tlmee pounds of mutton or lamb chops, and trim off nearly all the fat; then peel six or eight potatoes of medium size, and slice them thin. Mix with these one onion thinly sliced, unless tliis is objected to ; a stalk of chopped celery may take its jfiace, and a little parsley finely chopped may be added if desired. Put a layer of the meat into a dish, and cover with one of potatoes ; repeat the layers in the same order, two or three of eacli. Pour over the whole a pint of boiling water, cover closely, and bake in a very mod- erate oven, two hours and a half. Stewed Beef-Ste.vk. It is not always convenient to have a hot oven, for baking or roasting. When stewing is preferable, you may prepare a rolled steak as in the last recipe but two ; and instead of baking, put it into a pot, add a pint or more of boiling water, and cook one hour, or until tender. Then remove from the kettle, lay it into a dripping-pan, and add the Water or gi'avy in which it boiled ; set the pan m the oven • 20HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. -158 [part III. if you have a liot one, and baste a few times until the steak is nicely browned ; thicken the gravy with a little browned flour, and i^our it over before serving. Or if the “hot oven ” is out of the question, you may simply stew the meat till done, thicken the gravy at the last, and pour it over. Roast Beet. The sirloin and rib pieces are the best for a roast; have the butcher remove most of the bone, and roll up the meat in the form of a “round,” fastening it well together with skewers. Begin by putting a clean skillet or jian on the stove, heat it till hot, and place the roast in it; when the under side is well seared and moderately browned, turn and brown the other in the same way ; two or three minutes will suffice. Then lay it in a dripping-pan without water, place in the oven, and heat rapidl}' tiU a cnist is fonned over the meat, which will imprison its juices ; now lower the temperature, and keep at a steady, moderate heat till it is thoroughly tender ; this you will ascertain by using the fork. No basting will be needed, and very little turning if the oven is an even one, and properly managed ; if the top heats too fast, cover it. It will require tAventy minutes to the pound, more or less, according to the quality of the meat and the way in which it is to be seiwed ; whether pretty rare, or well done. When finished, lift the roast from the pan, and remove t'le skewers by grasping the large end of each with a pair of pincers, giving it a sudden twist, and then pulling it out. If graA^y is wanted, pour off the fat from the drip- ping, and drain the red juices into the gravy-boat; or if too strong, dilute by pouring into the pan a little boiling Avater, after removing the gi-ease. Some thicken Avith a trifle of broAvned flour, and boil up a moment. Many prefer roast beef sliced cold, rather than served warm.BEEF, MUTTON AND LAMB. 459 PART III.] Roast Mutton. The shoulder and cliine are generally used for roasting, the leg being better boiled. Unless you know your butcher to bo paidicularly neat—and even then perhajis—it is best to wash the mutton in cold or lukewarm water, and dry it well Mith a clean cloth. Put the meat into a dripjiing-pan without water, and jilace in a hot oven ; hot enough to sear the surface, top and bottom, in a few minutes. Then mod- el ate the heat to a steady glow, and cook without basting, allowing twelve to fifteen minutes to the pound ; cover the toji, if it browns too fast. Should the roast be a leg, it will require more time in projiortion to its weight; say two hours and a half to an eight-pound piece, if wanted well done; the fork, however, is the best test. When suffi- ciently roasted remove from the pan, and drain off all the grease; if gravy is wanted add a little boiling water, thicken with a trifle of browned flour, and boil up once. Serve with baked or mashed potatoes, and stewed tui’nips if you like them. Should jiai-t be left over, it is good sliced cold, the follow- ing day. Roast Lamb. The fore and hind quarters are used for roasting. Wash in (,‘old or tepid water, and cb.y well with a cloth. Put the meat into a dripiiing-pan without water, and roast the same as the last, only not quite so long. It is excellent sliced cold. Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton. Remove the bone from the shoulder (you can use it for soup if 3"ou like), and fill the cavity with a dressing of stale brcad-crambs, made as follows: Add to the crumbs a pinch of drj' sage, rubbed fine, or a little sweet herbs; stir well together. Then put in a spoonful or two of meat juice, or a bit of fresh butter melted in warm water, and mix welLHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. 460 Moisten the dressing with water that is cold or lukewarm, making it not very wet, stir lightly, and fill the cavity about two-thirds full; this will leave jDlenty of room to swell. Then sew up the skin to retain the dressing, put the meat into a (b’ipj)ing-pan, pour over a pint of boiling water, and j)lace in a brisk oven; after ten minutes, moderate the heat and roast evenly, allowing about fifteen minutes to the pound. Baste now and then, and cover if the top browns too fast; test with a fork at the end. When done take the meat from the pan, di’ain off the grease from the gra^’y, and thicken a little with browned flour; then boH up a moment, and pour it into the gravy-boat. Boiled Meats. Time was, in the Carolinas and elsewhere, when a boiled dinner of “meat and cabbage,” or meat and some other vegetable, constituted the one main dish at the dinner table in the farm-house. Very httle culinary art was needed; if the pot did not go dry, and the victuals were done, that was sufficient. The meat, usually a bit of salt pork, sometimes a piece of beef, was well washed, dropped into a j5ot of cold water, and the latter hung over the fire, on a crane or tram- mel. When about to bod it was carefully skimmed; by and by the cabbage went in, washed, trimmed and quartered, or the turnips or other vegetable. When done, the meat was lifted out with a fork and laid on a plate, and the vegetable dished separately; or if the piece boiled chanced to be rather small, it might occupy a central place in the dish that held the vegetable. In the summer season, string beans> peas, early cabbage, “ greens,” shelled beans, or other field or garden product, kept the meat company. This simple “ boiled dinner,” with plenty of corn bread and Initter, and perhaps a glass of milk, made up the noon-daj' meal. It tasted good, for two reasons; in the first place, plenty of hard work made every one hungry—hunger is the best of4G1 PART UI.] BEKF, MUTTON AND LVMB. coudiments—and iu the uext place, the pot, however full (and it was often a big one), rai’ely held too much for all the chits that sat or stood ai'oimd the fmnily bo u'd. Or if any remained undished, it was served at the “ second table,” for the four or live youngsters that had to wait. But the times have changed; other methods of cooking, some of them not so simple or so heiilthful, have taken the place of those primitive dishes of the olden tune. A line thing for the doctors, may be, but not so good for the stomach. In these “ progressive ” days, the meats and vege- tables are prepared in various fancy ways, to suit the tastes —the “ educated ” tastes, if you please—of fashionable people. Nearly everything in the way of meats, or meat preparations, not roasted or boiled, is now “ braised,” or “ larded,” or “ fricasseed,” or fried, or spiced, or made into “ coUops,” or “ croquettes,” or “ pates,” or salads, or done according to some other fashionable or foreign method. These dishes are a mixture of animal foods, hard-boiled eggs, vinegar, salt, catsup, mustard, black pepper, cayenne, almonds, nutmegs, mace, allspice, cloves, capers, anchovies, pungent sauces, jellies, brown sherry, wine sauces, etc., etc. What w'onder that the wild man of the woods, whose stom- ach is not yet deadened with these vile compounds, no sooner receives the proffered morsel into his hungry mouth, than with frightful gesticulations he em’ses the hand that gave it, and declares that a huge practical joke has been played upon him! Even the plain, old-fashioned beef roast, yields to these modern innovations; it finds itself slashed into with long- bladed knives, and completely riddled and plugged with strips of fat pork, the latter disguised, however, with a con- coction of onions, mustard, nutmeg, cloves, allspice, black pepper, sage, vinegar, sugar—and some innocent bread- crumbs. (What company they do keep!) After several hours of roasting or stewing, this fine dish is garnished with[part III. HiLiLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 4G2 jiarsley and nasturtium blossoms, and ajipears not only at Sunday dinners (after divine service), but as a stand-by at supper and breakfast, for all the rest of the week. This, friends, is beef a la mode. liut to return from this digression, out into the “ ways of the world.”—It is a comfort to know that there are stul some people of jilain tastes, Avho show a decided leaning towards the more simple, common-sense methods of pre- jiaring foods. They relish, for example, the pearled grains, whole, cut, crushed or roUed, prepared by steaming or boil- ing, and served with few condiments; and the}' eat the garden vegetables, as jieas, beans, cabbage, turnips, etc., stewed in water enough to cook them (the usual pinch of salt added), and finished with nothing more than a little cream or fresh butter. Tliis is much better than to cook them swimming in fat jiork, as some do, and then fuidher impair their own natiu’al flavors, by making ever}'tliing hot with seasonings. Meats, simply boiled, as in the following recipes, are plainer and less greasy than roasts. Boiled Beef or Mutton. For those wlio still adhere to the plain boiled meats, a la fifty years ago, the way is, to drop the piece of fresh beef or mutton into water, hot or boiling, remove the scum, and cook till tender. You may allow twelve to fifteen minutes to the pound for mutton, and five minutes longer for beef; the mut- ton must be well washed, and dried wdth a clean cloth before cooking. There should be water enough (more can be added if necessary) to cook the meat till a fork will easily enter its thickest poidion; usually there is a trifle of liquor left in the pot. This method of cooking gives you simply the plain meat, free from all the strong flavors of the over- heated and highly concentrated meat juices, which are usually so pronounced in roasted, fried, or even stewedBEEF, MUTTON AND LAMB. PART III.] 463 meats. Cooked in tliis way, it is nutritious rather than stimulating; and to the less perverted palate, it “ wears ” better than the more savory dishes. Many prefer it shced cold, rather than wai’m. Corned Beef. Conied beef is not as digestible or nutritious, as good fresh beef; before boiling, it should be soaked several hom*s or over night, to take out the Siilt. Tlien cover it with cold water, set the pot over a very moderate fire, and simmer slowly, allowing all of twenty minutes to the pound; a large piece will recpiire four to six hours, to make it tender; skim well, as it comes to a boil, and tiuTi the meat two or three times while it is cooking. If liked, add some carrots and turnips when it is htilf or two-thirds done; skim off all the gi’ease before putting them in. Fill up with boihng water as it is needed, and have a moderate supply of liquor in the pot when finished. A good way is to cook till soft, remove the bones, then press in a mould, and after it is cold, slice. Boiled Meat with Vegetables. If you wish the meat flavor in your cabbage, turnips, etc., proceed as follows: Lay into the pot a piece of good beef or mutton, pour over lioiling water, and cook till time to put on the vegetables. Then skim off the gi-ease, take out pai-t of the liquor, and pour it into a separate pot; add to it more water (boiling) if necessary, and put in the vegetable (or vegetables) you want; there should be just enough to cook them tender. The meat, if started in time, should bo done as soon as the other things; you may have to add to it a little boiling water, after taking out part of the liquor, though the pot should be nearly dry when done. Serve the meat on a plate by itself, and the vegetables in tliem own separate dishes. Or if the family is small, and the meat in464 [PAHT III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. projjol’tion, you may put it in the center of tlie disli, and lay the vegetables around it. Stew'ed Beef or Mutton.—(Pot RoomL):^ If the meat is beef, and a rib or sirloin piece, prepare as for a roast, rolling it up securely, and fastening with skew- ers; if mutton, wash well in cold or tepid water, and dry Avith a clean cloth before cooking. Put it into a pot not too large for the piece—it should fit rather snugly to the sides of the vessel—and pour boiling Avater over it, enough to half or tAvo-thirds cover; this AA^ill partially sear the sur- face, and prevent the juices from escaping. Cover with a closely-fitting lid, heat quickly to the boiling point, and as soon as the scum rises remove it. Then boil rapidly five to ten minutes, after which cook very slowly, stewing rather than boiling, and opening the pot as little as possible. MHien half or two-thii*ds done, turn the meat the other side up, and stow as before; you may have to turn again, once or tAvice; if beef, it will requme twenty to tAventy-five min- utes to the pound, to cook it; the time may A’ary a little, ac- cording to its quality, and the slowness with which it boils. Glutton will usually steAv tender in less time ; say eighteen to twenty minutes to the pound, slow boiling; the pot must not get dry before finishing. MTien done, the water should be about all boiled aAvay; if a little remains, you may lift the lid and let it evaporate faster. If you Avish the meat broAvuod, like a roast, set the pot Avhere the gravy in the bottom will get quite hot without burning ; and Avhen the under side is browned sufficientlA’, turn it over and brown the other; this is Avhat is called, a “pot roast.” Abvays start it to cooking in good season; fo"r if done a little earh", it Avill not matter; the meat wiU keep hot in its own steam, proAuded the jiot is set in a warm place, and closely covered. AVhen yoAi take it up drain all the gravy into an old bowl or cup, and set it away; AvhenPAHT III.] 405 BEEF, MUTTON AND LAMB. cold remove the grease for oiling your bake-j)ans, and save the gravy in the bottom t-o put into a hash or stew, another day. The above method of cooking meats, is liked by many better than roasting ; they are less greasy done in this way, and the flavor is milder. But one thing you must observe, and that is—to stew sloioly. Cold Sliced Beef or Mutton. Cook the same as the last, and slice the following day, by cutting the meat smoothly across the gi-ain or fiber. Or if you serve it wai-m, cut no more than will be eaten ; then take any considerable portion that is left over, press it well together, and either wrap a cloth closely around it, or pack snugly into a dish, and set it away, covered, in a cold place. The next day you can shce it for dmner ; and many prefer it to the warm meat. A dish of turnips, with wann corn bread and baked potatoes, is a good accompani- ment. A Brown Stew. MTiat is known as a “ brown stew,” is about the same as “ Stewed Beef or Mutton,” in the last recipe but one, except that it requires rather longer cooking, and the meat is always browmed at the end. T.‘Ue poorer parts of beef or mutton will answer ; and a piece weighing six or eight pounds, would take from three to four hours’ stewing. Some like an onion or carrot sliced in,yifter the meat is half cooked; alw^ays staid it in boiling water, cover closely, and stew slowly till done. If necessary, add now and then a little water, boiling hot; it must ah be out of the pot at the last; then brown the meat in its own hot gravy. You may skim off the grease from the latter, and thicken with a little browned flour ; then serve it and me meat with plain vegetables, as mashed potato, and steAvod turnips ca cab- 20*4GG HE^VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [pART IH. bage ; if the weather is cold, add a dish of plain corn bread. A breast of lamb, or two or three smaller bits, may be cooked in the same way, but for a shorter time. A good dessert after a brown stew, is fresh oranges. Stewed Lamb. 4}^ Stew the same as beef or mutton, in the last recipe but tw'O, except that less time wiU suffice. About fifteen min- utes to the pound ought to be long enough, even if cooked very slowl3^ A shoulder cooks sooner than a leg; and either should be done, in an hour and a half to two hours. Lamb cooked by this method and shced cold, is pro- nounced fine by comjietent judges. Moulded L>.mb. Wash the meat well, and dry it wuth a clean cloth ; a shoulder or rib piece is best for moulding. Put it into boil- ing -water, skim at the proper moment, and cook slo-wly tiU it is ready to fall from the bones; it -will take perhaps tAvo hours. HaA'e very little liquor in the pot when done, say a cup fuU; then take out the meat, remove the bones, and cut into bits about two inches long; pour over the liquor, sat- urating it all through. Then place it compactly in a deep oval dish, turn a plate over, put on a weight, and set it in a cool jilace. Slice cold the next day. Calf’s head may be boiled and moulded in the same way; it will keep several days in cold weather. Potted Beef. Take good beef, or a poorer paii—something with bones in it—staid it in hot or boiling Avater, removing any scum that rises, and stcAV sloAAdy till the meat will slip from the bones ; there should be enough liquor left to moisten it AAdien done. Then take it out of the pot, remove the bonesBEEF, MUTTON AND LAMB. 4G7 i>.UiT III.] cai’efully, put the meat into a wooden bowl, and chop fine ; pour in the liquor, stir well together, pack into a deeji dish, and set away till cold. It is then ready to slice. Mutton can be used instead of beef, taking a shoulder, or any pai’t with bones. Pressed Beef. Take three and a half pounds of good loan beef (a sii’- loin steak is best), and chop it very fine ; the butcher will do it for you, or you can manage it yourself. Have ready a cup and a half of dry bread-criunbs, finely grated; moisten these with three eggs well beaten, and two-thirds of a cujd of sweet milk or cream ; some add a teaspoonful of dry sage, or sweet herbs. You may use a weak gravy if you jirefer, instead of cream or milk—or you may take two eggs instead of three, ^yhen the crumbs are prepai’ed work ihem into the meat, and mix all well together; then make into a firm loaf and bake an hour and a half, covering it on top. Have the loaf long and slim; and when cold, slice as thin as possible, the same as tongue. This meat preparation is sometimes called, “loaf beef.” It is very convenient for lunches, picnics, etc. Beef Omelet. This dish is quite similar to the last. To three pounds of beef chopped fine, add three eggs well beaten, six largo crackers rolled fine, and a tablespoonful of dry sage; or you may use some other dry or sweet herb, if preferred. "Work all wcU together, knead into a loaf or cake, and lay in a small pan; turn another over it, after adding a pint of water or diluted gi’avy to baste with, and bake an hour and a quarter. Slice it very thin when cold, or the next day; the meat will keep some time, if the weather is cool.4G8 [part irt. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Boiled Beep’s Tongue. Wash, trim and scrape the tongue; it must be fresh; then soak in cold water half an hour. To cook it, cover with hot or boiling water, skim if there is need, and boil very slowly till a fork will go through the thickest portion easily. This "wiLl require two houi’s or longer, according to size. Add more water, if it boils down too low; the tongue should be pretty well covered, while it is cooking. When done take it out, remove the skin, and set away in a cool place. Shce thin. Cold tongue is much liked for sand- wiches; these latter ai*e best made with good home-made Graham loaf. Beef’s Tongue with Tomatoes. Boh the tongue as in the last recipe. While it is cooking peel some ripe tomatoes, and shce very thin into a porcelain kettle; before you heat them stir in either a httle rolled cracker, or some fine dry bread-crumbs; just enough to thicken the tomatoes when done, to the consistency of or- dinary cream. Set where they will cook rather slowiy, until perfectly smooth; stir often; if the sauce gets too hot it wiU be spoiled. A few minutes before finishing, you may stir in a spoonful of cold meat gravy if you have it, or a small lump of fresh butter; ond when done, set where it will keej) hot. As soon as the tongue is thoroughly tender take it out, skin it, lay it on a hot platter, and pour the to- mato over. Slice as you seiwe it. A piece of beef rib, not too fat, and stewed slowly till done, is good served in the same w^ay. If you have neither the crackers nor the bread-crumbs, you may thicken the tomatoes with a little browmed flour, wet mth milk; or a cup of green corn is excellent; put this in twentv minutes before finishing.I3EEP, MUTTON AND lAMU. i>.viiT m.J 4Gd Beef’s Helvkt. Wash the heiui; thoroughly, reuioA’iug the ventricles, and soak in cold water one horn-; then wipe it dry, and fill with a dressing of bread-cruiuhs, as for stuffed chicken or turkey; you may mix into this a little chopped parsley or minced onion, or both if you Hko; and if you have a bit of fresh suet or a spoonful of sweet diijiping, you can use it instead of butter in making the dressing. When the heai-t is stuffed, sew it up in a coarse net or piece of tarlatan, cover with boding water, and stew moderately two to three hom’s, or untd tender; turn it occasionally while cooking. There shoidd be a cupful of lirpior in the jiot when done; then take it out, thicken the gravy with a httle browned flour, and retimi the heai-t to the pot. Cover closely, and simmer twenty to thirty minutes, turning it over as it begins to brown. Wlien finished remove the net, laj" the heart on a dish, and pour the gravy over. Another way is to stew till tender before you stuff, not forgetting to skim, as the pot comes to a boil. Wlien done take out the heart, moisten the crumbs with a part of the hquor, and add a little butter or chopped suet, and a pinch of dry sage; then fill and sew up the heart as before, lay it in a small dish, add the rest of the licpior, and bake, covered, half an hour in a moderate oven; baste frequently. If there is not enough liquor, put in a little boiling water, and some cold gravy or meat juice, if you have it; then thicken at the last, and pour the gi'avy over the heart. You may seiwe warm or cold; if cold sHce thin, and garnish with parsley. Still another way is to cut the heart into small pieces after it is well soaked, pour in cold water to cover, and bring to a boil; then skim, slice in an onion and a head of celery, and stew till tender; some add a little chopped parsley, before it is done. There should be but a trifle of[part III. 470 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. liquor left in the j^ot; add a bit of fresh butter or diipping, thicken with a little browned flour, boil up a moment, and dish aU together. THE “PORIH3R.” It would hardly do to wnte a cook-book, and have noth-, ing to say in it about this beast. The “ Porker ” is an im- poidant personage in the history of the world; more than tlu’ee thousand years ago, before Chiistianity had been heard of, he received marked attention—not from heathen hands, but from the leader of one of the most distinguished nations in aU history, sacred or j)i’ofane. By that distin- guished leader, he (the porker) was banished from the side- boards of the Jews. How he managed to put himself, head, feet, back-bone and all, not only in the presence of the ungodly, but fairly and squarely upon the tables of respectable Christians, is indeed marvelous. But here he is, with his scurvy hide, his tuberculated lungs, and his ulcerated liver, aU fuU of scrofula; with his fat sides—the very essence of retained excretion—and his muscles creei> ing with trichinae. Some scores of families, it is true, are now and then sent by these last, where no porkers go, and where trichinae do not abound. But what of it? His carcass tastes sweet, and therefore it must be eaten. “ How shall we cook him?” In any way you like; you may take him piecemeal, or you may serve him whole; you may roast him, fry him, boil him, stew him, scallop him, or eat him raw—m Bologna sausage; and if you die of tiiehinosis, anoi/icr porker would willingly eat you, if he had the chance.’ VENISON. Venison is cooked in the same way as beef, only it re- quires a little longer time. Care should be taken to have it as fresh as possible, and well trimmed. Venison steaks may be broiled on a gridiron or seared in a skiUot, the same as beef471 VENISON. PART m.J allowing about fifteen minutes to a steak of onlinary size. The liaundi, nock and shoulder, are usually roasted the same as beef, except that most people think it necessary to disguise the naturid llavor of the meat by numerous season- ings or condiments, not to say wines. The thought suggests itself, whether it would not be better to dispense Avith this meat altogether, if it requires so many injurious or stimu- lating substances to make it palatable. A haunch will take from four to five hours, according to size, to roast; cover the top with an oiled paper, and then turn a pan over the whole, to keep the meat from scorching. Roast very slowly, untn it is tender through its thickest part. The shoulder is stewed, as weU as roasted; it wiU take from three to four hours to cook tender, according to size. If stew'ed, remove the bones from the under side, put the meat into a pot, and cover with tvarm water, not boiling. Wash well, before roasting or stewing; and if cooked by the latter method, stew slowly, adding a little cold water from time to time, as it is needed. Reducing the temperature of the water will prevent the meat from hardening, as it boils. There should be little if any liquor left in the pot, when done; after taking it up, skim off the gi’ease from the gravy, and pour it over the meat. Any that is left from a roast or stew, may either be sliced cold the foUo-sving day, or made into a hash the same as beef. Venison Pasty. Cut the venison into inch bits, cover with warm water, skim at the proper moment, and stew till it is almost tender; have enough liquor left to make the pie sufficiently moist. Wlien cooked long enough skim out the meat, and stir into the liquor a little white flour wot with milk or water, and mixed to a smooth paste; let the gravy come to a boil, and set it off. Then take a dish the depth of a common bread- pan, put into it a layer of the meat, and follow mth one of[part III. 472 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. potatoes, peeled, and cut into small pieces, less than half an inch thick; have nearly as much potato as there is venison, laid in the bottom. Then add another light layer of the parboiled meat; the pie, before the crust is put on, should not be more than about an inch and a half in depth. Pour in the thickened gi’avy, until the dish is half or two-thirds fuU; then cover with a light cream jiaste made of equal jiarts sifted Graham and white flour, and cut a good cross-slit in the center. The crust should be half or three-quarters of an inch thick. Set the pie into a moderate oven and bake forty-five minutes, or until the crust is well done. Serve from the dish. In making this pie, you may if you like line the sides of the dish with the paste, leaving the bottom uncovered; then put in the meat and potatoes, add the gravy, and cover as before. POULTRY. It has been elsewhere stated, that if the flesh of animals is used as an article of diet, we should give preference to those that arc clean in the selection of their food. The animals that hve exclusively on gi-ains and other vegetable products, as the sheep and ox, rank highest in this respect; those that subsist upon a mixed diet of animal and vegetable substances, as poultry and wild fowl, stand lower; while others of strictly carnivorous habits, as hons, tigers, etc., are so far down in the scale that no one considei’s them fit for human food. Indeed the carcasses of flesh-eating animals are so full of nitrogenous matter, that they begin to putrefy almost as soon as life is extinct; and the odor that is given off from their bodies is strong and offensive, even in hfe. The ordinary domestic fowl is far from being clean in its habits of feeding, particularly if it lives about the house; it helps itself from the slop-pail, the pig-pen, and other places of questionable cleanliness. In fact, there are few thingsPOULTRY. 473 PART m.] that it will not eat; like the hog, it is a scavenger of not a very high order. The turkey is pei'haps a grade higher, from the fact that it roams over a lai’ger territory, and gets more grain with less local tilth. Ducks and geese, whether wild or tame, are any thing but choice in their eating; nothing delights them more than to pick the worms out of the bottom of stagnant pools, where they lie in a bed of slime. ]\Iuch of the poultry in our markets is stall-fed, before it is killed; the fowls are cooped up in close stalls or cages where they can not stir, and then they are stuffed with corn dougli or other soft materials, as long as they can swallow. In this imnatural condition they are soon covered with thick layers of unhealthy fat, every pai’ticlo of which is saturated with the retained excretions of their bodies. You will have no difficulty in recognizing them, as you see them in the mar- kets; the fat is not a healthy yeUow, but a pale sickly white; it lies in thick pads, under the skin, extending from the middle to the end of the back-bone; and the whole surface of the body looks greasy, filthy and disgusting; none of that cleanly, wholesome appeai'ance, which belongs to farm-fed poultry, roaming at large. First, then, secure a fowl tliat has not been stall-fed; this will often be hard to do in the large cities, especially about Christmas time. You can judge something of the age by the pin-feathers, by the sliort or long spurs on the legs, and also by the coarse or fine texture of tlie skin; if the fowl is young the skin will be easily torn, and the end of the breast- bone soft and gristly. Next, see that it has been recently killed, and the dressing properly done; these things yo4i ought to be able to know at sight; if you do not, a little practice will teach you ; and the olfactories will aid in the mean time. If the chicken or turkey does not smell sweet inside, do not buy it. True, there are ways of “ doc- toring ” spoiled birds, with soda, salt, etc.; Tmt a fowl that ijeeds such attention had better be left in the market, sincQ474 [part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. it can never have the flavor of one in good sound condition; and about the last thing to make a dinner of, is tainted meat, of whatever kind. Fowls of every description, should be drawn, immediately after they are killed; if this is not done, the contents of the intestinal canal will be absorbed into the flesh, and ^vill of course poison it. It has been truly said, that “ there is no direr disgrace to our noidhern markets, than the practice of sending whole dead fowls to them.” As soon as drawn, they should be thoroughly rinsed with cold water, and wiped per- fectly dry with a clean cloth; then a piece of fresh charcoal should be placed in the cavity of each, and they should be shipped to market without delay. So long as we eat rotten or tainted food we must expect putrid fevers, diphtheria, doctors’ bills, and death. Roast Turkey. r[j: Select a young fowl, recently killed, and one that has not been stall-fed; if those for sale in market are dressed, you will know which to reject (that is, if they are not aU of the same description), by the loads of fat on the back, aU of recent deposit, and of a pale sickly hue, very much the color of dirty lard. If you buy the da}^ before cooking, set the turkey in a cold place till wanted; then singe off the hairs over burning jiaper, remove the pin-feathers with a knife, and wash quickly in cold water, rinsing very thoroughly inside. Drain wcU, while you are preparing the dressing. If it be a thing possible, have for this, good sweet home-made loaf, about three days old; bread that is a third or foui-th part sifted Graham, is the best. If not stale the loaf should be cut or torn open, and dried well in the oven. Cut in thin shccs, and crumb or grate it fine; if the crusts are hard, soak them separately (after crumbing) in a little warm or hot water. Rut all into a bowl or basin, add a spoonful of dry sagePART III.J 475 POULTRY. rubbed fine (more or less, according to quantity’’ of crumbs), and stii* well together; if sage is not liked, use thyme or any other herb, as preferred. Then take a piece of fresh sweet butter, say the size of a walnut, to a quaid of crumbs; pour on a little hot water to melt it, and stir it in. Some add also a beaten egg, but this is not necessary; and some use suet finely pulverized, instead of butter; a chopped onion may be added, if hked. Pour in tepid water, a little at a time, stirring lightly with a spoon; be sure you do not make the dressing too wet; it should be moist and flaky, rather than wet and sticky. Fill the body of the turkey, not very full, as the dressing must have room to swell; then sew up the vent with a strong thread, removing it before serving. Stuff the crop in the same way, and sew it up; there should be enough dressing left out to fill a small dish. Tie the legs together with a bit of cotton twine, and then fasten them securely to the “ pope’s nose ” at the end of the back-bone. Put the turkey into a dripping-pan, lay the heaid and gizzard beside it, and throw the liver away; then pour in a quiud of boiling water, and start to roasting in a slow oven; the heat must be moderate at aU times, but very slow the first half hour. aUlow three to four hours or longer, according to the size of the turkey, or about thirty minutes for every j^ound; it will require all this time, if the oven is regulated as it sliould be; and if the fowl is not young, another half hour will perhaps be needed. To hurry any paid of tlie process, is to have a spoiled dinner; baste frequently, as the roast progresses, and add a little boiling water from time to time; the pan must not get dry, or nearly dry. Turn the turkey as the surface browns; and when it begins to harden at any point, as on the legs or wings, wet a clean napkin in warm Avater, fold it several thicknesses and lay it on the overheated part. The last half hour you will have to be particularly Avatch-47G health in the household. [pabt hi. ful, else tlie bro^vning ■s^^l go on too fast. The turkey should be a pale chestnut color when done. Half an hour liefore finishing, dip out a poiiion of the dnpping and stir it into the remainder of the dressing. Put the latter into a dish that will hold it conveniently, smooth the toji with a knife, and set it in the oven to brown ; if you have not (wo ovens, jilace it on the grate above the roast, provided there is room ; if there is not, you will have to put in the dressing after the turkey is taken out. When thoroughly tender— whic.h you will ascertain by piercing with a fork—lift the turkey to a platter, pour the dripping into a bov/1, and skim off all the grease ; then thicken with a little browned flour wet to a smooth paste with milk or water—cream is better —return the gi’avy to the pan, and let it boil up a mo- ment on top of the stove. A good plan in a large family, is to caiwe the turkey before setting it on the table ; this saves time in serving. See that you have a sharp knife, cut across the grain, par- ticidarly in carving the breast, and make the slices very thin. You will not of course forget the fine dish of mashed potatoes, cooked “just right,” and stirred lightly with a fork before dishing into the tureen. Cranberry sauce is the proper thing to have with roast turkey ; prepare it early in the mornmg or the day before, as per recipe al- ready given in Paid II. If cranbenies are not to be had, try canned gooseberries, dart apple sauce, or fresh oranges. Wild Tukkey. The wild turkey is dressed, washed, stuffed and baked, precisely like the domestic fowl of that name, care being taken that it is fresh when brought from the market. The flesh is a little darker, but richer and sweeter than that of the tame turkey.477 POULTRY. PAIIT III.J Cold Sliced Turkey. If there is a consicTerahle portion of the turkey left over from the roast of the previous day, a good iilan is to cut the dai’k and white meat into thin slices, and serve for din- nei’, with warm mashed potato and other plain vegetables. The cranberry sauce, if there is any left, will be a good ac- comiDaniment. Turkey Pie.iJ^ Instead of cold sliced turkey, as in the last, a may be maile—which many prefer, even to the fresh roast. Take all the meat, white mid dark, from the bones, rejecting any tough skin or gi-istle (these put along with the bones), and cut it in inch bits, slicing the hm’d muscles that surround the “ drum-sticks.” Set this by for the pie. Then crack the bones to pieces, put them and the inferior bits into a pot, and cover with cold water ; fit on the lid, and stew veiy slowly three-quarters of an horn-; the pot should sim- mer, rather than boil. When the strength is all extracted strain out the liquor, adding any gravy left over, and thick- en it a trifle with wliite flom’ wet smooth with milk or water ; return to the fire, let it boil up a moment, and set it off. Then peel some potatoes, and cut them in pieces scarcely an inch thick ; or if small, into quarters ; you may have half or two-thirds the quantity there is of meat. Put these into a stew-pan, add a cuiiful of boiling water, and parboil seven to ten minutes; then drain joerfectly diy, cover closely, and set where they will keep hot. If cut a little smaller, you may omit the parboiling ; they will cook in the pie by the time a thick crust is done. Now fill a bake-dish nearly full, with the meat and potato mixed ; if there are a few crumbs of cold dressing, you may put them in ; then pour over the made gravy, filling the dish half or two-thirds full ; if there is not quite enough, add a little boiling water. Cover with a light478 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAHT in. ci-eam jiaste, made as per reciiie given for meat pies, and rolled half to tliree-cpiarters of an inch thick ; secure the crust well at the edges, prick with a fork, and cut a cross- slit in the center, two inches each wa}\ Set the pie into a very even oven, and hake from thirty to forty minutes, according to the thickness of the crust; if the latter is liked crisp and brittle, rather than soft and puffy, mix it a trifle stiffer, roll not cpiite so thick, and keep in the oven a little longer. Seiwe in the dish in which you bake. This pie warmed over, is quite as good as at first; put the remnant in a pan, cover with another, and place in a hot oven till well heated through. Tureey Scallop. When there is cold turkey left over, you may slice the meat pretty thin, cutting it across the fiber ; then chop, not too fine. You can mix with it a few cold potatoes if you like, also chopped, and add any small bits of ch’essing that are left. Prejiare a gravy as in the last recipe, by cracking the bones (putting in the neck and other poor pieces), cov- ering with cold water, and simmering nearly an hour ; after straining the liquor add to it any gravy left from the roast, thiciken a trifle with white flour, bring to a boil, and set off to cool. Cover the bottom of a bake-pan with a layer of dry bread-crumbs, and then one of the hashed meat (or meat and potato), using half of it; follow with more cnimbs, and then with the rest of the meat. The dish should not be too full; pour over the jiie the prepared gravy, making the whole quite moist; add a little boiling water, if the gravy gives out. Cover with a layer of very fine crumbs, into which you have stirred a beaten egg and half a cup of milk or cream ; the batter should be just stiff enough to spread nicely over the top. Then smooth with a knife, invert an old plate or clean pie-pan over the dish, andPART III.J POULTRY. 479 bake thirty minutes, or till the gi*avy bubbles up at the sides. Brown at the last, and serve in the bake-pan. This scallop is very good, but not equal to turkey pie. Turkey Stew. 4:^ Instead of a pie or scallop, a very palatable dish is made in this fashion : Take the meat aU off the bones, and cut it in rather small pieces. Simmer the bones and other bits, as in the last two recipes ; then strain out the liquoi', return it to the pot, add the meat, and any cold gravy left over. If there is none, a small bit of butter, or spoonful or two of fresh beef gravy will answer. Let the whole come to a boil, and then add a few diminutive dumplings, made as follows : Mix a hght dough, as for cream biscuits, pinch off in very small bits, and drop them into the stew; it is better to pinch, than to roll out and cut. If there is not sufficient gravy add water, boiling hot; cover the j3ot closely, and cook ten minutes, or till the dumplings are done. Add at the last a spoonful or two of thickening made of milk and flour, stirring it gently through the mass; then put on the lid, and boil up a moment. Dish, and serve immediately. Instead of dumplings, bits of toasted bread may be laid over the stew, three to five minutes liefore it is taken up. In this case, stir in the thickening as soon as the ]>ot boils, and then lay in the toast. Or you may jmt into a dish the slices of toasted bread, or cold biscuits split open and slightly bro^vned in a hot oven, and pour the stew over them. Boned Turkey. Having dressed the tiu’key, piit it into a pot just large enough to hold it conveniently, and add boiling water to about cover. Lay on the lid, and stew slowly till veiy ten- der ; if more water is needed, add it boiling hot. When done take out the fowl, and set the pot, covered, where theHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 480 [part hi. liquor will keep hot till wanted; there should be less than a pint of it. After the turkey is cool enough to handle remove the skin, slip the meat from the bones, and with the fingers separate the larger bits into several pieces. Then fill a deej) oval dish, mixing the d;uk and light meat togetlier, so that in slicing, the pieces may be well mottled; place in such a way that the fibers will run lengthwise of the moidded cake; this enables you to cut across the “ grain.” "\\Tien aU is in, pour the hot liquor over and through the meat, moistening the mass thoroughly, but not drenching it; the dish must be filled considerably above the level. Cover with an oval plate or platter just ku’ge enough to fit snugly, set in a cool place and put on a weight, as a heavy fiat-iron. You may slice as soon as cold, or the next day. Another way is after boiling, to cut into bits an inch and a half or two inches long; fill the dish, mixing the dark and light meat, and sprinkling between the layers a cup of fine dry bread-crumbs; then moisten with the hot liquor, and mould as before. Or you may leave out the crumbs, stir into the liquor (hot) one or two rolled crackers, pour it over the meat, and mould. Roast Chickens. Select fowls that have been recentl}" killed, and not stall- fed. If already dressed, proceed to singe off the hairs by holding each chicken over burning paper, or a bright wood blaze. If there are pin-feathers, pick them out with the edge of a knife, and then wash the fowls quickly in cold water, rinsing weU inside. Cut off and save the necks; throw out the giblets, except the hearts and gizzards; the liver is a filthy, depurating organ (not quite so bad as the kidney), and should never be eaten. ]\Iake a dressing of fine dry bread-crumbs, all of good home-made loaf; part Graham is best. Add to the crumbsPOULTRY. 481 PART m.J a small lump of fresh butter, a little diy sage (or other herb, if prefeiTed), and moisteu with tepid water, stiiTiug well as you add it. Do not put in too much water; have the (b-essing light and flaky, not wet and heavy. Fill the fowls with this, leaving plenty of room for the dressing to swell, and then sew up the vents with a strong thread; fill the crops in the same manner, and sew them up; the threads must be pulled out before serving. Put the chick- ens into a dripping-pan the size to hold them, add a cup of boiling water, and roast slowly, very slowly the first half hour. Baste every fifteen or twenty minutes, turning as needed; and if any part browns too fast, cover it with a clean napkin wet in warm water, and folded two or three times. Allow from one to two hours for roasting, according to size and age; test witli a fork, to ascertain when done. After the fowls are in the oven cut the giblets into small bits, put them and the necks into just enough cold water to cover, and stew moderately tiU tender. When the chickens are done, take them out of the pan and make the gravy; drain the grease all off the dripping, and set the pan on the stove; then put in the giblets and the liquor in which they boiled, thicken Avith a little broAvned flour wet with milk or Avater, and boil up a moment. Broiled Chicken. Take a young chicken, dressed and singed, split it doAAUi the back, Avash quickly in cold Avater, and dry Avith a clean cloth. Then flatten the breast-bone Avith a mallet, tAvist back the wings, and place the fowl skin uppermost, not on a gridiron, but in a small di’ipping-pan; press it down as flat as possible. Add neither water nor butter, but simple- set it in a hot oven and shut the door; look at it now and then, to see that it does not bum. If very young, the chicken should be done in tAventy to thirty minutes; if not, it may take double tliat time. Should it broAvn too fast on 2148‘2 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PA-RT IIL top, cover Avitb an oiled jiaper, or an inveiied pie-pan. When done, pour over the dripping in the bottom of tne dish, provided it is not scorched. Another way to cook spring chickens, is to cut them into joints, roll these in flour, and lay them in a skillet in which you have melted a spoonfid of fresh butter, or sweet beef dripjiing; this must be hot, before the chicken is put in. Cover closely, turn frequently, and browm well on both sides. Cook from thirty to forty minutes, or till tender; each piece should be nicely browned, but not burnt. Take out when done, and if gravy is wanted add a trifle of boil- ing water, and stir in half a cup of milk or cream, thick- ened with white flour; bod up just a moment, and pour the gravy over the chicken, or into the gi’avy-boat. Smothered Chickens. Either cut up two chickens, or leave them whole. Put them into a pot, add a pint of boding water, cover closely, and heat very sloidy to boding; then skim, cover again, and stew or simmer an hour and a half, or until tender; the water should all be evaporated when done. Then tm-n the chickens (or pieces), and brown them in their own gravy; if there is not enough of this, add half a spoonful of fresh butter, or a little clean beef driiiping. Another method, not so easy, because of the basting, is the following : Split the chickens down the back, flatten as for broiling, and then lay them smoothly in the bottom of a di*ipping-pan; add nearly a pint of boihng water, cover with another jian the same size, and place in a hot oven; cook an hour to an hour and a half, or till thoroughly ten- der. Turn them once or twice, and baste several times; oftener, at the last. Cover between bastings, and remove from the pan when done; then add a little boiling water to the dripping, thicken udth bro-mied flour, and boil up a moment. Pour the gravy over the chickens.483 POULTRV. PART III.J Stewed Chicken. Cut the chicken into joints, drop into a pot, and cover with boiling water; or if the fowl is old, with cold water. Heat slowdy to a boil, and skim; then stew gently from one to two hours, or until tender. Twenty minutes before fin- ishing, add a few new potatoes with the skins slii)ped off; or old ones peeled and not too lai’ge, will do. Should more water be needed, add it boiling hot. If dumplings are liked make a light cream paste, pinch off in smjill bits, and di'op these in when the potatoes begin to bod; cover closely, and cook fifteen to twenty minutes, or tiU the dumplings are done. Then dish the chicken, potatoes and dumplings into a hot tureen, fit on its Hd, and set where it will keep w'ann; thicken the gravy in the pot with a little cream and flour, let it boil up a moment, and pour it over the stew. Instead of potatoes and dumplings, you may add half a cup of rice, cooking it foidy to fifty minutes; no other thickening wfill be needed. Chickens Stewed Whole. Prepare and stuff two chickens as for roasting, and sew them uji cai’efuUy; you can tie the necks with clean wrap- ping-thread, after filling the crops. Put them into a pot, add nearly or rpiite a pint of boiling water (more, if the chickens are not young), cover with a closely-fitting lid, and bring very slowly to a boil. Skim, cover again, and sim- mer, still slowly, for an hour and a half, or till thoroughly tender. Little if any fiUing uii should be needed, promded you stew slowly; and very little gravy must be left in the pot, when the fowls are taken out. Thicken what there is with a trifle of browmed flour, let it just boil, and pour it over the chickens. If prefeiTed, you may stew without stuffing.HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part m. 484 Chicken Pik Cut up two ^rown chickens, having the pieces as small as i:)ossible, drop these into boiling water, and stew till nearly tender; if the chickens are old, start in cold water. There should be a pint or more of hquor in the j^ot. when it is set off. Then prepare a Hght cream paste, as per recipe hereafter given for meat j)ies; you may line the sides of the bake-pan or not, as you like; or if it is deep, you may cover with paste half way down. The bottom is better left uncovered; and many prefer to bake in a shallow dish, having only a top crust; in this case take an iron bread-f>an of suitable size, or one of granitized iron. When the chickens ai'e sufficiently cooked take out the pieces, remove the breast-bones, and cut the breast-meat into two or three bits. Put all in the pan, laying each j)iece so that the bones will not interfere with the cutting of the }3ie. If liked, put in some small potatoes cut in quaiiers, or in bits an inch thick, and parboiled ten minutes in a very little water. Then thicken the liquor in which the chickens were stewed, by stiiTing in a trifle of white flour wet with milk or cream; boil up a moment, and pour it over the pie; if there is not enough of the gravy to fill the dish half or two-thirds full, add boiling water. Then lay on the top cnist, rolled about half an inch thick, secure the edges, prick well with a fork, and cut a good cross-slit in the middle for the escape of steam. Bake from thiiiy to forty minutes, in an even oven; then cool a little, and seiwe in the dish. Chicken Sc.\llop. This should follow roast chickens, provided the cold meat simply sliced, is not preferred. To make the scallop, take the meat from the bones, and cut it in half inch bits; then put the bones into a pot with cold water to cover them, and simmer slowly forty to fifty minutes; if you have a beef orPOULTRY. 4815 P.UIT III.] mutton bone, or a bit of cold steak sweet and fresh, put that in with the rest. AVhen all the strength is drawn out of them strain the liquor, add any gravy left over, and thicken a trifle with white flour; then boil iqi a moment, and lift from the Are. Cover the bottom of a dish witli dry bread-crumbs, lay in the bits of chicken, and a little cold chopjied potato if you like, filling the pan not quite to the top. Then pour over the gi’avy, and tinish with a good layer of fine ciaimbs, into which you have whipped a beaten egg and a half a cup of milk. Bake, covered, in a moderate oven half an hour, bi'owning at the last. Chicken Pot-Pie. The chicken pot-pie of forty years ago, which the Caro- lina people and their descendants used to make for log- rollings, wool-jiickings, quiltings, etc., was after this fashion (we whose mothers made them, have not forgotten the pro- cess): First, the chickens were cut up—not very young ones, but “ good fat hens ”—and stewed till nearly tender ; then the pieces were lifted out, and the liquor saved to moisten the pie. The latter was made in an old-fashioned bake-kettle or “ Dutch oven,” as it was commonly called ; this w'as a large pot eight or nine inches in depth, with per- pendicular sides and a horizontal bottom; it stood on three legs—over a bed of hve coals when it held a loaf of bread or a pot-pie, in process of baking. At such times, it was covered with a heavy iron lid that had a rim around it, to keep the hot coals from falling off. But to the j)ie. The cnist was made of light biscuit dough, white flour (Graham cream paste would have been better); this being rolled into oval sheets half or three- quariers of an inch thick, was so placed as to line the sides of the kettle, and a portion of tlie bottom; the center was always left bare. The pieces of chicken were then laid in, till the bottom was well covered ; these were followed by[part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 486 l)its of the paste, either pinched off, or rolled and cut into scpiares ; some added new potatoes, half as large as a hen';) egg. Then came more chicken and more dumplings, wdth or without the j^otatoes ; hits of butter rolled in flour were also interspersed, to say nothing of a light siirinkling of those “contraband” ai-ticles, pepper and salt. One thing did not go in, at least in our section of the country, viz.. Halt pork, or any kind of pork. It was as foreign to chicken pot-pie, as Bologna sausage to peach cobbler. After filling the kettle to within an inch and a half of the top, the liquor that had been saved was poured in ; there was enough of this to come iiretty well up the sides of the pot, and almost cover the jiie. Next in order came the top crust, a thick sheet like the others ; and the edges being well secured, a big cross-slit was made in the middle, and the whole surface well pricked vdth a fork to prevent blis- tering. The kettle had now to be placed over a bed of coals on the hearih, and its lid laid on ; this latter having been heated—but not to redness—over the main fire, was covered vnth two or three shovelfuls of bright coals. Every now and then the cook lifted the lid with a big wooden poker, and turned the kettle quarter way round, to give aU sides a chance to bake, from the heat of the blazing fire before which it stood, and over which hung another dinner pot, suspended from the crane or trammel. An iron tea-kettle full of boiling water, stood directly in front of the open fire ; and if the pie needed more gra\y (always a debatable question), the next time the lid was lifted and the kettle tui’ned, a little hot water could be poured into it through the cross-slit in the center. In from forty to fifty minutes the ciaist was thoroughly done, and the pie ready to dish. In these latter days of cook-stoves and kitchen ranges, this pie is usually made in an iron bread-pan, and baked in the oven. A “ kettle pie ” is sometimes made the same as the487’ POULTRY. PART III.] one just described, and cooked by banging tlie pot, covered, over the fire, and boiling, or rather slewing it half an hour, tin the paste is done. It is better, however, to omit the bottom crust altogether, as it would be apt to scorch. The chicken-pie projier, that fed the preacher at Quarterly Meeting times, was somewhat different; it was made as fol- lows : Good, deeji pie-pans were lined with ordinary pie- crust, made pretty shoit; the jiieces of parboiled chicken (young “ spring chicken ”) were laid in, care lieing taken to place them so that in cutting, tlie knife would miss the bones. Having fiUed the dish the liquor was added, plus the pepper and salt (more contraband), with small bits of butter rubbed in flour, to thicken. Then the top crust was laid on, its edges well secui’ed by notching with the thumb and finger, and a good cross-sht made in the center. After pricking well with a fork, the j)ies were baked and set away, to be eaten cold for lunch ; or they might be wai’med tlu-ough for next day’s dinner. Pressed Chicken. Dress two or three grown chickens, and stew whole in about as much water as will cook them ; for two chickens you might put in, say a pint and a half of boiling water to stall; with. If more is needed, it can be added afterward ; stew very slowly, keeping the pot closely covered ; there should be half a pint of liquor remaining, when done. It will require from an hour to an horn- and a half, possibly longer if the chickens are not young, to cook them suffi- ciently. When thorouglily tender remove the bones, and lay the meat in a deep oval dish, placing it so that the fibers will lie all in one direction, viz., the long way of the dish ; for in slicing the pressed loaf, you will cut across it (not lengthwise), and also across the grain or fiber. Mix the dark and light parts well together, as you place the meat; p,nd when all is in, pom* the liquor (which must be hot) overHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 488 [PAIiT HI. and through it; the dish must be filled considerably more than level. Then cover with an oval plate or platter of suitable size, and so i^laced as to fit snugly to the loaf ; piit a weight on it, and set in a cool j^lace. ^Vhen thoroughly cold it is ready to slice. Some sprinkle very dry bread-crumbs, or cracker-dust through the meat, before adding the liquor. ’WILD BIKDS AND OTHER GAilE. These are brought into our markets and sold in almost every conceivable condition, and stage of decay. If the sportsman and the “ middle man ” would take i)ains to have the birds carefully di*awn as soon as killed, and a good fresh lump of charcoal jfiaced in the cavity of each, it would be a great advantage to the salesman, as well as a satisfaction to the piirchaser—to say nothing of the bad consequences which follow, in a sanitary point of view, from the use of meats that are in a state of semi-putrefaction. It is to be hoped that the time will come, when the consumer and pro- ducer win be brought nearer together; when provisions of aU kinds will be shipped dii-ectly, or with as little delay as possible, to the points of final distribution. For the pres- ent, however, we must take things as we find thejn. The birds, if recently killed and properly dressed, will simply need a thorough rinsing in pure cold water, and dic- ing with a clean cloth. But if there is the slightest suspi- cion that they are not perfectly sweet, stir a teaspoonful of soda into a quart of cold water, wash Avell with this, and then rinse, using ice-water if you have it. Before cooking, remove any shot that may be lodged in the flesh, and cut away the bruised or discolored poilions. If yoii can not cook immediately, dry the birds well inside after rinsing, and eilher put in a lump of fresh charcoal (or a lemon with the rind removed), or fill with fresh-sliced onions, to absorbWILD BIRDS AND OTHER GAME. PART III.] 489 the gases. Then keep in the coldest place possible, till wanted. Wild Pigeons. These may be cooked either by roasting or stewing; they are too tough to broil well. If roasted, stuff with a dress- ing of bread-crumbs, as you would a chicken, place the birds closely together in a snuill diipping-pan, and add a cup of warm water wnth a spoonful of fresh dripjiing, or butter. Cover with another pan the same size, and roast slowly, basting often ; if more water is needed, add it a lit- tle at a time, and boiling hot. '\\']ien thoroughly tender lift to a dish, turn another over it, and set w4iere they wiU keep warm; thicken the gravy in the pan with a little browned hour, adding a tritle of boiling water if necessary ; then heat a moment, and pour it out. For stewing, you may stuff them or not, as is convenient; if stuffed, sew up the vents carefully. Then put them into a pot, add a cupfid of cold water, and simmer covered very slowly for an hoiu’ and a half, or till tender and well brown- ed; turn them two or three times, covering the pot between tiuTiings. If cooked sufficiently slowdy, no filling up vIU be needed; but should water have to be added, see that it is boiling. When done take out the birds, put them into a liot dish, cover, and set in the oven to keep warm ; then thicken the gravy with a little browned flour, or cream and flour, boil up a moment, and pour it over. Pigeons are sometimes cooked in this way: Stuff as for roasting or stewing, and pack them into a wide-mouthed jug, or other closed vessel; a tin bucket will do, covered with a closely-fitting lid. Put in a cup of weak gravy, and cook in a pot of boihng water three hours, or until tendei*. Then dish, thicken the gravy remaining, and pour it over them. This is called, “ jugged ” pigeons. Rabbits or squirrels may be jointed, and cooked in the same way; you may put in with them a sliced onion, if it is HketL 21*490 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. Pigeon Pie. Clean and wasli the pigeons, cut in quarters, and stew till nearly tender; start them in boiling water, removing any scum that rises. When done take them out; there should be a j)int or more of the liquor in which they boiled; thicken tliis with a httle white flour, wet to a smooth paste with milk or water, let it come to a boil, and set it off. Line a bake-pan Avith hght cream paste, made as per recipe for meat-j)ies, hereafter given; or if preferred, cover only the sides of the pan, leaving the bottom bare. Then lay in half the birds, adding small bits of j^aste, pinched off, and di’opped in here and there; or you may put in two or three y>arboiled potatoes, not sliced, but cut in small pieces. Add the rest of the birds, and also the thickened liquor; if there is not enough of this, put in boihng water; the pie should be more than half covered with the gravy. Then lay on the top crust, rolled half an inch thick, pinch the edges securely together, and cut a cross-sht in the center. Prick well with a fork, and bake from thii’t}" to forty minutes, or till the crust is done. Some stew with the pigeons bits of lamb; the rib is best; have it cut into short lengths, and as you place the meat in the pie, mix it and the birds well together. Or you may take the remnants of cold lamb, though the newly cooked is better. Quails, Grouse, Etc. The bu'ds known as partridges, quails, grouse, etc., are all cooked in about the same way. First dry-pick, singe, and cut off the heads and feet; then draw, sjilit do'svn the back, and rinse thoroughly in cold water. If not in prime condition as to freshness, wash quickly in soda-water (using a teaspoonful of soda to a quart of the liquid), then rinse well, and dry with a clean cloth. You may roast, stew or broil, as preferred,WILD BIRDS AND OTHER GAME:. 491 PART III.] Roasted. Stuff tlie birds with a dressing of bread-crumbs, the same as chicken; lay them closely together in an h’on pan, add a cup of hot w'ater and a lumji of fresh butter, or a spoonfid of fresh dripping if you have it. Baste frequently, and cover toward the last if there is need; have rather a slow oven, and cook the smaller birds 1014}' to sixty minutes, or until tender. The larger ones, as prairie-fowls, mU take from one to two hours, according to age. 'When done lift them out, add a little thickening made of browned flour and w^ater—cream is better—and let the gravy come to a boil. Serve wuth mashed potato, stewed turnips, or other plain vegetables; and have for dessert, fresh oranges, or cranberry or other tart sauce. Stcived. Clean, and stuff or not, as it is convenient; if stuffed, sew up tight to keep in the dressing. Put the birds into a pot, add a cupful of boiling water, and stew slowly; tuim once or twice, as they cook. Or if preferred, you may cut them into joints or quaiders, put in water as before, and stew very slowly till tender ; keep the jiot closely covered. There should be just enough liq’iorleft for gravy; when done take out the birds, thicken with a httle browned flour wet with milk or water, heat the gravy to a boil, and poirr it over. Broiled. After cleaning, split the pigeons down the back, rinsing well, and drying with a clean cloth. Then flatten each with a steak-pounder, and broil on a gridiron over a bed of clean coals; it will take fifteen or twenty minutes to cook them. A good way, since it saves the trouble of broiling over a hot fire, is to flatten as before, lay them smoothly on the bottom of a dripping-pan, and then place in a hot oven. Tliey will be done in about the same time, and require no attention pxcept to see that they do not burn.[PAET IIL 492 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Qu.ul on Toast. This relished titbit, as ordinarily prepared, is simply a broiled quail on dry toast, each plentifully saturated while hot, with melted butter. A more wholesome dish—though too moist for a dry lunch—is the following: Fii’st clean and truss, then lay (without stuffing) in a dripping-jDan, add a cup of wai’m water or diluted gravy with a bit of fresh butter in it, and place in the oven; baste frequently till done. A few minutes before finishing, get ready the toast; take good home-made Grrahain loaf two days old, slice it rather thin, and brown evenly on both sides, leaving the bread just a trifle moist between the crusted surfaces; then break the latter with a stiff knife to make it tender. When you have lifted out the birds lay them on the hot toast, one to each slice, thicken the gravy with a little browned flour, or cream and flour, and pour it over. Prairie-Fowls. These are a species of grouse, and are cooked by roasting, stewing or broiling, according to the recipes just given. Or you may stuff them, steam till tender, and then brown in the oven. Or if preferred. All with a dressing, and stew in a tightly closed pot wuth veiw little water, till done ; then brown ten minutes, basting with the liquor left from stewdng. Dish the fowls, thicken the gravy wflth a trifle of browned flour, boil up a moment, and pour it over them. Serve with cranberry sauce or other acid fruit, or foUow with taid oranges as a desseid. If a choice stew is wanted, take only the legs, wings and breast, stew tOl tender, and then brown in the oven as before. Small Birds. The smaller birds, as the snipe, woodcock, etc., are dressed and cooked the same as partridges or quails ; ifWILD BIRDS AND OTHER QAMK PART III.] 493 broiled on a gridiron, the latter should be of wii’e, and the wires not too far apart ; they will broil (or roast) in from fifteen to twenty minutes. If roasted, a good way after cleaning and rinsing, is to lay them, unstuffed, into a dripping-pan, add a cup of weak gravy—or w'arm water with a bit of butter—for basting, and jjlace in a hot oven. Then cut some shoes of good home-made loaf, a little stale, and toast these evenly on both sides, leaving the bread a trifle soft between its browned surfaces. Five minutes before the bii'ds are done, put a slice of toast under each of them ; baste once or twice, hft to a platter, thicken the gi’avy with a Httle browned flour, and pom’ it over. Partridge or Quail Pie. Clean the birds, cut them in halves or quarters, and cover with boiling water ; stew’ slowly till ahnost tender ; then lift out the pieces, and leave the liquor in the pot. Make a light cream paste, as per recipe hereafter given, and line a bake-pan with it, rolling the cnist about half an inch thick. Or if preferred, cover the sides of the dish, leaving the bottom bare ; then lay in the birds, and add a little par- boiled potato cut in small bits, if you like them ; you may put in some pieces of cold lamb, if you have it. Pinch off a few very small bits of the paste, and drop here and there over the pie ; these diminutive dumplings should lie in the spaces between the more prominent pieces of meat, giving room to swell. Stir into the liquor in the pot a little white flour -wet with milk, cream or water, let it come to a boil, and take it for moistening ; if there is not enough to cover rather more than half of the pie, put in boiling water. Then lay on the top cmst rolled half or three-quarters of an inch thick, and press firmly together at the edges; prick well with a fork, cut a good cross-slit in the middle, and bake with a moderate heat thirty to forty minutes. If the ^;rust is liked soft, mix the dough not very stiff, and bake494 HKVLTn IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [tART III. till just done, in ratlier a quick oven. But if you prefer it crisp, niix it a triHe stifEer, and roll not more than a third of an inch thick ; have an even oven, and hake a little longer ; do not scorch. This pie is excellent warmed over. If you have not enough birds for the pasty, boil in the same or a sejoai’ate pot some pieces of lamb, or tender mutton ; the rib chopped in short lengths, and trimmed of most of its fat, is good. Or you may parboil a young chicken, or a rabbit or squirrel, and mix with the quails. SginKEELS AND Rabbits. Squirrels and rabbits are cooked in the same way, except tliat rabbits take a little longer time. They must be dressed with the utmost care; instruct the cook also to sep- arate the pelvic bones, and remove every trace of the lower intestine, some portions of which are apt to be left. AVash well, taking out any shot that may be lodged in the hesh, and cut away the bruised or discolored parts ; then droj) into very cold water, and soak twenty to thii-ty minutes, before cooking. You may either broil or stew. Broiled. If you broil, see that the squiiTels (or rabbits) are very young, and therefore tender. After soaking, di-y weU with a clean cloth, and gash them doAvn the back through the thickest portion ; then flatten each, place it on a gridiron, and broil over a bed of clear coals, turning often. Or you may lay them smooth on the bottom of a dripping-pan, and cook in a hot oven without basting ; oil the pan slightly with a little sweet dripping, or a bit of fresh butter ; they should be done in half an hour. Steived. Having cleaned and soaked them, cut into joints, drop into a pot, and cover with boiling water; then slice in anWILD BIRDS AND OXIiliR GAME. PART III.] 495 onion, and stew slowly one hour, or until tender; some put in a young chicken, also cut up, stewing all together. At the end of half an hour you may add a few potatoes, peeled, and cut in quarters; and if liked, some simxll bits of light paste, after the potatoes get fairly to boiling. AMien all ai’e done stir in a little cream thickened with white flour, boil up a moment, and dish for the table. Another way, is to put into a wade sauce-pan a spoonful of dripping, heat it till hot, and shce in an onion; you may add if you like, any sweet herbs, cut fine; then lay in a couple of rabbits or squii’rels, cover, and heat till they begin to brown. Turn, and browm again slightly; bo very careful that they do not scorch; then add a cup of boiling water, cover closely, and stew, or rather simmer one hour, or until tender. If the water should get too low, poui' in a httle, boding hot. Take them out when done, thicken the gravy with browned flour, or cream and flom- wet to a smooth paste, boil up a moment, and pour it over. Or you may cut into joints, browTi and stew as before, and when quite tender lay upon shces of toast, and pour the gravy over the whole. Squirrel Pie. Clean and soak the squiiTels, and cut them in joints; drop these into boiling water, enough to cover, add a little chopped onion or parsley if liked, and stew slowly till about tender, keeping the lid on. Then take out the meat, leav- ing the liquor in the pot. Make a hght cream paste, using equal parts of sifted Graham and white flour, and line a bake-pan w'ith it; or a better way is to cover the sides only. Lay in the squirrel, an’anging the pieces conveniently for cutting; then add or not, as you like, some potato cut in bits an inch thick, and parboiled ten minutes in a very little water. If you have some cold lamb or mutton, you may slice and add it; or a little cold beef, young and tender, and cut in small pieces, will not be amiss. ThickeR the liquor49G [part hi. HE.VXTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. left from stewing, bj stiiTing in a little white floui’ wet with milli or cream, and bringing to a boil; there should be enough gravy to cover about two-thii’ds of the pie; if there is not, add boding water—or half-boded soup if you have it, is better. Then jiinch off some very small bits of the paste, and droii them in between the jiieces of meat, or meat and potato. Put on the top crast, rolling it half to three-quar- ters of an inch thick, secure the edges, and prick wed with a fork; cut a good cross-slit in the center, and bake in an even oven from thirtj' to forty minutes, or tdl the crust is done. Serve in the dish. Rabbit pie is made in the same way; it is milder in flavor if paid chicken or lamb is used, or even mutton. A rib piece (of lamb or mutton) is best; it may be stewed with the rabbits, the ribs being cut into shoid lengths, and most of the fat removed. ^ Game Pie. Stew together young birds, and a young squirrel if you have it, tid ad are two-thirds done; the birds should be cut in halves or quarters, according to their size, and the squir- rel into joints. Save no giblets, except the heaids and giz- zards; cut these into smad bits, and stew with the rest; start in boiling water, cover closely, and stew rather slowly. When the meat is sufficiently cooked, take it out; there should be liquor enough left in the pot to make the gravy; stir into this a little white flour wet to a smooth paste with milk, cream or water, let it come to a boil, and set it off. Line a dish with light cream paste, and put in a layer of the meat; then add af/wnlayerof stale bread-crumbs moistened with warm milk or cream, and sprinkled with a little dry sage, thjnne or parsley, or a combination of these (using them siiaringly), if they are liked. Put in the rest of the meat, and two or three potatoes cut smad—not skced—and parboded in a little water eight minutes; some like a few pinches of the paste, tucked in between the larger pieces of497 PART m.] PISH. meat; if the latter is veiy lean, adtl bits of butter, rolled in flour. Now fill up with the gravy, and lay on a toj:> cnist rolled half an inch thick; prick well with a fork, cut a lai’ge cross-slit in the middle, and bake in a moderate oven about forty minutes ; cover, if there is danger of scorching. If preferred, you can have a top cinist only, and not bake quite so long. FISH. Fish is not more wholesome or nutritious than other meats; indeed, good beef or mutton is to be preferred to either “ fish or fowl.” Fowls, as already stated, are not as clean-feeding as cattle and sheep; and the fishes, if not car- nivorous in their habits, are at least pis(yivo7'ous, since they eat each other. Their food is relatively of a low grade, and their organization the same; hence*>their strong odor, and the coarse and unnutritious quality of their flesh. There is a great difference in the kinds, however, some (in the troji- ics) being actually poisonous—owing, no doid^t, to the nature of the food they subsist upon. After a meal of fisli, or of cei-tain Avild fowls, there is often experienced Ihii'st or feverishness, due of course, to the “ nonusable ” substances contained in the aliment, and which the system is in haste to get rid of. On the other hand, cattle and sheep, and in- deed all domestic animals, are more liable to be affected by disease, than are any of the wild animals, the birds of the air, or the inhabitants of the great waters, including the “vasty deep.” It follows, therefore, that those who live upon a flesh diet, will have to choose between evils. Fish not absolutely fresh, makes very indifferent eating; in selecting, see that the flesh is firm and hard, the fins stiff, and the scales bright; the gills should be a clear red, and the eyes not sunken, but full and prominent.health in the household. [part 111. m Boiled Fish. A^Hiatever the method of cooking, buy only fresh fish, and have them properly dressed. After removing the scales, rinse well in very cold water; and if there is any dark co- agulated blood on the inside, lying along the back-bone, scrape it cai-efuUy out with a knife, and linse again thor- oughly. To boil—or simmer, for the water must not even bubble —wrap the fish in a coarse net, through which you can easily test with a fork, to see if it is done. Or a nicer way perhaps, as both the form and flavor ai’e better preserved, is to sew around it a single thickness of coai’se linen cloth of rather loose textui’e. Cook in a fish-kettle, if you have one; this is an oblong vessel with a perforated tin plate suspended in it, upon which the fish is laid; the jilate has a handle at each end for lifting it out. If you have none, use a pot or pan with a bottom wide enough not to crowd. Barely cover with water that is just ready to boil, and set where it vdll keep hot, but will not bubble; remove any scum that rises. Continue the cooking tiU done, allowing, say ten to fifteen minutes to the pound, according to thickness, kind of fish, etc.; Avhen wrapped in a cloth, a lit- tle longer time would be required. Keep the lid on till finished. If the flavor is liked, slice and boil two or three onions in a separate pot, cooking till they are about done; then drain off the water, and turn them into the fish-kettle; some add a little parsley also. Use the fork from time to time, and as soon as the fish is tender remove from the fire, lift out, and drain; too much cooking will spoil it; and too little is equally detrimental to the flavor. Serve with lemon juice, if it is liked. Or a plain sauce may be made, as follows : Rub together a tablespoonful of fresh butter, and the same of Avhite flour; then stir into this mixture the liquor (a cupful) drained from the fish; itPISH. PAKT III.] 490 sliould be \oarm, not bot. well mixed, heat the sauce to boihng, and pour it over. Another way, is to substitute thin cream or new milk for the hsh-liquor; after mixing with the butter and flour, heat just to a boil, but no more. Still another sauce is made by stining into the hquor the butter and flour rubbed to- gether, and then adding half a cup of milk in which you have boiled a shallot, and a head of celery chopped fine; these must be strained out before the milk is added. Boil one minute, stir in a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and take from the fire. These sauces, though not hygienic, are relatively simjile. Baked Fisii.^j: Baked fisli, like roast tiu’key, depends more upon the manaer of cooking for its richness of flavor, than almost any other dish. But first of all, the fish itself must be en- tirely fresh, and the cleaning thorouglily done. Be very sure that you lay it open its whole length, and see if there is any dark, coagulated blood lying on either side of the back-bone; if so, scrape it all out with a knife, and rinse thoroughly (but do not soak) in cold water. The fish should lie cooked very soon after purchasing; if there is any delay, keep it in the coldest place possible, till wanted. The best way to bake it, is as follows : Fold it together, lay it in a drijiping-pan, add a cup of boiling water, and place in a verj^ moderate oven; it must cook slowly, espec- ially in the start. Baste pretty often, quite often toward the last, and by all means do not let the pan get dry; add bod- ing water—not too much—from time to time, as it is need- ed. Some pour over a little tomato stewed till smooth, half an hour before finishing. For a fish weighing three or four pounds, bake slowly and steadily, all of two hours; a smaller one will require about an hour and a half. Should the oven chance to get too hot, cover with another pan, and re- duce the heat as soon as possible. White fish should be an500 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT UL even buff color when done, and tbe grav}’, of which there should be two or three spoonfuls, thick and jelly-like; pour this over when dished, and send dii-ectly to the table. Shad, and some other fish, may be filled with a dressing of bread- crumbs moistened shghtly with tepid water, and a little diy sage or chopped parsley mixed through it; then sew up securely, and bake as before. The added di’essing, however, is not an improvement on the method just de- scribed. Some relish the fish better with a little lemon juice squeezed over; though a better way, is to send roimd the lemons cut in quarters. Serve with mashed or baked potato, and stewed white turnips or other plain vegetables. After a dinner with baked fish, a dessert of taid fresh oranges is in place; and at the supper following it, you will likely welcome canned gooseberries, sour cherries, or cran- berry sauce. Broiled Fish. Clean, rinse well with cold water, inside and out, and wipe dry with a cloth. Lay the fish flat on a gridiron, skin uppermost, and broil over a bed of clear coals till the under side is evenly browned. Then turn, and brown the other side in the same way. It will take from twenty to thirty minutes to broil a fish of ordinary size. Brook Trout. These, and other small fish, fresh from the running streams, are good cooked as follows : Put some fresh but- ter or dripping into a skillet or iron pan, and set it on the stove till hot, but not scorching. After cleaning, split the fish open from head to tad, so they will lie flat; then dip each into corn or oat meal, and lay it smoothlj^ flesh side down, in the hot skillet or pan. Brown moderately on the Hnder side, then turn, and brown the other. If properly done, they will be better — and the trouble less—than if broiled on a gi’idiron.RlSfl. 501 PART III.] Brook trout are sometimes baked, in this way: First dress them nicely, and if you can take the trouble, remove the bones carefully with the fingers. Then arrange the fish in a bake-pan, scattering bread-crumbs between the layers ; moisten the crumbs with half a cup of meat gravy, or you may drop in little bits of fresh butter. llTien the pan is full, add, say a cup of boiling water, cover closely, and set it in the oven. Bake with a moderate heat, from an hour and a half to two hours ; baste if there is need, and cover the top if it browns too fast. If the pan is in danger of going dry, add pail of a cup of water, boiling hot. When done, there should be a very little moisture in the bottom of the dish. Salt Fish. Fish, as already stated, must be considered inferior to beef or mutton—and all meats less wholesome than fruits and grains. What then can we say of salt fish ? If it was poor before salting, it is worse afterward ; the muscular fibers are hardened and toughened with the antiseptic, and to get rid of the latter, much of the nutrient properties con- tained must necessarily be lost in soaking and boiling. Briefly stated, salt fish is “mighty poor eating.” But if the country people wdll live on it, instead of raising and eating an abundance of choice fruits, vegetables and grains, the next best thing, of course, is to teach them (if they do not know ah’eady) how to cook the article in the least objection- able way. Mackerel.—( Salt.) Salt mackerel requires a long time to soak; twenty-four hours would scarcely more than suffice to freshen it. If it has to be done in shorter time, start the fish to soak in tepid W'ater, and change three or four times. When sufficiently fresh you may drop it into ice-water, and let it stand an hour to harden a little. Then broil, bake or boil, as suits you best.HEALTH IN THE HODSEHOLD. [PAIIT III If you broil, dry the fish with a clean cloth, lay it on a gi'idiron well oiled, and brown slightly; then turn with ex- treme care, using a cake-turner for fear of breaking it. Brown the other side in the same way, and lift to a plate. Or you may lay it after thorough soaking, into a drip- ping-pan, place in a hot oven ten minutes, and then remove; set the pan on top of the stove, and pour in a cup of thin cream—some use half milk; when this is hot, stii’ in a httle flour wet with milk or water to a smooth paste, and then heat just to a boil. Cooking a moment too long after the thickening is added, spoils the dressing. To boil mackerel, soak till fresh, as just described, then barely cover it with cold w^ater, and heat to bubbling, keep- ing the vessel tightly closed. Drain well, and lay it on a hot jfiate; the only dressing needed is a little dravm butter, iu’ej)ared as follows; Rub together a tablespoonful of white flour and one of fresh butter, stir in gradually a cup of hot water, heat to boiling, and cook one minute; then pour the sauce over the fish. Serve mackerel and other salt fish with plenty of good mashed potato; and if for dinner, accompany it with boiled white turnips, if you like them. This and other salt fish, should never be eaten in hot weather. Codfish.—( Salt.) Salt codfish must be freshened, before it is cooked ; then it may be boiled, baked or broiled, or cooked in other wa}'s, the iirincipal of which are hereafter described. Boiled. First freshen the fish. This is usually done by soaking it over night in tejiid water, and changing once or twice. A quicker way, ho’wever, is the following: Shred the cod into strips the size of your finger, throwing out all the bone, sldn, and other imperfect portions that may lie imbeddedrAET III.] 503 nsH. between the muscles. Then cut it across the “ grain ” into inch lengths, put these into a pot, and pour in a quantity of cold water; more than enough to cover. Do this several hours before the fish is wanted, put on the lid, and set the pot on the back of the stove where it wiU heat slowly. Just as it is coming to a boil remove from the fire, drain off all the water, and re-fill with cold; heat again, covered, as be- fore, and (.b'ain. By this time the cod will probably be fresh enough ; if it is not, repeat the process once more, adding less cold water. Cover closely, and simmer, lieating barely to the boiling point ; then pour off all the water, and add a cup of thin cream ; heat again to boiling, and thicken with a very little white flour; this last should be wet witli milk to a smooth paste, before stin’ing it in. Watch with a “ hawk’s eye ” (using the spoon), and the moment the mixture begins to bubble, lift from the fire; if it comes fully to a boil, the delicate flavor of the dressing is lost. Baked. To bake salt codfish, j'ou must first wash and scrape it, removing the scales, and then freshen it thorouglily by soaking several hours, or over night; change the water to- ward the last, and let it soak a little longer. When you have done this, put it into a dripping-pan with a few spoonfuls of tepid water, and bake, covered, allowing twenty to thirty minutes for a piece of two or three pounds’ weight; the water should then be about all out. Before removing from the oven, pour over the cod a little milk or cream, thickened with just a trifle of flour; let the dressing barely begin to boil, take out, dish, and send to the table. Serve this and the last with boiled or mashed potato. BroiM. Salt codfish may be broiled as follows : First freshen as for boiling, except that the shredding is omitted. Then504 [part hi. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. drop it into very cold water half an hour, to harden ; oil the gridii-on with a httle fresh suet, dry the cod with a clean cloth, and broil over a clear fire till the under side is browned; then turn it carefully, and brown the other side. Codfish To^vst. Boil the cod as in the last recipe but two, finish with the cream dressing, and then pour it over shoes of dry toast. Or you may cover the bottom of a dish with broken crack- ers, or cold biscuits spht in two and half toasted, and pour it over these. Serve with mashed potato. Some stir in a beaten egg, after taking the codfish from the fire ; but this is hardly necessary, the cream gravy being quite sufficient. Codfish Scallop. Prepare and boil the cod, as in the recipe already given, only leave out the cream gi’av^L Then dry some stale bread-crumbs in the oven, and fill a dish with alternate layers of crumbs and fish, beginning and ending with the latter; moisten each layer of the crumbs with the water in which the fish was boiled, or Avith a little sweet milk. ^\Tien all is in, cover with newly mashed potato wet with milk or cream, and bake twenty minutes. Codfish Cakes. Pick the cod ajiart, in pieces the size of your tAvo fingers throwing out the bones, skin, and any imperfect portions; then cut across the grain or fiber, into very short lengths— an inch or less. When this is done, freshen the fish as for boihng, by covering it with cold Avater and bringing very slowly to a boil; drain off all the AV'ater, add more cold, and heat again. Repeat tlie process until the salt is oat (say tAvo or three times), using for the last water b:irely enough to cover ; keep the pot tightly closed ; if the odor goes over the house, the flavor Avill be out of the dish505 PART III.] HOW ABOUT OYSTERS? at dinner. If at the end of the soaking the cod is not very tender, simmer it in the last water ten to fifteen minutes but do not let it boil. Then drain, and while the fish is warm shred it as fine as possible, and add twice the amount of newly mashed potato, hot, and with the lumps all out; pour in a little cream or milk (some add a lump of butter) before mashing. Then mix as thoroughly as possible the codfish and potato, stirring lightly with a fork; form with the hands into little round cakes or balls, flouring them a trifle if they are so wet as to bo sticky. Bake in a hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes, browning moderately. Instead of forming into cakes, you may add more milk, making the mixture quite soft; then pour it into a pudding- dish, and bake twenty minutes. Or you may mix stiff, as before, and make into thin flat cakes; brown these on the griddle, turning when the under side is done. Codfish and Potato. Prepai-e the same as for cakes, in the preceding recipe; you may use fresh cod instead of salted, if you have it. Then mix the fish with the mashed potato wet with cream or milk, as in the last. Put the mixture—which should be pretty moist—into a stew-pan or skillet, and heat till it is smoking hot, stirring lightly but constantly; some add pai’sley for seasoning. HOW ABOUT OYSTERS? It has ah'cady been stated that meat the best of it, as beef or mutton—must rank lower than grains, both in the quantity and quality of nutritive substance contained, that fish and fowl are inferior to meats; and it may here be added, that oysters, clams, etc., belong to still a loAver grade of ani- mal foods. They stimulate, rather than nourish; and this is 2250G HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET m. another way of saying that they contain, in propoiiion to then- nutritive elements, a large per cent, of matter so j)oor in quality, that the system can not utilize it. Indeed, how could it he otherwise ? The oyster is a creature of low or- ganization; it lives, moves, and has its being, down in the stDl waters, among beds of slime. Its food is on a par with its surroundings; and as might be expected, its depu- rating organs (which we must eat, along with the balance of it) are relatively large. Its liver—which is that dark sub- stance in it—is said to be larger than aU the rest of the oyster put together; and like all other livers, it must neces- sarily be filled with excrementitious matter. The o^’ster is said to contain about 12.} per cent, of solid material—such as it is. MEAT PIES, Etc. Pies or “ pasties ” are made not only with chicken, turkey or wild fowl, but with beef, mutton or lamb. There are various kinds of paste used in these “ family dishes,” the principal of which ai’e given below. The first and best (which we have had on a former page), is the light cream paste, made of equal parts sifted Graham and white flour, the latter of the coarser brands ; very fine flour, as the “ superfine, has the life ground out of it, and is not fit for either bread or paste. Before making the pies, boil the meat till it is nearly done; then mix the paste, make, set in the oven, and bake no longer than is required to cook the crust. Put enough gravy in at the start, and little or no filling up avlU be need- ed; if it must be done, add the water boiling hot. The pie-pan may be deep or shallow, and of any size or shape, borne line it tlu'oughout, before putting in the meat; others line the sides only, leaving the bottom uncovered; and still pthers prefer to bake in a long shallow dish, and have onlyMllAT PIES, ETC. .?AKT III.] 507 "i top ciTist. This latter is the better way, if you want the crust light, tender, and well done. In mixing paste for meat pies, do not have the cream too rich; half milk is better. Light Cream Paste. 1 cup sweet cream—pari new milk Avill do. 1^ cups sifted Graham Hour’. 1| “ “ white “ f teaspoonfid soda, finely pulverized. li teaspooiifuls cream-tariar. Stir the Graham and white flour together, add the soda and cream of tariar, and sift at least twice. Keep the cream in the ice-chest till wanted; then mix lightly and quickly, forming rather a firm dough; do not knead ; simply get tlie mass togetlier. The colder the cream and flour, the crisper the dough will be; and the latter, if mixed before it is wanted, should be set in the refrigerator. If baking-powder is used, take two heaping teaspoonfids, and sift it twice through the flour before mixing. And if cream or new milk can not be had for wetting, take a lump of fresh butter, work the salt out in ice-water, and drain; then rub it well into the flour after sifting the soda and cream of tariar tlirough it, and mix with ice-water, or the coldest you can get. Cream Batter Paste. 2 cups sweet cream. IV “ sifted Graham flour. 1^ “ “ white “ I teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. teaspoonfuls cream-tariar, sifted through the flour. Do not mix this paste till you are ready to use it; tlien make a batter of the above ingredients, adding the dissolvedHEAXTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 508 [part m. soda last, and beating very tborougldy. Spread it smoothly over the pie with a knife, and bake in a pretty hot oven, serving as soon as done. Batter crust will fall, if it stands long. This amount of batter will cover a pie eight inches wide, and ten long. Cream and Potato Paste. 1 cup sweet cream—or new milk. 1 “ dry mealy potato, finely mashed. 1 “ sifted Graham flour. 1 “ “ white “ I teaspoonful soda, dissolved in boiling water. li teaspoonfuls cream-taidar, sifted through the flour. Wet the potato with the milk or cream, mashing out aU the lumps; stir in tho Graham and white flour, add the cream of taiiar, and beat well; then put in the soda, and beat hard. If baking-powder is used, take two heaping or three level teaspoonfuls, and stir it in the last thing. The batter made with the above ingredients, is enough to cover a pie eight inches wide and twelve long; or nearly ten inches square. Spread it smoothly with a knife, and bake in a brisk oven. Another.—Work into the above paste another cup of sifted Graham flour, making a dough that will roll out; it should be rather soft. Get it together without kneading, roll rather thin—not more than a quarter of an inch thick —and bake in a pretty hot oven. Beef and Potato Pie.4|= Select two or thi’ee pounds of good tender beef; a rib piece or sirloin is excellent. If you buy ribs, let the butcher chop them into short lengths; then with a knife you can cut between and separate them, before boiling; this leaves the meat in small pieces. Having trimmed off any super- fluous fat, put the meat into a pot, cover with boiling water,PART III.] ME.VT PIES, ETC. 509 and remove the scum as it rises. You may slice in an onion, if you hke its flavor. Boil gently, keeping the pot closely covered, and when nearly tender hft from the Are, and take the meat out. Peel a few potatoes, say five or six, and either quaider them or cut into rather thick pieces; do not slice, as it makes them less meaty. Boil these in very little water till they are half done; then drain well, and keep covered in their own hot steam, till you are ready to use them. While these are cooking make a light cream paste, and line the sides of a bake-dish. Some cover the bottom also with paste, but it is better left bare—and the sides the same, if you want all the crust very Hght and tender. When the meat is half cold puU out the bones, cut the larger pieces in two if there is need, and put a layer of it in the pan; ar- range the jiieces in a regular way, so that the pie will cut well. Add next, a hght layer of the parboiled potatoes; then more meat, then more potatoes; two thin layers of each will be enough. A few tiny bits of paste pinched off, may likewise be added. Thicken the liquor in which the meat stewed, by stining in a little white flour wet to a smooth paste with milk or water, and heating aU to a boil. Pour this gravy into the pie, Avhich should be about two-thirds covered with it; if there i? not enough, add boiling water. Then put on the top crust rolled to the thickness of half an inch, secure the edges, and prick well with a fork; cut a good cross-slit in the center, and set the pie in the oven. Bake from thirty to forty minutes, or till the cnist is done; cover, if it browms too fast. When taken out, cool ten min- utes, and serve in the bake-dish; this may be a granitized iron pan, tw'o and a half i?iches deep. Instead of all beef, you may use paid mutton or lamb; or chicken or squirrel, if preferred.[PABT m. 510 HEAIiTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Mutton oe L.\mb Pie.^^ Good mutton or lamb makes an excellent pie. If you have a piece with ribs, cut the latter in short lengths, say an inch and a half, and then sepai’ate Ihem by cutting be- tween. If there is much fat remove a portion of it, then cover with boiling water, and slice in an onion, if you like; stew slowly, till the meat is neaily tender. Peel half a dozen small potatoes, quarter them, or cut in pretty thick pieces, and boil eight minutes in very little Avater. While they are cooking mix a light cream paste, as per recipe ah’eady given. When the meat has boiled enough take it out, remove any large bones, but leave in the ribs; and if some portions are in big j^ieces, cut them into inch bits, or a Httle larger. Cover the bottom of a granitized iron pan or other bake- dish with half of it, and then put in half the potatoes, scat- tering them well over the meat; add the rest of the mutton or lamb, and the remainder of the potatoes; put in also a few small bits of paste, if you like it. Stir into the liquor left in the pot, a little white flour wet with milk or water, and heat to a boil; then pour it over the pie. Should there not be enough of the gravy to more than half cover it, add a little boiling water. Lay on the crust, rolled about half an inch thick, cut a cross-slit in the middle, and bake in an even oven thirty to forty minutes. Serve in the dish. Mutton or lamb mixed with chicken, squiiTel, rabbit, or wild foAvl, makes a very good pie; these you may stew in a separate pot, if they take a longer or shorter time to cook than the other meat. Meat Pie with Potato Crust. Make hke either of the two last, and cover with a crust made as directed in the second paragraph, under the head of “Cream and Potato Paste.” This paste is good, but not equal to light cream paste.PART m.J 611 MEAT PIES, ETC. Cold Me^vt Pie. Ta]ie cold beef, mutton or lamb, or some of each, left from a previous roast or stew; stiiptlie meat off the bones, rejecting any haaxl, gristly, or imperfect iiieces, and also the superfluous fat. Where the fat and lean are well mixed cut them together, in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. The other portions you may cut into inch or half-inch lengihs, making a sort of coai’se hash; the pieces of solid fat should, if used, be minced very fine, and only as much of the best taken as is needed; then add some cold potato, not sKced, but cut in small bits. Having stripped the bones crack them, and put them into a stew-pan with the other poorer parts, not including the fat; if there is a remnant of cold steak left over, chop it fine, and add with any of its gravy to the contents of the pan. If the flavor of onion is liked, slice it in with the rest; then pour in cold water to nearly cover, and heat slowly to a boil. Skim if there is need, simmer an hour, and strain out the liquor, adding to it any cold gravy left from a previous roast or stew; thicken with a little browned flour wet with milk or water, stir well, heat to a boil, and set off to cool. In the mean time mix a light cream paste, or a j)otalo paste thnt you can roll out; the recipes for these have already been given. Then fill a bake-pan, one that is wide and shallow, with the meat and potato; the dish should not be more than two inches deep; pour over the made gravy, of which there should be enough to cover half or tAVO-thirds of the pie, roll a crust half an inch thick, lay it on, and pinch down closely at the edge. Prick well AA'ith a fork, cut a cross-slit in the middle, and bake in a good oven thirty minutes, or till the crust is done. Another Avay, requiring less woi'k, is to cut the meat in larger pieces, say tAVo inches long, and the Avidth of your finger; then mix Avith the potato, and proceed as before. AHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part III. 512 pie made with the cold remnants of a roast, is not of course equal to one with fresh meat; but then, it is not expected to be. Meat Pie with Batter Crust. Make like the preceding, except to cut the meat finer, and have it not so moist. Add a little less water to the bones, when you make the gravy; or if there is some cold gravy left over, you may dilute this with warm or hot v/ater, and use it for the pie; no thickening will be needed. Cut the meat across the grain or fiber, in slices not moi’o than half an inch thick; you may break or cut these if they are large, but do not chop them. Mix in bits of cold potato, about half as much as there is meat; and if onion is liked, you may slice and parboil one or two, and put them in. Some add small bits of butter, rolled in flour; but if you have part fat meat, there is no need. AVhen all is ready put the meat and potato into a shallow pan, making the pie an inch, or an inch and a half thick, before the crust is laid on. Pour in the gravy, and then cover with a cream batter paste, or a cream and potato paste (batter), made as per recipe already given; spread it evenly with a knife, and bake in a quick oven forty to fift}' minutes, or till done. Serve immediately, as the crust will become heavy if it stands long. If preferred, you can leave out the cold potato, slice the meat thin, and hash it v^ery fine; then fill the pan to the depth of an inch, and moisten as before. Cover with either of the batter pastes, and bake. Beef or Mutton Scallop. Take what is left of a cold roast or stew of beef or mutton—cold lamb is better—reject any hard or gristl}'^ por- tions, and if there is too much fat leave out the poorest of it. Cut the meat across the grain in thin slices, and chop it fine; if there are any lumps of fat, mince them very finem.j MEAT PEES, ETC. . 513 before adding to the rest. When the meat is all off crack the bones, and put them into a stew-pan with the other in- ferior bits, for the gravy; if you like a little onion or celery, slice it in. Tlien pour in a pint of water, and simmer slowly, an hour; lift from the lire, strain out the licpior, and atld to it any dripping or gravy left over. This done, prepare some stale bread-crumbs, grating them rather fine; you may mix in with them a ttpi'inJde of dry sage; cover the bottom of a bake-dish with a layer of these, put in the same quantity of chopped meat, and moisten well with the gravy from the stew-pan, now nearly cold. The dish should be wide enough to hold about hidf the hash, the first layer. Follow with another of crumbs, and then the rest of the meat; if liked, mix a few cold potatoes finely chopped, with the latter. Moisten again, and finish with a good layer of very fine crumbs; pour over these the rest of the gravy, moistening them pretty thoroughly—or if this gives out, you may take a little milk; some beat an egg into the latter. Cover the dish with another the same size, and set it in the oven thirty minutes, or till the scallop is steaming hot; then uncover, brown quickly, take out and send to the table in the bake-dish. Meat Scallop with Eoos. Make, cover and bake, the same as the last; five minutes before you w^ant to serve the scalloii, draw it from the oven, uncover, and break as many fresh eggs over the top as it Avill hold. Slide back the dish, and shut the door two or three minutes, watching closely that the eggs do not cook too much. As soon as the whites are well set, remove from the oven and serv'e. Mutton and Potato Scallop. Mince the meat, cold mutton or lamb, and make like either of the two last, except that cold chopped potato is 22*51 -I HE.VLTH III THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET HI. taken instead of bread-cninilis; and in filling the dish begin with meat, and end with potato. Cover closel}', and bake fi’om thirty to forty minutes, according to the size of the scallop; brown at the last. Mutton and Tomato Scallop. If you have cold mutton or lamb left ovei’, mince it fine, and moisten with cold gravy if there is any. If you have none crack the bones, add a little cold watei*, and simmer nearly an hour; then strain the liquor and moisten the hash with it, making it pretty wet. Or if the meat has no bones and scarcely any fat, put into the mince a few bits of fresh butter roUed in flour, and moisten with a cup of warm water. Prepare in the mean time some fine bread-crumbs from a stale Graham loaf, having as much crumbs as there is hash; cover the bottom of an earthen or granitized iron pan with these, put in a layer of the meat, and follow with one of raw chopped tomatoes. Repeat the layers, filling the dish; then cover, set in a moderate oven, and bake from foi-ty to fifty minutes; uncover five minutes at the end, if the top is not already browned. Another way is to cut the meat into very thin slices, ami the tomatoes the same; cover the bottom of a bake-piii with bread-crumbs, and fill it with alternate layers of meat and tomatoes, ending with the latter; moisten the layers as you lay them in. Then bake as before. Beef can bo sub- stituted for mutton or lamb, and canned tomatoes for raw. Mutton and Potato Pie. Slice cold mutton or lamb, making the pieces as thin as possible, and chop it very fine; add a parboiled onion or a stalk of celery, sliced and chopped; then moisten with a cup of milk or cream, or a little meat gravy diluted with water. Or if there are bones, you may crush them, add a pint of cold water, and simmer nearly an hour; then strain,PART III.] 515 MEAT PIES, ETC. aiul moisten the meat with the liquor; do not make it too wet. Peel and boil five or six potatoes, drain, add a little milk, and mash till there are no lumps; then stir in more milk, forming a batter that wiU just drop from the spoon. Put the hash into a bake-pan, spread it in an even layer, and al)Out an inch in depth; then poui’ on the potato batter, smooth it down with a knife, and bake from thii-ty to forty minutes in a moderate oven. Send to the table as soon as done. Beef may be used instead of mutton. Lancashire Pie.—(Good.):^ Take cold beef well streaked with fat, and slice very thin; then chop it as fine as possible, throwing out all the hard, gristly, or imperfect pieces; some mix in with the meat a little onion, finely chojiped and parboiled. Crush the bones, if there are any, and put them into a sauce-pan with the rejected bits; add a pint of cold water and simmer half an hour, keeping the pan closely covered ; then strain the liquor, and add to it any cold gravy left ovei\ Wet the hash with this, making it moH rather than juicy; do not forget this last item. In the absence of bones, use a rem- nant of cold steak for the grav}'; chop it fine, cover with cold water, simmer half an hour, and strain; then add the cold gi’avy as before. Or if there is no steak, you may simply dilute the gi’avy you have with a little warm water, and take this to moisten the pie. When the hash is prepared, peel some potatoes and drop into boiling water, scarcely more than will cook them; tliere should be fuUy as much potato as meat. Boil steadily, and the very instant a fork will go through the largest, drain off all the water, return the pot to the fire, add a trifle of good milk (cream is better), and mash till there ai’e no lumps. Do all this very quickly, for the potato must be steaming hot, and rather dry. Now cover the bottom of a bake-pan with a layer of the hash (it should take half of it), put in516 [PAKT III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. tlie same quantity of potato, then the rest of the hash, then tlie potato, of which there should be a good thick layer for tlie top. Smooth neatly with a knife, set in a brisk oven, and bake from thirty to forty minutes, browning at the end. When done send directly to the table, serving in the pan. The success of this dish dejiends, first, on the quality of the materials; second, on the rapidity with which they are 23ut together; and lastly, on the manner of baking. Prop- erly made, the jiie is excellent; slovenly done, it is quite inferior. Kettle Pie. This 2^ie may be made of beef, mutton, lamb, chicken, wild fowl, or other game; or you may combine these in any proportions you like. Cut the meat in small 2^ieces and stew till nearly tender, starting it in boiling water; cook slowly, with the pot closely covered. In the mean time mix a light cream paste, as 2)er reci2>e already given; use part milk for the mixing, else the crust will be too rich; have ready some potatoes, peeled, washed, and cut through once or twice, if they are large. When sufficiently tender, take the meat out, leaving the liquor in the 2>ot. Now take a clean kettle, 2nit into it a good layer of the parboiled meat, then one of cut 2>otato; and you may add a few small bits of the 2^aste, 2^inched off with the fingers; repeat the layers until the meat is all in; the kettle may be half or two-thirds full. Then skim and add the liquor used in boding; there should be enough of it to cover at least two-thirds of the 2>ie; if there is not, 250ur in boiling water. Roll a crust nearly half an inch thick, and lay it on; then cut a good cross-slit in the center for the esca2>e of steam, cover the kettle with a close-fitting lid, and 2dace it over the fire. You must regulate the heat so that the pot will bod constantly, but not hard; and it is best not to uncover tiU the last. It will require from thirty to forty minutes to cook, according to the size (or rather the de23th) of the pie^517 PART m.] MEAT PIES, ETC. and the thickness of the paste. TVdien done lift off, remove the crust carefully, and lay it on a plate; then dish the re- mainder, replace the crust, and send to the table. Instead of rolUng the dough in a single sheet, you may if preferred, lay on squares of paste, rolled out and cut to size. S'FEAK Roll. Take three pounds of good sirloin steak, or the same of mutton chops cut from the loin; and after removing the bones and supei’fluous fat (there must be some fat, but not too much), cut the meat into very small bits, or hash it not too line. Sprinkle a little flour over and through it, and moisten slightly with a few spoonfuls of cold gravy, or part of a cujD of half-cooked soup, if you have it; the latter must be cooled and skimmed. Then mix a light cream paste, roll it in an oblong sheet about a quai’ter of an inch thick, and sj^read with the meat; you may add to this a small onion shced very thin, and chopped fine; or a sprinkle of chopped parsley, if preferred. Roll aU uj^ snugly, pinch the ends wcU together, and wrap ratlier loosely in a clean white napkin; then lay in a round tin l)asin, which must be large enough to give room to swell; cover the latter with ail inverted pie-pan, set it in a steamer, and steam two hours and a half. Do not lift the lid tiU done, and keep the water at a fast boil. Seiwe immediately; no dressing is needed. If a part of the roll is left over, w\ann it for dinner the next day, as follows : Dip the piece quickly into cold water, lay it in the steamer, AAuthin a closely covered basin, and steam till it is thoroughly heated through. Tlien serve with a plain dressing, made by pounng into a little cold gravy or meat juice part of a cup of cream, thickened with browned flour, and lirouglit to a boil. A poorer piece of meat, as a round steak, is sometimes used; and instead of making a I'oll, another way, A^er}' good.518 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part IIL is to line a bowl with a little more than half the paste, let- ting the latter reach to witliin an in(;h of the top. Cut the meat into bits half an inch long, roll them in flour, and moisten with half a cup of weak gi’avy; this can be made from the bones, or from a bit of cold steak; you may slice in an onion, if you hke. Then put the meat hash into the bowl, cover with the rest of the j^aste, and steam as before; the bowl must be covered closely with an inverted plate or pie-pan. If there is danger of the steam getting into it, lay a folded najikin over the top before putting on the plate. I^IEAT STEWS, Etc. The dishes that are here given in the way of stews, and also the hashes that follow, serve a two-fold purpose in the house- hold economy. In the first place, they add variety—at least in their preparation—to the routine course of which one is apt to tire, especially in winter and spring, when fruits and vegetables are scarce and high-priced. In the next place, these simple jireparations, many of which are manufactured from ready-made dishes, are the means of saving the frag- ments that are left over, and that might otherwise be wasted, Wlien well jirepared, they are often more appe- tizing than their predecessors; and they ought to be equally good, clean and wholesome. There is no denying, however, that they furnish opportunitj’ for the display of rare judg- ment, skill and good taste, in the person of the cook; and this wanting, everything is wanting. As these dishes are usnall}'^ made, the object seems to be to cover up defects, both in the quality of the articles em- ployed, and in their preparation, by an inordinate amount of seasoning; whereas, the correct way would be, to pre- serve and retain the simple virtues existing in each of them. For if goodness is wanting in the thing itself, no amount of “ mixing up,” by the endless adding of ingredients, can519 MEAT STEWS, ETC. PAliT III.] tlisj^uiso the fact; and the proper thing to do with it, is to reject it. On the other hand, a thing really good does not need to have its individuality obliterated, in order to make its virtues known. Indeed, if these can not be recognized without too much ado, it is pi’otty good evidence, either that the aidicle is Avorthless, or that there is some fault in the palate of the one who eats it. Directions fob Making Stews. The following ai’e some general directions that have the sanction of good authority, for making plain stews: 1. Begin with the drijiping—or butter, or suet, if you use it; stir into this the flovu’ (it should be cai’efully browned in the oven beforehand), mixing it smooth, so as to leave no lumps; or you may wet it to a paste with a little tepid water, before adding it. Heat slowly, and stir almost con- stantly; when it is well incorporated add a cup or more of warm water, and let this also incorporate, by heating very gently. 2. Then put in the meat, and let it thoroughly heat through; if a steak, have it a thick one, all in one piece; you may if you like, hroxm it (not too much) in a hot skiUet, before putting it into the pot; then {dimmer f-ioivly. 3. Next in order add the vegetables, as caiTots, turnips, cabbage, etc.; cook these till they are tender, but no longer. If parsley, thyme, or other sw^eet herb is used, add it as a rule a short time before finishing, as much cooking destroys its flavor. 4. Keep the pot or stew-pan closely covered; and where it is convenient, shake instead of stirring. 5. In mutton stews, bro^\Ti the meat at the stiu’t, if you want the dish particularly savory. G. Make vegetable stews (without meat) as follows : Add a little w^ann water to the gravy after it is thickened, and520 [pAliT III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. the flour well incorporated by heating; then put in the vegetables, and cook till tender. 7. If an onion (or carrot or timiip) is added for its flavor, to either meat or vegetable stews, slice it into the hot dri})- ping, and heat till it changes color; then thicken with the browned flour, add a little warm water, heat gently, stirring well, and put in the meat or vegetables. 8. In adding vegetables for the jiui’pose of flavoring, as onions, celery, parsley, summer savory, thyme, or other sweet herbs, consult the palates of those who eat, before using them; some persons have a siiecial dislike for one or more of these substances. Another good rule, is to use them in moderation; a taste of a thing is bettor than a surfeit; and the mere suggestion of a flavor, even the most delicate, is usually jireferred to one that is more jiro- nounced. The above directions are of course general, and often- times it may be necessary to depart somewhat from them; in a great many meat stews, the thickening of flour is either deferred to the end, as a sort of finishing, or it is omitted altogether. The rules applicable to all stews are, never to start raw meats in cold water; never to put cold cooked meats into boiling water to warm them over; never to fill up with any hid boiling water; to stew slowly; to keep the pot well covered. Bones left from a previous roast, if per- fectly sweet, may be laid on top of the stew, and removed after an hour’s time. Browned Flour, Gravies, Etc. "Wliat is known to cooks as “ browned ” flour, is prejiared in this wa}": Spread white flour on a clean tin plate or granitized iron pan, and place in a hot oven; v/hen it be- gins to tinge in color, stir constantly till it becomes an even brown; it must not scorch in the least. Then remove from the oven, and when eold put it into glass jars or bottles,521 MEAT STEWS, ETC. PART m.J and dose from the air. Sluiko before usinj^, to j)i’eveut lumping. Good gravy is made by stirring into meat liquor enough browned flour to thicken moderately, and then bringing it to a boil; there must be no lumps. If a cream gravy is Avantcd, stir the flour into half a (uip (more or less) of cream, then add it to the meat liquor, and boil iqi a rno- jiient. Or you may make a gravy from bones (as heretofore described), or from lean meat, raw or cooked; or, take the drippings (fresh, or a day old) of a roast, remove the grease, and strain the gravy in the bottom if there is any sediment; if too strong, dilute with warm Avater before using it. If you make from cooked meat, or bones left from a roast or stew, add cold water, simmer slowly till the juices are all given out, then cool the licpior, strain and thicken. If from raAV meat (the trimmings of a steak Avill do), loound it, cut into small bits, and heat in a stew-pan over a very moderate fire. Cover closely, and stir often to keep the meat from sticking; it must not scorch. In fifteen or twenty minutes, or when it is fairly browned, add boiling water (a pint of the latter to a pound of meat), and let it simmer slowly two or three hours. AMien done, cool, settle, and strain. Breakfast Stew. A steAV—as good for dinner as breakfast^—that can be prepared on short notice, after you “ get home from meet- ing,” or from down toAvn shopping, is made as follows: Buy your meat the day before; two or three pounds of beef or mutton, either good sirloin (removing the suj)erfluous fat), or the poorer parts, as you can afford ; cut it in small 1)its, about an inch in length. Then put a little dripping into a pot, slice in an onion and carrot, and a turnip if you have it, and heat tiU the vegetables change color. Now put in the meat, add a pint of boiling Awater, cover closely, and stew A'ery slowly two hours, or till the meat is tender,HF.AT.TH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT III. 522 Then lift from the fire, poiu' all into an earthen or granit' ized iron basin, and set in a cool place. Next morning, or whenever you want it, add to the meat, if you like, a little chojiped jiarsley, or other sweet herb, put the whole into a pot or stew-pan, and simmer covered, half an hour; no water should be added. Then stii' in a spoonful of browned floui’ wet with tepid water, let it boil uj) once, and dish into the tureen. Serve with baked or mashed potato, and warm corn bread. If you have cold biscuits, split them open, and half toast in the oven—or you may brown some slices of stale loaf bread—put these into a dish, and poim the stew over; if the latter is too thick stii’ in half a cup of cream, and heat just to boiling before you set it oflf. Mutton Stew. Take tlmee or four pounds of mutton or lamb, trim off most of the fat, and cut into inch or two-inch bits; a rib piece is good, the bones being choiiped in short lengths; or the neck or breast will do. Start the meat in boiling water, enough to nearly cover, remove the scum as it rises, and stew very slowly, keeping the lid on. Add a sliced onion, and cook an hour and a half, or till about tender; if you like jiarsley, thyme, or other sweet herb, put it in finely chopped ; and if any filling up has to be done, add a little boiling water. Then drop in some small bits of light cream paste, cover closely, and cook fifteen minutes; take out the meat and dumplings, put them into a hot tureen, fit on its lid, and set in a warm place. Thicken the gravy in the pot with a spoonful or two of browned flour, wet with half a cup of cold milk or cream; boil up a moment, pour it over the dumplings and meat, and send the dish to the table. Another way is to leave out the dumplings and flour, add a pint of green corn cut from the cob, and cook twenty minutes.523 PAR-1 III, ) MEAT STEWSj ETC. Still another metlioil, if you Iiavo a little cold dripping, is to heat the latter till hot, slice in the onion, and a carrot if liked ; put in the meat, heat till it is moderately browned, stirring frecpiently, and covering between times ; it must not scorch. Then add the boiling water, enough to cook it, and wlieii sufficiently tender put in the corn, or a fcAV peeled potatoes, and stew- till they arc done; if the corn is not ad- ded, tiiicken with brow-ned flour at the last, jMutton Stew with Carrots, Put into a stew-pan a little dripping, or you may take a bit of fresh suet; Avhen hot, slice in an onion or two, and a few carrots; these must be scraped, and if lai’ge, quartered, "When the vegetables have changed color a little, take them out, and lay in the mutton, which should be rather lean; a brisket or other plain piece will do. Let this brown slightly, timiing it on all sides ; then j)ut back the vegetables, add boiling Avater to half or tw-o-thirds cover, and stew moder- ately till tender; do not boil with the lid off. It will require an hour and a half, or longer if the jiiece of meat is large ; there should bo very httlo Liquor when done. Irish Stew. Take three pounds of rather lean beef, or a scrag of mut- ton, cut it in small pieces, and add boiling w-ater to about tw-o-thirds cover ; you may lay the bones on top. Eemove any scum tliat rises, and then slice in one or two onions ; keep the pot covered, and stew or simmer one hour, or till the meat is almost tender. Then take out the bones, drain the liquor into a boAvl, and skim off the grease. Have ready some potatoes peeled and sliced, about the same quantity there is of meat. Put into a separate kettle or sauce-pan a layer of the beef or mutton, and foUow with one of sliced potatoes ; repeat the layers until aU are in, sprinkling each •vvith a little thyme or parsley, if it is liked. Pour in theHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 524 [PAET III. skimmed gravy, cover closely, and stew half an boui ; if there is not enough of the gravy add a very httle boiling water, or a spoonful or two of cold gravy diluted with water. After the pot begins to bubble, you may droji in a few bits of light paste ; it will cook in twenty minutes. Wlien done, lift all into the tureen. Scotch Stew. Put three pounds of mutton cutlets into a pot, and add a pint of boiling water; skim when ready, and slice in two or tliree onions. Stew slowly one hour, or until the meat is nearly tender; then add six or eight potatoes, peeled, and cut through the middle. If more water is needed pour in a little, boiling hot, lay on the lid, and stew till the potatoes are done; it will take from twenty to thirty minutes. Dish into a hot tureen, cover, and send to the table; the stew should be tolerably moist at the end. Beef may be used instead of mutton; lamb is better than either. Beef and Tomato Stew. Take three or four pounds of good beef, streaked with fat; a rib piece is excellent. Put it into a pot, and heat till well seared and slightly browned; do not let it scorch; then add a pint of boiling water, cover, and stew slowly till done; it may take an hour and a half. If a little filling up is needed, add the water boiling hot. After putting on the meat peel five or six ripe tomatoes, slice very thin, and start them to stewing in a porcelain kettle; cook rather slowly, stirring quite often; it wiU require perhaps an hour, as they must stew tiU perfectly smooth. Then thicken the sauce with a little browned flour, wet to a smooth paste in cold water; stir this in and cook ten minutes; you will have to use the spoon frequently till the sauce is finished. "When the meat is done let the water all evaporate, and bro^\Ti the surface moderately, the same as a pot roast; then lift it to aMEAT STEWS, ETC. 525 PART IIT. J bot platter, draiu the gravy into a bowl, and skim off most of the grease. Turn the tomato and gravy together, heat and stir till the two are well incorporated, and pour the sauce over the meat. Mutton may be served in the same way ; and so may beef’s tongue. The sauce may be made of canned toma- toes rubbed thi’ough a colander, and cooked a shorter time. IMutton and Tomato Stew. Put into a stew-jian two or tliree pounds of mutton or lamb cutlets; slice in an onion, set the pan over the lire, and let the meat sear and slightly brown on one side; then turn and brown the other. Have ready two or three raAV tomatoes, not too large; peel, slice and chop them, put them in a porcelain kettle (not a common iron pot, as tomatoes corrode it), and add the meat, with whiatever juices may have escaped in the searing process. Set the kettle where it will simmer slowly one hour, or till the meat is almost tender; then pour in a few spoonfuls of boiling water, or (if you use canned tomatoes) half a cup of hot tomato juice. Turn the meat once or twice, and cook from twenty to thirty minutes longer ; then lay it on a platter, thicken the gravy with a little browned flour, or some bits of butter rolled in flour, boil up a moment, and pour it over. If preferred, cut the meat in small pieces before stewing, and Avhen done lay it on dry toast, or cold biscuits split open, and partly toasted in a hot oven; then thicken the gi’avy, and pour it over them. Beef-steak may be stewed in the same way; a round or flank steak will do, though it recpiires longer to cook. Okra Stew. Put into the kettle a piece of beef or mutton, washed, and rubbed over with a trifle of flour. Add two quarts of sliced tomatoes, and half as many young okras, cut fine;526 HEALTH IM THE HOUSEHOLD. [part hi. then slice in two or three onions; no water is needed. Cook in a poi’celain kettle keeping it closely covered, and stew as slowly as possible, or rather sunm(3r till the meat is done; it win require an hour and a half or two hours. If the okras are small and tender, j^ou need not slice them; simj)ly clip off the tip ends, wash weU and drop into the pot. Boiled Dinner. 3 quarts boiling water. 1 small head winter cabbage. 8 potatoes, medium size. 4 beets, “ “ 4 turnips, “ “ 3 parsnips, “ “ 2 carrots, “ “ 3 lbs. beef or mutton—the brisket is good. Time—two hours. Twist the tops from the beets, and wash thoroughly with a cloth, being careful not to break the skin or rootlets; if these are broken, the juices will escajie in cooking. Cover the meat with two quai4s of the boiling water, and heat tiU the scum rises; then remove the latter, add the beets, and the carrots scraped and quartered, and simmer slowly. Prepare the other vegetables, peeling the potatoes and tur- nips, and cutting all (except the potatoes) into quarters. AMien the meat has cooked an hour and ten minutes, lift it to a platter along Avith the beets and caiTots; put an old plate or saucer, inverted, in the bottom of the pot, and lay back the meat and vegetables. Add the other quart of boiling Avater, drop in the turnip.s, cabbage and jiarsnips, and after fifteen minutes the potatoea Boil rather briskly half an hour, or until the vegetables are done; then take them up, put them in separate dishes, and lay the meat on a plate by itself; or you may place it in the center of a large platter, and aiTange the vegetables around it,PART III.] 527 MEAT STEWS, ETC. Instead of the brisket or other piece, a sheep’s head and feet aro sometimes used. Cold Meat Stew. Mince cold beef or mutton, laying aside the gi’istle, or other undesirable bits. Drop these (the bits) and the bones (cracked) into a pot, add a httle cold water, and slice in an onion if you like its flavor. Cover closely, and stew or rather simmer, at least thii-ty minutes. Then strain the liquor, return it to the pot, add tlie minced meat, and any gravy left over; there should be enough to make the stow jiretty moist; too wet for an ordinary hash. Cover, and heat almost to bubbling; if you have a few cold potatoes, slice them in. Then simmer ten to fifteen minutes, keeping the lid on, and stirring once or twice; add a spoonful of chopped parsley if liked, and lift from the fire. In these cold meat stews, success depends upon, first, putting only ffood materials into them; second, adding enough of the essence or juices of meat to jirevent their tasting “flat”; and then—not cooking them too much. Simply heat tiU the stew is smoking hot all through, and the different flavors well blended together. In preparing the above dish, you can if preferred, slice the meat thin instead of mincing it. Or if you have any tough bits of uncooked steak, it may be stewed till perfectly tender in a little water, cooking very slowly with the pot closely covered; let it get quite cold, then hash fine, and add half as much cold potato, also hashed; take for the gravy the liquor left from stewing. Breakfast Stew with Toast. Take the remains of a roast or stew, slice it very thin— always across the grain—and chop fine; add a spoonful or tAvo of cold gravy if you have it, diluting wdth w\ater; or you may make a gravy of the bones, as in the last recipe-528 [part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Put tlie hashed meat, moistened, into a stew-pan or skillet, and add a pai’boiled onion (sliced) if you hke it, or a little of any of the sweet herbs, choiiiied fine; heat rather slowly fifteen to twenty minutes, or till the mass is thoroughly hot, stirring often. Then pour in half a cup of cream or new milk thickened with browned flour, stir all together, cover closely, and when the stew begins to boil remove it from the fire. Have ready a few slices of dry toast, or split oji.en some cold biscuits and half brown them in the oven; lay these on a jilate, pour the stew over, and send to the table. Cold beef-steak may be cooked in a httle water till very tender, and when cold, chopped fine; return it to the pot, along with its liquor, and add any cold gravy left over, or a spoonful or two of meat juice taken from the bottom of fresh dripping, if you have it. Heat till hot, and then stir in paid of a cup of cream or milk, thickened with browned flour; let all come just to a boil, and jiour the stew over dry toast, or stale biscuits spht open and heated through in the oven. Cold Meat and Toaiato Stew. Cut the cold meat, beef or mutton, into inch bits; then crack the bones, add a pint or more of cold water, stew gently three-quarters of an hour, and strain the liquor, of which there should be a cupful. Pour it into a porcelain or gi-anitized iron kettle, and add tomatoes, peeled, sHced and chopped—or you may use canned ones—half as much as there is of the jirepared meat; then put in the latter, adding if liked, an onion or caiTot thinly sliced; lay on the lid, and simmer gently one hour, stirring now and then. If the stew is still rather thin, thicken it a trifle with browned flour wet in cold water, heat up a moment, and remove from the fire. Fragments of uncooked meat, as tough steak, may be cut into small pieces, and stewed in the same way, only twice as long. Another way is to slice the meat very thin, cutting acrossPART III. MKVT STEWS, ETC. 52<J the grain, and chopping fine; then peel, slice and chop some tomatoes, not too ripe; you will need about half as much tomato as meat. Put these into a porcelain kettle, and while they are heating prepare an equal quantity of bread- crumbs; when the tomatoes are hot add the chopped meat, and a spoonful or two of cold gravy. ]\[ix these together, and put in the crumbs; then cook, covered, ten to fifteen minutes, stirring frequently. This is an excellent dish; you can vary it by adding with the meat a few cold sliced pota- toes, and less crumbs; then heat as before, till all are smoking hot. Another.—Peel some tomatoes, and slice them very thin; slice the cold meat as thin as a shaving, and sprinkle flour lightly over it; have about half as much tomato as meat. Put these into a porcelain or gi-anitized iron kettle, add a sliced onion or carrot, and a little meat juice saved from a pot roast; simmer slowly one hour, keeping the kettle well covered. Stii’ occasionally, and dish as soon as done. EcoNorac Stew. Put into a pot a knuckle of young beef, add a quart of boiling water, and start to cooking; remove any scum that rises. Then sHce an onion into a hot skillet with some drip- ping in it, cover and heat, stiii-ing once or twice, tiU the onion changes color; add a little boiling water, slice in two or three caiTots, lay on the lid, and cook ten minutes. Turn these into the pot, cover closely, and stew or simmer very douiy, three houi’s, or until the meat is ready to slip from the bone. In finishing, add a little chopped parsley or other sweet herb, if desired. Then dish, thicken the gravy with a trifle of browned flour, boil up a moment, and pour it over the joint. Or you may have ready some slices of toast, place the meat on it, and pour the gi’avy over. 23[part m. 530 HE^VLTH m THE HOUSEHOLD. Economic Stew. Cover a hock or shank of beef with boiling water, and jilace over the lire; do this soon after breakfast, allowing three or four hours to cook. Shce in an onion, carrot or turnip, or all three if desired, and stew very slowly until the meat is about tender; then add a stalk of celery if you have it, or a little cho25ped jiarsley, thyme or other sweet herb; also jieel and jiut in half a dozen potatoes, cutting them through once or tmce if they ai’e lai'ge. As soon as a fork will go through them, lay in some bits of stale loaf bread, or diy toast; cover the j)ot five minutes, then dish aU together. Chicken or Squirrel Stew. Take two young chickens or two squirrels, dressed and cut in joints; six or eight tomatoes, peeled and quartered; six ears of young corn, cut from the cob (use a shaiqi knife, shave thin, not cutting down too deep, and scrajie out at the last); one pint of butter beans, or Limas; tw*o small onions, sliced very thin; one gallon of Avater, not quite boiling. Put the chickens (or squiiTels) into a kettle, add the water, and heat tiU you can remove the scum; then jiut in aU the vegetables except the corn and tomatoes, and ste'w, or rather simmer, two lioiu’s; add the tomatoes, and cook slowly another hour; then the corn, and stew half an hour longer. If not thick enough, stir in one or tw'o roDed crackers before dishing into the tureen. HASHES AND TOASTS. A dish of hash, usually so common-place, can easily be made one of the most, savory of meat jireparations; this too, without the aid of salt, pepper, butter or other condiment,HASHES AND TOASTS. 531 PART III.J save the pieces of the meat itself. XTnfortunately, these mixed dishes are too often any thing hut creditable to the cook; they are neither clean, palatable, nor wholesome; and they are not in the least attractive. There is no good rea- son, however, why they should not be both clean and j>alat- able, and as wholesome as other meat dishes—in which case there would be less need to disguise their defects by the addition of pungent condiments. In making hashes, note carefuUy the following: 1. Put no meat into the hash that you would not willingly chew and swallow before it is minced; in other words, throw out all the hard, gristly, skinny bits; leave no big lumps of solid fat, and no stiingy, unsightly pieces. Make the hash either of good lean meat, or meat that is streaked more or less ■Ruth thin layei*s of well-made fat. 2. Slice every part yery thin; the lean meat always across the grain or fiber, and the fat pieces shave exceedingly thin, and chop fine. 3. Chop all well together, making the hash as fine as mince-meat; leave no large bits or “chunks” to contend with. 4. Have the stew-pan thoi’oughly clean, and your chop- ping-bowl the same. 5. If you i:)ut in meat juice saved from a roast, see that it is sweet; tjike the fat from the top, and all the sediment from the bottom of it; or if the meat is very lean, you may save just a little of the fat—or add a lump of fresh butter. 6. If cold potatoes are used, see that not a single one or juece of one goes in, that you would object to eating before it becomes part of the dish in hand. 7. In adding raw potatoes slice and chop them, and cook five to seven minutes in very little, water before turnmg them in with the meat. 8. Should bread be put in, trim off any burnt or half raw portions, if such there be, in or aroiind the loaf; grate it[part III. 532 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. very fine, and add after the meat and potato are ■well heated through. 9. If water is needed, put it in at the staii, boiling hot; and not so much of it as to make the hash slopjiy. 10. Add the different ingredients in the following order : First, put into the pot the gi’avy or meat juice, this latter diluted with water; slice in the onion (if used), and heat slowly ten minutes, to paiiily cook it; then add the chopped meat, and heat again; then the parboiled potatoes, stirring them weU through the mass, with more heating ; lastly, the crumbs, and a final heating and stirring—the jjot to be kept covered, as closely as possible. 11. After all are in, cook the hash ten to fifteen minutes, or long enough to make the whole mass steaming hot, and to blend the different flavors weU together ; stir frequentty. 12. Seiwe as soon as done, with mashed or baked po- tatoes. "With these precautions, youi’ dish of hash wiU not need an apology. Beef ok Mutton Hash.4|: Take cold beef or mutton, roasted, stewed or boiled, and slice it very thin, cutting across the grain or fiber; throw out any hard, gi'istly bits, or other undesirable portion. If there is much fat take only the best of it, and no more than is needed; be sure you shave it as thin as possible. When all the meat is sliced, mix the fat and lean together, and chop fine; if you have a bowl of fresh dripping, the gi’avy in the bottom—which it is well to save for hashes—may be diluted wfith water, and used to moisten. If you have none, crack the bones after the meat is off, put them into a stew- pan, add the rejected pieces (all clean, of course), a sliced onion if liked, and a pint of cold water; stew slowly, half to three-quarters of an hour, then strain the liquor, and set it by for the hash. You may add to the meat stale bread- crumbs, or potatoes, or both, combining these in variousPART III.] HASHES AND TOASTS. 535 proportions. The follo^ving, however, is one of the best coiubiuatious that you can make ; though some like less crumbs, and some none at aU: Have one part hashed meat, one part stale bread-crumbs, and one of raw chopped potato. Put into a pot the liquor, strained from the bones; or (if you have it), the gravy left from a roast, first removing the gi-ease from the top, and the sediment from the bottom; a thii-d of a cup of it ought to be sufficient for a quaii; of the meat. Dilute the gravy in the pot with enough boiling water to make the meat pretty moist; but before putting in the latter, slice in an onion if you like its flavor, lay on the lid, and cook ten min- utes; then add the meat, cover closely, and heat again, stir- ring once or twice. In the mean time put the chopped po- tato into a separate vessel, add just a little boiling Avater, and cook five to seven minutes ; have ready the bread- crumbs grated fine, using good home-made Graham loaf, unsweetened. "Wlien the potatoes are done enough (they should be about half cooked), turn them in Avith the meat, and stir well together; let these get steaming hot before you add the bread. Then cover again and heat thoroughly, stiiTing several times; cook from ten to fifteen minutes, or till the several ingredients are well blended together ; then dish into a tureen, cover, and send to the table. The hash should be rather dry when done; seiwe with baked or mashed potato. Hash aatth Cold Potatoes. In making hash you can use cold boiled potatoes, but they are not as good as raAV ones, chopped and pai’boiled. If the cold ones have been boiled in their “jackets” remove the skins, trim off any imperfect spots or ends, and throw out the wet ones; if you do not do this you AviU spoil the hash. You can make it of meat and potato, leaAung out the bread; but if you have a bit of stale loaf, put it in. WhenUELa'l'U THE HOUSEHOLD. m [part III. no bread is used, take as muck potato as there is meat; some like twice as much, provided there is plenty ot cold gravy to moisten ; in the absence of this, you may have to use a bit of fresh butter. Cut the meat in thin sHces, always across the gr’ain, and chop fine; put the gravy into a stew-jian, add a little boil- ing water, and slice in one or two onions, if liked ; cover closely, and cook ten minutes. Then add the meat, cover again, and let it get well heated through ; then the potato, stirring weU together, and laying on the lid. Continue the cooking ten to fifteen minutes, or long enough to make all very hot, and to blend the flavors thoroughly; stir often. A good breakfast dish is made as follows : Make a fine hash of beefs tongue (some use corned beef), and cold po- tato, using the liquor in which the tongue was boiled, to moisten; then cook as before. You can have more potato than meat, if you like ; and a little onion sliced and par- boiled, may be added if desired. Baked Hash.4|: Take cold beef, mutton or lamb, or some of each, slice it very thin across the grain, and chop fine ; moisten A^th a little cold gravy or meat juice, from sweet dripping; and if you like an onion, slice it as thin as possible, and parboil ten minutes before putting it in. Prepare some stale bread- crumbs fiom good home-made Graham loaf, if you have it; there should be about as much bread as meat. Stir all to- gether; and if the gravy added does not make the mixture wet enough—it should be rather moist—add a very little boiling water, and stir well. Put the hash into an iron bread-pan, smooth the top nicely, and bake in a hot oven fifteen or twenty minutes; it should be slightly browned or cmsted, top and bottom.535 IIASHE.S AND TO.VSTS. rAET 111.] Hash Rolls. Prepare the meat as for an oriliiiary hash, chopping it very tine; you can moisten witli a spoonful of cold gravy or meat juice, if you have it; add an equal quantity of mashed potato (fresh is best), and the same of stale bread-crumbs hnely grated, and soaked in milk or cream. Work all Avell together with the hand, malce into rolls about three inches long and litilf the thickness, and brown in a hot oven fifteen to twenty minutes. Or you may spread the hash smoothly in a well-oiled bread-pan, and set it in the oven ; when browned in the bottom turn it into a flat dish, the crusted side uppermost, and send to the table. Cold fish may be picked uj), mixed with fresh mashed po- tato and a few fine bread-crumbs (the latter soaked in milk), and baked in the same way. Minced Lamb. Cut the cold meat from the bones, slice it very thin, and choj) fine; then crack the bones, put them into a stew-pan with other rejected bits, or a chop left over, and cover with cold water; slice in an onion if you like it. Simmer about an hour, then strain the liquor, and thicken it a trifle with browned flour moistened with milk or cream. Retmm it to the pan, add the meat, and a little cold chopped potato ; cover closely and heat till very hot, stindng once or twice ; the hash must not be too moist. Serve with dry toast, or eggs and toast. If there are no bones to make the gravy, add a little cold gravy or meat juice diluted with water, or half a cup of miUc or cream, and thicken as before. Beef or mutton left over, may be similarly prepared. Minced Turkey. Take a sharp knife, slice the meat thm, and chop it fine. Then crack the bones, put them into a pot with the neck,53G HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAET IIL skin, and other inferior pieces, nearly cover with cold water, and simmer half an hour. Strain out the liquor (there may be a ciijiful), thicken it with browned flour wet with milk or cream, bring just to a boil, and set it off. "When half cold, put in the minced tui'key, and if there are a few bits of dressing, add them; if the mixture is not wet enough, stu’ in a little cream or milk; it should be pretty moist. Cover the pot, and heat slowly till it is ready to boil; stir once. Then lift from the Are, and jiom’ the stew over a plate of stale biscuits split open, and crisped in a hot oven. Beef and Tomato Hash. Prepare equal quantities of minced beef, raw chopped tomatoes, and fine bread-crumbs of stale Graham loaf; the meat should be sliced thin, and chojiped fine. Fill an earthen or granitized iron pan tw’o or three inches deep, Avith layers of these, in the following order : Fii'st tomatoes, then crumbs, then meat; two layers of each will nearly fill the dish; then add another of tomatoes. Before jiutting in the meat, moisten it AA’ith a little cold graA^y if you liave it; some like a spoonful of finely chopped onion mixed Avith the hash. If canned tomatoes arc used drain off the syriqi, and take part of this to moisten the crumbs. CoA'er, and bake in a moderate oven about an hour and a half— though a thinner hash Avill bake in less time. Serve Avith boiled or mashed potato. Another Avay, very good, is to prepare equal quantities of chopped tomato and stale bread-crumbs, and as much meat as there is of these put together; the meat should be sliced very thin, and chopped fine. Then heat the tomatoes thor- oughly, stir in the cnimbs and nipat, aiid add a snoonful or tAvo of cold gravy; cover closely, and cook ten to fifteen minutes. Stir several times, and disii as soon as doue537 HASHES AND TOASTS. PAUT III.] Hash and Macaroni. Break the mac.aroiii into inch lengths, put it into a sauce- pan, and bai'ely cover with boihng water; stew twenty min- utes. In the mean time hash the meat, and peel and chop some tomatoes; there should be nearly as much tomato as meat, though less will do. Mdien the macaroni is done drain it, saving the water in which it boiled; then till an earthen dish with layers of tomato, meat and niacai’oni, add- ing them in the order named; moisten the meat with part of a cup of cold gravy, if you have it. Or if there aie bones, staid, them in a little cold water, and simmer, coveied, half an hour; then strain the liquor, and moisten with this. When all are in, pour over the whole the water saved from the macaroni (of which there may be half a cup), and if there is too much moistiu’e, sprinkle over a light layer of very fine bread-crumbs, di*y and stale, or some rolled crack- ers. Cover, and bake in a moderate oven, forty to fifty minutes. Hash with Onions. Cut the meat in short lengths; or you may shce it, not verv thin, and chop moderately. Put into a stew-pan part of a cup of cold gravy, or the meat juice saved fiom a roast; and if the hashed meat is rather lean, add to the contents of tlie pan a little fresh butter, or dripping. Heat till hot, and slice in several onions; let these cook till they change color, and then add nearly a cup of boihng water, or enough to make the hash pretty moist. Now put in the meat, and stir all well together; you may add also, if you have them, a few bits of cold potato. Cover, and heat ten minutes, or till the hash is very hot, stin’ing several times; then turn into the tureen. This is a convenient dish foi wash-days, as it needs little preparation. 23*[PAET HI HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 538 Hash Toast,—( Good.J^ 1 quart hashed meat. ^ cup cold gi'avy or meat juice. ^ cuj) sweet cream. 1 “ wai'm water. 1 teaspoouful hro\\Tied floui*. Dish of shced bread, toasted. Slice the meat very thin, choji it fine, and mix the browned flour thi’ough it. Dilute the cold gravy with the warm water, turn it into a stew-pan, and add the meat; cook slowly ten minutes, stirring once or twice. Then set the pot back where it will cool a little; after ten minutes stir in the cream, heat almosl to boding, and the toast being ready, poui’ the hash over it. Another way is to make the hash a little drier, using all water instead of part cream; wdien it is finished and poured over the toast, break an egg over each of the shces, and then heat in the oven till the whites ai’e set. Milk Toast. Good, home-made Graham loaf, two or three days old (always unsweetened), makes the best toast. Slice it evenlj”, and scarcely half an inch thick; if the cnist is scorched in baking, trim off the burnt edges. Then toast each piece to a light even browm, on both sides; do not hurry the proc- ess too much, or you will simply bum the surface, leaving the middle portion soft. As you toast, place the slices on a tin platter, and set where they will keeji w^arm. After finishing, scrape off any scorched edges wdth a knife, dip each slice quickly into boiling water, and lay it in a deep dish or tureen. When all are in, pour over them enough milk heated just to boiling, to almost cover the whole. In tw^o or three minutes shuffle the slices, leaving the hard, crusty pieces in the bottom, and the better soaked on top;PART m.] H.V3UES AND TO.VSTS. 539 do this carefiillv, so as not to break them. Then cover the disli, and send to tlie table. If properly managed, the milk will nemly all be soaked up by the time the toast is served; its good rich flavor will be better preserved than where there is a great quantity of fluid, and the bread wiU not be too soft and sloppy. Another way is, not to dip the slices in boiling water, but to lay them dry into the dish, and set in a warm place; turn together equal quantities of milk and water, heat the mixture to the boiling point, and pour it over. There should bo about as much as the bread will absorb. Egos and Toast. 4|: Slice tlie bread, good home-made Graham loaf, rathei stide, and toast to a light brown on both sides; the shoes shoidd be evenly cut, and nearly half an inch thick. When toasted, set in the oven to keep warm. Then fill a skillet or frying-pan witli clean hot watei’, and place ovei the flie; when it comes to a boil, break the eggs one at a time into a wot saucer, slip carefully in, and cook till the whites aie set; then Avith a spoon or perforated skimmer, take out each egg, and lay it on the toast. An excellent dish is hash toast (already given) made not very Avet, and a poached egg laid on each slice. Asparagus Toast with Eggs. Wash and scrape the asparagus, letting it lie a few min- utes in cold water; then tie it in little bundles and T)oil till tender, in Avatcr enoirgh to cover. In the mean time, pre- pare from stale, home-made Graham loaf a dish of tf>ast, eA'enly browned, and set where it Avill keep AAnrm. When the asparagus is done, di’ain off and save the Avater in Avhich it boiled, and moisten the toast Avith it; do not make too Avet. Then clip off the tender ends of the stallvs, and lay540 [PABT III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. tliem on the slices; break an egg over each, and j)lace in a hot oven till the whites are firm. EGGS. Fresh eggs, particularly while ones, have a thin rough shell which an experienced eye will know at sight. As they get stale the shell thickens, and becomes smooth and shin- ing. To tell whether an egg is spoiled, hold it up between your eye and a lighted candle; if not good, it will look clouded; the outline of the yolk will not be distinct, and the white not cleai’—or the whole mass will be opaque. Boiled Eggs. It is difficult to time eggs, if more than two or three are boiled at once; when there are a dozen or more, they cool the water, so that you will have to count from the moment it begins again to bubble. Very much too depends upon the size of the eggs, and also the thickness of the shells; the clear white ones (fresh), are thinner than the buff- colored. Have a good kettle of boiling water over a hot fire, and drop the eggs in with a spoon to prevent breaking them. If they cool the water till it stops boiling, count from the time it be- gins again; and if wanted soft, cook two minutes and a half— or two minutes, if the eggs are small. But if they boil from the time they reach the water, allow two minutes and a half for the small, and three for the larger ones; this should coagulate the whites, and leave the yolks soft. If liked neither hard nor soft, but the yolks a little firm, allow three minutes to three and a half, according to the size of the eggs. If you Avish them hard, cook ten to fifteen minutes, or even longer; some say half an hour; the longer the time, the drier and more mealy the yolks.511 PART m.j EGGS. Soft Boiled Eggs.i[:|: Brin" tlie water to a boil ; then set back (or off), where it will keep hot, but not bubble. Drop in the eggs, and let them remain from four to six minutes ; those Avith thin shells Avill cook first. By this method the whites do not harden, but coagulate to a jelly-like consistency.—A delicate dish is made as follows : mash hot potato very smooth, making it rather soft with milk; then break the jellied eggs OA’er it, and serve immediately. Poached EGGS.4j= If you have muddy, river water, either filter it, or boil and settle. Place over a hot fire a clean skiUet or frying- jian neai’ly full of Avater, and when it bods set it up a mo- ment. Break the eggs sepai'ately into a wet saucer, and shj) them in; you must not crowd them. Then retuiTi the jAan to the fire, and cook moderately three to four minutes. Or a better way, it may be, is to place where the Avater (AA’hich has just boiled) AviU keep hot, but not bubble; let the eggs remain in it fiA^e to seven minutes, or tiU the Avhites ai’e cooked. Then lift them out one at a time, Avith a spoon or perforated skimmer, drain Avell, and lay in a hot dish, or on dry toast. Baked Eggs. Break into an oiled pie-pan as many eggs as it Avill con- veniently liold, and place in a hot oven till the whites are fully set, and the yolks as done as desired; then slip to a plate, and seiwe. Or you may break the eggs into small vegetable dishes, bake, and seiwe without lifting. Scrambled Eggs. Oil the skillet with a little clean dripping, and place it over the fire; break the eggs into a saucer (one at a time, to avoid bad ones), and then turn them into a boAvl, being careful not to break the yolks. When the skillet is prettyHE,VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part IIL 542 liot but not scorcbin", pour in the e"^s; and the moment they begin to whiten, turn them up from the bottom with the end of a knife. Continue this process, turning as fast as they cook, till the mass is sufficiently done; then lift to a hot dish, and serve immediately. Scrambled Eggs. Pom* into a deep earthen pie-pan half a (y,ip of thin cream, and let it come almost to a boil. Then break in the eggs, being careful not to disturb the yolks; when they begin to whiten, separate with a knife by cutting between them, and then scrape uj3 from the bottom as they cook. Have the heat moderate, else the eggs will cook too fast, and take from the fire before they are quite done, still turning from the bottom as you lift the pan. They should be in large flakes of white and yellow, delicately blended, and yet sep- arate. Omelet. You can make an omelet of three eggs, or twice the num- ber; but the larger it is, the more difficult to make it. The better way, therefore, is to make two small ones, rather than a large one; the eggs (or at least the yolks) must not be beaten too much; and the omelet must be serv*ed as soon as done. The following is said to be an excellent recijie: Break three eggs into a bowl, and beat gently till you can dip up a spoonful; then stir in half a cup of miffi or cream. Put into a frying-pan a little fat from sweet drip- j)ing, or a bit of fresh butter; heat till the oil commences to sputter or hiss, and then pour in the omelet. When it be- gins to bubble and rise in flakes, lift with a fork by dipping the latter in here and there, and raising the mass from be- low. Persevere in this lifting process, by which the cooked portions are brought to the surface, and the raw egg is let down to the bottom. In three to five minutes the whole will be sufficiently done, and the under surface firm enough543 PART III.] EGGS. to adhere together. Shake the pan a little, to loosen it, run a knife under one half of the omelet, and fold it over on itself; then slide it out on a hot platter, and serve. Omelet. Beat separately the yolks and whites of three eggs, the former just till they are smooth, and the latter to a stiff froth. Stii‘ into the yolks half a cup of milk—new, if you have it; some add a sprinkle of chopped parsley"; then stir in the beaten whites; oil a frying-pan, heat till it is hot, and pour in the omelet. As it cooks shake constantly, instead of stiiTing; and if it inclines to stick to the pan, loosen with a knife ai’ound the edges, or lift it up gently from the bot- tom. The moment the omelet is done enough, slip the knife under one side, turn adroitly, folding one half of it over the other, and slide to a hot plate. Another wa}^ well recommended, is to beat separately the yolks and whites of four eggs, the whites to a stiff froth. Then take a cup of milk, and a good tablespoonful of flour; form a batter with the flour and part of the milk, stir in the remainder, add the beaten yoUcs, and mix all well together. Then stir in the whites, beating well, and bake on two small griddles, well oiled and hot. As soon as sufficiently cooked fold each omelet on itself, and (if necessary) set in the oven a moment at the last; if not quite done, they will fall. Some omit the flour; and the moment the omelet is done enough fold it twice, forming a sort of roll; in serving, cut across it. Asparagus Omelet. Beat the yolks and whites of four eggs together, add two-thirds of a cup of good milk, and half a cup of cold asparagus tops ; or you may use cold cauliflower, cho})ped fine. Stir all together, and turn the omelet into a pan, Avell oiled and hot; shake, as it forms or thickens at the bottom, and loosen w'ith a knife or cakc-turner, if it adheres. Fold514 [part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. on itself when done, by turning one half over on the other; then invert the imn over a hot jilate. PRACTICAL HINTS. Dining-Room and Kitchen. No room is fit to live in that has not a free cii'culation of di’y air under it, and at some hour of the day a stream of sunshine into it. If possible, plan your house so as to let into the kitchen and dining-room the morning sun ; it will war^n and cheer in winter, and in summer it will be less ojipressive than the noonday heat, and less sultry than an afternoon sun. In the A'ery warmest weather the shutters may be closed, or partly closed; or a tree near by with thick fohage, may cast its friendly shadow in mid- forenoon. Let the ceilings be high (eleA^en or twelve feet would not be too much), and let the Avindows be raised and lowered by means of pulleys. If this can not be done, then have them so adjusted that both windows—there should be two in each room—can not only be raised from the bottom, but loAvered from the top. If there is a transom above the out- side door of the kitchen, have a spring fastened to it for opening. By means of these simple appliances, the hot air can be let out, and the cold air let in ; thus securing thor- ough ventilation, Avith none of the close bad smeUs that are so often found in the rear. A good big ventilator just above the stove or range, is also desirable; this Carries off a stream of hot air, and cooler currents take its place. Many a poor woman—perhaps a Avife and mother—has been sent to the insane asylum from living in a hot close atmosphere, in a small kitchen Avith only one window, and a very low ceiling. After Avhat has just lieen said, it would scarcely be neces- sary to add, that basement kitchens are as a rule insuffer-PILVCTICAL HINTS. 545 Part III.] able. The lack of sunshine, the poorer ventilation, and worst of aU, the dampmss that pervades all basements, were enough ceiiainly to condemn them. Besides, a kitchen down staii’s is exceedingly inconvenient, even with an ele- vator; the cook must either live iu the basemeut (having everything brought to her), which is a sort of prison life or she must climb the stairs many times every da}\ The best floor for a kitchen and dining-room, is one of smooth hard wood, well oiled; this will show no grease spots and it is easily kept clean. A good thick rug, laid in front of the kitchen table for the cook to stand on in winter, will keep her feet warm; she can hft and shake it each morning, when she sweeps. The outside door should be weather- stripped at the bottom (and up the side if necessary), to keep out cold draughts of air. The dining-room should have its own flre-place or register, and not depend ujion the kitchen for its heat; for along with the warm air, the odo7’s from that quaider will also And admittance. The character of the purse-holder, is not unfrequently shown in the furnishing of the dining-room and kitchen, particularly the latter. To do first-class cooking without suitable utensils and other accommodations, is next to im- possible; and if these are wanting it is evidence either of bad judgment, penuriousness, or downright poverty. It is a common saying, therefore, that in the furnishing of a house, one should begin in the rear. To be brief, then, the dining-room and kitchen should be light, airy, clean, and well furnished ; they sliould also bo sufficiently roomy, lioth in lateral dimensions, and in height. In a sanitary point of view, as well as for cleanliness, the air in these apartments should be ])nre. It is a fact too lit- tle understood, that water and other liquids, and oven semi- fluid substances, as stewed fruits, juicy vegetables, etc., have the power of absorbing foul gases from an impure atmos- phere, to such an extent as to render them half iioisonous;HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 540 [PART UI. from wliicli it follows, that the disagx’eeable odors escaping from filthy dish-cloths, grease burning on the top of the stove, musty old carjiets, pans of stale garbage, foul drain- liilies, etc., are not only breathed by the inmates of the house, but they are actually eaten! Look to it, then, that the 2dumbing is in the best of order, and the sink kept scrupidously clean. Have no dogs lying round the stove, and not very many cats or kittens; these, as a general rule, do not imjirove the sanitary condition of things. In the kitchen, every inch of the floor (especially if 'it be carpeted), should be well kept, and weU swej^t; and the woodwork and fumitui’e in both dining-room and kitchen, ought to be as carefully dusted and cared for, as any in the house. These rooms should be thoroughly aii’ed, every morning ; and through the day the kitchen should have as few occupants as possible, especially in the winter season, wiien the ventilation is less perfect. Moreover, the cook, whose presence is absolutely necessary, should be par- ticularly careful as to personal cleanliness, bathing, change of clothing, etc.; nothing indeed is more desirable, than that this individual should be scnipulously neat in aU her habits. As respects the dining-room, the table linen should be changed as often as necessary ; and when soiled it should be washed liy itself, and weU ii'oned. There is as much in the neatness and order with which every thing comes to the table, as in the quality of the furnishing; and any defect in the former, is even less excusable than the latter. In hygienic households, the manner of setting the table differs somewhat from the ordinary methods. As there is neither tea nor coffee, there are no cups and saucers, and of course no serving of the beverages named. In their stead AviU be found at breakfast or supper, a dish of stewed or canned fruit, which is served from the head of the table, and at the beginning of the meal. The only liquid that isPRACTICAL HINTS. PART III.] 547 ever passed—and this can scarcely he called a beverage—is gi’ape or other fruit juice, served in goblets, and sijDped or eaten with bread, or plain cake. A dish of raw fruit, as ap- ples, peaches or grapes, is usually served at breakfast, and eaten the fii*st thing on sitting down to table; and grapes, pears, or small fruits, are often sers’ed at supper. Oranges and bananas, if taken at the regidar meal, ai’e seiwed at dinner. These dishes (or baskets) of raw fruit, usually occupy the center of the table ; and when tastefully ar- ranged with gi’een leaves and bright rosy fruit, handsomely di’aped with rich clusters of gi’apes, they are as ornamental as they ai’e palatable. Really, there is no table more attractive, or more truly ai’tistic, than that which is laden with the simple products of the soil; it brings together in choice combination, the golden gi’ains variously prepared, the luscious fruits fresh from the trees and vines, and those rarest of gifts, the fragi*ant flowers, wet with the dews of the morning. It not only feeds the hungry stomach, giving strength to every part of the body, but it satisfies a something in our nature) that ranks higher than mere animal existence. Table Etiquette. ■\\Tio was it that said, “ Let me see a man eat, and I mW tell you what manner of bringing up he has had ? ” AVhether or not this be strictly true, it is neveidhelcss a fact that the fahle is the place, of all otliers, to distinguish between the country boor (though boors are not confined to niral districts), and the Avell-l>rcd gentleman or lady. It is also the place where true innate refinement of mind and heart, as well as a narrow, depraved selfishness, has opportunity to display itself. For while there are certain peculiarities or customs that are purely ai’bitrary, and that are limited to special localities, there are likewise certain principles of548 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PART III. good breeding, that are common to all people of intelligence and culture. It is not enough, therefore, that we conform to a paidicu- lar style of manners, belonging to some individual city or country; outside of these conventional forms, we shall find oftentimes the very essence of true politeness, in the careful observance of those simple usages and customs, which in civihzed society are applicable to aU places and all times. A nice appreciation of these, is to a great degree intuitive; though very much can be instilled into the mind, by thor- ough training in childhood. The ever-watchful mother, who desires that her children as they grow up, shall take rank among the best in the so- ciety in which they live, will not fail to educate her sons and daughters in these seemingly small, but reaUy impor- tant things. She will teach them to show proper deference to older people, to visitors, or strangers; to sit down at table, or to rise from it, noiselessly; to wait patiently until helped to food; to pass dishes to others before helping one’s self; to avoid appropriating the best—or largest piece—of what is offered; to take from the plate the bit lying nearest, leaving the others untouched; to ask for bread or other aiiicles, rather tlian reach for them. She will also instmct each one to accept (or politely decline) the thing offered, at once, making no excuses, and no awkward delay; to decline what is not wanted in so gracious a manner, that its refusal shall seem complimentary, rather than otherwise ; to avoid jost- ling his neighbor’s elbow, or passing dishes in front of that individual’s plate; to sit erect, neither too near the table, nor too far from it; and if it is necessary to move one’s chair, to do it quietly. It is said to be easier to drill a regiment of soldiers, than to train an army of little ones. But the maternal head is supposed to be equal to every emergency; she must be all eyes, and all ears—yes, and all patience. Fortunately, laborI'ART III.] 540 PR.\CTICAL HINTS. and love, joined -with untiring perseverance, usually con- quers aU tilings ; by the time her young cadets are fully gro^Ti, they wiU have leaiTied how to handle their “ weap- ons ” properly. Each will have mastered the aid—always so difficult at first—of holding the knife and fork in a proper manner; he wiU now be able to lift his food with the latter, rather than the former ; to take small mouthfuls, “ caiTying the food to the mouth, not the mouth to the food;” to close the lips while masticating, and to swallow each mouthful without apiiarent effort. And by the time he is ready to enter society, he wdl have solved the mystery of supping his soup or other hquid inaudibly; of eating without di’opping his food on tlie table-cloth, or slopping (or dragging) it over the edge of his sauce-dish. If more food is wanted, he will no doubt remember the instructions (oft repeated), to ask for it, and always in a polite manner; to be helped moderately, and not to too many varieties at a time ; and furihermore, to leave little or nothing on the plate when done. It is a wasteful and slovenly habit among Americans, that of leaving the plate half fuU at the end of the meiil—or passing it in that condition to the waiter, in expectation of another course. When seated at table avoid tapping the plate, rattling the dishes, playing with your knife and fork, or leaning with the elbows on the side of the table; and on no account so far forget yourself as to put your own knife or spoon into the dishes near you—or, what is thoroughly disgusting—to use the comer of the table-cloth, in place of a napkin ; if this little convenience is wanting, then your own pocket handkerchief would be the only admissible substitute. In using the napkin be sure you make it do its work thorough- ly (this to gentlemen who wear a heavy mustache), then fold it neatly, and lay it beside your plate. Whether at table or elsewhere, try not to annoy others by repeatedly clearing the throat; and if while you are eating, the handkerchief[part hi. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 550 becomes a necessity, endeavor to use it inaudibly, and in a.s inconspicuous a manner as possible. Before rising from tbo tal)le, lay your knife and fork on your plate, ^ilaciug tlieiu side by side. If bits of food have lodged lieriveen tlic teetli, defer using tbe tootli-jiick until after you have left, the table; then foUow with the tooth-bnish, using it thor- oughly. Should it be necessaiy to leave the table before the rest are done, ask the lady who presides at its head to please excuse you ; do this veiy cpiietly, and as i^olilely as possible. The hostess in like manner, should grant the favor with the same gentle courtes}'. All well-bred people avoid veiy loud or boisterous laugh- ing or talking, at table ; they also discriminate as to who should take the lead in conversation, giving the preference to those whoso age or sujierior wisdom entitles them to it. Nor will a person who has been well brought up, mdely in- teiTupt another wliile he is siieaking (even Indians talk one at a time), or contradict his statement in an abrupt or ex- cited manner; he whl wait patiently tiU the other has finished, then quietly take his turn in the conversation, and if he entertains opposite views, present them in a way that will not give offense ; one can be thoroughly in earnest without being dogmatic, or in the least discourteous. IMore- over, it is a rule to be observed in conversing at table, that questions requiring an immediate answer be put at the proper interval; and not when the person addressed has just taken a fresh mouthful. The reason of this is obvious, since no one of any sort of good breeding would attempt to utter a sentence with his mouth filled; and to compel him to do so, or—what is even more embarrassing—to oblige him to con- sume half a minute in masticating and swallowing his food before he can speak, is to violate one of the first rules of etiquette. On the other hand, if one takes his food hurriedly and in large mouthfuls, he gives no opportunity for putting the551 P.VRT III.] PILVCTICAL HINTS. question, and allows himself none for making a response. In other words, he mtxkes the business of the hour, eating, not talking. This may be excusable under ceiiain circum- stances; but to eat habitually at raih'oad speed, is to deprive one’s self of a vast amount of pleasure in social life, which has no equivalent in mere gustatory enjoyment. The En- glish and Scotch people, and indeed most foreigners, seem to understand this better than we; they niiike the hour of eating a time for social chit-chat, in which the plcasui-es of the appetite are more than equaled by the feast of fellow- ship and good cheer, that gives relish to the plainest viands. And really, there is no good reason why we should not to a ceidain extent imitate their example; we have but one life to live, between the cradle and the grave ; then why not enjoy the pleasures of home, family and friends, while we have them ? At the generous board, whence the w’ants of the body are suppHed, let there be an added repast to feed the hungry soul. Here every one, from the oldest to the youngest, should lie put upon his best behavior, bringing nothing to the table that is disagreeable or unwelcome. Let the troubles and trials of every-day life retire into the back- gi’ound ; leaving for after remembrance the cheerful faces, the socitd gathering and the kindly words, which do so much to make uj) tlie sura of human hapjiiness, and to bind the members of the household together. If sti’angei’s or friends are gathered here, let this lie the time and jilace to extend, not merely the common comiesies of life, but large- hearted, generous hospitality. The veiy poorest can give this ; not in nch or costly viands, but in the warmth of a kindly heart. A cnist of bread is sweet, if offered with an open hand. Housekeeping. There is entirely too much embraced in the tenn “ house- keeping,” to be set forth in a single chapter; and it may be a question whether the discussion of a theme so suggestive,HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAHT III. 552 should be undertaken in a work of this kind. It may also admit of a doubt, whether it is of much use to lay down any set rules in regard to the furnisliing of a house, when we take into account the fact that a style which might be in every way suited to a given locality, or to a particular station in life, would be wholly unsuited to another. There are, however, certain things pertaining to housekeeping, that hold good at aU times, and that every housckeeiier ought to know. Some of these things are so well expressed in that excellent work, the Buckeye Cookery, and are so thoroughly fitting, that the author has ventured to cj^uote from it, verbatim: “Housekeeping, whatever may be the opinion of the butterfiies of the period, is an accomplishment in compai’i- son to which, in its bearing on woman’s relation to real life, and to the family, all others are trivial. It comprehends all that goes to make up a weU-ordered home, where the sweetest relations of life rest on firm foundations, and the purest sentiments thrive. It is an accomplishment that may be acquired by study and experiment, but the young and inexperienced housekeeper generally reaches success only through great tribulation. It ought to be absorbed in girl- hood, by easy lessons, taken between algebra, music and painting. If girls were taught to take as much genuine pride in dusting a room well, hanging a curtain gi’acefuUy, or broiling a steak to a nicety, as they feel when they have mastered one of Mozart,’s or Beethoven’s gi’and sympho- nies, there would be fewer complaining husbands, and un- happy wives. The great lesson to learn is, that work well done, is robbed of its curse. The woman who is satisfied only with the highest perfection in her work, drops the drudge and becomes the artist. There is no dignity in slighted work; but to the artist, no matter how humble his calling, belongs the honor wliich is inseparable from all man’s struggles after perfection. No mother who has thePRACTICAL HINTS. 553 PART III.J happiness of her daughter at heaid, will neglect to teach her, first, the duties of the household; and no daughter who aspires to he queen at home, and in her circle of friends, can afford to remain ignorant of the smallest de- tails that contribute to the comfort, the peace, and the attractiveness of home. There is no luck in, housekeeping, however it may seem. Everything works by exact rule; and even \\ith thorough knowledge, eternal vigilance is the price of success. There must be a place for everything, and ever^Thing in its place; a time for everything, and every- thing in its time; and ‘Patience, patience,’ must be written in glowing capitals all over the walls. The reward is sure. Yom’ husband may admire your grace and ease in society, your wit, your school-day accomplishments of music and painting; but all, in perfection, will not atone for an ill- ordered kitchen, sour bread, muddy coffee, tough meats, unjialatable vegetables, indigestible pastry, and the whole train of hoiTors that result from bad housekoejiing. On the other hand, success wins gratitude and attachment in the home circle, and adds luster to the most brilliant intel- lectual accomplishments. “One of the first ideas the young housekeeper should divest herself of, is that because she is able or expects some time to be able to keep servants, it is therefore unnecessary to understand household duties, and to bear their responsi- bility. ‘ Girls ’ are quick to see, and note the ignorance, or incapacity of the mistress of the house; and few are slow to take whatever advantage it brings them; but the capacity of a mistress, at once estalilishes discipline. In speaking of the sanitary conditions of the house, the same author remarks: “There must be plenty of sunlight, floods of it in every room, even if the carpets do fade; and the housekeeper must be quick to note any scent of decay from vegetables or meats iii the cellar, or from slops or refuse, carelessly thrown about the premises. Every room 24551 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [part IU, must be clean and sweet. In sickness, care in all these respects must be doubled. In damj) and chiU autumn and spring days, a little fire is comfoidable, morning and even- ing. The food for the family must be fresh, to be whole- some; and it is economy to buy the best, as there is less Avaste in it. No housekeeper ought to be satisfied with any but the very best cooking, Avithout which the most Avhole- some food is unpalatable, and distressing; and no consider- -ations of economy, should ever induce her to jilace on the table bread with the slightest sour tinge, cake or jiudding in the least heavj^ or solid, or meat Avith the slightest taint. Their use means disease and costty doctors’ bills, to say nothing of her own loss of repute, as an accomplished housekeeper. If children and servants do their work im- proiierly, she should quietly insist on its being done cor- rectly; and in self-defense they Avill soon do it correctly, Avithout supervision. Order and system mean the stopjjing of waste, the practice of economy, and additional means to expend for the table, and for the luxuries and elegances of life,—tilings for Avhich money is Avell expended. It requires good food to make good muscle and good brain ; and the man or woman who habitually sits doAvn to badly cooked or scanty dinners, fights the battle of life at a great disad- vantage.” The Help. There is little space in a cook-book for lengthy disserta- tions on any subject, even in its most limited and practical sense. But there is one matter which enters so deeplj' into our home life, and which so nearly touches all the family inteiests, extending as it does, from attic to basement, and fiom pailoi to kitchen, that it can not on any account be passed by in silence. Ask the hundreds of thousands" of wives and mothers in these States, reaching from Maine to California, Avhat it is that giA^es them ceaseless anxiety, bur- dens them Avith care, and disturbs the peace and quiet of555 PEACTICAL HINTS. PAET III.] their homes. They will tell you, many of them with care- worn faces, tired limbs and toil-worn hands, that the one thing which money can not purchase, nor a good home se- cui'e, is help! In eastern cities, where there are more women than men, the supply of female helpers is more abundant. In the West, however, there are many causes at work, which tend from year to year to reduce the number. There was a time when farmers’ daughters, the bed of them, could be had to assist with house-work, or to take sole charge of it if necessary, and at comparatively small wages. But as the country grew older, and the farmers became weU-to-do and more intelligent, their daughters were sent to school, or to learn dress-making, or some other trade. In the mean time the tide of emigration has been steadily flow- ing in, and Biddy, or some other giil from a foreign shore, has long since taken the place of the farmer’s daughter; she it is who now does the cooking, washing, ironing, and the house-work generally, or it is left to colored help, or to the mistress. The result of all this has been, that the situation as helper (or “ servant,” as they say in the South and West), is not qvite respectable; and consequently not as desirable as it was formerly. The danflard has been lowered ; green Irish, or other foreign help, is not on a par with the intelli- gent, well-trained mothers’ daughters of forty years ago. And owing to the dropping off of this latter class of work- ers, together with the increase of population, there is scarcely an adequate supply of help, even of indifferent quality. What, then, are the legitimate consequences ? They are three-fold: First, a rise in wages ; second, a diffi- culty in obtaining help; third, untrained labor. Put these three items together, and what follows ? Half or two-thirds of the housekeepers, both in the city and coun- try’, have either to do their own w’ork, or to put ujo with help that is thoroughly incompetent, and at the same time556 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT III. liigh-jiriced. Is the statement ovei’di’awn ? Let the fai’m- ers’ wives in tlie Middle or Western States, and tlie wives of mechanics or other tradesmen in the cities, answer. Ask them if they can get competent help, or any helii, often- times, for either love or money. The mistress who has help to-day, may be without it to- morrow; her neighbor offers higher wages, or requii’es less work for the same money, and the gii’l is off. In other words, the employer and employe have changed places ; the latter dictates her terms, and the former has either to accept them, or to “make a change,” which is usually a thing to be dreaded. For even if the lady is foilunate enough to secm’e help, the new girl wiU have to be drilled in; and if things do not hap2ien to suit her, she will not wait for the drilling; she will simiily jiick uji her bundle, and leave. She know^s very w'ell that half a dozen places are ready for her, some of which wiU no doubt be easier to fill, inasmuch as there will be less w'ork to do, or the w'ork itself can be done in a less skillful way. Is it any w'onder that the mis- tress comes finally to tolerate very indifferent service, and as little of it as she can get along with ? The long and the shoit of the whole matter is, that the girls are on the look-out for easy jilaces (the terms wfill take care of themselves), and the poor housewives are asking each other if there is such a thing as comiietent help. Now, what is the remedy for this state of affairs ? There is no one to blame, in the least—unless it be the emjiloyers themselves, for not having looked into the matter, long be- fore this. The w'hole difficulty is simply in the relation of supply and demand; change this, and the evil will at once disajipear. Is there not some w’ay of producing the kind of lielp we w^ant, and enough of it? Most assuredly there is. We have but to establish training schools, in w'hich the “raw recruits” that come from L-eland, Germany, Den- mark, Sweden, amjwhere, shall be thoroughly drilled intoPEACTICAL HINTS. 657 P.VKT IIl] the arts of American liousewifeiy. Let us employ compe- tent teachers, whose special business it sh:iU be to instruct the gii’ls; and as soon as the latter have made sufficient prog- ress, grant them certificates, stating their qualifications. The requisite amount of training would only occujiy a few months—though some would learn faster than others. The “graduates” would of coui'se get situations at once; and just as soon as the siqqjly could be made equal to the demand, the whole perplexing jiroblem would be solved, .ill that is needed is to make competent help as jAentiful as ai’e the teachers of common schools; then, none but the de- serving could expect to get places, and the wages for serv- ice would not be exorbitant. What the normal schools have done for education, the training school for helpers will accomplish for oiu’ households. Is it not about time that steps were biken in this direction? The Hucksteb System. Happy are they who raise their own vegetables, and eat them. And next to these, in the enjoyment of field and garden luxuries, are the people who dwell in country towns large enough to have a good market; for though the prod- uce is not of their o^vn raising, they can buy it directly from the farmers themselves, who have gathered it fresh only the day before. In the large cities, most of the vege- tables have to pass through several hands before they reach the consumers; and in doing so a good deal of time is re- quired, and the aidicles become in a measure stale. True, in most eastern cities the relation of supply and demand has been pretty carefully studied, and the time required for actual transportation redirced to a minimum; so that in the markets there is not only an excellent variety of jirod- ucts, but these are in relatively good condition. But sup]iose you reside in a southern or western city, where what is called the “huckster system ” prevails. Here,HE.VLTH IN THE HOUSEnOLH. [PAHT m. 558 the whole country, for miles around, is scoured by those middle men, the hucksters, -who gather up the tender vege- tables, cart them from place to place through the hot, broil- ing sun, then keep them at their own houses till aU have been collected together, after which they are hauled lo the nearest dejDot, or the city market. By the tune they reach the latter place, they are no longer fresh and sweet. Once in the stalls, however, they must “ look their best ” to jiur- chasers; hence, the watering-pot is in demand. But where are the multitudes of buyers, who would no doubt like fresh vegetables for dinner ? Evidently they are not in the mai’kets; no, they are sitting quietly at home, read- ing the morning pajier; for rather than pay a high price for a tasteless and conqiaratively stale aidicle, they will get some- thing at the nearest meat-stand, and make a dinner on old potatoes, steak and onions, and whatever else can be “ pick- ed up.” Tliis conclusion is the more readily arrived at, from the fact that the central market is a mile or two away, and not (to most purchasers) on the nearest hue of street cars; and two hours spent (at breakfast time) in going and coming, with a heavy basket to lug to the nearest car, and then to your own door, is no f un on a sultry morning in June, July, or'August. It follows, therefore, that neither fruits nor vegetables find a ready sale in the stalls; the housewife, ’v\dth her morning’s work to look after, or the mother with her little children at her knee, can not spare the time to go half across the city to get vegetables for dinner, consuming the best houi’s of the whole forenoon. But what becomes of the produce in the market; the peas, corn and asparagus; the string beans, and new potatoes ? Why, the market-man sells part of it to the meat-man at the corner; another por- tion he must try to scU, himself; but failing to do so, he will let a considerable per cent, of it go to waste in his stalls; the balance will have to be disposed of to the city huckster,559 PRACTICAL HINTS. PART III.J who now takes Ms turn in carting these “fresh country vegetables” through the hot sun, and along the dusty streets, and crying his throat sore to get somebody to buy. He will find more purchasers than one would suppose, par- ticuliu'ly among the boarding-house people, who must have sometMng to put on their tables; then, there are those fami- lies that live in out-of-the-way places, and who, rather than do without vegetables altogether, will take such as they can get. It is astonishing how much of this second and third-rate material accumulates, even in the hottest months; and until this is disposed of, no neio supplies must be brought in, for fear of a glut. Besides, a single car load of actually /re«/i produce, would spoil the sale of that on hand; this must be disposed of, before more is received. Hence, the super- abundance of stale articles, the extreme scarcity of newly gathered vegetables, and the high prices of the latter; to say nothing of the death roll that in hot weather follows the consumption of the former. AVhat is to be done ? The markets in these cities are so few in number compared with the population, and at the same time so far apaid, that nine-tenths of the people never go about them; moreover, the quaht}" of the produce, as already stated, is not such as to warrant a ready sale; so that once the stalls axe filled, they are likely to remain so. This being the case, tlie huckster in the country may take his time in gathering in the next supjfiy; the peas, corn and asparagus can remain in the field, till the stock on hand is more nearly exhausted. Once or twice a week—three times at the farthest—would be often enough to make this forag- ing expedition, from the simple fact that there is really no demand at the other end of the route. In short, the garden products grow old and tough in their beds, get stale after thev are gathered by standing around the farm houses, and when they reach the city through heat and dust, have noHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT III. 5G0 higher mission to perform than to go to decay, or to hill the people who eat them. Do we ask the remedy ? Let us take a hint from those who have learned better. In the first place, let there be more market-houses; more points of distribution: so that a much larger per cent, of people (who now dine on steak, lettuce and onions, bought at the family meat-shop) can manage to get to market, and make their own purchases. This is the first step; the next is, to bring the producer and consumer as near together as possible. Let the vegetables be gathered as soon as they are ready for use; then let them be rapidly transferred to the nearest shipping points, and thence to the markets, where they wiU be quickly sold out and a new supply called for. By such an arrangement we need fear no glut, since there would be no stagnation at any point; and with this healthy activity in all the various departments, tlie supjily and demand would necessarily regulate each other. Who of us shall live to see the desired change ; the time when there shall be no over-stocked markets; no stale or half decayed produce in the stalls; no carting of the same through the streets of the city to get rid of it; no cholera morbus from eating stale melons or fruits; and no deaths among infants whose mothers have dined on vegetables that have been pulled a week ? Glad enough would we be to see the end of a system in which there is neither good economy, good sense, nor good eating. Hints on Marketing. The best way to learn how to market, is to have it to do for a season; besides, much of the knowledge thus obtained, is not of the kind that can be acquired second-hand. The fiist thing that you have to learn, is not to make your pui’- chases till you have walked once through the stalls, and seen just what there is in them; then, if you live in a large5G1 PRACTICAL HINTS. PART 111.] city, you must keep your wits about you, and look out for the little tricks of these market people; for example, if you are buying small fruits, do not let them serve you from the real* of a stale heaj), because, forsooth, there haj^pens to be a layer of fresh berries on top. Nor must you be coaxed into buying a thing, simply because the mai*ket-man (or woman) says it is so and so. Leai’n to judge for yourself, as to the quality of the article; and if you have any doubts in regard to its excellence, do not piu'chase. If you are not an cxjiert at this business, the hints given below on the se- lection of fruits, vegetables and meats, may perhaps be of service. String Beans.—See that the little stems are green and ten- der; if these are dry and shriveled, the beans are stale. Young Peas.—Look at the stems; they should be green and unshriveled. The pods ai’e not an infallible guide ; these often look fresh for days after the stems are shrunken. Beets.—Examine the tops; both leaves and stems should he perfectly fresh; and the roots if newly dug, rviU be firm to the touch. Cabbage.—First look at the stalk, and see whether it is entirely sound ; if it is at all discolored, the cabbage is not the best. The leaves should be fresh and crisp, and free from decay; the outer ones a healthy gi’een, with no 3'el- low', sickly hue about them. • Cauliflower.—When this vegetable is fresh, the flowers are milk-white; if tinged with yellow, it is stale; if brown, it is very stale. Asparagus.—Asparagus to be good, must be cut (or snap- ped off below the ground) as often as every day, or every other day, at the fai'thest; otherwise the stalks wnll be tough. If newly gathered, these should be crisp and tender. New Potatoes.—Potatoes recently dug, are firm to tlio touch; if unripe, they will become Avilted in a few days, and wiU be clammy or sticky when cooked. 24*HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD, [part III. 562 To:matoes.—Tomatoes that are fresh and not overripe, are pretty firm to the touch; if soft, they are either too ripe, or too long- off the vines. In hot weather they get stale in a short time. Cucumbers.—Fresh cucumbers are hai-mless to a healthy stomach; see that they ai’e fu'm to the touch, and gi'een and while in color—not green and yellow. Lima Beans.—These ought never to be gathered till they are milk - white in color—not gi-een. If stale, they will either be discolored (a sort of dingy yellow), or they will be sending out sprouts. Green Corn.—Green corn, like young peas, ought to be cooked and eaten the day it is gathered. See that the grains are plump and unshriveled, and the husks green and fresh. If young enough, the milk should spii-t out in a jet when the grains are pierced with the finger nail. The ever- green corn is the best. Sweet Potatoes.—In bujung sweet potatoes, notice if there are any little siirouts beginning to start from their surfaces. If so, you may know that the potatoes were ex- posed to rains before digging, and that they have com- menced to “gro^v,” which always makes them stick}', or watery. The red (and white) Nancemond, and the Spanish Reds, are fine varieties, Watermelons.—It is rather difficult to tell •v\'hether a watermelon is ripe, except by cutting or “plugging” it; if plugged, it must be eaten the same day. A good test (as it does not injure the melon) is to thump with the finger, and note the sound ; the higher the “pitch,” the riper the melon. If recently pulled, the stems wiU not be black and shriveled. IMelons that are ripe and fi'esh, are perfectly wholesome; the stale ones produce cholera morbus. Cantaloupes,—Ripe muskmelons and cantaloupes, are if fresh, firm to the touch, rather than hard ; the stem if on, is easily removed; if off, the surface beneath should look5G3 I>AET III.] PRACTICAL HINTS. green and fresh. If th) melon yields readily to pressure, as if half shriveled, it is stcile; beware of it! Fruits.—It is generally an easy matter to decide whether fruits are fresh or sttile; if stale, they either look withered, or show signs of decay; and usually they are more or less discolored. Stale blackberries have a dull red color, which some persons mistake at iii’st sight for unripe fruit; if eaten in this condition, they often cause cholera morbus. The following hints on the selection of meats, poultry, fish, etc., are taken from tlie Buckeye Cookery, which is ex- cellent authority: “ In buying beef, select that which is of a clear, cheny- red color, after a fresh cut has been for a few moments ex- posed to tlie air. The fat should be a Hght straw color, and the moat marbled throughout with it. If the beef is imma- ture, the color of the lean paid will be pale and duU, the bones small, and the fat very white. High-colored, coarse- grained beef, with the fat a deeji yellow, should be rejected. In corn-fed beef the fat is yellowish, while that fattened on gi’asses is whiter. In cow-beef, the fat is also winter than in ox-beef. Inferior meat from old or ill-fed animals, has a coarse skinny fat, and a dark red loan. Ox-beef is the sweetest and most juicy, and the most economical. When meat pressed by tlie finger rises up quickly, it is prime; but if the dent disappears slowly, or remains, it is inferior in quality. Any gi'eenish tints about either fat or lean, or slipperiness of surface, indicates that the meat has been kept so long that putrefaction has begun; and consequently, it is unfit for use, except by those persons who prefer what is known as a ‘ high flavor.’ Tastes differ, as to the best cuts. The tenderloin, which is the choicest piece, and is sometimes removed by itself, lies under the short ribs and close to the backbone, and is usually cut through with the porterhouse and sirloin steaks. Of these, the porterhouse is generally preferred, the paid nearest the thin bone beingHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 5G4 [part III. the sweetest. If the tenderloin is wanted, it may be secured by buying an edgebone steak, the remainder of which, after the removal of the tenderloin, is equal to the siiloin. The small porterhouse steaks are the most economical; but in lai’ge steaks, the coarse and tough parts may be used for soup; or, after boiling, for hash ; which in siiite of its bad repute, is really a very nice dish when well made. A round steak, when the leg is not cut do-svn too far, is sweet and juicy.” “ The interior portion of the round, is the tender- est and best. The roasting jiieces ai’e the sirloin, and the ribs, the latter being most economical at the family table ; the bones forming an excellent basis for soup, and the meat, when boned and roUed uji (which should be done by the butcher), and roasted, being in good form for the carver, as it enables him to distribute equally the ujqier jjaid with the fatter and more skinny portions.” “ Mutton should be fat, and the fat clear and white. Be ■wary of buying mutton with yellow fat. An abundance of fat is a source of waste, but as the lean part of fat mutton is much more juicy and tender than any other, it should be chosen. After the butcher has cut off aU he can be per- suaded to remove, you will stiU have to trim it freely before boiling. The lean of mutton is quite different from that of beef. Wliile beef is a bright carnation, mutton is a deep dark red. The hind quarter of mutton is best for roasting. The ribs may be used for chops, and are the. sweeter; but the leg cutlets are the most economical, as there is much less bone, and no hard meat, as on the ribs. Almost any part will do for broth. As much of the fat should be re- moved as practicable, then cut into small pieces and simmer slowly, until the meat falls to pieces.” “ A young turkey has a smooth black leg, and (if male) a short spur. The eyes are bright and fuU, and the feet supple, when fresh. The absence of these signs denotes {j,ge and staleness.”PART III.] PRACTICAL HINTS. 5G5 “ Young fowls (cliiclcens) have a tender skin, smooth legs and comb, and the best have yellow legs. In old fowls the legs ai'e rough and hard.” “ In prairie chickens, when fresh, the eyes are full and round, not sunken; and if young, the breast-bone is soft, and 3ields to pressure. The latter test also apjrhes to all fowls, and game birds.” “ When fresh, the ej’es of fish are full and bright, and the giUs a fine cleiu- red; the body stiff, and the smell not unpleasant. Mackerel must be latel}’^ caught, or it is very indifferent fish; and the flavor and excellence of salmon, depend entirely on its freshness.” “AU fish which have been jracked in ice, should be cooked immediateh^ after re- moval, as the\' soon grow soft, and lose their flavor.” “ If frozen when brought from the market, thaw in ice-cold water.” The Cellar. A dwelling house should never be without a cellar; and the latter should extend under every fool of the former. A house built without this convenience is not only incomiilete in itself, but it is usually damp and unhealthy; with it, tlie dwelling may be healthy or otherwise, according to the con- dition in which the cellar is kept. In the first place, every room below the ground floor, should be thorougldy dry; and in order to have it so, the house itself must be properly finished; the eaves must be supplied with gutters and down pipes, through which the water from the roof can either be carried into a cistern, or else conducted awaj' from the dwelling by means of sewer pipes, or other drainage. If in spite of these precautionary measures water finds access to the cellar, it must be carefully drained away, or (what is better) kept out. Sometimes a beating rain forces itself against the outer wall of the building, and the water after reaching and saturating the gi’ound trickles through crevices in the basement, and covers the cellar floor. ToHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 566 [PAIIT III, prevent the possibility of an accident of this kind, a good plan is to shovel away the eaiiih that lies next to and out- side the cellar wall, forming a deep trench; then fill the latter with clay, packing or stamping it in, until it is per- fectly soHd. Continue this embankment, either with the clay itself, or clay and other earth mixed, till there is suffi- cient slope to caiTy the water some distance from the house; too far for it to soak into the ground adjacent to the wall below. Should a subterranean stream of water find access to the cellar, either by forcing its way through the walls, or up through the floor, it must be conducted away as rap- idly as it flows in, by means of thorough di*ainage. In making a cellar, be sure you have the walls and floor proof against rats; the walls should be built of stone, laid in lime or cement; and in very cold climates an inner wall of brick, with an air space between the two, is sometimes made. The floor should consist of a good layer of small stones—usually broken limestone—over which is poured a hard cement, the latter finished perfectly smooth. Let the compartments be so constructed as to admit of thorough venlilalion, and a reasonable amount of light; the number and dimensions of these wiU of course depend upon the size of the house. A dwelling with ten rooms may have in its basement a laundry, a furnace room, a cold air chamber (in connection with the fmmace), a fruit room (for canned goods), a cold room for vegetables and raw fruits, a dark apartment for potatoes, and a main thoroughfare; the dark room may be at the far end of the latter. In the finiit room there should be closets, each A\dth its tier of shelves, and a lock and key to its door; these closets should be ac- cessible to the light when the doors are open, but entirely daik when these are shut. The cellar like the living-rooms, ought if possible to have .a good supply of air, light and sunfihine, the morning sun being preferable; and all its comjrartments should be easy567 PART III. ] PltVCTICAL niNtS. of access, both from the outside, and from the kitchen stairway. But the one thing to be remendiered, first, last, and all the time, is that every part of it mmt be kept clean; no mould, no decaying vegetables or leaves, no tainted meats, no soured fruits or other spoiled victuals, no stag- nant water, no aihj thing that can possibly create a bad odor, or in any way contaminate the air. Even the dust and cobwebs ought to be pretty civrefully looked after. Of coui'se there must be no roaches, no mice, and if i:)0ssible no flies; all these pests give least trouble when tliere is nothing lying ai’ound to feed them; but if they do put in an appearance, the best way is to exterminaie as rapidly as possible. Briefly, tlien, let every part of the cellar be well kept; thi-ow open the doors and windows frequently, and let the fresh air blow thi'ough the whole of it. And in the cold room, Avhere apples, pumpkins, squashes, and other market products are stored, let the windows remain open whenever it is not cold enough to freeze.—One other vers" impoi-tant matter must not be overlooked; see that {he plumbing is in pei’fect order—no leaky or obstructed drain-pipes, to breed disease. Spoiled meats, stale milk, rotten apples, old cab- bage leaves, etc., may be the cause of malignant fevers, or chronic ill health. But worse than even these, is an accu- mulation of animal excretions or other impurity, resulting from imperfect sewerage or drainage. Some things ought to be attended to, but these things must be done. The Ice-House. In wann climates the ice-house is not only a gi’eat con- venience, it is next to a necessity, particularly in the sum- mer season; and in large establishments, it is very essential as a matter of economy, as well as comfort. Fruits, vege- tables, and animal products, can be presented for an almost indefinite length of time, if kept in a good ice-house whereIIEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 6G8 [part in. the temperatm’e is oul}’^ a little above the freezing point. For the benefit of our “ country cousins ” who can not hail the ice-wagon every morning, the following suggestions from the Buckeye Cookery, on constructing and filling an ice-house, may be of practical value: “ A cheap ice-house may be made IIN'^ partitioning off a space about twelve feet square in the wood-shed, or even in the barn. The roof must be tight over it, but there is no necessity for matched or fine lumber for the walls. They should however be coated with coal-tar inside, as the long-continued moisture puts them to a severe test, and brings on decay. Ice shoidd be tahen from stiU places in running streams, or from clear ponds. It may be cut wiih half an old cross-cut saw, but there are saws and ice-plows made for the purpose, to be had in almost every village. In cutting ice, as soon as it is of sufficient thiclmess, and before much warm weather, select a still day, with the ther- mometer as near zero as may be. Ice handles much more comfortably and easily when it is so cold that it immediate- ly freezes dry, thus preventing the wet clothes and mittens, which are the sole cause of any suffering in handling it; and ice put up in sharp, cold weather, before it has been sulijected to any thaw, will keep much better, and be much more usefiil in the hot days of summer, than if its packing had been delayed until late winter or early spring, and then the ice put up half melted and wet. The best simple con- trivance for removing blocks of ice from the water, is a plank with a cleat nailed across one end, to be slipped un- der the block, which slides against the cleat and may then be easily drawn out with the plank, without lifting. Cut the ice in large blocks of equal size, pack as closely as pos- sible in layers, leaving about a foot of space betw'een the outside and the waU, and filling all crevices between the blocks with pounded ice or sawdust. Under the first layer there should be placed sawdust a foot thick, and arrange^5G9 PART III.J PRACTICAL HINTS. ments should be made for thorough drainage, as water in contact with the ice will melt it rapidly. As the layers are put in place, pack sawdust closely between the mass of ice and the wall; and when all is stored, cover with a foot at least, of sawdust. In using ice, be careful to cover aU crevices with sawdust, as the ice Avill molt rapitUy if exposed to the air. “ The less ventilation and the more completely an ice- house is kept closed, the better the ice wiU keep. The cold air which surrounds the ice, if undisturbed by currents, has little effect on it; but if there are openings, currents are formed, and the warm air is brought in to replace the cold. This is especially the case, if the openings are low, as the cold air being the heavier, passes out below most readily. For this reason, great care must be taken to fill in fresh, sawdust between the walls and the mass of ice, as it settles down by its own weight, and the melting of the ice. There is no advantage in having an ice-house wholly or partly underground, if it is constructed as directed above. Fine chaff, or straw cut fine, may be substituted for sawdust when the latter is difficult to obtain. Of course, the build- ing may be constructed separately, in which case the cost need not be more than twenty-five to fifty dollars.” Those who have not an ice-house, but can get the ice, may easily construct an ice-chest; a few feet of inch boards, these of hard Avood—never use pine, as the odor is un- iffeasant—with zinc for lining, a little sawdust for packing, a handful of nails and four hinges, constitute the materials. The chest must of course have doulffe Avails, with a space be- tween for the packing; also an inner and outer lid, both fitting closely, to exclude the air. In the center of the chest, stretching from side to side, must be movable slats (strips of Avood covered AviUi zinc), or if you have it, a Avhe shelf, resting on a fold of the zinc lining. When in use, lift this shelf or pai-tition, lay the ice in the bottom of the chest, rg-570 [part III. HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. place the shelf, set on it the things you wish to keep cold, and then shut down the lids securely. In the bottom of the chest there must be a hole hned with zinc; or a bit of lead pipe may be inserted, to carry off the water as the ice melts. Bills of Fare. The following bills of fare are intended merely as hints to the intelligent housewife; it wiU often happen that one or more of the dishes named, can not be secured; and that something else will have to take its place. Raw fruits, for example, are not always to be had; and stewed fruits, often- times, wiU have to give place to canned ones; or the canned, to dried. And so of the grains, or vegetables; a particular one specified in the bill of fare, maj' be the very thing you have not got. For this reason it has seemed necessary, not only to make the list of vegetables pretty full, but in some instances to give an alternative article, so that if one is not at hand, the cook can take the other. The dishes selected from the Compromise or Part m., may or may not consti- tute a part of a given meal. If included (at dinner at least), they must to a certain extent, take the place of one or more of the dishes in the regular course; for example, baked Indian pudding maybe substituted for rice or hominy; and baked fish, for stewed or baked beans. The objection will no doubt be raised by some, that too great a variety of food has been introduced at a single meal; and that two or three kinds of vegetables at dinner, ought to be enough. This is very true; it must be borne in mind, however, that it is much easier for the cook to leave off a dish or two from the bill of fare, than it would be to improvise new ones, to take the place of those that can not be obtained in the market. In other words, we must leave room for a certain amount of selection, in the planning of the meal. Let it be remembered, meanwhile, that cer- tain vegetables seem to offset each other, by way of contrast,-571 PRACTICAL HINTS. P.VET III.] thus, sweet potatoes (because of their sweetness) go Avell with tomatoes, their uatunxl opposites; while roast meat or baked beans, call for sour oranges, or spinach with lemon juice.—But for further hints on this subject, the reader is referred to the chapter on Food Combinations. Among the A’arious articles of food given, it will be seen that there is at least one that is expected to appear regularly, at both breakfast aud dinner; viz., the hard Graham roll. It may be eaten warm for breakfast, and cold for dinner; and should there chance to be a few rolls left over, they will not come amiss at supper. The ripe fruits spoken of below, may be apples, peaches, peiu’s, plums, gi’ai^es, chenies, currants or berries. Apples are best eaten at bre;xkfast, and at the beginning oi the meal; grapes and cherries also do their best service eaten in the same way. In warm weather, the acid fruits are usually preferred; but when the weather is cool or cold, and the appetite keen, sweet or dried fruits are in some respects more satisfactory; some of the latter, however (as peaches or prunes), are too hearty for supper. Potatoes may or may not appear at the breakfast table; some parsons are better without them at this meal. Mushes and gi-ains are as a rule more easily digested at breakfast or dinner, than at supper; they may be served with or Avithout a di’essing of fruit. Breakfast.—(Spring or Summer.) Sunday. Kipe fruits, as apples, peaches or grapes. Hard Graham rolls; Graham loaf bread, or dry toast. Corn meal, or farina mush. Baked potatoes, peeled or unjjeeled. Stewed sweet cuiTants, or canned pears. Compromise.—Soft boiled eggs.[part in. 572 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. Monday. Ripe fruit. Hixrd Graliain rolls j cream biscuits. Oat meal mush. Boiled or mashed potatoes. Stewed oi cauued apples, or stewed diied apples. Tuesday. Hard Graham rolls; mush biscuits, or mush rolls. Gra- ham or oat meal mush. Browned potatoes. Strawberries or raspberries; these ripe, stewed or canned. Compromise.—Eggs and toast. Wednesday. Ripe fruit. Hard Graham rolls; leavened Graham bread. Oat meal or farina mush. Mashed or baked potatoes. Stewed dried peaches (peeled), baked apples, or canned jilums. Thursday. Ripe fruit. Hard Graham rolls; currant gems, or dry toast. Oat meal mush, or steamed rice. Boiled or baked potatoes. Stewed apples, canned peaches, or stewed cher- ries. Compromise.—Corn cake; or leavened Graham bread (half white flour) with fresh butter. Friday. Ripe fruit. Hard Graham rolls; leavened Graham bread. Graham or oat meal mush. Browned or mashed potatoes. Raspberries and currants (mixed); these stewed or canned —or blackberries or cherries, stewed or canned. Saturday. Hard Graham rolls; corn gems, or hot-water rolls. Oat meal mush. Boiled or baked potatoes. Stewed or canned plums, strawberries, or baked ajiples. Compromise.—Green corn, griddle-cakes, or milk toast,573 PRACTICAL HINTS. PART III.] Dinner.—(Spring or Summer.) Sunday. Hard Graham rolls; corn bread, or Graham loaf bread Pearl wheat, or pearl bai’ley. Mashed or baked potatoes. Stewed tuimips; or string beans, stewed or canned. Scram- bled or baked tomatoes, lihnbai'b pie. Compromise.—Poast lamb, or broiled beef-steak. Cauli- flower with tomato sauce—no tiu’uips, or beans. Monday. Hard Graham rolls; Graham crackers, or dry toast. Stewed Lima beans (dried or green), or sweet potatoes. Canned or sliced tomatoes. Boiled or mashed potatoes. Hominy, or rice. Compromise.—Vegetable soup, or corn and tomato soup. Baked Indian pudding—no hominy, or rice. Tuesday. Apples, peaches or pears. Hard Graham rolls; corn bread, or mush rolls. Canned corn, or boiled green com. Baked potatoes. Samp, or cracked wheat. Stewed or can- ned fruit. Apple dumplings, or berry pie. Compromise.—Mutton chops (broiled or stewed), or Lan- cashire pie. Bird’s-nest pudding—no berry pie, or dump- lings. Wednesday. Cantaloupes, or bananas. Hard Graham rolls; Graham loaf bread. Green or canned peas. Stewed or baked to- matoes. Boiled or mashed potatoes. Stewed green corn, succotash, or asparagus on toast. Compromise.—Rice pie, or Queen of puddings—no can- taloupes, or bananas.574 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [pAHT III. Thursday. Watermelons. Hard Graham rolls ; com bread, or dry toast. Sweet potatoes, or stewed Lima beans. Cauliflower, or cabbage. Sliced or canned tomatoes. Mashed potatoes, r new potatoes. Compromise.—Green corn pudding, or rhubarb Charlotte —no watermelons. Friday. Hard Graham rolls ; leavened Graham bread. Stewed or baked beans. Summer squashes. Stewed rhubarb—or beets (or spinach) with lemon juice. Boiled or baked pota- toes. Barley, or green corn. Baked tomatoes. Compromise.—Lemon tapioca pudding. Baked fish—no beans. Saturday. Apples, peaches or grapes. Hard Graham rolls ; corn bread, or drj" toast. Stewed green corn, or baked toma- toes. Rice and raisins. Mashed or baked potatoes. Stewed or canned fruit. Apple or berry pie (or cobbler), or straw'- berry shortcake. Compromise.—^Beef or mutton pie, with light cream paste. Fruit pudding—no fruit pie, or shortcake. Suppers.—(All the year.) The suppers should consist mainly of bread and fruit. Let the bread be good home-made Graham loaf, leavened or unleavened, with perhaps a plate of dry toast, or hard Graham rolls ; the loaf should be at least one day old; the rolls are best baked the same day. Wheaten or oat meal crisps are well liked, either at breakfast or supper, particu- larly in cold weather. The raw fruits served at supper, should be berries, grapes, pears, peaches, or plums—not apples; and as a rule, only one variety at a time. To tliese may be added, a dish575 PART m.] Practical hints. of baked or stewed apples, or any other fruit, stewed or canned; most dried fruits are rather too hearty to be eaten at this meal. One kind of cooked fruit is usually enough ; especially if there is a dish of raw fruit on the table. In selecting for supper, avoid, as a general thing, taking the mme kind of fruit that you had for breakfast—or the sup- per previous; the j^alate is apt to tire of too much sameness or repetition. In this latitude there is a very fine variety of fruits, if we oirly take the pains to seciu’e them; in the raw, stewed and canned fruits, we have the bep’ies and their juices, choice grapes, apples, peaches, pears, plums, cherries, oranges, etc.; then, there are the sweet and other dried fruits, which are particularly acceptable in winter. If mushes (fresh-made, cold or warmed over) are eaten at supper, they may be served with some kind of juicy fruit, stewed or canned; or with any of the fruit juices, as grape, strawberry, or gooseberry. Currant scone, served with grape or other fruit juice, or with*fresh cranberry sauce, is excellent as air occasional dish at supjier. For company, add to the above simple repast a plain cake, a handsome basket of fruit, and one of the numerous dishes named under the head of Moulded Farinacea. Breakfast.—(Autumn and Winter.) The breakfasts during this half of the year, do not differ materially from those in spring and summer, except that corn bread and baked potatoes come more frequently to the table, and there is a larger per cent, of dried fruits, with fewer green ones. Good dried apples, peaches, pears, plums, pruneUes, apricots, cherries, prnrnes, or plums and prunes mixed, may in cold weather be serwed for breakfast two or three mornings in tire week, provided they do not persistently follow each other, in close, consecutive order. They are welcomed most on a cold crisp moming; and all the more, if there is a dish of ripe beUflowers, pippins, orHEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. 676 [PAET m. greenings in the center of the table. Good fall and winter apples should be seiwed every morning on sitting do^vn at table, from the time they fii’st begin to ripen, till late in the spring, when there are no longer any to be had. Indeed, there is not a fruit that can fully take their place; though good grapes or peaches serve finely for a time. Let the breakfast, then, be a dish of raw apples or other ripe fruit: hard Graham roUs, to which may be added, loaf, com, or other bread; oat meal or other mush; baked or boiled potatoes, if they are liked; and any one of the fol-^ lowing fruits : baked apples, cranberry sauce, ajDples and quince, or other stewed fruit, dried or green; or you may substitute some kind of canned fruit; one variety is enough, particularly if there is raw fruit on the table, in addition. Occasionally, on cold mornings, you may if liked, stir n pound of fresh dates into the Graham or oat meal mush, five minutes before taking it from the fire. If compromise dishes are indulged in occasionally, select from the following : buckwheat cakes—these are good and wholesome, served with stewed or canned fruit—rice or com griddle-cakes, cream fniit gems, corn cakes, bachelor’s Johnny cake, Graham and com mufi&ns, milk toast., soft boiled eggs, eggs and toast, hash toast, stewed potatoes, com mush and milk, oat meal mush and milk, loaf bread (paid Graham) and fresh butter. For good health^ however, these should not appear too often. Dinnee.—(Autumn and Winier.) Sunday. Hard Graham roUs; leavened Graham bread, or (in cold weather) steamed corn bread. Sweet potatoes, or baked squash. String beans. Mashed potatoes. Stewed or baked tomatoes. Cranberry pie. Compromise.—Lamb chops, or pot roast; celery or spinach, the latter with lemons.PRACTICAL HINTS. 577 P.VET m.] Mondaij. Oranges. Hard Graham rolls; corn bread, or Graham loaf bread. Pearl or cracked wheat. Stewed or baked beans. Boiled or mashed potatoes. Stewed tuimips. Compromise.—Barley and tomato soup, or “ All the gar- den ” soup—no oranges. Rice pudding, or beef or mutton hash. Tuesday. Hal’d Graham rolls; corn bread, or rye, wheat and Indian bread. Stewed squash, or ruta-baga turnips. Canned peas, canned corn, or succotash. Baked potatoes. Stewed or canned tomatoes. Compromise.—Farina pudding, or lemon custard pudding. Wednesday. Hard Graham rolls; mush rolls, or steamed corn bread. Nuts. Baked or mashed potatoes. Barley or rice. Canned com. Baked tomatoes. Stewed or canned fruit. Apple or peach cobbler, or other fruit pie. Ccmpromise.—Beef or mutton pie, or broiled beef-steak- Apple batter pudding, or sweet-apple pudding—no fruit pie, or cobbler. Thursday. Hard Graham rolls; com bread, or leavened Graham bread. Sweet potatoes. Cabbage, string beans, or spinach. Boiled or mashed potatoes. Sliced or canned tomatoes—or fresh oranges. Compromise.—IVIanioca pudding, rice pic, or steamed In- dian pudding—no oranges. Friday. Bananas. Hard Graham rolls; hot-water rolls, or leavened Graham bread. Mashed or baked potatoes. Stewed tur- 26578 HEALTH IN THE HOUSEHOLD. [PAKT HI. nips or parsnips. Stewed or bated tomatoes. Hominy, samp, or canned com. Compromise.—Baked fish, or beef’s tongue with tomato sauce. Oranges—no bananas. Saturday. Hard Graham rolls; corn bread, or rye, wheat and Indian bread. Boiled or mashed potatoes. Lima beans, or succo- tash. Stewed onions, or canned peas. Sliced tomatoes, or oranges. Compromise.—Tomato (or bean and tomato) soup no onions or peas. Pumpkin, squash or potato pie no oranges. Lunch for Picnics. Hygienic.—Make selections from the following: Ripe apples, peaches, pears, grapes, oranges, bananas. Ripe tomatoes, round and smooth, and not very large. Nuts. Hard Graham rolls; wheat meal crisps; Graham crackers; oat meal crisps, or Scotch oat cakes. Graham loaf bread; cream biscuits; currant scone; Graham fruit roll. Straw- berry (or raspberry) shoiicake; strawberry gem-cake; shortcake or gem-cake made with stewed cherries or stewed gooseberries, the latter nearly ripe. Potatoes, sweet or Irish, roasted in ashes. Cracked wheat, rice and raisins, oat meal mush with dates; these dishes moulded, and sensed with fruit juice. Baked apples; canned fruit; grape juice. Fruit pies; apple or peach cobbler. Compromise.—Select from the above, and add two or more of the following dishes: Pressed chicken or lamb; cold tongue; beef or tongue sandwiches; potted beef; cold sliced beef or turkey; hard boiled eggs. Sweet-apple pud- ding; cold rice pudding; lemon tapioca pudding; rice and raisin pudding; rhubarb Charlotte. Graham cream cake; Graham fruitcake; SaUyLunn. Rice or potato pie. Lemon- ade.579 tAKT III.] PR.VCTICAL HINTS. Tr.\veling Lunches. Hard Graham rolls; Scotch oat cakes; Graham crackers, or wheat meal crisps; ciuTant scone, or Graham fruit roll; cream biscuits. Apples and oranges; lemons; grapes, peaches or pears; bananas; in hot weather, good ripe tomatoes; (these and oranges take the placie of water, when it is too poor in quality or too ice-cold to diink with safety.) Grape juice; gooseberry or other fruit juice; these in glass cans or bottles. Chemes or other fniits, also in cans. Baked apples. Fmit pies; these made in turnovers, from diied fruits, as apples or peaches; if made of berries or other raw fruit, the pie must not be too juicy; use no water, and if necessary sprinkle a httle flour over the fruit before baking. Compromise.—Select from the preceding, and then add what is wanted from the following dishes: Cold beef or mutton; roast chicken or turkey; pressed chicken or lamb; cold tongue; beef or tongue sandwiches.ADDENDUM. (580) After having written the foregoing pages for the express purpose of teaching how to cook in the proper vcaij, the wi’iter is cheeringly consoled by being asked in all serious- ness, whether it would not be better to do without cooking, altogether. Some late writers—and some not so late—have given it as their opinion, that heat, so far from unproving the quahty of the various food products, actually destroys, to a certain extent, their nutritive properties ; that it so changes the organic structure of the grains, fmits and vegetables, that they are never again the same ; that these, if submitted to a certain degxee of heat—less, even, than it takes to cook them—are so impaired, as respects their vitality, that they lose their germinating or propagating power; that instead of being more palatable and more easily digested, the very reverse is true; and that if w^e would get aU the good there is in them, we must take them fresh from the hand of Nature. Now, so far as fruits are concerned, most persons—per- haps aU hygienists—will admit that these, properly grown and thoroughl}^ rtpe, are all or nearly all, infinitely better raw than cooked. WTiat is a cooked orange, strawbeiTy, peach, pear, pine-apple, or plum, compared to one in the natural state? And some of the vegetables, as cabbage, lettuce, celery, etc., are by many persons rehshed better raw than cooked. The grains, too, as wheat, or corn, eaten in the immature state, when the kernels are easily masticated, are681 ADDENDUM. acknowledged by all to be very delicious; and it is argued by some, that if we had good sound teeth with Avhich to imlverize the ripe grain, we should find that that too was equally sweet and good. It is also suggested that where the teeth are imperfect, the grains may be very easily mas- ticated by first crushing or cutting them, and if need be, soaking in a little water; and that if eaten in this way, either by themselves, or with nuts or raisins, they are ex- ceedingly palatable. An excellent cake is said to be made, by mixing together nuts, raisins, and wheat or oat meal, coarsely ground, and then submitting the mass to pressure, until the flavors are well blended together. But as the writer of this work has had little experience in the matter of uncooked food (aside from fruits), suppose we let those who are better acquainted with the subject, speak for themselves. Perhaps the first, in this country, to call attention to tlie superior merit of uncooked food, was Sylvester Graliam, M.D. In his Science of Human Life, speaking of the “general physiological laws in regard to preparing food,” he says : “ All arfificial means to effect that which the living body has natural faculties and powers to accomplish, always and inevitably impair and tend to destroy the physiological powers designed to perform the function or to produce the effect.” He gives iUustrations to prove the correctness of tliis statement, and then adds: “ It may therefore be laid down as a general law, that aU processes of cooking, or artificial preparation of foods by fire, are in themselves, considered with reference to the very liighest and best condition of human nature, in some degree detrimental to the physiological and psychological interests of man.” He sums up by saying, that if man lived upon uncooked foods, he would have to use his teeth, and would therefore preserve them; he would masticate his food better, and by thorough insalivation, render it fit for the stomach; he would swallow it slowly, instead of boltingADDENDUM. 682 it down in a crude condition; he would take it at a proper temj)erature, and not weaken the stomach with hot foods; he "would eat the food as Nature prepares it, not ser\*ed in the form of a highly concentrated ahment; he would par- take of the simple, individual food substances, and would not suffer from all manner of injurious combinations; and fiiuilly, he would be less likely to suffer from over-eating, than he would if he lived upon soft, cooked foods. Some more recent writers have taken up this subject, and are giving it very special attention. Gustav Schhckeysen, who is a most charming writer, has written a "svork on Fruit and Bread, in which he expresses liimself very decidedly, in regard to the cooking of foods; and whether or not we are prepared to receive all that he has to say on the subject, it can do us no harm to follow his argument. He remarks: “ Of all the aidificial forms of treatment to which foods are subjected, that of cooking is the most universal, and therefore demands here our especial attention. If we rightly consider the influence of this process upon all the natural properties of a plant, we must concede that it is in almost every case injurious, and that it should be dispensed with, so far as our present habits of life will admit of, and with a view to its final and complete disuse. The natural fluids of the plant are, in great part, lost in cooking, and with them the natural aroma so agreeable to the senses and so stimulating to the appetite. The water supplied arti- ficially, does not possess the same properties as that which has been lost, and aU the less so, since it has been boiled. The cellular tissue of the plant loses also its vitality, and ripe uncooked fruits and grains, with their unbroken cellu- lar tissue, their stimulating properties; their great content of water, sugar and acids, and their electrical vitality, are calculated to impai’t to the human body a rosy freshness, to the skin a beautiful transparency, and to the "whole muscu- lar system the highest vigor and elasticity. UncookedADDENDUM. 583 fruits, especially, excite the mind to its highest activity. After eating them we experience an inclination to vigorous exercise, and also an increased capacity for study and all mental work; while cooked food causes a feeling of satiety and sluggishness. Not only do plants lose their vital, hut to some extent also theii’ n\itritive properties, when cooked. The vegetable acids and oils, the latter being of especial value in the development of the bony structure of the body, are, by cooking, dissipated; while the albuminoids are co- agulated, and thereby less easily digested, so that the nu- tritive value of the food is reduced to a minimum. Another injury that residts from cooked food, is that caused by the artificial heat. All beat excites through expansion an in- creased activity, but this activity is not normal in the case of food eaten hot. “ Again, the sensoiw nerves of the hps and the nerves of taste, are weakened by hot food to such an extent that they no longer seiwe as an iuffiUible test of its quahty ; and hence aidicles that seem in the mouth to be palatable and good may be very injurious to the s} stem, both on account of their natural properties and their artificial heat. In a similar manner the sense of ‘smell is blunted; and not less injuriously does hot food act upon the teeth, the enamel of which is destroyed, rendering them unfit for their work of mastication, in consequence of which the food passes un- prepared into the stomach. The eyes are also injured by the action of hot food upon the nerves connected with them. Tliat condition of weak and watery eyes so ajipar- ent in the habitual drunkard, exists in a certain degree with aU whose systems are enervated by hot and stimulat- ing foods. But the greatest harm from hot food is caused in the stomach itself, the coats of which are ii'ritated, red- dened, and unnaturally contracted by the heat, so that they lose their vigorous activity and capacity for the complete performance of their natural functions. The blood excited584 ADDENDUM. by the heat flows in excess to the stomach, and thence feverishly through the body. One result of this is the flushed condition of the head after eating. Hot food also causes excess in eating, so that it is rather by a sense of fullness and opjjression than by a natural satisfaction of the appetite, that one is prompted to cease eating. An e\idence of the weakening of the stomach by hot food, is seen when one eats an apple immediately after the usual hot meal. Fruit thus taken lies like a stone upon the stomach, the en- feebled nerves being injuriousl}'^ affected by its presence; whereas, in their normal condition, they are stimulated to a most agreeable activity by it. “From the abuse of the organs of digestion, result a host of diseases. A life-long weakness of the gastric nerves, with cramjDS and inflammation of the stomach, are its com- mon fruits. To this cause also is attributable the almost universal prevalence of colds, which are the direct result of unnatural temperatui'e conditions of the body. The blood artificially heated causes an excessive perspiration, since it produces an increased, but injmious activity of the skin; and upon the least change of temperature, the perspiration is condensed upon the body, and causes colds and stiffness, and this all the more certainly when the blood is impure, and the tissues overloaded. From the same prolific cause, result also the uneasiness and languor experienced after eating hot food. But the evil effect can not be overcome by the usual after-dinner nap. This can not replace the ele- ments lost from our food, nor give the enlivening impulse experienced after partaking of ripe fruits in their natural state. “ It is indeed argued, that our northern climate requires that food should be eaten hot, as one means of maintaininer the bodily temperature; but if this be true of man, it must apply with equal force to all animals; and since man alone seems to require hot food, the argument loses its force. InADDENDUM. 585 the polar regions, the conditions of animal life show plainly that the natui’al jDrocess of generating heat is not by put- ting heated substances into the stomach, but by the norm;d action of the vital forces upon food taken in its natural state. Greater thirst is experienced after eating cooked than uncooked food, and this results both from the change which the food has undergone, and from the perspiration caused by the increased heat of the body. The aidificial solution of the food impairs its nutritive properties, and weakens the natvu’al functions of the body, by depriving them of their natural! emplo^nnent; and this has been so long continued, that we are now almost incapable of digest- ing uncooked gi’ains, so that their enhvening and invigorat- ing action is almost unknown.” This writer lays a great deal of stress upon what he terms the “electrical vitality” of foods; on this subject, he says: “Finally—and this is the point that physiologists have hitherto quite overlooked—the food must contain a certain electrical vitalihj. Although the real origin and nature of the vital force is not yet known, we believe that it is closely related to electricity; not less so, indeed, than to light and heat. Electricity is abundant in aU purely natural products, and indeed every^vdiere, where a free and uninterrupted ex- change of the influences of light, heat and air exist. It is less abundant in closed dwellings and sleeping-rooms than in the open air. An outdoor walk refreshes us, not only by the increased consumption of oxygen, but by the in- creased action of the electrical forces. The same vitality is stored up in uncooked plants and fruits, but is greatly impaired by all our culinary processes. Fruits act also through their natural acids, their refreshing coolness, and the easv assimilation of their albuminous products, and other nourishing materials. “ By the electrical vitality of a food, we do not mean its nutritive worth, nor indeed any mateiial element of it, but 25=^58G ADDENDUM. rather an imponderable fluid, which is related to the vital and electiical forces of the human system. The organic vital force has not incorrectly been called, the interrogation point of physiology; and the physiologists and chemists of the old school, thought to maintain this force by supplying albuminoids to the system. The fact, however, is the reverse. The albuminoids demand rather a great expense of vitality for their solution and digestion. We know now, with great ceiiainty, and by practical experience, that the human system is maintained and strengthened by the con- sumption of fresh air, fresh water, and ripe fruits and gi’ains; but these essential means of sustenance are reduced from the rank of vital to merely nutritive substances, by any treatment that through heat or otherwise, destroys their natural vitality. Our ph^’siologists have not hitherto under- stood this difference between the vital and the merely nu- tritive properties of food, and hence, as we have already pointed out, have regarded foods merely as chemical sub- stances. They have discovered and laid dovm, with wonder- ful exactness, the chemical elements of the Ihing body, and hence of the food requisite, according to their views, to its maintenance; but we hope to show in the following pages that their methods, and consequently their dietetic conclu- sions, have been one-sided, and essentially erroneous. So long as the electrical vitality of food is overlooked, and the bearings of anthropology upon the question ignored, a scien- tific system of diet must remain impossible. “ The value of foods consists not in their nutritive prop- erties alone, but in their proper proportion of fluids ; in the necessary bulk, by which digestion is rendered possible; in the natural stimulation of their juices and acids; in the aroma by which the appetite is aroused and its regular recuiTence promoted; in their chemically neutral character, which prevents their generating acids or forming injurious compounds in the stomach; in their freedom from thoseADl>i;NDi;M. 587 unnatural stimulants by which a vicious appetite is created; in the puiity which guards the system against corrupt hu- mors and diseased conditions; in the refreshing coolness which maintains the digestive organs at a proper tempera- ture, and in a vigorous condition ; in their perfect adapta- tion to the nature of the digestive organs, so that they may be transformed into blood without doing violence to any part of the system; and finally, in that electrical vitahty which renders them analogous to hving beings, and the absence of which reduces them to a condition of physical death. These properties are united in theii’ highest perfec- tion, only in uncooked fruits and grains, as they come from the hand of Nature; and the unperverted appetite demands nothing else.” An excellent little work called the Natural Cure, has just been written by Dr. C. E. Page, in which he has a chapter on the “ Natural Diet.” In this chapter the doctor advo- cates the use of uncooked grains, fruits, and even vege- tables (provided they are eaten), and gives his reasons therefor. He also relates the experience of a number of individuals who have lived for a considerable time on un- cooked foods, and who have, as they beheve, been greatly improved in their general health. Felix L. Oswald, M.D., a writer well known in recent publications, has also put himself on record, in the following words: “ We can not doubt that the highest degree of health could only be attained by strict conformity to HaUer’s rule, i. e., l>y subsisting ex- clusively on the pure and unchanged products of Nature.” Quotations from other authorities might be given, show- ing, if not a decided preference for uncooked foods, at least a disposition to look into their merits; and as no hann, but always good, comes from thorough investigation, the au- thor of Health in the Household is not only willing to hear, but anxious to learn, all that there is to be known on the subject. If “ better things ” are yet in store, by aU meansADDENDUM. 588 let US have them ; and the way to find them, is to look for them. A young medical student with whom the writer is ac- quainted, found himself in dyspeptic conditions, and in rather poor health generally. He tried the raw grains and fruits, together with nuts, and immediately began to im- prove; at the end of a few months the dyspej)sia was ah gone, and his general health much better; and at the end of two years, he considered himself as “made over.” How much of this improvement w^as due to the new diet (he gave it credit for a good deal), and how much to the hints he got out of Dr. Oswald’s Physical Education, which he was then reading, it might be difficult to determine; but it is probable that he obtained good from both. Judging from the history of neaiiy all reforms, whether real, or so called, it may be reasonable to suppose that in this, as in the others, its advocates will, in the heat of en- thusiasm, make some mistakes; though perhaps this is unavoidable. In the absence of a knowledge of the right way, one has to experiment, and then profit afterward by the mistakes committed. Already, questions, such as the following, are asked: 1. Suppose we eat uncooked grains ; can we manage them xohole, even if our teeth are sound ? And if so, would it not consume a great deal of time ? 2. If the teeth are impei'fect, must we not cut or crush the gi-ains ; and if very imperfect or wanting altogether, would it not be better to soak the kernels, whole or divided, until they are partially softened ? 3. If one makes a meal of grains and fniits, what per cent, of it should be fruits ? 4. Should the two be eaten together (in alternate mouth- fuls), or should the one be eaten, and then the other ? 5. Is it better to employ a great variety of either theADDENDUM. 689 fiTiits or the grains; and if so, how large a variety is it best to have at a given meal ? 6. If nuts form part of the repast, does it make any dif- ference at what meal they are eaten; whether at breakfast, dinner, or supper? 7. Is there danger of eating too manxj nuts, or of having them too often? 8. Should the quality of the food differ, in hot and cold climates—or hot and cold weather? 9. If vegetables are eaten, how often should they appear on the table ; and should they be eaten at the same meal with fruits ? 10. Would children, just beginning the use of grains, require to have them soaked or softened ? 11. Would the gi-ains, as wheat, be the better of being partially cleaned or dressed, before being eaten ? 12. Should the character of the food be modified to suit the habits of individuals; and if so, in what particulars? 13. In living upon uncooked foods, how many meals w'ould be necessary, in the day; and about how much time would be required at each, provided the individual had good sound teeth ? 14. In changing from the cooked to the uncooked food, would it be best to make the change gi’adually, or at once ? Tlie above are examples of questions that would require an intelligent answer ; though some of them apply to the cooked foods, as Avell as to the uncooked. Would it not V)C a good plan for the advocates of the Natural Diet to organ- ize into a society, and give themselves and others the benefit of their expenence ? No doubt very much valuable infor- mation might be obtained in this way; and if the experi- menters did no more than to disprove certain popular fallacies, at present almost universally accepted, they would, to say the least, help to prepare the way for a more rational590 ADDENDUM. system of diet—if, indeed, that can be called a system, which (as it now stands) contains so much that is not only fragmentary and worthless, but positively pernicious in its effects upon the human system, and utterly at variance with all the known laws of physiology and hygiene. S. W. D.(591) •This lar^e work by Mrs. fir. Dodds, a student of the late R. T. Trail, M.D., Is undoubtedly the most comprehensive work ever published on the healthful prep- aration of food. A large volume of 600 pages, bound in cloth, or oil-cloth, price, by mail, post-paid, $2 00. To give an idea of the nature of the book we repuhMah here the complete INDEX. PART I.—THE REASON WHY. PAGE Butter and eggs 55 Constituents of food 11 Dietetic rules 93 Drinking at meals 72 Food and physical develop- ment 15 Food combinations, etc 84 “ intellect and morals.... 79 Fruits, the 33 Hints on cooking 95 Meat as an article of diet.... 43 PAGE Milk 53 Pepper and other condiments. 71 Pork-eating 48 Salt 61 Sugar 57 Tables (from Pavy) 11 Tea, coffee, etc 75 Two meals or three 92 Vegetables, the 38 Wheat and other cereals 20 Wheaten vs. white flour 27 PART II.—THE HYGIENIC DIETARY. TINLE.WENED BREAD.. . 101 Bannocks, oat meal Ill Bread, cocoa-nut 108 “ cold-water loaf 107 “ hot-water “ 109 Cakes, Scotch oat Ill Crackers, Graham 109 “ other 110 Crisps, oat meal 110 “ wheat meal 110 Crumbs, hygienic rusk 113 Gems, fruit 113 “ potato 113 “ wheaten 113 Rolls, hard Graham 104 “ “ “ (more Me^^) 106 " hot-water 108 “ mush Ill Stems 107 (Corn Preparations)... 113 Bread, corn 115 “ huckleberry 118 “ rye and Indian 117 “ “ wheat and Indian. 117 “ snow 119 Cake, good breakfast 117 “ hoe 114592 INDEX. PAGE Dodger, corn 114 “ “ 114 Gems, “ 115 “ rye and Indian 118 Pone, corn 115 “ steamed corn 116 LEAVENED AND OTDER BREAD 119 Biscuits, cream 140 “ musli 137 “ potato 135 Bread, batter loaf 134 “ corn—{Excellent) .... 137 “ from risings 132 “ “ “ 133 Graham, with potato sponge 131 “ hasty corn 139 “ leavened Graham {gen- eral directions) 123 “ leavened Graham 127 “ “ “ 130 “ pumpkin 138 “ raisin 132 “ rye 134 “ “ dour 134 “ stale 136 Gems, “ {with eggs) 139 “ mush 137 Scone, currant 141 “ potato 142 Shortcake, buckwheat 139 Toast, dry 136 Yeast, hop 121 “ “ 122 “ self-working 123 PLAIN FRUIT CAKES. . 142 Cake, strawberry gem 144 Fruit roll {Ornham) 144 Shortcake, huckleberry 143 “ straw’berry 142 STEAMED GRAINS. . . . 145 Barley, pearl 147 “ rolled {or crushed)... 147 Hominy 147 “ coarse 148 “ fine {or corn grits)... 148 Rice {steamed or boiled) 149 “ and raisins 149 “ Japanese method 150 “ Southern “ 149 Samp 148 Table of proportions {for grains) 145 Wheat, cracked 146 “ pearl 147 “ rolled 146 MUSHES 151 Mush, corn meal 152 “ Graham 153 “ farina 153 “ oat meal 152 PASTRIES 154 Cobbler, apple 164 “ berry 166 “ cherry 166 “ huckleberry 107 “ peach 165 “ “ 166 Dumplings, apple 167 “ berry 168 “ cherry 169 Paste, cream 155 “ “ and potato..... 157 “ “ batter 150 '• crumb 157693 INDEX. Paste, light cream “ oat meal Pie, apple “ “ {dried) “ “ {green) “ berry “ cherry “ cranberry “ currant “ grape “ peach “ “ {dried) “ plum “ raspberry and currant... “ rhubarb Pies, Graham Rolly-poly, fruit VEGETABLES Asparagus “ toast Beans, baked. il tl “ {dried), boiled “ {fresh), garden “ Lima “ {dried), steamed “ “ stewed “ string Beets, baked “ boiled Cabbage, stewed Cantaloupes Carrots Cauliflower Celery Chestnuts, boiled “ roasted Corn and tomatoes “ {green), boiled PAGE j Corn {green), roasted 193 I “ “ stewed 191 “ canned 191 “ green 19i) “ {dried), stewed 193 Cucumbers 195 Lettuce 194 I Melons 199 Onions 194 , Parsnips 184 Peas, dried 193 “ green 193 ! “ split 191 Potato, the 172 Potatoes, baked 17(j j “ {peeled), baked 176 j “ “ boiled 173 I “ {mashed), browned. 175 I “ {sliced), “ . 175 “ in jackets 172 “ mashed 174 “ model-cooked . ... 174 “ roasted 170 “ steamed 174 “ stewed 175 “ {sweet), baked 178 “ “ browned.... 177 “ “ dried 178 “ sweet 177 Pumpkin 183 Rhubarb 196 j Spinach, etc 186 Squashes {muter), baked... 181 “ “ stewed... 182 “ summer 182 Succotash 192 Tomato toast 179 Tomatoes, baked 179 I “ “ 180 “ canned 181 PAGE 155 157 158 163 159 160 160 161 101 161 159 163 162 101 162 157 109 169 184 185 189 189 189 188 188 190 190 188 187 187 186 196 184 186 195 195 195 192 190INDEX. 694 PAGE Tomatoes, etc 178 “ scalloped 181 “ scrambled 180 “ sliced 178 “ stewed 179 “ » 179 “ with corn 180 Turnips 183 Watermelons 196 SOUPS 197 FRUITS AND FROIT JUICES. 197 ^ Apples and quinces 208 “ baked 204 “ “ 204 “ {pared), baked 205 “ {sweet), “ 204 “ dried 219 “ roasted 207 “ steamed 207 “ stewed 205 “ » 206 “ {sweet), stewed 207 “ {unpared), stewed 207 Apricots 209 Bananas 223 Blackberries 216 Cherries, black morello .... 215 “ dried 221 “ for pies 215 “ May 215 Crab-apple sauce 208 Cranberries 218 Currants {red) 212 “ sweet 222 Gooseberries 213 “ for pies 214 Grapes 216 Buckleberries ... 218 PAGE Juice, blackberry 216 “ currant 212 “ gooseberry 214 “ grape 217 “ raspberry and currant. 213 “ strawberry 212 Juices, fruit 211 “ mixed 218 Lemons 223 Oranges 223 Peaclies, baked 209 “ and apricots, dried. 220 “ stewed 208 Fears, baked 210 “ dried 220 “ stewed 209 Plums 210 “ dried 221 Pomarius 224 Prunes 221 “ and plums 222 Quinces 208 Eaisins 223 Raspberries and currants. . • . 213 Strawberries 211 Table of proportions {forfruit) 202 DRINKS FOR THE SICK. 224 Drinks, raw fruit 227 Juice, apple 226 “ “ {dried) 226 “ blackberry 226 “ black raspberry 226 “ cranberry 227 “ currant 224 “ gooseberry 225 “ grape 225 “ peach {dried) 226 “ red raspberry 225 “ strawberry 225INDEX. 695 PAGE 1 Lemonade, cold 227 “ hot 227 Orangeade 227 Tea, apple 228 j “ cranberry 228 Water, barley 229 “ oat 229 “ tamarind 228 “ toast 228 FOODS FOR THE SICK. . 229 Dry toast 231 Gruel, corn meal 230 “ oat “ 230 “ “ “ 230 “ rice 23l “ wheat meal 230 Rice mush 231 Soup, dried peach 232 “ potato 231 POODS FOR INFANTS.. 232 PRESERVING FRUITS AND VEG- ETABLES 234 Drying fruits .. 234 “ vegetables 235 Evaporating fruit juices 236 Refrigeration 238 CANNING FRUITS, ETC. . 238 Apples 243 Blackberries 245 PAGE Cherries, May 246 “ morello 246 Cranberries 246 Currants 244 General directions 238 Gooseberries 245 Grapes 243 Juice, blackberry 245 “ currant 244 “ gooseberry 245 “ grape 243 “ raspberry and currant. 245 strawberry 244 Peaches.. 0'. 243 Pears 243 Plums 243 Raspberries 244 “ and currants 245 Sealing with wax 242 Special directions 242 Strawberries 244 “ how best to can. 246 To can vegetables 250 Tomatoes, how to can 248 MISCELLANY 250 Cooking utensils 254 Packing grapes 251 j Pure water 253 j Storing for winter use 250 I To keep fruits and vegetables 251 PART III.—THE compromise: STEAMED BREAD 260 Rye, wheat and Indian 264 Eve. wheat and Indian 262 i< it t< it 265 (< i< 262 Wheaten and Indian bread... 260 ft tf it 263 < < ft ft 11 261 ff 41 44 364 44 14 44 44 • • • 261596 INDEX. PAGE PAGE CORN CAKE, MUFFINS, ETC. 265 Rusk mush 285 Bread, corn custard 267 Sally Lunn i 4 44 287 “ rice and corn 269 Cake, bachelor’s Johnny 265 Snaps, oat meal 286 “ corn 266 “ Kentucky corn 266 PIES, ETC 288 “ potato 269 Paste, cream 288 Cukes, rye drop 270 Pie-crust glaze 288 Gems, cream 268 Pies, fruit 289 “ “ {with fruit) 268 Pie, apple custard 291 Muffins, Graham 267 4 cocoa-nut custard 292 “ “ and corn.... 267 4 corn-starch “ 293 “ mush 270 custard 290 “ potato and corn 269 4 4 Irish potato 294 4 44 4 4 295 GRIDDLE-CAKES 271 4 lemon 293 Cakes (griddle), buckwheat.. 271 44 “ (loith meringue).. 294 “ “ corn 274 4 peach meringue 289 “ “ “ bread... 275 4 pumpkin 296 “ “ crumb 273 4 4 ‘ ‘ (icith less eggs) 296 “ “ green corn.. 274 44 “ {xdthoiU eggs) . 297 “ “ rice 275 4 l rice custard 291 “ “ wheaten.... 273 4 squash 298 (4 44 44 273 4 sweet potato 295 Tart, cranberry 300 CAKE-MAKING 275 4 4 cream raspberry 299 Cake, apple 281 44 currant 299 “ Graham bread 280 damson 300 “ “ cream 278 4 4 gooseberry . 300 “ “ fruit 279 4 4 green apple . 298 “ “ sponge 282 4 4 lemon . 298 (( 44 <( 282 4 4 raspberry and currant. 299 “ huckleberry 281 4 4 rhubarb . 301 “ layer 283 strawberry . 300 4 4 4 4 283 THE GRAINS . 301 Crackers, fruit 287 “ (Oraham), {rmt... 286 MUSHES . 302 Rusk, Graham 284 it <4 284 PUDDINGS . 302597 INDEX. I PAGE SELECTION OF PUDDINGS.. 305 {Baked.) Pudding, apple batter 314 “ {grated) 30G “ “ {sweet) 307 “ “ tapioca 331 “ baked batter 319 “ blackberry... 310 “ fruit roll 318 “ Indian 324 “ “ “ 324 “ “ “ 325 “ bird’s nest 305 “ bread 310 “ “ {with meringue) 311 “ “and fruit 305 “ cocoa-nut 312 “ farina 335 “ green corn 335 “ “ “ 336 “ Indian {mthfruit).. 325 “ lemon 309 “ “ meringue 309 “ “ tapioca (CMS/arti) 332 “ “ “ 333 “ manioca 329 “ of cold rice 329 “ peach batter 313 “ rhubarb Charlotte.. 307 “ rice 328 “ “ 328 ‘ ‘ sago 334 “ “ {with fruit) 335 “ tapioca 330 “ “ {with fruit).. 333 Puddings, Queen of 311 {Steamed.) Padding, berry 315 cherry roll. 318 PAGE Pudding, Christmas plum... 322 “ Graham {icithfruit) 322 “ “ “ “ 323 “ huckleberry 315 “ steamed batter.... 320 “ “ “ .... 320 “ “ “ 321 “ “ Indian.... 320 “ “ “ .... 327 “ “ rolly-poly. 310 OTHER PUDDINGS... 337 {Baked.) Pudding, apple {without eggs) 337 “ “ batter 340 “ “ Graham 337 “ “ tapioca 349 “ “ “ 350 “ baked batter 340 “ berry and bread... 338 “ corn custard 342 “ cracked wheat 351 “ damson plum 339 “ granula 351 “ huckleberry and bread 338 “ Irish potato 352 “ manioca (?nV/t/rMtV) 348 “ puff 341 “ rice and apple .... 848 “ “ “ berry 347 “ “ “ raisin.... 347 “ sago “ apple 350 “ sweet potato 352 “ tapioca {uith rai- sins) 349 {Steamed.) Pudding, children’s rolly-poly 340 huckleberry Indian 346INDEX. 598 I PAGE Pudding, steamed apple 339 “ “ Indian.,.. 344 << <i i( 345 “ strawberry Indian. 345 {Boiled.) Pudding, boiled batter 342 “ “ Indian 343 PLAIN DESSERTS 353 Dumplings 359 “ suet 356 Frumenty 357 Mush, blackberry 359 “ farina 357 <i a 358 Pudding, boiled suet 356 “ bread and fruit des- sert 355 “ brown Betty 354 “ child’s fruit 354 “ dried “ 353 “ QT&h&TO.{toith fruit) 358 “ minute 358 “ rice and apple .... 357 PUDDING SAUCES, CREAMS, ETC .... 360 Cream, currant .... 365 i i lemon .... 366 t i mock .... 360 t( orange .... 366 {t pine-apple .... 367 i ( raspberry .... 365 <( “ and currant 366 ii snow C i strawberry .... 364 ( ( sweet .... 360 I ( whipped .... 363 Creams, blackberry and other 366 quince “ 367 PAGE Custard, soft 361 Dressinfj of fruit 363 Sauce, fruit 362 “ lemon 361 “ mixed 363 CUSTARDS, BLANC - MANGES, ETC 368 Blanc-mange, corn-starch.... 378 “ farina 379 “ “ {withfruit) 381 “ Irish moss 377 “ manioca 377 “ raspberry 380 “ sago 378 “ strawberry 380 “ tapioca 378 “ variegated 381 Charlotte Russe 374 “ “ 374 Cottage cheese 376 Custard, baked 370 “ boiled 371 “ “ 371 “ cold fruit 376 “ mountain {Junket). 375 “ sago 375 “ tapioca 375 Island, floating 372 Islands, “ 372 Rock-work 373 Strawberry trifle 373 Trifle 373 MOULDED FARINACEA. . 382 Moulded corn-starch 383 “ farina 382 “ Graham 383 “ rice 384 “ wheat 383599 INDEX. Rice and raisins “ snow “ snow-balls OTHER DISHES Apple cream “ ice “ float “ puffs “ snow Apples, baked “ rice “ stewed Pears, baked “ stewed JELLIES, JAMS AND SYRUPS.. Jam, currant “ gooseberry “ grape or plum “ raspberry Jams “ strawberry and black- berry Jelly, apple “ crab-aj)ple “ cranberry “ currant, blackberry, strawberry, etc “ quince “ raspberry and currant. Jellies, other fruit Making fruit jellies Syrup, lemon “ strawberry Syrups, fruit “ mixed “ quince and other.... FAQE RIPE FRUITS FOR DESSERTS. 398 Apples 399 Cherries 405 Currants 403 Fresh figs 406 Frosted fruit 406 Gooseberries 404 Grapes 405 Huckleberries 405 Oranges and bananas 403 Peaches 400 Pears and plums 401 Raspberries and currants.... 404 “ blackberries and dewberries 403 Strawberries 403 VEGETABLES 407 Asparagus 431 Beans, baked 437 “ {dried), boiled 436 “ Lima and butter 435 “ shelled 434 “ stewed 436 “ string 433 “ wax 434 Beets, boiled 439 Cabbage 420 “ and tomatoes 430 Carrots, boiled 438 “ stewed 439 Cauliflower 421 Celery 434 Corn and tomatoes 419 “ {sweet), baked 419 “ {green), boiled 418 “ “ cut from the cob 419 “ “ stewed 418 Cucumbers 43$ PAGE 384 385 385 386 389 389 389 390 389 386 386 387 388 388 390 396 396 396 396 395 397 394 394 394 392 394 393 394 391 397 397 397 397 397INDEX. 600 PAGE Egg-plant 4:^1 Lettuce 435 Melons 436 Okras 423 Onions, old 435 “ young 434 Parsnips 427 Peas, canned 423 “ green 422 Potato, browned 412 “ creamed 411 “ hashed 413 “ puflF 412 “ snow 412 Potatoes 408 “ and tomatoes 417 “ haked 410 “ (peeled), baked 410 “ boiled 408 “ in jackets 410 “ mashed 409 “ new 4ll I “ stewed 411 | “ sweet 413 ; “ “ baked 414 “ “ boiled 413 “ “ roasted 414 Pumpkin sauce 433 Rhubarb 434 Salsify, or vegetable oyster .. 430 Spinach 430 Squashes, summer 432 “ winter 432 “ “ baked 433 “ “ stewed 433 Succotash 425 Tomato toast 415 Tomatoes 414 “ baked 416 " broiled,. .., -117 PAGE Tomatoes, scalloped 410 “ scrambled 4l5 “ sliced 414 “ stewed 415 stuffed 417 Turnips 428 SOUPS 436 Broth, barley 439 Soup, “ all the garden ” 449 “ barley and tomato 440 “ “ broth 439 “ bean 444 “ “ and tomato 445 “ corn “ “ 441 “ French vegetable 448 “ okra and tomato 441 “ P&& (without meat) 443 “ potato 437 “ “ and tomato 439 “ split pea 442 ‘ ‘ tomato 438 “ “ and pea 443 “ turnip 445 ‘ ‘ vegetable 446 << •< 447 “ “ 447 MEATS, ETC 449 BEEF, MUTTON AND LAMB. 453 (Beef.) Baked beef-steak 455 “ “ 456 Beef omelet 467 i BeePs heart 469 r “ tongue with tomatoes. 468 ! Boiled beefs tongue 468 Broiled beef-steak 453 ^ I or!U‘(J beef 463iNfiEX. 601 PAGE 1 Potted beef 466 Pressed “ 467 Roast “ 458 Stewed beef-steak 457 Tough round steak 454 {Beef or Mutton.) A brown stew 465 Boiled beef or muttou 462 “ meats 460 “ meat with vegetables. 463 Cold sliced beef or mutton... 463 Stewed beef or mutton {pot roast) 464 {Mutton and Lamb.) Lamb, moulded 466 “ roast 459 “ stewed 466 Mutton chops, baked 457 (t u u 457 “ “ broiled 454 “ “ stewed 455 “ roast 459 “ stuffed shoulder of. .. 459 THE “ rOKKER ” 470 VENISON 470 Venison pasty 471 POULTRY 472 Chicken, broiled . 481 “ pie 484 “ pot-pie 485 ‘ ‘ pressed 487 “ scallop GO “ stewed 483 Chickens, roast 4S0 “ smothered 4«2 “ stewed whole 483 PAOB Turkey, boued 47‘J “ cold sliced 477 “ pie 477 “ roast 474 “ scallop 478 ‘ stew 479 “ wild 476 WILD BIRDS AND OTHER GAME 488 Pie, game 496 “ partridge or quail 493 “ pigeou 490 “ squirrel 495 Pigeous, wild 489 Prairie-fowls 492 Quail ou toast 492^ Quails, grouse, etc 490 “ “ “ broiled.... 491 “ “ “ roasted . . . 491 “ “ “ stewed.... 491 Small birds 492 Squirrels and rabbits 494 “ “ “ broiled. 494 “ “ “ stewed. 494 FISH 497 Brook trout 500 Fish {fresh), baked 499 “ “ boiled 498 “ “ broiled 500 “ {salt) 501 Codfish {salt) and potato 505 “ “ baked 503 “ “ boiled 502 “ “ broiled 503 “ “ cakes 504 “ “ scallop 504 “ “ toast 504 Mackerrl ‘‘ 501m jtlJDEX. PAGE HOW ABOUT OYSTBRS ?. . 505 MKAT PIES, ETC 506 Paste, cream and potato 508 “ “ batter 507 “ light cream 507 Pie, beef and potato 508 “ cold meat 511 “ kettle 516 “ Lancashire 515 “ meat, with batter crust. 513 “ “ “ potato “ .. 510 “ mutton and “ 514 “ “ or lamb 510 Scallop, beef or mutton 513 “ meat, with eggs. ... 513 mutton and potato.. 513 “ “ tomato . 514 Steak roll (or ^pudding) 517 MEAT STEWS, ETC 518 Boiled dinner 536 Browned flour, gravies, etc.. 530 Stew, beef and tomato 534 “ breakfast 531 “ “ with toast.... 537 “ chicken or squirrel.... 530 “ cold meat 537 “ “ “ and tomato.. 538 “ economic 529 “ “ 530 ‘ ‘ Irish 523 “ mutton 522 “ “ and tomato.... 525 “ “ with carrots 523 “ okra 525 “ Scotch 524 Stews, directions for making. 519 HASHES AND TOASTS. . 530 Hash and macaroni 537 “ baked • 534 “ beef and tomato 536 “ “ or mutton 532 “ rolls 535 “ with cold potatoes 533 “ “ onions 537 Minced lamb 535 “ turkey 535 Toast, asparagus (m/k eggs).. 539 “ eggs and 539 “ hash 538 ‘ ‘ milk 538 EGGS 540 Eggs, baked 541 “ boiled 540 “ poached 541 “ scrambled 541 “ “ 543 “ soft boiled 541 Omelet 542 “ 543 “ asparagus 543 PRACTICAU HINTS 544 Bills of fare 570 Cellar, the.... 565 Dining-room and kitchen.... 544 Help, the 554 Hints on marketing 560 Housekeeping 551 Huckster system, the 557 Ice-house, the 567 Lunch for picnics 578 Table etiquette 547 Traveling lunches 579 Addendum 580AND HOW TO USE THEM. A practical Manual for Housekeepers-, containing nearly Seven Hundred Receipts for the ivholesoine prepar- ations of Foreign and Domestic Fmiits. By MRS. HESTER M. POOLE, 242 pp., 12mo, Extr-a Cloth. Price, $1.00. This is the only work published on tJie subject, and is most thorough and complete in all particulars, as will be seen from the following from the TABLE OF introduction : Fx'uit as Food ; Hy- giene of Fruit; Increase in tiie Use of Fruit; Fruit and Tem- perance ; The Culture and Pre- servation of Fruit by Women. The Use in every form of the Apple, with nearly one hundred re- ceipes ; Apricot, Banana, Black- berry, Cherry, Chocolate, Cocoa- nut, Currant, Cranberry, Date, Fig. Gooseberry, Grape, Grape Fruit, Guava, Huckleberry, Lemon, Lime, Mango, Nuts for Food, Orange, Peach, Peai’, Per- simmon, Plum, Pine-apple. Pomegranate, Prune, Quince, Kaspberiy. Raisin, Strawberry, and Tamarind. CONTENTS. I Miscellaneous : Fruit Puddings, Jellies, Jams, and Marmalades ; Fruit Pastes and Jellies without Sugar ; Dried Fruit; Fruit Bev- erages and Syrups; Fruit Can- ned ; Fruit Preserves; Fruit Frosted and Candied ; How to Keep Jelly and Preserves; Fruit and Gelatine ; Jellies and Sponges ; Fruit Creams, Floats, Blanc Mange, and Meringues; Fruit Filling for Layer Cake; Fruit Ice-Cream ; Fruit Watei*- Ices and Sherbets; Frozen Fruit; Fruit Pickles and Salads ; Hov7 to serve Fi’uit; Concluding Notes. Let all who would make the best use of the best kind of food, procure this work. By mail, postpaid, on n'ceipt of price, $1,00. Address FOWLER k WELLS CO.. PiibllsIifTs. 775 Broadway, New York.A STORY WORTH READING. About Human Nature. We liave recently published a vol" ume containing a story of Human Nature which will be found of in- terest. It is called “The Man Won- derful in the House Beautiful,” and is an allegory, teaching the principles of Physiology and Hy- giene, and the effects of Stimulants and Narcotics. The House is the Body, in which the Foundations are the Bones, the Walls are Muscles, the Skin and Hair the Siding and Shingles, the head an Observatory THE LABYiuNTH. wliich ai’o found a pair of Tele- scopes, and radiating from it are the nerves which are compared to a Telegraph, while communications are kept up with the Kitchen, Dining-room, Pantry, Laundry, etc. The House is heated with a Furnace. There are also Mj^sterious Chambei’s, and the whole is protected by a Burglar Alarm. In studying the inhabitant of the House, the “ Man Wonderful,’’we learn of his gi-owth, development, and habits of the guests whom he in- troduces. He finds that some of them are friends, others are doubtful acquaintances, and some decidedly wicked. Under this form, we ascertain the effects of Food and Drink, Narcotics and Stimulants. It is a wonderful book, and placed in the hands of cliildren will lead them to the study of Physiology and Hygiene, and the Laws of Life and Health in a way that will never be forgotten. The book will prove of great interest even to adults and those familiar with the subject. The authors, Drs. C. B. and Mary A. Allen, are both regular physicians, and therefore the woi'k is ac- curate and on a scientific basis. “Science in Story” has never been presented iii a moi’e attractive form. It is universally ad- mitted that a large proportion of sickness comes from violations of the laws of Life and Health, and therefore it is important that this subject should be understood by all, as in this way we may become familiar with all the avoidable causes of disease. The reading of this book will very largely accomplish this end. It will be sent securely by mail, prepaid, on receipt of price, wliich is only $1.50. Address Fowler & Wells Co., Publishers, 775 Broadway, New York.V ^ / • ■ * »i.. > ... ■'■‘!-a (>» iliV 'V ♦ • t ■ •RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date Particulars 2S’! lO (cj Chemical Treatment Fumigation Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks Deacidification