Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.Org/details/b21980202_00041A .SYSTEM O F SURGERY: B Y BENJAMIN BELL, MEMBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGES OF SURGEONS OF IRELAND AND EDINBURGH, ONE OF THE SURGEONS t6 THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, AND FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY O F EDINB URGH. ILLUSTRATED PVITH COPPERPLATES. .VOLUME IV. THE SIXTH EDITION, CORRECTED AND ENLARGED. EDINBURGH: PRINTED FOR BELL & BRADFUTE ; AND G. G. &J. ROBINSON, AND MURRAY & HIGHLEY, LONDON.Sea. VI. CONTENTS CHAPTER XL Of the Diseases of Eyes, - 9 Se6l. I. Anatomical Defcription of the Eye, - - ib. Sect. II. Of Ophthalmia, or Inflamma- tion of the Eye, - - 28 Se6l. III. Of Wounds of the Eye-lids, and Eye-ball, - 47 Sect. IV. Of I’umors of the Eye-lids, 57 Se6t. V. Of Inverflon of the Cilia, or Eye-Lajhes, - 68IV CONTENTS. Sea. XIV. Page Se£t. VI. Of the Gaping or turning outwards of the Eye-lids^ 79 Se£t. VII. Of Concretion of the Eye- lids ^ - - - 87 Se6l. VIII. Of Flejhy Excrefcences in the Cornea^ - - 90 Se<S. IX. Of Ahfcejfes in the Globe of the EyCy - - 102 Se6l. X. Of Bropfical Swellings of the Eye-hall^ - - 114 Sed. XI. Of Blood effufed in the Ca- vity of the Eye-ball^ - 121 Sedl. XII. Of Ulcers on the Globe of the Eyej - - 125 Se6l. XIII. Of Specks or Films upon the Eyey - - - 143^CONTENTS. T Page Se£l. XIV. Of Protruftons of the Globe of the Eye from the Socket^ - 162 Se6l* XV. Of Cancer of the Eye, and extirpation of the Eye-ball, 171 Sed. XVI. Of artificial Eyes, 181 Sed. XVII. Of CataraBs, - 183 § I. General Remarks on Cata- raBs, " - ib. § 2. 0/' Couching or Deprejfion of the CataraB, - - jg6 § 3. Q/' extraBing the CataraB, 225 § 4. Comparative View of the re- fpeBive Advantages and Difad- vantages of the Operations of Couching, and extraBing the Ca- taraB, - - 248 Sea. XVIII.vi CONTENT Sj Page Seft. XVIII. Of the Fijiula Lachry^ mails, - - - 261 Seft. XIX. Additional Remarks on Difeajes of the Eyes, - 312^ CHAPTER XII. Of Diseases^^/Sd'NosE andFKV- CEs, - " * 365 Sed:. I. Anatomical Defcription of the Nofe and Fauces, - ib. Sed. II. Of Hemorrhagies from the No^rils, » - 373- Sed. III. Of an Ozcena, « 380 Sed. IV. Of Imperforated Nojlrils, 389^ Sed. V.. Of Rolypi in the Nofe and "throaty - -- 394 Sed. VI.CONTENTS. Page Seel. VI. Of Extirpation of the fonfils^ 437 Sefl. VII. Of the Extirpation of the Uvula, - - 447 Sed. VIII. Of Scarifying, and Fo- menting the Fhroat, - 452 . CHAPTER XIII.. Of Diseases of the Lips, - 454 Sed. 1. Of the Hare-Lip, - ib. Sed. II. Of the Extirpation of Can- cerous Lips, - - 482 CHAPTER XIV. Of the Diseases of the Mouth, 487 Sed. I. Anatomical F^marks\ ib. Sed. II. Of Dentition, - 498 Sed. III. ^viii CONTENTS. Page Sed:, III. of the Derangement of the Teeth ^ * - 505 Sed. IV. Of Cuni’-Boils^ - 511 Sed. V. Of Abfcejfes in the Antrum Maxillare^ - » 517 Sed. VI. Of Excrefcences on the Gums^ 533 Sed. VII. Of Loofe Teeth^ - 539 Sed. VIII. Of Cleaning the Teetb^ 546 ARRANGE-ARRANGEMENT of the PLATES. All the Flutes are placed at the end of their refpe6Hve Volumes, In VoL. III. Plates I, Platps VII. II. VIII. III. IX. IV. X. V. XI. VI. In VoL. IV. Plates XII. Plates XXVII. XIII. XXVIII. XIV. XXIX. XV. XXX. XVI. XXXI. XVII. XXXII. XVIII. XXXIII. XIX. XXXIV. XX. XXXV. XXI. XXXVI. XXII. XXXVII. XXIII. XXXVIII. XXIV. XXXIX. XXV. XL. XXVI.ARRANGEMENT In VoL. V. iXLL Plates LV. XLII. LVI. XLIII. LVII. LVIIL XLV. LIX. XLVI. LX. XLVII.' , LXI. XLVIII. LXII. XLIX. LXIII. L. LXIV. LI. LXV. LII. LXVI. LIII.’ LXVII. LIV. » In VoL. VI. i LXVIIL Plates LXXVIIL LXIX. LXXIX.. LXX. LXXX. LXXI. LXXXI. LXXII. LXXXII. LXXIIL LXXXIIL LXXIV. LXXXIV. LXXV. LXXXV. LXXVI. LXXXVI, LXXVII, LXXXVIL PLATESOF THE PLATES xi. IqVol.VIL Plates LXXXVIII. Plates Cl* LXXXIX. CII. XC. CIIL XCI. CIV. XClh CV. XCIII. CVI. xciv. evil. XCV. CVIII. XCVI. ClX. XCVII. CX.‘ XCVIII. CXI. XGIX. CXIL ^ C. CXIII. A■A TREATISE O N X H E THEORY AND PRACTICE O F SURGERY. CHAPTER XI. \ Of the Difeafes of the Eyes. S E C T I O N I. Anatomical Defcription of the Eye.- The object of this chapter Is the chi-' rurgical treatment of the difeafes of the eye and parts Immediately connected with It: Hence It will comprehend the confideration of thofe affedtions to which the lachrymal paflages are liable. But be- VoL, IV. A foreto Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. fore proceeding farther, it will be proper to premife an anatomical defcriptlon of the parts in which thefe difeafes are feated. Minutenefs on this fubjedi would lead to a greater length than the extent of this work will admit, nor does it appear to be necelTary j I Ihall therefore give only fuch a general defcriptlon as the nature of the difeafes, and the operations to be de- fcribed, feem to require. The, eyes, and part of their appendages, are placed in two bony cavities, termed the Orbits, formed by a conjundion of the in- ferior part of the frontal bone with feveral other bones of the head and face ; name- ly, with the offa maxillarja, offa malarum, ofla unguis, os ethmoides, os fpheholdes, and oila palati. All the upper part of the orbits is formed by the orbitar procelfes of the frontal bone ^ and the fame pro- eelTes form a confiderable vacuity in each orbit towards the external canthus of the eye, in which the glandhla lachrymalis is lodged. The inferior part of the'orbits is formed by the offamaxillaria and offa ma- larum, which alfo form part of the fdes or 3 anglesSed* I. Difeafes of the Eyes* II angles of each orbit; the forrher ftretch-, ing towards the internal eanthus, and the latter towards the external angle of the feye. The bottom or back part of each orbit is formed by the ethmoid, fphenoid, and a fmall portion of the palate bones; and a fmall part of the internal corner or angle of each orbit is filled up by the bs unguis. As this lafl: mentioned bone, the os un- guis, is frequently the fubjed of" a nice operation, it is more particularly necefi fary for furgeons to be well acquainted with its ftrudure and fituation. A con- fiderable part of it is fo thin and brittle,, that a pefforation may be made in it with very little force; with lefs indeed than is commonly imagined; for not being thicker than fine paper, the point of a lharp inftrument is eafily made to pafs through it. The internal furface of the,os unguis, which in part covers the cells of the ethmoid bone, is fomewhat rough ; but its external furface is fmootfi, and confifts of tWo deprelGons or con- A 2 cavitiesDifeafes of the Eyes. Ciiap. 12 cavities divided by a ridge. This ridge forms the boundary of the orbit at the internal canthus of the eye, and one of thefe depreffions forms the very point or angle of the orbit; while the other concavity, which lies between this ridge and the nafal procefs of the maxillary bone ferves to lodge in its upper part, where it is largeft, the lachrymal fac, and below it proteds the dud leading from this fac into the nofe, where it terminates im- mediately below the fuperior edge of the lower os fpongiofum. The nafal [dud of the lachrymal fac admits a probe of thefize of a crow’s quill; and it continues of this diameter till within a little of its termina- tion In the membrane of the nofe^ where, by running in an oblique diredion be- tween the layers of this membrane, in a manner fimilar to the termination of the ureters in the bladder, it is in general found contraded to a very narrow poinu The principal part of each orbit is filled by the Ball or Globe of the eye, a body compofed of feveral membranes or coats,,-Se(S. I. Bifeafes of the Eyes. 13 coats, incloling fluids or liquors of differ- ent confiftences, improperly termed the Humors of the eye. Anatomifts have confidered the coats of the eye as numerous, but three only can be diftinclly traced; namely, the Sclerotic, the Choroid, and the Retina. The former has indeed beenfuppofed to confift of different coats, to all of which names have been appropriated, viz. The tunica albuginea, the cornea opada, cor- nea lucida, and even the choroid has been fuppofed to be formed of different tunics: But although a tedious macera- tion may feparate fome of thefe parts in- to different lamellae, the knife of the a- natomifl: is not able to do fo; and as di- ftindlions of this kind can tend to no ufe- ful purpofe, they ought not to be retain- ed. .The fat and different mufcles of the eye being feparated from it, the fclerotic is the fir ft coat that prefents itfelf; and it is found to furround the whole globe of the eye, which is not the cafe with any A3 ofJ4 Bifcafes of the Eyes, Chap, XL pf the others. In the anterior convex part of the eye, which In a, healthy ftate is always tranfparent, this membrane is in general termed the Cprnea. The po- fterior part of it is thick, ftrong, and per- fedly opake : It is this part of it that has commonly been termed the Sclerotic Coat, or, as I have already obferyed, the opake Cornea. But although the tranf- parent cornea can be ^afily feparated in- to different layers, which cannot be fo readily done with the other; a circum- ftance which has led fome anatomifls to confider them as diftind coats; yet as the one is evidently a continuation of the other, and as they are both fupplied with the fame blood-veffels, there feems to be no good reafon, as I have juft remarked, for the dlftindion being retained. All the opake part of the fclerotic coat is lined with the fecond coat of the eye, the choroides; a dark, or dulky red co- loured piembrane, which every where ad- heres to it with'firmnefe, particularly gt a fmali dift^nce behind the commence- * . ment!• Seft* I. Difeafes of the Eyes.. X 5 ment of the tranfparent oornea, where a circular whitifti ring is formed by this jundion of the choroides with the fcle- rotica, commonly termed the Ligamen- tum Ciliare. From this jundion of the choroid with the fclerotic coat, a perfo- rated kii^d of curtain or feptum is produ- ced, which from the variety of its co- lours is termed, the Iris. The perfora-' tion in the centre of' this membrane is termed the Pupil, and ferves tp admit the rays of light to the bottom of the eye. Towards the middle of the iris, we perceive a number of radiated lines run- ning from the circumference to the cen- tre : Thefe are denominated the ciliary proceiles, and on their adion the con^ tradlon and dilatation of the pupil ap- pears to depend; for it feems to be doubt- ful, whether any circular fibres exift in the iris or not. Ruyfch, as well as other anatomifts, have imagined, that the tunica choroides f:onfifts of two diftind coats, and the iris A 4 has16 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL has been in general confidered as a con- tinuation of one of thefe ^ but later dif* coveries tend to ftiow that the choroides in the human eye confifts of one Ample indivifible tunic, and that it is different in every r^fped from the iris. The third and moft internal coat of the eye is the Retina, which feems to be an expanfion of the optic nerve. It does not line the whole cavity of the eye, but appears to terminate over the anterior edge of the fac or capfule of the vitreous humour to be hereafter defcfrbed. • Vifion we fuppofe to be produced by the rays of light being applied in a cer- tain manner to the retina : It is therefore obvious, that a found fhate of the optic nerve, by which this membrane is produ- ced, is highly neceffary for the purpofes of vifion, and we conclude with much probability, that the nerve is found, when the ufual contradion and dilatation of the pupil take place on light bein^ ap- plied to, or removed from the eye: For in a healthy flate of this organ, fiich a connedioiiSed. I- Difeafes of the Eyes. 17 connedion fubfifts between the optic nerve and ,the iris, that the latter always con- trads or dilates, juft in proportion to the quantity of light thrown upon the other. . Thefe are the only proper coats or co- verings of the eye; but there are two membranous expanfions which likewife cover a confiderable portion of the back part of the globe, and which by many have been enumerated as part of* its tu- nics ; namely, the albuginea, and tunica conjundiva: The former, however, is formed entirely of the tendinous attach- ments of the mufcles of the eye; and the latter is a continuation or refledion of the membrane that lines the internal fur- face of the eye-lids. The cavity formed" by thefe coats or membranes, is filled with three kinds of fubftances, or humours as they are com- monly termed: Namely, the vitreous; the cryftalline; and the aqueous. All the pofterior part of the eye is filled with the vitreous humour, which is perfedly tranlparent,18 Vifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI* The traniparent, and of a gelatinous confift- ence: This humour is completely fur- rounded by a very delicate membrane, which likewife appears to pafs through the fubfiance of this gelatinous mafs, and to confine it in a kind of cellular texuure or net-work. In the anterior furface of the vitreous humour, we find a depreflion exadlly oppofite to the pupil, for the pur- pofe of receiving the cryftalline humour, a fubflance of a much firmer texture than xtfelf, and of a rounded or lentic\ilar fhape. This body, or the Lens as it is commonly termed, is retained in its fi- tuation by a very fine membrane or cap- fule, which appears to be formed by the capfiile of the vitreous humour, fepara- ting or dividing at this part into t;wo di- flind: laminae. It has indeed been fup- pofed, that the cryftalline lens has a cyft or capfiile peculiar to itfelf; but I have never been able to diftinguifh it, nor has any fufficient evidence ever been given of it. ,19 Sedl. I. Bifeafes of the Eyes. The The whole anterior part of the eye, from the termination of the vitreous and cryftalline humours, to the internal fur- face of the tranfparent cornea, is filled with the aqueous humour, a thin tranfpa- rent fluid. By the iris, already defcri- bed, this part of the eye is divided into two unequal departments: The fmallefl of thefe, which is fcarcely a tenth of an inch in width, ^nd lies between the iris and the capfule of the vitreous Tiumour, is termed the Pofterior Chamber ^ and the other, which is confiderably larger, and occupies the whole fpace from the iris to the cornea, is called the Anterior Cham- ber of the eye. Although thefe two di- vifions of the eye, however, are perfed- ly diftind, it is obvious that they mufl: communicate at the pupil, the opening in the centre of the iris. The mufcles of the eye are fix in num- ber; namely, the levator oculi, the de- prefTor, addudor and abdudor, the obli- quus fuperior and inferior. By thefe all |:he motions of the eye are performed.—-20 Difeajes of the Jfyes. Chap. XL The firfl: five arife from near the bottom of the orbit, at no great diflance from each others and the lafl: originate from the orbitar procefs of the maxillary bone near to its jundlion with the os unguis. They are all inferted into the tunica fcle- rptica, below the adnata or tunica oon- jundliva. The conftant motion of the eye requi- ring it to be-kept foft and moift, it is for this purpofe plentifully fupplied by a fine tranfparent fluid, the tears. This fecre- tion is now known to depend in a great meafure upon a large glandular body, the glandula lachrymalis, feated immediate- ly above the eye, in that depreflion we formerly mentioned in the os frontis, near to the external angle of the orbit. There is likewife in the internal or great angle of the eye, a fmall red coloured body, termed the Caruncula Lachryma- lis, which till of late was fuppofed to be the principal origin of the tears. This, however, is not the cafe j and there is evenSed. I. ' Bifeafes of the Eyes. 2T even reafbn to doubt whether this fub-» fiance is of a glandular nature or not. But although the tears are chiefly fe- creted^by the glandula lachrymalis, there is much reafon to imagine that they are partly produced by exfudations from the whole furface of the eye, as well as from the membrane of the eye-lids. But this being in fome meafure foreign to our fub« jed, I fliall not at prefent confider it far- ther. ^ . The eye, and its appendages, that have juft been defcribed' are fupplied by feve- ral arterial branches, either diredly from the internal carotid, or‘from the maxil» lary arteries. None of thefe, hovrever, are of any confiderable lize; at leaft, be- fore reaching the eye, they are in gene- ral found divided into branches of no great magnitude ^ a circumftance 6f fome importance for praditioners to recoiled: For, on the fuppofition of thefe arteries being larger than they are, furgeons have commonly been deterred from operating with that freedom on the eye which they otherwifeDifeafes of iht Eyes. Chap. Xf; otherwife might do, particularly In the total removal dr extraction of the eye- ball ^ an operation to be hereafter defer!- bed. The velhs of the eyd terminate partly In the external, and partly In the internal jugular veins. Vifion, as I have already obferted, de- pends in a great meafure on the optic nerve which pafles in from the brain at the bottom of the orbit; but the eye doe^ not depend entirely upon this nerve: It receives branches from feveral otherSj> particularly from the fourth, fifths and fixth pairs. The globe of the eye, and other parts contained in the orbit, are covered by two very moveable membranes, called PalpebrcB, or Eye-lids, formed chiefly of the Ikin and a fmooth fine membrane al- ready deferibed, the tunica conjunctiva^ with an intermediate thin cartilaginous body termed Tarfiis, on which the cilia or eye-laflies are placed. Both the up- per and under eye-lids are fupplied with this thin cartilage ^ at the extreme bor- derSedi; I. Difeafes of the Eyes. 23 der of which, towards the roots of the cilia, a number of fmall follicles are pla- ced, named after their difcoverer, the follicles or glands of Meibomius ^ from whence is poured out a vifcid febaceous matter, commonly termed the gum of the eyes. * The motion of the eye-lids is perform- ed entirely by two mufcles, the orbicu- laris palpebrarum, and the Jevator palpe- brae fuperioris. The former is common to both the eye-lids; It originates by a fmall tendon at the inner angle of the eye, and by fine flefhy fibres from the orbitar procefs of the maxillary bone, and is inferted by a fmall round tendon into the nafal procefs of the fame bone. A few of the. tendinous fibres of this mufcle are Spread upon, and fccm to be inferted into, the anterior furface of the lachrymal fac. The ufe of this mufcle is to draw the eye-lids together, and to com- prefs the eye-ball. The levator palpebral fuperioris origi- nates from tiie bottom of the orbit, and is24 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap XI. is inferted into the membranous and car- tilaginous parts of the upper eye-lid: The foie ufe of it feems to be to raife this covering of the eye, I have already defcribed the lachrymal fac and dud:, by which the tears are con- veyed to the nofe : We have now to at- tend to the manner in which they pafs from the eyes to the fac. After the tears have moiftened the eyes, they would at all times be falling over the cheeks, if not carried off in forhe other manner: A very beautiful mechanifm, however, is employed by nature for this purpofe. Near to the internal angle of each eye, we perceive two fmall points or protube- rances, one on the border or edge of the upper eye-lid, and the other exadly op- pofite to it on the under eye-lid. In the centre of each of thefe there is a fmall hole or opening, termed the Pundum Lachrymale, which we find to be the mouth of a fmall conduit leading to the lachrymal fac, and by which the tears are conveyed to it. Thefe canals are of , fuchSeft. I. Difeafes of the Eyes» 25 fuch a fize as to admit a probe fome- what larger than a hog’s brittle. They are each about four-tenths of an inch in length; and after running ?n an ob- lique diredlion along the edge of the eye-lids, they commonly join into one common trunk immediately before they enter the lachrymal fac, fomewhat more than the tenth of an inch below the up- per end of it. The protuberances on which thefe ca- nals originate, are evidently irritable, as may readily be feen on their being touch^ ed with a probe or any acrid application, i This renders it probable that they are endowed with a power of abforbing the tears ^ and this fluid we find is at all times applied to the mouths of them, by a kind of membranous produdion of the tunica conjundiva, of a femilunar form, lying in the internal angle of the eye. This membrane is by anatomifls termed Valvula Semilunaris. In order, how- ever, to render the anatomy of thefe parts as intelligible as poflible, a cir- YoL.IV. B cumftanc^2^ Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. cumftance of much importance in the treatment of the difeafes to which they are liable, I have thought it right to give a delineation^of them in Plate XII. fig. I. Being now prepared to enter upon the confideration of the difeafes of thefe parts, I ftiall proceed accordingly to this part of our fubjedl. Inflammation of the eye frequently oc- curs, and is produdive of many other difeafes to which this organ is liable: I fliall therefore enter firfl: on the confide- ration of this fymptom, arid fliall after- wards treat of the following affedions and operations peculiar to thefe parts* Wounds jof the eye*lids, a'nd eye-balls;— Tumors of the eye-lids, fuch as abfcelles, melicerous and fteatomatous colledions and warts—Inverfion of the cilia or eye- laflies—-Everfion of the eye-lids—Concre- tion of the eye-lids—Flefliy excrefcences on the gornea—Abfcefles in the globe of the eye—Dropfical fwellings of the eye- ball-r~Blood efliifed in one or both of the chambersSed. I. Difeafes of the Eyes. 2^ chambers of the eye—Ulcers on the cor- nea-—Specks or films on the tranlparent part of the eye.—Protrufion of the glob^ of the eye from the focket—Cancerous affedions of the eye, and extirpation of the eye-ball—Of artificial eyes—Of cata- rads, and the treatment of them by de- preflion and extradion—Obliteration of the pupil, by concretion of its fides and adhefion of the iris to the capfule of the cryftalline and vitreous humours4—And, laftly, of the fiftula lachrymalis* B 2 SEC-Dijeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. 28 SECTION II. Of Ophthalmmy or Infarrirnation of the Eyes. HE eyes and their appendages, like every orgatiifed part of the body, are liable to inflammation; and the fymp- toms which it ex:cites vary according to the particular feat of the difeafe. Thus the fymptoms arifing from inflammation of the retina and other deep-feated parts, are different from thofe which attend in- flammation of thei external coverings of the eye^ and thefe again are different from thofe produced by an inflamed ftate of the eye-lids. The mofl: frequent fymptoms attending inflammation of the eye-ball, are, a pre-f ternatural rednefs of the adnata, owing to ^ tm-gefcent ftate pf the blpod-vellels \ pain and heat over the whole furface of the eye, attended with a fenfation of motes or extraneous bodies ypbbipg upoji theSecS. II. Difeafes of the EyeS4 the eye-ball, and in mofl: inftances a plen- tiful efFufion of tears* All thefe fymp- toms are increafed by motion of the eye or of its coverings, and likewife by ex- pofure to light. We judge too of the depth of the inflammation by the degree of pain induced by expofure to light. When the pain produced by light is con- fiderable, there is always caufe to ima- gine that the parts at the bottorn of the eye, and efpeclally the retina, are chief- ly affedled ^ and ^ain, when no pain is excited by expofure to light, we conclude with much probability that the inflamma- tion is confined entirely to the external parts of the eye. In fuperficial affedlions too, the fymptoms are ip general locals but whenever the inflammation is deep- feated, fevere fliooting pains are frequent- ly felt through the head, and fever very commonly prevails. During the whole courfe’of the inflam- mation, there is for the mofl: part a plen- tiful flow of tears, and they frequently become fo hot and acrid as to excoriate B 3 the3P Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. the neighbouring parts ^ but it often hap- pens that, together with the tears, a con- fiderable quantity of yellow purulent-like matter is difcharged: And, when the in- flammation has either fpread to the eye- lids, or has been feated there from the beginning, as foon as the tarfi become af- fe<3:ed, a difcharge takes place of a vifcid glutinous kind of matter y which adds greatly to the patient’s diftrefs, as it tends to increafe the inflammation, by cement- ing the eye-lids fo firmly together, as to render it difficult, particularly in the mornings, to open them. Thefe are. the appearances of Inflamed eyes in the firfl ftages of the difeafe 5 but when of long duration, it proceeds, like inflammatory affedions of other parts, to terminate either in fuppuration, or in the effufion of a fluid not convertible into pus* Inflammation of the eyes has alfo been known to terminate in mortification; but this is a rare occurrence; and we even know that it does not readily end in fup- puration. S InflammationSedl. II. Difeafes of the Eyes* 31 Inflammation of the eyes is induced by various caufes: Whatever tends to pro- duce inflammation in other parts, will be attended with fimilar efFed:s, when ap- plied to the eye ^ but the peculiar mecha- nifm of this organ renders it liable to be a6ted on by caufes which may with im- punity be applied to other parts of the body. Thus, much expofurc to fmoke . tends often to induce inflammation of the eyes : And it alfo happens from the appli- cation of much light; particularly from much expofure to the rays of the fun ^ to the influence of a large fire ^ or to the ef- fects of fnow: And the introduction of lime, fand, or any other extraneous body, between the eye-lids and the eye, is very univerfally attended with this efR“<t. The confequences, however, of thefe caufes are not in general permanent; for in recent cafes, a removal of the caufe is in moft inftances attended with the cure of the difeafe. It is that variety of in- flammation that originates from difeafe of the fyflem that proves moft obftinate, and B 4 which32 . Difeafes of the Eyes» Chap. XI^ which is therefore mofl: to be dreaded^ particularly that which occurs from fcro- phula and lues venerea; for we find by f iperlence, that few fymptoms in either of thefe difeafes proves ever fo tedious as thofe Inflammatory affedions of the eyes with which they are often attended. Whilft a venereal or fcrophulous affec- tion fubfifls, it Is in vain to exped a cure of any Inflammation that may exift. Such remedies ought therefore to be em- ployed, as are known to prove mofl power- ful for the removal of the difeafe of the fyflem, at the fan^e time that we attend to the local treatment of the eyes. It is the management of this local affedlion that we are now to confider. In the treatment of inflamed eyes, the indications to be kept In view are, to re- move any extraneous fubfiances that might tend to excite irritation. To diminifh pain and irritability already induced— To remove the turgefcence of the blood- vfeflels of the eyes—And to prevent a re- turn of the difeafe* When33 Sed. IL Difeafes of the Eyes. When inflammation is Induced by fand, or any other extraneous body ading on the eye, nothing will prove effedual, till the caufe of irritation is removed. With due pains, the eye-lids may be fo far fe- parated with the fingers alone, as to ad- ' mit of a clear view being obtained of a confiderable portion of the eye-ball. But this will be done more eflfedually. If an afliftant, either with his fingers alone, or by means of a flat curved hook, fuch as Is reprefented in Plate XIII. fig. 6. raifes the upper eye-lid, while the fur- geon himfelf depreffes the other. Any ex- traneous body difcovered in this manner, may be taken out with the end of a blunt probe, covered with a bit of foft linen or lilk 3 or if any lharp-pointed fubflance is fixed in the eye, it will be moft eafily re- moved with fmkll forceps. It often happens, however, eVen when we are certain, from the feelings of the patient, as well as from other clrcum- ftances, that the inflammation Is kept up by fome caufe of this kind, that nothing is difcovered on infpedion. In fuch cir- cumflances34 Difcafes of the Eyes- Chap, XL cumftances fome advantage is often de- rived from injeding tepid water, or milk and water, between the eye-lids and eyes, by which fand and duft are often walked out, when they cannot be removed in any other manner: The ealieft and moft effedual method of throwing in thefe li- quids, is by means of a bag of elaftic gum, fitted with a fliort ivory pipe. With this bag, a furgeon can eafily per- form all that is neceflary without affift- ance, which with a common fyringe he cannot fo readily do. One of thefe bags, properly mounted, is reprefented in Plat^ XIIL fig. 3. In this manner, and by bathing the eyes frequently insWarm water,-they may in general be entirely cleared of all extrane« ous bodies : But when the inflammation lias fubfifted for fome time, it often con- tinues after the caufe by which*it was- produced is removed; in which event, other remedies muft be employed. When the pain is confiderable, and the pulfe quick, full, orhard^ it becomes neceffary to35 Difeafes of the Eyes. Sea. ir. to advife blood-letting In proportion to the ftrength of the patient. The bowels fhould be kept open with brilk purgatives 3 a low dietfliould be continued for a length of time, proportioned to the violence of the difeafe; the body fhould be kept cool; light Ihould be excluded from the eyes, and they iliould be kept conftantly co- vered either with foft linen foaked in a weak faturnine folutlon, or with cata- plafms applied cold, compofed of this folu- tion and crumb of bread. In this man- ner very fevere degrees of inflammation are often removed; but cafes frequently occur which refifl: thefe, and all the re- medies ufually employed. In fuch Inllances, we find, that dif- charging blood from the contiguous parts, or even from the blood-velTels of the eye itfelf, proves fometimes ufeful, when e- very other means have failed. When a large quantity of blood is to be dlfcharged, it is done ,with mofl: advantage from the jugular veins or temporal arteries; even the lafl: of which, as I have already endea- voured to fliow, may be opened with en- tire3^ Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap, XL tire fafety In advifing local blood-let- ting, we do it either from the parts con- tiguous to the eyes, or from the veffels of the eyes themfelves; and the means we employ for it are, cupping and fcarifying the temples, leeches applied as near as poffible to the eyes, and fcarifying the blood-veflels of the eye-ball or eye-lids. The operation of cupping and fcarifying, and likewife the method of applying leeches, have been already defcribedf . In a great proportion of cafes, an early and a plentiful difcharge of blood from the temporal artery or jugular vein proves fuccefsful ^ but where ophthalmia is ei- ther deep feated, or of long duration, I have commonly found that little advan- tage is derived from our taking bipod in this manner, and that no remedy proves fo fuccefsful as a free difcharge of blood from the veffels of the inflamed eye. As this operation, however, the divifion of the blood-veflels of the eye, has always been confidered as nice and hazardous, it has * Vide Chapter VIII. Sect. 8. t Vide Vol. IV. Chap. VIII.Sed. II. Difeafesof the Eyes. 3^ has feldom been pradifed ^ but any fur- geon with a fteady hand may perform it with fafety, and without injuring the eye itfelf. Various methods have been propofed for dividing the veflels of inflamed eyes. It has been attempted with a brufli com- pofed of the beards of barley ; by draw- ing the Iharp Ypiculse acrofs the part to be fcarified, a number of veflels are thus penetrated and divided. This was firfl put in pradice by an Englllh Ocullfl, Mr Woolhoufe, about the beginning of this century, and it was confidered as an im- provement on the means which till then had been In ufe for the fame purpofe, from the days of Hippocrates andCelfus; which were, rubbing the parts to be fcarified ei- ther with a piece of rough pumice-flone, or with the fpiculse of thiflles, till the blood-veflels were fufficiently lacerated for difcharging as much blood as was ne- ceflary. It has like wife heen propofed tp raife or elevate the vefTels to be divided with38 I>irfeafes of the Eyes. Chap, XI. with the point of a needle, and then with fchiars or a fcalpel, to cut them acrofs. All thefe modes, however, of fcarify- ing the eye, proceed from timidity 3 they give much unneceflary pain, and they do not prove fo effedlual as fcarifications made with a fharp cutting inftrument. Pra<5titIoners have commonly been afraid of attempting this operation with an in- ftrument of this kind^ but any perfon ac- cuftomed to chirurgical practice, will find that it may be done both with eafe and fafety. In the hands of a fteady furgeon, it may be done with the flioulder of a common lancet. But with a view to pre- vent the eye-lids being injured by one edge of the inftrument, while the other is employed in fcarifying the eye, I have delineated a fmall knife in Plate XII. fig 4. and another in Plate XXIII. fig. 5. with either of which the operation may be done with fafety. In this operation only two afliftants are requifite, one to- ftand behind the patient, to fiipport bis head, and the other to fe- cure39 Sed. Difeafes of the Eyes. ing cure his hands. This being done, tho furgeon, {landing or fitting before the pa- tient, with the fore and middle finger of one hand, fhould feparate 'the eye-lids^ fo as to expofe as much of the eye-bail as poflible y whllfl, with the inflruments I have mentioned in the other, he is to di- vide all the large turgid veflels. This Is mofl: effe^lually done by paffing the point of the inftrument below the vef- fels to be divided, and thus cutting from below upwards. In general, we wifh to avoid the tranfparent ^ornea in this ope- ration, and to confine the fcarifications to the albuginea or cornea opaca; but when the veiTels of this part of the eye are much diflended, they may be divided with perfedt eafe and fafety. I have of- ten found it neceffary, to divide the vef- fels of this part of the eye, and no incon- ‘ venience ever enfued from it. On the inflan^ed blood-veflels being di- vided, we fhpuld endeavour to promote a difcharge of their contents; for which purpofe nothing anfwers fo well as bath-40 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. ing the eye in warm water, either by means of an eye-cup, or with pieces of foft old linen, frequently immerfed in the water. A plentiful difcharge of blood from the veflels of the eye often gives more re- lief in the pain arifing from ophthalmia, than all the other remedies we employ. But when it either does not fucceed, or when not agreed to by the patient, opiates applied to the eye frequently anfwer. A few drops of a ftrong folution of opium in water being dropped into the eye proves fometimes fuccefsful; but the com- mon laudanum of the difpenfatories, par- ticularly when wine is employed as the menftruum, proves often effedual when the watery folution of opium has been ufed in vain. The pain ariling from ophthalmia, as well as every other fymptom of the dif- eafe, is frequently relieved by {having the head, and wafliing It from time to time in cold water. Blifters applied behind the ears, on the neck and temples, are in * fppieII. Bifeafes of the Eyes. 41 fome inftances ufed with advantagealfp drains, formed either by pea-iflues, or by a cord in the nape of the neck. In fome llages of the difeafe, much di- ftrefs is experienced from a thick vifcid fecretion, that glues the eye-lids clofely together. This takes place in fome de- gree in almoft every cafe of nphthaimia, particularly in the mornings, and when the tarfi or extreme borders of the eye- lids are much Inflamed. In this cafe, indeed, the inflammation foon terminates in a number of fmall ulcerations, which very commonly with the afliftance of a magnifier, and fometimes with the naked eye alone, may be diftindly obferved round the whole eircumference of the cartilaginous border of the eye-lids.-— From thefe this glutinous matter, that in fome meafure is produced by the febaceom glands of thefe parts, is poured out in great quantities 3 and unlefs fome means are employed for curing the ulcers, fcarcely any remedy will remove the in- ,flammation of the eyes. VoL. IV. C A43 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL A fmall portion of any emollient oint- ment, being .from time to time Infert- ed between the eye-llds, proves often ufeful In preventing this vlfcld mat- ter from fixing them together; but the relief obtained in this manner proves on- ly temporary. Some addition muft be made to the emollient for the purpofe of healing the ulcers froih whence the mat- ter is difcharged, otherwife no perma- nent advantage enfues from it; and when the difeafe Is local, and not connedted with fcrophula or any other affedtion of the conflitution, the cure of the ulcers will commonly be followed by the cure of the inflammation by which they were produced. With this view, the calx of zinc, or lapis calaminaris finely levigated, may be added to an equal quantity of an emollient ointment compofed of wax and oil; but no application proves fo gene- rally ufeful as ointments of the mercu- rial kind ; and perhaps the bell of thefe is the unguentum citrinum of the Edin- burgh Difpenfatory, mixed with an equal quantity" Sed. II. Difeafes of the Eyes. 43 'quantity of hog’s lard^ or the blue mercu- rial ointment of different difpenfatories, prepared with quicklilver and lard. One ounce of quicklilver, triturated with four ounces of lard, is for this purpofe a very ufeful application. Every night and morn- ing the ulceration on the eye-:lids fhould be cpvered with a little of thk, at the fame time that a fmall portion of the ointment fhould be inferted between the upper and under eye-lids, while a weak faturnine or vitriolic folution fhould be employed once or twice daily, as a wafh. It is almoft unneceffary to reipark, that no light fhould be admitted to the eyes, not merely during the continuance of-the inflammation, but as long as it.excites pain ; Even when one eye only Is affeded, care fhould be taken to keep them both covered; for we know from obfervation, that the expofure even of a found eye to light, while the other is inflamed, almofi conftantly proves hurtful to both. The eyes, however, fhould never be -kept clofely tied down: By keeping them jC 2 too44 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XI, too warm, it very commonly does harm: They fhould be very lightly covered with a loofe bandage either of filk or foft li- nen ; and when the patient is able to go abroad before his eyes can bear a free light, the bandage in Plate XIII. fig. i. frequently proves ufeful: By means of it the quantity of light admitted to. the eyes is eafily regulated, whilfl: at the fame time the eyes themfelves are neither com- prefled nor kept too warm. By due perfeverance in fuch a courfe as I have mentioned, local inflammation of the eyes is in mofl: inftances removed ; but where it proceeds from a general af- fection, fuch as fcrophula or lues venerea, no remedy will prove fuccefsful, till the difeafe of the fyftem is removed. With a view to prevent thefe frequent returns of ophthalmia to which many are liable, various remedies have been re- commended, particularly aftringent lo- tions. They feldom, however, anfwer any good purpofe 3 and when too ftrong, they are very apt to do mifchief. Du- ringDifeafes of the 'Eyes. Sea. IL 45 ring the continuance of iriflaiiimatlon, we often derive advantage from bathing the eyes with a, weak fulution of fugar of lead, or white vitriol 3 but they have uo effta in preventing a return of iriflam- mation. For this purpofe, nothing I have employed proves fo certainly ufeful as cold bathing. By keeping the head fha- ved, and immerfing it daily in cold water> much may be done in preventing thofe frequent returns of inflamed eyes,^ to which many are liable. For the purpofe of applying local bathing to the eyes, different means are ernployed ^ but the rnofl: Ample and mofl: effedlual is by means of a cup, reprefented in Plate XIII. flg. 2, Bj filling this cup, which fliould be of an oval form, and fomewhat larger than .the eye, with water, or any other liquid, and applying it to the eye, if in this A- tuation the eye-lids, are opened and mo- ved about, the whole furface of the eye will be thus effedtually bathed. As a pre- ventative of ophthalmia, a liberal ufe of Jefuits bark has alfo proved ufeful} and C 3 we4^ Difeafes of the Eyes* ' Chap. XI» = we know from experience, that in perio- dical returns of the difeafe, it is almoft the only remedy to be trufted* I need fcarcely obferve, too, when any caufe is^ difcovered by which Inflammation ap- pears to be excited, that it ought to be avoided^ for if this precaution is ne- gleded, no remedy will prove eflfeftuak sec:Se6l. III. Difeafes of the Eyes. 47 SECTION III. Of Wounds of the Eye-lids and Eye-balL S the management of wounds has already been treated of in Chap- ter II. it may be confidered as rather out of place to enter upon any part of the fubjed here \ but I judged it proper to referve for this place a more particular confideration of wounds of the eye-lids and eye-ball. In wounds of the eye-lids, the parts may be divided either in a longitudinal or tranfverfe diredioa with refped to the courfe of their mufcular fibres. If the Ikin only is divided, or, if a wound penetra- ting the whole fubftance of the eye-lid, is inflided in fuch, a manner as merely to feparate the fibres of the orbicularis mufcle from one another, all that we have to do is to draw the ficiri and other C 4 divided48 Difeafes of theEy^s. Chap. XT^ divided parts exadly together, and to re- tain them imthis fituation with flips of ad- hefive plafter. As in fuch circumflances no retraction can take place of the di- vided parts, they are eafily retained; and' care ihould be taken that they are kept in this fituation till they are finally u- nited. But when the orbicularis mufcle is di- vided in a tranfverfe direction, and efpe-^ cially when a correfponding part of the tarfus or cartilaginous border of the eye- lid is likewife divided, more attention is required : If they are allowed to feparate much from each other, fuch a want of tone in the eye-lid is apt to take place, as prevents it from performing its ufual motions with facility : And again, if the divided parts are drawn too tightly to- gether, they impede the motion of the eye. In tranfverfe wounds of the eye-lids,,^, is fometimes neceflary to. employ fii- tures. The interrupted future is ufually advifed; but the twifted, future anfwers- betteiwSe£t. III. Difeafes of the Eyes. better. The method of performing thefe futures haying been defcribed in Chap. VI^ I have at prefent only to remark, that in the pradice of either of them upon the eye-lids, much nicety and delicacy is required, otherwife much harm may be done, not only to the eye-lids, but to the eye-ball itfelf. When the twilled future is employed, the pins fhould be fhort and fmall, fo as to run as little rilk as poflible of hurting the contiguous parts, and they fhould be made to pafs not only through the Ikin, but into the fibres of thq orbi- cularis mufcle, otherwife little advantage: will be gained by the operation : But they fhould not be carried entirely through the inner membrane of the eye-lid. This would irritate and inflame the eye 3 and not being neceflary, it ought to be a- voidedr If the fldn is properly retained in its fituation, with a few of the fibres of the mufcle underneath, a better cure will be obtained than if the needles were made to pafs through the whole fubftance of the cje-lid p for in this manner the adion of the50 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. the raufcle is preferved, whilft no rilk is incurred of the eye-lid being too much contradfed; a circumflance very apt to occur when the whole thipknefs of the eye-lid is penetrated by the fututes. It is almoft unneceffary to obferve, that in order to infure fuccefs from this ope- ration, the motion of both eyes Ihould be as much as poffible prevented, other- wife no union of the divided parts will be obtained. The eye will be irritated ; in- flammation will occurs and this will ren- der it neceflTary to remove the futures be- fore they have effeded the purpofe for which they were employed. On the futures being finilhed, the eye- lids Ihould be clofed and covered with a pledgit of lint or foft linen fpread with faturnine cerate, that .the parts may be kept as eafy as poflible 3 and a comprefs of lint being laid over it, and "another over the found eye, the whole ihould be retained by a napkin over the head, tied in fuch a manner as to prefs equally and gently upon both ; eyes. Inflammation IhouldSedt. Ill- Difeafes of the Eyes. St Ihould be ftridly guarded againfl: ^ or if it has already taken place, we mull en- deavour to remove it by the means pointed out in the lafl fedion:. And in the courfe of three days from the futures being in- troduced, they Ihould all be removed y for in this period, if the parts have been kept in contad, their union will be accom» pliflied. We have hitherto been fuppofing that the parts are only fimply divided; and when replaced, that the eye is found to be as completely covered as before : But it fometimes happens, that they are not only divided but deftroyed ^ in which cafe, when fuch a portion of the eye-lids is removed, as to prevent the parts that re- main from being brought into contad without impeding the motion of the eye, it will be more prudent to leave them at fome diftance from each others and by treating them \vith light dreilings, to truft to nature for fupplying the deficiency by a new produdion of cellular fubftance. The mechanifm of the eye-lids is^ pe- culiarly adapted for the protedion of the'Difeafes x)f the Eyes. Chap. XL 52 parts beneath from too free an admiffion of light, air, and dufl ^ but no poffible ftrudlure could prevent them from fuffer- ing by injuries of a different nature : We accordingly find, that the eye-ball is li- able, like other parts of the body, to wounds, contufions, and other injuries. As the bones at the bottom of the orbit are in fome parts extremely thin, wounds of the eye which penetrate deep prove frequently dangerous from the near con- tiguity of the brain: But fuperficial wounds that penetrate only the anterior part of the eye, although they may deftroy the beauty and utility of the organ, are not in other refpedls to be confidered as hazardous. Wounds of this part, how- ever, of whatever kind they niay be, re- quire at all times our moft ferious atten- tion ; not only with a view to the prefer- vation of fight, but in order to prevent or obviate the effedls of inflammation, a fymptom which they very commonly induce. WoundsSeft. III. ' Difeafes of the Eyes. 53 Wounds of the transparent cornea,^ "when diredlly opposite to the pupil, are moft frequently produdive either of a to- tal or partial lofs of vifion 3 for the cica- trix that fucceeds very commonly re- mains opake during the life of the pa- tient : But although in this refped wounds of the anterior part of the eye are always to be dreaded, they are feldom attended with fo much inflammation as wound.s of equal extent of the fclerotica or oJ)ake cornea, which are always more painful, and produdive of more hazard. The danger accruing from wounds of the eye, is, in general, proportioned to their extent: In other parts of the body, a fmall pundured wound is more to be dreaded than a cut of greater extent; but in the eye, the rilk arifing from wounds is moft frequently in proportion to their extent; a circumftance which with fur- geons fliould have an influence in the pre- ference to be given to the different ope- rations performed upon this organ. It is not the pain produced by wounds to which I54 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap, XI^ I allude, and which frequently occurs to a greater degree from pundlures alone, than from very extenfive cuts ^ but it is the rilk induced by large wounds of dif- charging the humours or contents of the eye, by which vifion, if not entirely de- ftroyed, muft at all times be greatly in- jured ^ and by which the eye is often fo much diminifhed as to fink almofl; to the bottom of the orbit: We fliall afterwards, however,|when treating of Cataradl, have occafion to fpeak more fully upon this fubjedl. The mofl: important circumftance in the treatment of wounds of the eye-ball, and to which our chief attention Ihould be directed, is to prevent or remove in- flammation. When a wound in the eye is large, it is fcarcely poflible to prevent the humours from being difcharged 3 for the natural and ufual adtion of the mufcles necefiaTily forces them out. In this cafe, no advantage is derived from the fkill of the jiradlitioner, and the ufe of the eye is immediately loft: Bujt whereS,e6l. III. Difaafes of the Eyes. 55 wh^re one* eye is deftroyed in this man- ner, twenty are ruined by inflammation, either from its being fo violent, that no remedy can prove fiiccefsful, or from the difeafe being too flightly treated at firfl:, and allowed to proceed too far before a proper application of remedies is advifed: In every wound therefore of this organ, all thofe means fliould be immediately employed, which, by experience, we know to prove mofl: effecflual in the pre- vention of this fymptom^ but thefe ha- ving already been fully mentioned in Sedionll, of this Chapter, it is not ne- ceflary to enumerate them again. In wounds of the eye-ball, the ftrudlure of the parts renders it impoilible to dimi- iiilh the extent of the opening: The parts in this fituation cannot, as in the eye-lids^ be placed in contact and retained v/ith futures : Nothing of this kind being here admiflible, all that art can attempt, is, together with a Arid antiphlogiftic courfe, to keep the eye lightly covered with a pledgit of any emoUient ointment; to. bathe56 Dijeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL bathe It from time to time with a weak fo- lutlon of lead; and when the pain becomes fevere, to give adequate dofes of opium. In extenfive wounds of the eye, attend- ed with an entire dlfcharge of its con- tents, permanent blindnefs, with the u- fual deformity induced by the finking of the eye-ball, muft neceflarily fucceed; but in wounds of lefler extent, we have it frequently In our power, by due atten- tion, to the means I have pointed out, to remove fymptoms which otherwife would probably end in the greateft danger. S E C-57 Sed. IV, Difeafes of the Eyes. S E C T I 0 N IV, Of Eumors of the Eye4idsc The eye-lids are frequently infefted with fmall tumors, which by impe- ding their motion, and rubbing upon the globe of the eye, become often fo very diftrefsful as to require the furgeon’s af- iiftance for their removal. The contents of thefe tumors are va- rious, and of different degrees of firm- nefs. Towards the internal angle of the eye, and mbft frequently on the under eye- lid near to the lachrymal pundum, many are liable to frequent returns of a fmall tumor of the inflammatory kind, in this country commonly termed the Stye^, It ^ begins with a fenfation of fulnefs, ftiff- VoL. IV. D ' nefs, % * This is a variety of the Hordeolum of Sauvages and other nofologifts.5B IMfeafes ofthe Eyes^^ Cha-pl XL> nefs, and uneafinefs in the Internal can» thus of the eye. At firft the Ikin is fcarcely difcoloured; but if the tumor proceeds to fuppuration, it becomes firflr of a pale red^ and afterwards- yellow, when it commonly burfts and difeharges a thick purulent matter.- The ftye is a- tumor altogether inflammatory , and fliould be confidered. indeed in no other light than a common boil or abfeefs.- The on- ly clrcumftances in which it differs from boils in other parts of the body, are, the ^ colour of the Ikinnot being of fuch a deep red at flrfl:, and it^s advancing more flow- ly to fuppuration. This, however, pro« ceeds evidently from the peculiarity of its fituation; for the matter being feated between the tarfus and internal membrane of the eye-lid, the firmnefs of the carti- lage prevents the fkiii which covers it externally from being much difcoloured^ at the fame time that the prefliire produ-’ ced by it may probably have fome influ- race in preventing, or rather in retarding the59 SeA* IV. Difeafes of the Eyes, the progrefs of that effufion which appears to be neceflary for the formation of pus. Thefe are the tumors that we moft fre- quently meet with on the eye-lids3 others, however, occur here, by which much more diftrefs is often produced. By different authors a great variety of thefe have been defcribed, but no real utility is derived from this. And as no benefit can be ob- tained from any diftindion that does not point out fome variety of pradice, it is this confideration only by which I fhall be direded in enumerating the varieties of the difeafe. The inflammatory tumors, already defcribed, are for the moft part feated near to the internal canthus of the eye: Any others to which the eye-lids are lia- ble, appear indifcriminately in every part of them. They are of three kinds, all of them differing from each other in their degree of firmnefs, and requiring a dif- ferent method of treatment. The firft I fhall mention is commonly of a round form, and fomewhat foft or D 2 comprefiible:6o Difeajes of the Eyes.^ Chap. XI, compreffible : It feems to move or roll when prefled upon} the fkin retains its natural appearance ^ and from the con- tents of it when laid open being of a fat- ty nature, we term it a Steatoma. The foft white matter, of which thefe tumors is compofed, is always furrounded with a, firm membranous cyfl. Small tumors or excrefcences form oc- cafionally on different parts of the eye- lids, in fome iiiftances, with narrow, pen- dulous'necks in others, with thin broad bafes. Some of them being of a foft flefliy confiftence, are termed Sarcoma- tous tumors ; whilft others being hard and firm, are denominated Verrucse, or Warts. In the treatment of the ftye or fmall boil, fo frequently met with near the internal angle of the eye, fome doubt has arifen of the propriety of bringing them to fuppuration; and by many it is even faid, that we fliould in perhaps every inftance, by means of vitriolic and other aftringent applications, at- temptSe£l. IV. Difeafes of the Eyes. 6i tempt to remove them by refolutlon or difcuflion. Almoft the only reafon^ however, that can be given for this, is, the trouble attending the cotitra- jy pradlice of bringing them to fiippura- tion : But when we confider the advan- tages we derive from it, and the hazard of injuring the eye-lids by frequently at- tempting to repel what nature means to difcharge, we will not hefitate in the choice of our method of cure. By bring- ing thefe tumors to fuppuration, we incur indeed fome additional trouble ; but it is feldom confiderable : And as foon as mat- ter is fully formed, if it does not burft and difcharge itfelf, opening the tumor with the point of a lancet procures com- plete relief, and the fore commonly heals quickly without farther trouble. As foon therefore as a ftye is clearly formed, we fhould endeavour, by a fre- quent renewal of warm emollient poul- tices, to bring the tumor to fuppurate, and then to difcharge the matter with a r> 3 lancet,62 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI- lancet, if it does not previoully burft of it- felf. I know from experience, that the practice is perfectly fafe; that the pain attending it is inconfiderable; that it re- moves the rifk of harder and more in- veterate tumors forming in the fite of thefe affedi r s, and which I have ob- ferved in different inftances to be the confequence of the ufual method of treat- ing them. After this kind of boil has fuppurated and difcharged its contents, bathing the parts with a weak faturnine or vitriolic folution proves ufeful, in the proportion of a grain of faccharum fatur- ni, or vitriolum album, to each ounce of water : It tends to remove any unealinefs that remains, and to reftore the parts tq their ufual tone. All tumors of the eye-lids of a firm confiflence, whether fleatomatous or war- ty, as they cannot be made to fuppurate, fhould be removed by excifion, as foon as they impede in any degree the motion of thefeye. As long as they remain fmall,they ar^63 Sed. IV. Difeafes of the Eyes. :are for the moft part inoffenfive, and are therefore overlooked ^ -but whenever they begin to increafe, they Ihould immediate- ly be taken off. In all warty excrefcenccs of a final! lize, as well as in thofe of the farcoma- tons kind, we are commonly directed to remove them with cauftic ; or if the bafe is fmall, to do it with a ligature. This, however, is a pradice that ihould not be adopted : No reafpn indeed can be given for it but timidity either on the part of the patient or of the operator: Whether we employ cauftic or ligatures, the cure muft always prove tedious^ they common- ly excite inflammation and irrita bility of the eye, and they frequently give more pain than is ever done by the fcalpel; In the removal therefore of every tumor of this defcription, we fliould truft folely to excifion, an operation neither attended with difficulty or hazard. The patient being feated oppofite to a window, and his head fecured by an affift- D 4 ant,64 Difeafes of the Eyes. Ghap. XI, ant, if the tumor cannot be laid hold of with the fingers, a ligature fiiould either* be palled round it, or puflied through it with a needle, in order to enable the operator to raife it by pulling it gently from the parts beneath: And this being done, if its bafe is narrow, it may be re- moved at once; but when extenfively at- tached to the neighbouring parts, it is better by flow dilTedtion to enfure its to- tal removal, than by proceeding quickly to incur the rifk of allowing part of it to remain, or to require farther trouble afterwards in removing it. On the opera- tion being finiflied, a piece of foft lint fliould be applied to the fore, and retained with a flip of adhefive plafter; by which the fore very commonly heals eafily with- out farther trouble. When, again, the tumor is of the ftea- tomatous or encyfted kind, infteadof dif- ' feding it off covered with the ikin that iiirrounds it, by which a troublefome un- feemly cicatrix is always produced, it an- - fwers65 Se<S. IV. Difeafes of the Eyes, Iwers better merely to divide the Ikin by a fimple incifion with a common fmall fcalpel. This fliould be done from one end of the tumor along the moll promi- nenf part of it to the other; and a ftrong waxed thread being palled through the centre of the cyll, this Ihould be given .to an allillant, in order to feparate or raife it from the parts beneath, while the fur- geon himfelf, with cautious dilfedtion, en- deavours to feparate the Ikin and cellular fubllance from the whole circumference of the cyft; and this being done, the tu- mor is ealily removed by the ligature at- tached to it. When, in the cburfe of the operation, it has been found necelTary to divide the internal membrane of the eye-lid, no dref- ling Ihould be applied to the fore, as the molt inolFenlive we could employ would irritate and inflame the globe of the eye. All that, in fuch circumltances, Ihould be done, is, to lay the lips of the fore as yearly together as pollible; and to re- * move66 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XL move as frequently as is neceflary any fu- perfluous matter that may happen to form in It. But when, in the removal of thefe tumors, it is found neceflary to cut en- tirely through the eye-lid, in order to render the cicatrix neat, the lips of the wound fliould be drawn together with the fingers, and retained with flips of adhe* five plafter till they unite. In the extirpation of thefe turtiors, when the cyfl: is firm, and the contents of the fteatomatous kind, the bag fliould be pre- ferved entire, as in this ftate it is more eafily and more efieftually removed by do- ing fo than in any other manner; But whenever the cyfl: is thin, and efpecially when the contents of it are fluid, it is commonly difficult, and in fome inflkn- ces impoflible, to feparate the teguments from it beneath, without laying it open. In this cafe, after dividing the Ikin and cellular fubflance, by making an incifion along the mofl prominent part of the tu- mor, it is better to open the cyfl at once bySedlf IV. Bifeafes of the Eyes. 6*j by a large pundlure with the point of a lancet, in order to difcharge the matter contained in it, than to make any attempt, as is commonly done, to preferve it en- tire; by which, in fuch circumftances, the operation is always rendered more te- dious than it otherwife might be. S EDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. 68 SECTION V. Of Inverfion of the Cilia^ or Eye-lafhes HE eye-lafhes are in fome inftanccs fo much inverted, or turned inwards upon the eye, as to excite much pain, by rubbing or fretting the coats of it: In which cafe, it becomes neceiTary to re- move them. This inverfion of the cilia is produced by different caufes : In fome cafes, it pro- ceeds from a derangement of the hairs themfelves, which leaving their ufual di- redlion turn in towards the eye-ball: But more frequently it is produced by a caufe of a more diftrefsful nature, an inverfion of the tarfus or cartilaginous border of the eye-lid : This again is moft common- ly induced either by an unequal fpafmodic affedion of the orbicularis mufcle of the under eye-lid j for it is not frequently met f The Trichiahs and Entropium of authors; withSedl V. Difeafes of the Eyes. 6g with in the upper palpebra; or It occurs as the efFecS of a cicatrix upon the fkln of this part, the confequence of fome pre- vious injury: In fome inflances, it is pro- duced by tumors, forcing the eye^lalhes in upon the eye ^ and a relaxation of the external teguments of the eye-lid has like- wife been fuppofed to induce it. As the caufe of the difeafe is various, fo it is evi- dent that the means of cure muft iikewife be fo. When It Is found to originate folely from a derangement of the cilia them- felves, without any inverfion of the eye- lids, we are direded by authors, in the firft place, to pull out' the inverted hairs with a pair of fmall pliers ^ and to pre- vent them from growing again, we are defired to burn their foots-either with lu- nar cauilic, or with the end of a red-hot wire. Nay, fome have propofed that the whole cartilaginous edge oFthe eye-lid in which the hairs are placed, Ihould be entirely deflroyed with cauftic. The76 Difeafes of the Eyes* Chap* Xt. The pain and Inflammation of the eye, induced by an inverfibn of the cilia, is in fome Inftances indeed fo diflrefsful, and it is fo difficult to prevent them from rub- bing upon the eye, that none who have feen how obftinate fuch affedtions. often are, will be furprifed at the attentiop given to them by almofl every author who has written upon the fubjedt: But It fortunate- ly happens, that none of the painful re- medies I have mentioned are neceflary; for the fame Intention may in almofl: eve- ry inftance be accompliflied by * means of a more fimple nature. When the eye-laflies have remained long in a deranged ftate, and have acquired their full flrength and elafticity, it Js al- together impoflible to bring them again into a proper direction. In fuch circum- ftances, therefore, they fhould all be pull- ed out by the roots ^ for to cut them over, as is fometimes done, tends only to make them ftronger and fliarper than they were before^ This being cautioufly done with a pair of fmall forceps or pliers, relief is thus zSed. V. Difea/es of the iyei* ' 71 thus commonly obtained immediately : But unlefs fome means are adopted to pre- vent the new hairs from taking a fimilar diredion, they very fpeedily advance fa far as to induce a return of the difeafe. Nothing, however, can be done for this purpofe, till the new hairs have acquired' fome length; but as foon as they are a- bout half their ufual length, and whilft they are yet more foft and pliable than they afterwards become, by turning them down upon the eye-lid with the end of a a blunt probe, and retaining them in this lituation for two or three weeks, either by covering them with narrow flips of adhefive plafter, or with ftrong mucilage or glue by means of a fmall pencil, a com- plete cure may thus be commonly obtain- ed. Much attention is necelTary, indeed^ in order to infure fuccefs; more, it muii be acknowledged, than the difeafe com- monly meets with : But due perfeverance in the means I have mentioned will in al- moft every inftance prove effedlual^ and being an eafy method, of obtaining relief mDifeafes of the Eyes. ^ Chap. XIJ in a very painful affedion, nothing Ihould be omitted that can tend to render the practice of it frequent and more certain. When, again, the difeafe appears to ori- ginate from any of the other caufes I enu- merated, the particular nature of it muft be afcertained before any remedy can be employed. If it proceeds from an une- qual fpafmodic exertion of the orbicula- ris mufcle of the eye-lid, no danger can enfue from making a flight incifion on the internal furface of the under palpebra, of flich a depth as to divide thofe fibres of the mufcle that appear to be contrad:- ed, and by which the inverfion of the ci- lia is produced. The only inconvenience that this could produce, would be fome degree of ftiffhefs of immobility in the under eve-lid, but which could not even in the worfl: degree of it, be of much im- portance : And as no other remedy could in this variety of the difeafe prove ufe- ful, we ihould not hefitate to advife it. If then thofe fibres of the mufcle that appear to be preternaturally contraded areSed. V. Difeafes of the Eyes^ 73 are freely divided, a cure of the difeafe will be obtained, and the incifion will rea- dily heal, without any dreffings being ap- plied. In this fituatioit, indeed, no drel- fing can with propriety be employed; but experience fliows that it it not neceflary,, for a cut in this part commonly heals ea- fily. When the cilia are found to be pufhed in upon the eye, either by a tumor or ci- catrix of fome old fore, no cure can be expeded from any other means than the femoval of the caufe itfelf. When pro- duced by a tumor, this muft be extirpa- ted in the manner pointed out in the lafl fedlion^ and when an old cicatrix falls to be removed, we do it by making an inci- fion with a fcalpel fo as to furround the whole of it, and afterwards in a flow cautious manner diffed: it oflT.—When the prefliire produced by the cicatrix has been the foie caufe of the cartilage being turn- ed inwards, the removal of the cicatrix will in general remove the difeafe; and in this cafe the fore may be healed in the VoL. IV. ' . E iifuaV74 Difedfes of the Eyes* Chap. XL tifual manner with eafy dreflings. But when it Is found that the diredion of the cilia Is not immediately altered upon the cicatrix being removed, the lips of the fore fliould be drawn together, fo as to bring the edges of the divided Ikin into contad y and in this ftate they fhould be fecured either with flips of adhefive pla- fler^ or when this does not anfwer, it may be done either by the twilled or in- terrupted futures: By which means the points of the eye-lalhes may be turned entirely outwards, fo as to accomplllh in the moft complete manner the intention of the operation. It has alfo been fiippofed, as I have al- ready remarked, that this difeafe may be produced by the external Ikin of the eye- lid, being too much relaxed. This, how- ever, is what I never met,with; and as we cannot fuppofe that thefe parts are re- tained in their fituation by any exertion of the fldn alone, it is not probable that any relaxation to which it is liable can have any influence in giving them a wrong diredion ;Se& V. T>ifeafes of the Eyes^ 2 Chapter, diredlon y but if the contrary fhould ever be the cafe, the remedy to be employed is obVioiis : If the difeafe is of fhort du- ration, and the relaxation and lofs of tone in the Ikin not bonliderable, ba- thing the parts frequently with a ftrong folution of alum in an infufion of oak- bark, or with any other aftringent, may probably remove it; but when this does not anfwer, otir only refource is to remove all the relaxed Ikin with a fcalpel: This being done^ we draw the edges of the cut together, and retain them either with adhefive plafters or futures in the man- ner already pointed out. An inveriion of the cilia conftantly ex- cites, as I have already obferved, in- flammation of the eye-ball : This fymp- tom, however, comnionly fubfi'des on the hairs being removed; but when this does not happen, thofe means muft be employed that prove mofl: eifedual for the removal of inflammation of the eyes, by whatever caufe it may be induced. Thefe having been enumerated in Sedion II. of thisDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL- 76 Chapter, it is not neceflary to fpeak o£ them here. I have already ohferved, that the in« verfioii of the cilia occurs mofl: frequent- ly in the undet* eye-Ild. In fome inftan- ces, however, we meet with it in the tip- per palpebrae; and in fuch cafes it is . fcarcely neceflary to remark, that the dif- eafe being exactly fimilar both in its caufes and effects, the means employed for removing, it IHould alfo be fimilar.. In the upper eye-lid we fometimes meet with a fwelling over the whole of it, by which the ufual and natural exertion of its mufcles is either much impeded or perhaps entirely interrupted, and by which too the eye-laflies may be fo far inverted as to produce this difeafe. In fuch cafes, as the fwelling of the eye-lid is commonly of the dropfical kind, it is more readily removed by two or three fmall pund;ures with the point of a lan- cet than by any other means: But when this does not prove fufficient, if it ap- pears to be perfectly local, and not con- I neded77 'Sedl. V. Difeafes 6f the Eyes. neded with an anafarcous fwelling over the reft of the body, rather than allow vifion to be much interrupted by a con- .tinuance of the fwelling, it has been pro- pofed to cut out a fegment of the moft prominent part of the Ikin, to difcharge any water that may be contained in it, and to reunite the divided edges of the fore with futures. Nay, much time and ingenuity has been employed in the in- vention of inftruments for effeding this operation neatly, and without much lofs of blood; an occurrence, which in for- mer times was always much dreaded. This fliould indeed be guarded againft as far as is neceflary: But in the operation of which we are fpeaking, it can never require" much attention, for none of the blood-veflels in thofe parts are of a that can render* the divifion of them dan- gerous. The inftrument to which I allude aded folely by preflure: All the Ikin meant to be removed being included between two thin plates of brafs or fteel^ a degree of E 3 preflure78 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL preflure fufficient to deftroy the circula- tion in the contained parts was applied and continued by means of a fcrew till the whole dropped off; but as the opera- tion may be both more neatly and more fpeedily done with a fcalpel, it ought in every inftance to be preferred. In whatr ever way it is done, as much of the Ikin fhould be removed as appears' to be fuper- fluous: If the edges of the fore, on being brought together, can be retaiued with adhefive plafter, it ought to be done ^ but when plafters do not anfwer, we have re^ cQurfe to the interrupted future.SeQ:. VI. 'Dijeafes of the Eyes* 79 SECTION VI. Of the Gaping or turning Outwards of the Eye4ids, This afFeftlon is produced by the in- ternal furface of one or both eye- lids being turned outwards fo as to fold over fome part of the cilia, and contigu- ous Ikin: By Nofologifts it is in general termed Edropium} and when the upper eye-lid only is affected, it has been term- ed Lagophthalmus, from a refemblance it is fuppofed to bear to the eye of a hare. Every degree of this afiedion occa- lions deformity ^ fo that even in this view it merits attention: But in its more ad- vanced ftages it frequently gives much diftrefs, by leaving a confiderable part of the eye uncovered. The internal membrane of the eye-lids may be turned outwards by various caufes: Tumors of whatever nature they may be E 4 when8o Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. when feated within the orbit, fometimes produce it: It is alfo induced by dropfi- cal efFufions in the cellular fubftance that covers it; and likewife by inflammation of the fame part. Relaxation, induced either by an inflamed ftate of this part, by a previous dropfical fwelling, or mere- ly as a confequence of old age, excites the mofl: obllinate kind of it : And laftly, we find it often induced by the cicatrix of a wound or abfcefs, when fo fituated as to corrugate or contrad: the fkin of either of the eye-lids. In the method of cure it is evident, that due attention becomes neceflary to the particular caufe by which it is produced. When tumors are difcovered to be the caufe, they mufl: be removed in the man- ner pointed out in Sedion IV. When induced by a dropfical affedion, conned- cd with general anafarca, if the difeafe of the fyflem is carried oflTby general re- medies, this particular fymptom will mofl frequently yield ^ but when it appears to he local, as in feme inftances happens, noSe6l. Vx. Difeafes of the Eyes. 81 no dependence is to be placed upon the exhibition of medicines: In this cafe, the effufed fluid fliould be difcharged ei- ther by pundlures or fcarifications, not made through the external coverings of the eye-lids, but diredly into that part of the internal membrane that is protruded by the water colledted within it. Small ptindlures fliould be firfl: advifed with the point of a lancet; and when thefe fail, fca- rifications fliould be made with one or other of the inftruments delineated in Plate XII. fig. 4. or in Plate XXIII. fig. 5. all along the courfe of the fwel- ling; and being carried to a fufficient depth, they will not only difcharge the effufed water, but the inflammation which they excite will tend to prevent it from collecting again: After the water is dif- charged, and any inflammation induced by the operation is gone, the parts fliould be frequently bathed with a weak folu- tion of white vitriol, or any other aftrin- gent collyrium. In cafes of Edropium induced by in- flanimation, our means of cure fliould be , chiefly82 iXifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. chiefly dlrexfled to the removal of this fymptom ^ and, for the mofl part, when not long negledled, or not particularly obftinate, the protrufion will fubfide on the inflammation being removed. But when the inflammation has fubfifted long, the protrufion often continues fixed and permanent long after the caufe that gave rife to it is gone : Whenever the difeafe therefore depends upon this caufe, we fliould endeavour by the mofl; adtive re- medies to have it Ipeedily carried off. In Sedtion II. of this Chapter, thefe have been fully enumerated: I have now there- fore only to remark. In addition to the remedies there pointed out, that deep fca- rlfications , into the inflamed membrane itfelf prove here particularly ufeful. The vefTels of the protruded membrane are in this ftate of the difeafe commonly fo tur- gid as to give it a confiderable degree of preternatural thicknefs: Unlefs this in- creafe of bulk is removed, no cure can be expedted ^ and nothing with which we are acquainted tends fo much to accom-§5 Se<ft. VI. Difeafes of the Eyes, pllfli this as unloading the inflamed veC- fels of their contents, and which Is done in the moil effedual manner by deep fca-^ rifications. When, again, the difeafe occurs from relaxation, as it often does in advanced llages of life, no chlrurgical operation fliould be advifed : In this fituation trufl: altogether to palliatives : The pa- tient fliould be deflred to bathe his eyes daily in cold water, or in water mixed with a fmall proportion of brandy ^ or, he may ufe an aftringent collyrium of white vitriol and faccharum faturni dif- folved in water. In this manner, he may ' prevent the difeafe from advancing far- ther, and irrfome inftances may even be able to remove it. But whether this fliould be the cafe or not, when it Is evi- dently induced by old age, nothing very fevere in its operation fliould ever be ad- vifed. The mofl: diftrefsful, and perhaps the moft frequent caufe of edtropium, is the cicatrices of fores, abfceffes, and of the confluent®4 Hifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL confluent fmall pox, when fo fituated as to contrad the fkin of either of the eye- lids. A cicatrix may be fo fituated, as we have feen in the lafl: fedion, to pro- duce an inverfion of the cilia. Of this 1 have met with different inftances, but it more frequently happens, that the dif- cafe we are now confidering is induced by it. As the difeafe is here evidently indu- ced by a preternatural contradion of the fkin conneded with the eye-lid, nothing can accomplifli a cure but the divifion of' fuch parts of the Ikin as are thus morbid- ly drawn together. For this purpofe, the operator, by an attentive examination of the parts affeded, fhould render himfelf perfedly certain of the full extent of the difeafe; and having done fo, an incifion fhould be made diredly acrofs that part of the fkin which appears to be contrad- ed, and fhould be carried freely into the cellular fubflance by which the fkin is conneded to the parts beneath. When the contradion takes places at one point only.SexS. VI. Difeajes of the Eyes.' ^5 ©nly, if a free divifion of the Ikin k made at this part,, it will immediately be removed : But it commonly happens, that the fkin is fixed to the parts beneath over the whole courfe of the cicatrix; in which event, a fmall incifion, in the manner I have mentioned, and with which opera- tors in general reft fatisfied, will have little or no effedl in removing the difeafe. In this cafe, after making an incifion through the teguments from one end of the cicatrix to the other, the edge of the divided Ikin ftiould be ralfed with a pair of dilTeding forceps, and the whole of it ftiould be feparated and removed with the fcalpel from the parts to which it adheres^ If this is properly done, that part of the eye-lid that was turned outwards, will either return of itfelf to its natural fitua- lion, or it may be eafily replaced by the operator ; and this being done, the reft, of the cure muft confift in fuch an appli- cation of a bandage, or of flips of adhefive plafter, as will retain the Ikin, till by the formation of granulations at the bottom ' ofDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap, 86 of the fore, any farther contraction may be preventeci. To give directions for the application of bandages is unnecellary, as it muft -always be diredted by the inge- nuity of the Operator. In general, how- ever, I may remark, that when flips of adhefive plafter can be made to anfwer the purpofe of bandages, they fliould al- ways be preferred for parts, contiguous to the eyes, where bandages can never be applied with fuch tightnefs as to retain the dreflings, without injuring the parts beneath. S E C-Se£t. VIL Difeafes of the Eyeu 87 SECTION VII. Of Concretion of the Eye-lids, IT has long been known, that any two parts of an animal body being kept in contact when in a ftate of inflammatioji, very readily unite together; a fad that accounts for many phenomena, and a*- mong others for thofe adhelions of the eye-lids that fometimes fucceed to an in- flamed ftate of thefe parts. Inflamma- tion of the eye-lids, when of long dura- tion, frequently forms partial adhefions, not only of the eye-lids to each other, but to different parts of the eye itfelf: To flight degrees of this, a patient will com- monly rather fubmit, than undergo the pain and terror of an operation; but when the adhefions are fo confiderable as to impede the motion of the eye-lids, and thus to obftrudt vifion, it becomes necef- fary88 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XL fary to employ the moft efFe6lual means for relief. It fomeiimes happens, too, that the eye-lids adhere together at birth. 'When the adhefion is flight, and not of long duration, it may in general be removed by feparating thofe parts of the eye-lids that adhere, with the end of a blunt probe pafled behind them; but when they adhere either firmly to each o- ther, or to the eye-ball, a cure can be effedled by difleftion only. In perform- ing this operation, the patient’s head fliould be firmly fecured by an aflillant, who fhould likewife endeavour to fupport or elevate the upper ey e-lid, whilfl: the fur- geon, with fmall forceps in one hand, fliould raife or feparate the under palpebra, and at the fame time fliould proceed to divide with a fcalpel in the other, every fibre by which the adhefion is produced. In every part of the operation much ftea- diiiefs and accuracy is required ; particu- larly where any part of the palpebrse ad- here to the eye-ball. WhenScft. VII. Bifcafes of the Eyes. . 89 When the caufe of adhefion is thus completely removed,, as the dreflings u- fually employed to fores cannot with pro- priety be ufed here, all that we fliould attempt, is to cover the eye with foft lint fpread with Goulard’s cerate or any other emollient ointment 5 and after the firft dreffing, a fmall portion of the fame oiiit-x ment, perhaps the fize of a pea, may be daily infinuated between the eye-lids : By this means the fore is kept foft and eafy, at the fame time that the ufual mo- tion of the eye-lids prevents every rilk of new adhefions between the parts newly divided. In this, however, as >vell as in every Operation upon the eye, the flruc3:ure of which is fo delicate as to render it very fufceptible of inflammation, much attention is necelTary to prevent .this fymptom, and to remove it when it has actually taken place^ VoL. IV. F SEC-go JDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. V • V SECTION yilL Of Flejhy Excrefcences on the Cornea. Eyes that.have been liable to repeat^ ed attacks of inflammation, are apt to have a membranous fubftance form on fpme part of the opake cornea: This, in fome inftances, continues of a fmall fize, and does not produce much inconveni- ence, while in others it toends fo as to form a ring round the whole tunica con- jundliva, and even fpreads to fuch an ex- tent as to cover not only all the opake cornea, but'even the tranfparent part of the eye. . Being fuppofed to refemble a fowl’s wing, it has by fome been termed Ptery- gium, and by others Onyx, from its re- femblance to the naU of a finger: It be- gins mofl: frequently near the internal angle of the eye 5 but in fome we firfl: per- ceiveSed, VIIL Dlfeafes of the Eyes. 91 ceive it on the mofl: prominent part of the tunica albuginea. In fome inftances of fevere inflamma- tion, a tough yellow-coloured membra^ nous fubftance forms and fpreads over the whole eye-ball: It appears, however, to be perfedly inorganic, and is evidently of the fame nature with thofe crufts or exflidations fo frequently met with in parts recently inflamed : But the difeafe we are now confidering confifts of an organic membranous fubftance, that is equally ir- ritable With other parts of the body, and which, when wounded, difcharges blood freely. It it indeed lo clearly vafculat, as to render it probable that it confifts entirely of a congeries of fmall blood- - veflels, which being once forced out from any point of the ball of the eye, either as a confequence of external violence or of inflammation from any other caufe, we can eafily fuppofe that every frelh attack of inflammation will caufe them pullu- late or fhoot out in a degree fomewhat F 2 proportionedDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap* XI. 93 proportioned to the violence of the caufe by which It is produced. In fome Inftances, this produdion does not appear till the violence of the inflam-- mation is over : In which cafe, it is not accompanied with pain, unlefs when fome caufe of irritation is applied to It ^ but In others it takes place during the continu- ance of inflammation, when the pain at- tending it Is always fevere. During this inflammatory ftate of the difeafe, this membrane Is in general of a deep red co- lour ; but when the inflammation fub- fides, it becomes pale and fomewhat yel- low. As long as this kind of excrefcence continues of a moderate fize, and does not impede the motion of the eye-lids, nor obflrudl vifion, all we ought to do is, by means of gentle aflriiigents, to endea- vour to prevent its increafe. In ledlion II. ' of this chapter, I have faid all that ap- pears to be neceffary on the fubjed of inflammation. I fliall now therefore fup- pofe that the inflammatory fymptoms are,, ' -3 by93 Se6t. VIIL Difiafes of the Eyes. by the mekns formerly*pointed out, ei- ther removed or much mitigated, and that our attention is poyr to be diredled to the removal of this preternatural membra- nous produdion. In this ftate of the dif- eafe, aftringent applications, as I have obferved above, ought to be alone depend- ed on as long as the fize of the excref- cence is inconfiderable. A weak folution of corrofive fublimate in water, in the proportion of a grain to four ounces of water, has fometimes proved ufeful 5 but iti general, nothing anfwers either with fuch certainty or fafety as white vitriol, or alum, dilTolved in water, care being taken to have the folution of fuch a ftrength as the eye can eafily bear. A fcruple of white vitriol, or half a dram of alum, to four ounces of water, will in general prove fufEciently ftrong: but in every cafe, the ftrength of the remedy ftiould be adapted to the feelings of the patient ^ for with fome it may be employed of double the ftrength that can be admitted by others. ^ F 3 A94 Difeafes of the Eyes* Chap. XI. A proper ufe of efcharotic powders has alfo proved ufeful in this difeafe; but in this form, efcharotics require to be ufed with much caution. Calcined alum in fine powder, a fmall proportion of white vitriol, or of verdegris, mixed with a fufficient quantity of white fugar, or any other powder of a mild nature, may all be ufed for this purpofe. A fmall quan- tity of any of thefe may be fprinkled up« on the difeafed part once or twice daily, and repeated as long as any advantage is derived from them^ or the ufe of the powders may be alternated with that of the wafh in the manner I have men- tioned. A due perfeverance in the ufe of thefe remedies will very commonly retard, as I have obferved above, the progrefs of the excrefcence; but when it proves other- wife, and when it proceeds fo far as to cover any part of the tranfparent cor- nea, as this might foon be attended with a total lofs of fight, other means fliould be employed. , . ' AsSed. VIII, Difeafes of the Eyes. 95 As our objed here is to remove the fexcrefeence entirely^ the fcalpel alotie is to be depended on. Authors, who have written upon the fiibjed, defcribe an ope- ration for the purpofe of removing mem- branes of this kind by difledlon. When the excrefcence is loofe through a confi- derable part of its extent, and attached to the eye by a fmall pedicle only, it niay be removed with fafety and expedition with a fcalpel ; and in fuch cafes, this method fliould be preferred to e- very other. But whenever the excref- cence adheres to the eye over its whole furface, to remove it by difledion is dif- ficult and hazardous ^ and as the fame im tendon may he accomplilhed by more gentle means, thefe ought to be adopted* This excrefcence is very commonly feated, as I have already obferved, upon fome part of the tunica conjundiva, and approaches in a gradual manner towards the centre of the eye: We have likewife feen that it confifts almoft entirely of ait extenfion or elongation of a number of F 4 fmallDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL 96 fmall blood-velTels: Hence we may con- clude, that nothing will tend more effec- tually to remove it than the deftrucSion or divifion of thofe veflels by which it is produced: And accordingly I have in va- rious inftances been able to accomplifh the cure of fuch affedlions by thefe m^eans alone. And as the operation for this purpofe, with thofe accuftomed to- per- form it, is' neither difficult nor dange- rous, it ought always to be attempted as foon as the difeafe is found to refill the means ufually employed. The method of performing it is this : The patient being placed upon a pillow on the floor, the furgeon, fitting behind on a chair, ftiould caufe him incline his head backwards upon his knees, with his face raifed in fuch a manner that a fuffi- cient degree of light may fall diredtly up- on his eyes. This being done, and the patient’s hands properly fecured, the un- der eye-lid fhould be drawn down by an afliflant, while the upper palpebra is flip- ported in fuch a manner by the left hand ofSedl. VIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 97 of the furgeon, as to expofe to view the full extent of the difeafe on the eye-ball. With the knife, fig. 4. plate XII. he is now to make fcarifications through t]ie full thicknefs of the excrefcence, neat to, and entirely round its external cir- cumference, fo as to cut off all communi- cation between the roots and extremities of thofe veflels of which it is formed. This may either be done by one continu- ed ftroke of the fcalpel, or with repeated finaller fcarifications^ and in order to ren- der the fuccefs of the operation more cer - tain by a free divifion being made of eve- ry blood-veflel connedled with the ex- crefcence, after the difcharge of blood induced by the firft incifions is abated, one, two, or more circular fcarifications may be made within one another, in fuch a manner as that the lafh may be contigu- ous to the centre of the excrefcence. In making thefe fcarifications, it is ne- cefTary to avoid the eye-ball ^ for which reaion, It is better to do the incifions by repeated ftrokes, than to go to the full depth98 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL depth of the excrefeence at once; but it may be done with much more eafe in the manner I have mentioned, and with equal fafety, to the eye, than by lifting the ex- crefeence with a needle and ligature be- fore dividing it 5 for we may juft as rea- dily injure the coats of the eye with the needle as with a fcalpel: This method of elevating the parts to be divided by means of a ligature, is much recommended by fome praeftitioners; but I know from ex- perience, that the operation may be per- formed with more eafe in the manner I have pointed out, , After as many incifions have been made as appear to be neceflary, the parts may be allowed to bleed freely, and may be afterwards bathed two or three times dai- ly with a weak folution of faccharum fa- turni. The inciftons may alfo be tepeat- ed in a fimilar manner, if, in th^ courfe of a few days, the excrefeence does not begin to diminifli ^ and the fame opera- tion may be renewed with fafety from time:Sed. VIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 99 time to time, as long as any part of the difeafe is found to remain. When, again, any portion of the excref- cence is obferved to become more loofe in its connedlion with the eye, either in con- fequence of the number of incifions made in it, or of the fuppuration which corn- mofily enfues from this operation, it ought by all means to be removed with the fcal- pel: but when this does not take place, and when every part of it continues ilill to ad- here firmly to the eye, no attempt fliould be made to remove it. When a cure can be elFedled by any means hitherto known, the plan I have mentioned will more readily prove fuc- cefsful than any others and being attended with no hazard to the eye, it ought to be preferred. But it is neceflary to remark, that although this operation very com- monly proves effedual, yet inftances fome- times occur, in which no advantage is de- rived from it, and in which fcarificatibns made in the excrefcence, or any other operation performed upon it, inftead of provingloo Bifeajes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. proving ufeful, are regularly attended with an increafe of the dlfeafe. This be- ing found to be the cafe, the operation I have defcribed fliould not be perfifted in. In fuch circumftances, a palliative courfe ought alone to be kept in view. No re- medy with whieh we are acquainted will in this ftate remove the difeafe, but it may commonly be prevented from acquir- ing any additional increafe^ and the fymp- toms induced by it may be kept moderate, by the eye being frequently bathed with a weak faturnine folution, and by keeping it covered wdth pledgits of Goulard’s ce- rate, or any ‘other application of a fimilar nature. When it is found, however, that the difeafe does not yield to any of the reme- dies I have mentioned, and if the excref- cence flill proceeds to acquire an addi- tional bulk; foas entirely to deftroy vifion and to excite fevere pain, as this will give much caufe to fufpedl that It may degene- rate Into cancer. It ought at once to be removed by extirpating the eye-ball. The remedySed.VIIL Difeafes of the Eyes. lot remedy is no doubt fevere: But in cir- cumftances fuch as we are defcribing, as the ufe of the eye is fuppofed to be irre- coverably loft 3 and as the patient’s life might be endangered by the contiguous found parts being allowed to remain long in conta61 with thofe that are difeafed > no doubt Ihould be entertained of the propriety of removing them. The me- thod of performing this operation will be the fubjedl of one of the following fedions. SEC-t02 ' Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. SECTION IX. Of Abfcejfes in the Globe of the Eye. Inflammation of the eyes is by expe- rience known to terminate mofl: fre- quently by refolution; that is, the pain and tenfion abate, and trie rednefs andful- nefs of the veffels are difcufled, \vithout any marks being left of thfeir having ever exifted. Inflances, however, occur of in- flammatioix of the eye ending in the for- mation of matter; in fome cafes, from thofe means being neglected at firfl; that tends moll certainly to remove inflam- mation ; and in others, from the patient being of a fcrophulous habit or otherwifc difeafed. When the internal furface of the coats pf the eye has been long inflamed, it is apt to yield a purulent like matter, which being poured into one or other of the chambers of the eye, is foon diffufed over allSeft. IX. Difeafes of the Eyes. 103 all the aqueous humour; by which the ball of the eye not only becomes enlar- ged, but vifion is either in a great mea- fure or perhaps entirely deftroyed; the appearance of the eye is much changed^ and neither the iris, pupil or cryftalline, can be diitinguiflied. In fome inftances again, the iris is puflied forward, and is obferved* to ^lie in clofe contact with the internal furface pf the tranfparent cornea : The coats of the eye being weaker here than in other parts, a protrufion commonly takes place, which, if not foon opened, at lafl: burfts of itfelf, and difcharges either fome part or perhaps the whole contents of the eye; and at this opening, the iris, in a thick- ened difeafed ftate, is very generally pufli- ed out. It is this difeafe which, from its fuppofed refemblance to a grape, is deno- minated Staphyloma; different varieties of which are defcribed by authors under dif- ferent names: But as thefe are all of a limi- la r nature, and require the fame method pf treatment, any difference of form from whence104 Difeafes of the Ej/es, ' Chap. XI. whence thefe denominations have been ta- ken, is not of fuch importance as to de- ferve notice ^ and as the diftindlions they hold forth anfwer no good purpofe, I do not mean to enumerate them. Undorthe general term of Staphyloma, a word I fhall retain merely from its lea- ving been long employed, may be com- prehended all collections, fuch as I have defcribed, that tak^ place within the ca- vity of the eye. In mofl: inftances^ as I have already obferved, the tranfparent cornea is protruded from its being the weakeft part of the eye ^ but in others, partial fwellings or protruiions occur in the fclerotica, or opake cornea. During the formation of this difeafe, the patient fufFers not only lofs of fight, but fevere pains in the eye, that Ihoot backwards through the head, attended with want of reft, heat, and other fyrnp- toms of fever; and thefe very commonly remain either till the eye burfts of itfelf, or till its contents are difcharged by an opening made for the purpofe. InSeift. IX. Difenfes of the Eyes. In moft inftances, the pain is fevere, but I have met with caihs in ^hich no other inconvenience was experienced but deformity and lofs of fight: But inthefe, any matter formed in the fwelling is iii fmall quantity, and the principal part of the tumor feems to be produced by fe» rum y and in fome inftances perhaps by an increafed fecretion of the aqueous hu- mour of the eye : But whether the fwel- ling contains a greater or fmaller propor- tion of pus, the external appearances are the fame, and the method of treatment is likewife fimilar. Befides the collections I have defcribed, in which the matter is lodged within the coats of the eye, this organ, we find, is liable to abfcefles of a different nature, in wh,ich the matter Is feated In the fiibftance of one or other of Its tunics. In the fmall- pox it fometimes happens that a puftule is feated on the eye-ball, when the vario- lous matter being formed between two of its doats, gives all the appearances of a fmall abfcefs ^ but coIk£Uons of pus VoL. IY4 G alfoio6 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL alfo occur here from external injuries, and from inflammation by whatever caufe it may be induced, although by no means fo frequently, as I have already remark- ed, as in other parts of the body. This difeafe has in general been termed Hypopyon. It ought not, however, to be diflinguifhed by any particular appel- lation: For it is precifely an abfcefs in the coats of the eye, and exhibits exaftly the fame appearances here, and requires to be treated in the fame manner, as cpl- leftions of matter in any other part of the body. The matter in this difeafe is met with in various parts of the eye; in fome in- fiances in the fclcrotica ; but moft fre- quently' in the tranfparent cornea, when it very commonly deftroys vifion en- tirely. The hypopyon is diflinguifhed from the flaphyloma by the matter being [col- le£led in a particular bag or cyfl; at leafl it is always confined to one part of the eye, which is obferved to be eleva- ted 3Se(S. IX* Difeafes of the Eyes. 107 ted into the form of an ordinary abfcefs, whilfl; the reft of the eye retains'its ufual form: But in the other, altho’ the matter always at laft forces, out fome protube- rance; moft frequently, as I have alrea- dy obferved, in the tranfparent cornea;" yet an enlargement may be commonly obferved over the whole fubftance of the eye-ball: In both, the motion of the eye- lids is much impeded : But in the ftaphy- loma, this is always more conftderable and more diftrefsful than in the other, and a fenfe of tightnefs is felt over the whole globe of the eye ; whereas in the hypo- pyon, this uneafinefs occurs at a particu- lar point only. In the latter, too, the pain is feldom fo feyere as when the mat- ter is colle6led within the ball of the eye* Any uneafinefs produced by it, affeds the furface of the eye only, and does not fpread back towards the head as it com-^ monly does in the ftaphyloma. In the treatment of the ftaphyloma, as it rarely happens that the ufe of the eye can be preferved, our great objed fliould G 2 beio8 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL be to abate the violence of the pam, and remove that deformity which an en- largement of the eye Is always fure to produce. With a view to abate the pain, blood-letting, blifters, cooling applications to the eye, and opiates, are to be chiefly depended on in the commencement of the difeafe. Imthis ftage of the difeafe, in- deed, the pain is to be confidered entirely as the effect of inflammation, and to be accordingly treated in the manner I have pointed out in Se6t. II. of this Chapter. But when thefe and the other means employed for abating inflammation, do not fucceed ; if fuppuratlon takes place; and if the pain flill continues fevere, as this very commonly occurs from the coats of the eye being difcended ; nothing will fo certainly give relief, as dlfcharging the matter by making an inciflon into the ball of the eye. This will commonly in- deed evacuate all the Immours of the eye, particularly the aqueous humour; but in circumflances fuch as we are defcribing, this is not to be regarded, as vifion is to- s tallySeft. IX. Difeafes of the Ey£s, 109 tally deftroyed by the difeafe. We are therefore to ufe the moft effedtual means for rembving pain, and for obviating the deformity induced by the tumefadllon of the eye, without any regard to the hu- mours contained In it. For this purpofe, an opening ihould be made In the eye fuf- ficlently large fordlfcharging all the thin- ner part of its contents, and the proper placeforthisincifionis the moft depending part of the tumor. The patlent^s head being fecured by an aftiftant, and the ope- rator ftanding before him, the eye-lids may be fufhciently feparated with the fin- gers of one hand, while the point of the knife, fig. 4. Plate XII. being Introdu- ced with the other into the part to be opened, it may be eafily carried forward in k horizontal diredlion, till an opening is made of a fize fufficlent for the purpofe. Authors who have written upon this fubjedl, inftead of a fimple incifion into the fwelling, diredl all the prominent part of the eye to be cut off either with a fcal- pel or fciflars : Whilft others, from an ap-JIO Bifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL prehenfion of hemorrhagies being produ- ced by fuch an extenfive wound as‘ this would occafion, have advifed the tumor to be removed with a ligature ^ by which they imagine that the eye may be fufFi- ciently diminiflied, at the fame time that the deformity produced by the fwelling will be effedlually removed. There is no necellity, however for our adopting ei- ther of thefe methods; which are both of them more painful, and neither of them in any refpedl more ufeful than the mpde I have advifed, of difcharging the con- tents of the tumor by a fimple incilion. The difeafe, as I have already obferved, is in reality an abfcefs, or a colledlion of matter within the coats of the eyes; and it ought to be treated exadlly in a fimilar manner with abfcelles in other parts of the body; not by removing any part of the tumor, but merely by laying it open in the manner I have mentioned. There is indeed a variety of the ftaphyloma fohie- times met with, in which, either from a long continuance of the difeafe, or from fomeSed. IX. Difeafes of the Eyes, 111 fome caufe with which we are not ac- quainted, the difFereiit humours of the eye are totally abforbed, or as it were annihi- lated, and in which all the external ap- pearances, of the difeafe that has jufl been defcribed, are diftindlly obferved ^ but in which the tumor is formed by a thicken- ing of the dilFerent coats of the eye, and particularly of the iris. In fuch occur- rences, this operation could not prove ferviceablej and the only means to be trufted, is the removal with a fcalpel of all the prominent part of the eye. It rarely happens, however, except in the very advanced ftages of ftaphyloma, that this variety is met with. After the contents of the eye have been difcharged, the parts fliould be flightly covered with a foft comprefs, moiftened with a weak faturnine folution; the patient fliould be kept upon a low diet 3 and eve- ry part of anantiphlogiftic regimen fliould be purfued, either till the wound in the eye is completely cured, or till there ap- G 4' pears112 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap* XI. pears to be no rifle of an acceffion of in- flammation. With refpe6t to the treatment of the hypopyon, namely, that fpecies of the difeafe in which matter is collected either in the fubflance of one of the coats, or be- tween two of the coats of the eye, it fhould be nearly the fame with what I have ad- yifed for the ftaphyloma. In general, the pain is moderate, or is eafily kept fo with fmall dofes of opiates; and as foon as the matter is freely and clearly formed, it fhould be difeharged by an incifion made in the manner I have mentioned, in the moft depending part of the abfeefs. The general pradice on this point ought not however to be followed. We com- monly obferve that praditioners decline to operate, till they are in fome meafure forced to it, either by the deformity be- ing confiderable, or by the abfeefs beco- ming fo large as to impede the motion of the eye-lids.—But delays fhould be always avoided when it is obvious that fuppura- pon has taken place; for as the matterSed. IX. Difeafes of the Eyes. 113 of the abfcefs may juft as readily burft in- wardly, and mix with the humours of the eye, as outwardly by an external openings and as this very conftantly terminates in a total lofs of vilion, it ought in every in- ftance to be guarded againft, by dif- charging the matter as foon as it is cer- tain that fuppuration has taken place.— The after-treatment of the parts fliould be the fame here as in cafes of ftapby- loma. In both thefe difeafes, fungous excref- cences are apt to form where the opening has been made; but they may commonly be prevented from riling high, by the ap- plication of calcined alum in fine pow- der, or touching them from time to time with lunar cauftic, a practice from which I have never known any hazard enfue. SEC-114 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. SECTION X. Of dropfical Swellings of the Eye-balL IN dropfical fwellings of the eye, the, patient complains of a fenfe of fuliicfs in the eye-ball, long before any increafe is perceived in it by others : At laft the motion of the eye-lids begins to be im- peded ], and although the power of vilion Hill remains in fome degree, yet it gra- dually becomes more imperfed, till at laft the patient can fcarcely. diftinguifh light from darknefs. In this period of the dif- eafe, too, fome part of the eye, moft fre- quently the tranfparent cornea, generally begins to protrude, fo as to form a fmall tumor, and if the contents of the eye are not now difcharged by an operation, the fwelling in this ftate commonly proceeds to increafe quickly, and foon burfts of itfelf. WhenSecS. X. Difeafes of the Eyes. 115 When the difeafe has been of long du- ration, it is apt to be miftaken for ftaphy- loma, to which indeed it bears a great re- femblance. But in the real dropfical fwel- ling, the patient is always fenfible to the effeds of light ^ and if the pupil can be diftinguifhed, a clear light will commonly make it contradl. Now, in the other, ex- cepting in its very firfl ftages, the patient is never fenfible to light, nor can any kind of contradlion be difcovered in the pupil. When thefe difeafes, however, are far advanced, our being able to diftinguilh them could be of little importance, as in this fituation the ufe of the eye is in ge- neral fo much deflroyed as not to be re- coverable : But in the commencement of this affedlion, we may very commonly di- ftinguilh it from the other ^ and when we are able to do fo, it ought not to be ne- gledted. Staphyloma is evidently an inflammatory affedtion: It begins with all the fymptoms of inflammation, and terminates in the for- mation of pus. By this circumftance alone It is very diftindtly marked; fo that, in thell6 Dijeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. the early period of the difeafe, it is eafily diflinguifhed from a mere dropfy of the eye 3 in which no fymptoms of inflamma- tion take place,- and in which the only marks of difeafe at firfl: are, a fenfation of fulnefs in the eye, which by degrees ter- minates in an enlargement of the eye-ball, and in a confufed ftate of vifion. When, by a long continuance of the difeafe, vifion is deftroyed, all that we have in our power to do, is to remove de- formity produced by the enlargement of the eye-ball ^ which may be eflTeclually done by an incifion made in the mofl: pro- minent part of the tumor, in the manner pointed out in the preceding fedion. But in the earlier ftages of this alFecflion, an objeft of greater importance prefents it- felf, I mean the poflibility of faving the, ufe of the eye^ which, from the refult of fome cafes that I have met with, there is reafon, I. think, to imagine might in many inftances be done. When water or any other fluid colleds in the eye in fuch ‘qua,ntities as to diflend itSed. X.- Difeafes of the Eyes. 117 it much beyond its natural fize, vifion Is thus frequently deftroyed merely by di- ftenfion, when no other morbid affedion is perceived* In fuch circumftances, when the nature of the difeafe Is obvious, and as foon as the eye begins to lofe its ufual powers, inftead of allowing the fwelling to increafe, as is commonly done, till it arrives at a great bulk, and till the power of vlfion Is loft; would it not be better to difcharge the fluid by which the fwelling is produced ? No danger could refult from it, for the operation may be done with fafety; and It would at leaft prevent the eye from fuffering by over-diftenfion, and might thus give fome chance of a cure being obtained, either as an effort of na- ture, or by the application of proper re- medies. The eafieft and beft method of per- forming this operation, is by making a fmall opening In the under and moft de- pending part of the tranfparent cornea. By pafling the point of the knife, fig. 4* Plate XII, into this part of the cornea, and118 Bifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. and making an incifion of three-tenths of an inch or thereby in length, all the aque- ous humour may be eafily difcharged, and as the wound feldom heals immedi- ately, the water or ferum would thus be allowed to drain off almoft as quickly as it is fecreted. But in the event of the difeafe returning after the wound in the cornea is healed, as a repetition of the o- peration in this part might induce a cica- trix of fuch a fize as vrould injure vifion, I fliould think it better to make an open- ing into the pofterior chamber of the eye, diredtly behind the iris, either with the point of the knife above mentioned, or with a very fmajl trocar. This inftru- ment, if not thicker than a crow’s quill, and made of a flat or lancet-point form, will penetrate the coats of the eye with almoft as much eafe as a round couching needle^ and an opening made with it will evacuate the aqueous humour of the eye with more certainty than an opening of an equal fize made in any other manner. TheSed. X. Difeafes of the Eyes. 119 The patient’s head being properly fup- ported by an affiftant, the eye-lids may be fufficiently feparated by the operator himfelf, with the fingers of one hand, whilft, with the other, the trocar is pulhed into the moll depending part of the eye : The point of the inftrument fliould enter at the tenth part of an inch behind the iris, and Ihould be carried to fuch a depth, that the end of the canula may be completely covered by the coats of the eye, when the ftilette Ihould be with- drawn ; and as much of the aqueous hu- mour being allowed to run off, as is judged proper, the canula may be taken out, when the opening will require no farther attention. With a view, however^ to llrengthen the eye', and, if pollible, to prevent a return of the difeafe, the parts may be frequently bathed with an allrin- gent walh^ fuch as cold water with a cer- tain proportion of brandy, a folution of alum, or a decoction of oak-bark. In this manner a complete removal of the difeafe may in fome inllances be obtained^ and as120 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. Xf ^ as it gives at leafl fome chance of pre- ferving the eye, I do not hefitate to re- commend it in preference to the ufual pradlice of allowing the tumor to become fo large before being opened, as to pro- duce in almoft every inftance an entire lofs of fight. When the diforder has arrived at fuch a height as to deftroy vifion entirely, it has been propofed to difcharge the contents of the eye, by pafling a fmall feton or cord through it : But in an organ of fuch de- licate mechanifm, whofe parts are all ex- tremely irritable, there is reafon to ima- gine that more pain and inflammation wbuld in general enfue from this, than from a free in^cifion made with a knife, or with a lancet; and as the full intention of the operation may be anfwered by this means, it fliould therefore, I think, be preferred. S E C-12 I Sed. XI. D 'fi’af s of the Eyes. S E C T I O N XL 1 , _ Of Blood effufed in the Cavity of the Eye-halL Free paflage of the rays of light to the bottom of the eye, fo neceflary for a perfed ftate of vifion, requires a clear and tranfparent ftate of the dilfe- rent humours of the eye. We find ac- cordingly, that vifion is always greatly impaired, in many inftances even de- ftroyed, by any of the humours becoming opake, and nothing tends more certainly to induce opacity of the aqueous humour than blood being efflifed in it. Blood may be effufed in the aqueous humour of the eye, by various caufes. In fome inftances it has been the effed of putrid difeafes, proceeding either from a difiblved ftate of the blood ^ or more pro- bably from a lax ftate of the folids, by which the red globules of the blood are VoL. IV. H admitted122 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. admitted into vefTels and parts which do not naturally receive them, and by which all the fecretions are inthefe difeafes fre- quently tinged with blood. Blood is fome- times poured into the eye, too, as the ef- fedl of an inflamed ftate of this organ; but we meet with it more frequently, as the confequence of a ruptured blood-vef- fel, from external violence, than from any other caufe. It frequently enfues from blows on the eye, and from wounds that penetrate the pofterior chamber. In fome inftances, too, wounds that penetrate the anterior chamber only are fucceeded by effufions of blood ; but this is not fre- quent, as the vefTels of this part of the eye are in general fo extremely fmall as to be incapable of admitting red blood. In whatever manner blood may be ef- fufed in the eye, if it mixes with the a- queous humour, fo as to render it opake, and is not foon abforbed, as fometimes happens, it ought to be difcharged by an operation. In a few cafes, we obferve, that a frnail quantity of blood is eflTufed ill123 Se£l. XI. Difeafes of the Eyes^ In the eye, without exciting any inconve- nience, by its finking immediately below the axis of vifion, and remaining in this fituation without mixing with the aque- ous humour. In this cafe, no attempt fliould be made for removing it: For as long as it continues at the bottom of the eye, no harm is done by It; and we have it always In our power to remove it, if, at any period in future, it is Found to dif- folve in fuch a manner in the aqueous hu- mour as to render it opake. The method of performing this operation fliould be the fame with what is pointed out in the iafl: fedion, for the removal of dropfy of the eye. The opening fliould be about three tenths of an inch In length, and it ought to be as near to the mofl: depending part of the tranfparent cornea as the jundion of the iris to the coats of the eye will permit : In order to promote the dif- charge of the blood, the patient fliould be defired to turn his face downwards, and the fides of the divided cornea may H 2 be124 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI, be fomewhat feparated by the end of a blunt probe. As the aqueous humour wilb be dlfcharged along with the blood, the eye will appear to be much diminifli- ed by the anterior part of it collapfing. This, however, is a matter of little im- portance ; for the wound in the cornea commonly heals foon, and the aqueous humour is in general quickly renewed. The only application required after the operation, is a comprefs of foft lint moi- ftened in a weak folution of faccharurn faturni. S ESecS. XII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 125 SECTION XII. Of Ulcers on the Globe of the Eye. T N Chapter IV. I entered Into a fuH A confideration, of the theory and ma- nagement of ulcers : I lhall now there- fore in general refer to what I there endeavoured to eftablifli : But ulcers on the eye merit particular attention^ for we have here not only the cure of the ulcerii to keep in view, but means muft be employed to prevent or remove thofe marks or fpots which they almoft univerfally produce, and which very com- monly terminate either in a total or par- tial lofs of fight. In other parts of the body, the cicatrix Induced by an ulcer is feldom productive of much inconveni- ence 3 but in the eye, the cicatrix of even the fmalleft fore does much harm. It Is evident, however, that this eifeCl of H 3 ulcersBifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. 126 ulcers muft depend much on the part of the eye on which they are feated. Thus, we obferve, that even large ulcers form on thetunica conjund:iva without vifion being injured; whilft in the trarifparent part of the eye they very commonly deflroy it. entirely. Our prognofis therefore, in thefe affedlions, muft in general depend in a great meafure on their fituation; for fores, which in one part of the eye might not be of much importance, will in others render the organ ufelefs*^ The danger attending ulcers on the eye, depends in fome meafure, too, upon their form, which we find to be equally various here as in other parts of the bo- dy; but the flrudture of the eye renders the form of any fore that occurs in it of more importance than it can poflibly be in any other fituation. In fome inftan^ ces, ulcers upon the eye ate very fuper- ficial, being no deeper than the tunica adnata; whilft in others they are fmall, narrow, and penetrate to a confiderable depth. Thofe which f^read upon the furface127 Sed. XII. Di/eafes of the Eyes, furface of the eye may deftroy vlfion by the cicatrix which they produce 3 but the deep-feated ulcers are not only attended with this effed, but very commonly ter.- minate in an evacuation of the aqueous humour, either from their penetrating immediately through all the coats of the eye, or from their leaving fuch a weak- nefs in fome particular part, as admits of the aqueous and other humours, forcing a paflage for themfelves. In other cafes again, inftead of a lofs of fubftance being produced by ulcers, the parts become foft and fungous, and excrefcences or granulations ftioot out, as we frequently find to be-the cafein fores of other parts of the body. Ulcers of the eye may arife from va- ^ rious caufes 3 fuch as wounds, contufions, and burns. And they may be induced by a general difeafe of the conftitution^ fuch as lues venerea, and fcrophula. But in moft inftances they may be t^-aced as the effed of inflammation terminating in fuppuration ^ for abfceffes in the eye are H 4 oftenDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. 128 often met with; and every abfcefs termi- nates in an ulcer, excepting Iti a very few . inftances; in which they either continue during life, or in which the matter; in- ftead of being dlfcharged by an opening, is abforbed Into the fyftem. Ulcers of the eye are not only often induced by inflammation; but, it com- monly happens, that inflammation is the mofl troublefome ' fymptom with which they are attended: Indeed the pain ari- fing from an inflamed ftate of an ulcer on the eye, proves in fome inflances fo very dlflrefsful, as to induce reftleffnefs, heat, quicknefs of pulfe, and every other fymp- tom of fever : So that in the treatment of thefe ulcers,, this fymptom of fnflamma- tion requires our mofl ferious attention. When they are found therefore to be in an inflamed flate, blood-letting, both general and local, fhould be employed; together with blifters, laxatives, and cooling applications to the eye, in the manner pointed out in Sedlon II. of this Chapter, for the cure of Ophthalmia : \ ^ ForSe£t. XII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 129 For till the violence of this fymptom a- bates, no remedy we can employ for the cure of the ulcers will prove effedtual. In other cafes of ophthalmia, along with general evacuations, I have urged, in a particular manner, the propriety of local blood-letting, by fcarifying the turgid veflels of the eye. In ulcers of the eye, too, where enlarged veflels are frequent- ly obferved to pafs from xhe fores over a <:onfiderable part of the eye, it often proves ufeful to cut thefe veflels completely a- crofs 3 not only for the removal of in- flammation, but for the cure of the ul- cers. From obferving the effeds indeed that, refult from this pra6tice, I think it probable, that the difcharge afforded by -ulcers of the eye is commonly flipplied by thefe turgid veflels that run into them 3 for it often happens, that the fores are cured by this remedy alone, when every other means have failed. The operation, however,, requires to be very neatly and fteadily performed ^ for when deep and extenfive fcarifications are made in the ^ “ neighbourhood13^ Difeafes^ of the Eyes. Chap. XL neighbourhood of an ulcer, they are apt to degenerate into tedious fores of a fi- milar nature. This, however, is not the fault of the remedy, but of the method of putting it in pradice: for it is an ef- fed I have never obferved to refult from it, when the turgid veflels only have been divided; which may be ealily done in the manner I have mentioned in Sec- tion II. of this Chapter. Some have objeded to this pradice, that by dividing the lymphatics which proceed from the fores along with the turgid blood-veflels, the healing of the fores will be rendered more tedious than it otherwife would be \ for thefe, by ab- forbing the matter fecreted or difcharged into ulcers, they conclude mufl: have a confiderable influence on the cure: And therefore, it is faid, that we fhould not run the rilk of dividing them, by fcari- fying the large veflTels of the eye, which they very commonly accompany. The idea is ingenious; but fo far as I have obferved, it is not fupported by experi- ence*Sedl. XIL Difeafes of the Eyes. 151 ence. Scarifications, when improperly performed, may in fome inllances, as I have obferved above, do mifchief; but in many cafes of ulcers of the eye, I have known them prove very ufeful. Befides, we might, from reafoning alone, con- clude, that fcarification, when properly performed, ought not to do harm > and that the doubts which have been enter- tained with refpedl to it, cannot be well' founded: For although fome proportion of the matter afforded by ulcers is no doubt carried off by abforption, yet dai- ly experience fhows, that we are never to depend upon this for effedling a cure ^ and, on the contrary, that fores are more frequently cured by applications that feem to adl by deftroying the power of the abforbents, as well as of the other veflels with which ulcers are fupplied;^ than by any other means; namely, by drying aftringent remedies, and by ex- ternal preflilre applied with fuch firm- nefs as muft frequently annihilate the. fmaller veflels of fores, by keeping them " for1^2 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. for a confiderable time clofely comprefled together. ' ^ . After the inflammatory ftate of an ul- cer on the eye has been removed in the manner I have mentioned, our views ought to be exadly the fame as in the treatment of fores in other parts of the body y and the means employed for ef- fedling them, muft, for the moft part, be likewife fimilar. When the difeafe is conneded with any general affedion of the fyflem, proper remedies mufl: be ad- vifed for corroding this before any per- manent cure can be expeded. In fome inftances fores on the eye are combined with lues venerea; in which cafe a well- direded mercurial courfe is to be chiefly depended on: But they are much more frequently combined with fcrophula^ a difeafe which more frequently afleds the eyes than any other part of the body > and hitherto we have not been fo fortu- nate as to difcover any certain remedy for its removal. Cold bathing, however, with the ufe of muriated barytes, fteel mineral133 Se6t. XII. Difeafes of the Eyes. mineral waters, bark and other tonics, and living in a dry atmofphere, frequent- ly prove ufeful^ and for the fymptom that we are now confidering, namely, ul- cers on the eyes, ifliies, when duly per- fifted in, are to be more depended on than any remedy with which we are ac- quainted. In the local treatment of fores upon the eye, the remedies to be employed muft depend entirely on the appearances which take place. Before any attempt is made to induce the formation of a cica- trix, any fungous excrefcences which oc- cur muft be deftrbyed ; and if the matter ^ difcharged is thin, and the bottom of the ulcer foul, thefe circumftances muft be corredled. Witl^ this view, detergent ointments and wafties, as they are call- ed, ftiould be applied; and for the remo- val of excrefcences, the fcalpel and eft charotics are alone to be depended on. A general prejudice prevails againft the ufe of ftimulating applications to the eye^ and in many of the difeafes to which this organ3f 34 Bifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. organ is liable, they certainly cannot be employed with propriety ^ but in others, efpecially in ulcers, they may not only be applied with fafety, but with much advantage : in many inftances a cure can- not be otherwife a'ccompliflied ^ and a great deal of mifchief is daily done by the contrary pra6lice of a long-continued ufe of emollients. In cafes of ophthal- mia, accompanied with much pain and tenfion, a proper ufe of emollients, par- ticularly of warm fomentations and ca- taplafms, prove in feme inftances ex- tremely ufeful 3 but in ulcers of the eye, after the inflammation is removed, in- ftead of being produdive of any advam tage‘, I have conftantly obferved them do harm. They not only feem to promote that tendency to relaxation and fpongi- nefs which ufually occurs in thefe fores, but in different inftances they have ap- peared to be the foie caufe of thofe ex- crefcences very frequently met with in ulcers of the eye, and which always'prove extremely troublefome. When I firft en- gagedSect. XII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 135 gaged in pradice, I entered into a free ufe of remedies of this clafs, in ulcers as well as in other affedions of the eyes; but I now think it fair to acknowledge, from repeated iiiftances of their proving hurtful, that I am convinced that they fhould be employed with much caution. In ulcers that are hollow, with foul edges, and that difcharge thin and per- haps fetid matter, a liniment of wax and oil, with a fmall proportion of red pre- cipitate, commonly anfwefs the purpofe of cleanling them 3 or the fame intention may be obtained from a remedy of the fame nature, prepared with white vitriol, or with a fmall proportion of verdigris; care being taken to have the liniment of fuch a thin confidence, that with a fmall brufli or pencil a little of it may be eafi- ly applied at any time over' the whole furface of the fores. By adding a fmall proportion, too, of camphor to applica- tions of this nature, their efieds in clean- fing ulcers of the eye are frequently im- proved y and the fame remedy proves fometimesDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. 136 fometimes ufeful in a diilblved ftate, when employed as a wafh to the fores. The moft effedual wafh, however, for this purpofe, is either a weak folution of ver- digris or white vitriol in watery and I have in fome inflances employed, with advantage, a weak folution of corrolive fubllmate. One grain of corrofive mer- cury in four ounces of wafter, makes a folution of a fufficient flrength for this purpofe. Practitioners not accuftomed to the ap- plication of irritating fubftances to the eye, may be furprifed to find red preci- pitate, verdigris, and even corrofive fub- limate, recommended; but daily expe- rience fhows, that in many difeafes of this organ they may be employed both with freedom and utility. When by a due continuation of thefe means, or of remedies of a fimilar nature, an ulcer on the - eye is properly cleanfed, and a good fuppuratlon induced, granu- lations will foon be obferved to form ^ any deficiency of parts which may have been137 XlL Difeafes of the Eyes. been induced by the fore will be filled up 3 and, if no interruption occurs to the cure, a cicatrix will foon be obtained. It often happens, however, ifi this ftate of the ulcer, that a cure is difficult to accomplifh. The furface of the fore re-^ mains foft, and becomes fomewhat ele- vated above the reft of the eye, by which a cicatrix is prevented from forming upon it: In this fituation, drying aftringent ap- plications prove moft effedual. The parts alFecfted fhould be covered once or twice daily with lapis calaminaris finely levi- gated; with prepared chalk, or crab’s eyes; and they may be bathed morning and evening with a ftrong folution of alum| with brandy properly diluted ^ or with a ftrong infufion of galls or oak-bark: by thefe means, when the conftitution is otherwife healthy, a cure wjll in general be obtained. When, again, a fore upon the eye, in- ftead of being hollow and attended with a deftrudllon of fome of the parts in which it is feated. Is found to be covered with a fungous produdion, this excrefcence muft VoL, IV, I be138 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL be removed before any permanent cure can be expected; and the fame means mufl be employed for this pnrpofe here, that prove mofl; effedual for the removal of excrefcences in other parts of the body* In fome inftances, thefe produdions arrive at a confiderable fize, and, after feparating the eye-lids, fall down upon the upper part of the cheek. Of this, different cafes are recorded by authors"; fome of which were on diffedion found to be conneded with the more interior parts of the eye, and in which extirpation of the eye might have faved the patient r But it fometimes happens, that tumors of this kind adhere to the furface of the opake cornea only, when they may commonly be removed without any material injury being done to the eye. In general, we are direded to remove thefe excrefcences with ligatures; but as this commonly proves painful, tedious, and uncertain, the fcal- pel or lunar cauftic ought for the moft part to be prefcrrecL fOFSedl. XIl. Difeafes^ of the Eyes, 139 For the femoval of a large excrefcence, excifion by the fcalpel fliould alone be trufted; and whfen done with caution, no danger enfues from it. The patient be- ing firmly feated oppofite to a clear light, and the fiirgeon fitting before him, his head fhould be fupported by an afliflant behind, who at the fame time fliould fe- para:te the ,eye-lids, by elevating the one and drawing down the other; which may be eafily done by the fingers of each hand properly placed upon them. This being accomplilhed, a needle armed with a firm waxed ligature fliould be palTed through the centre of the excrefcence, for the purpofe of fixing it and raifing it as much as pofllble from the fiirface of the eye: With one hand the operator fliould lay hold of this ligature, while with a fcal- pel in the other he flowly and fteadily re- moves the excrefcence. The only drefling that fliould be applied, is a piece of foft lint foaked in a weak folution of faccha- rum faturni, laid over the eye-lid j and if the fore produced by the operation I 2 does140 Drfeafes of the Eyes. Chap. does not heal eafily, fome of thefe aftrin- gent applications mufl: be employed that' I have juft had occafion to mention.. But in the treatment of excrefcences of the eye which are neither pendulous nor much elevated, there is no neceflity for the: ufe of the fcalpel ,as they may almoft al- ways be removed by a proper application of cauftic. By touching the furface of the^ part intended to be deftroyed with a piece of lunar cauftic, either daily or once in the two days, any protuberance which occurs will foon be removed 3 and the fore being in this manner reduced to the level of the reft of the eye, a cure may be obtained by the means I have already mentioned. It is neceflary, - however, to remark^ that in the application of cauftic to the eye, much fteadinefs and nicety is re« quired ; but with due attention it may be; done with perfect fafety, and often with much advantage! In order to prevent the reft of the eye from fuifering by co^ ming in contact with the cauftic, the eye I ftioulcfc'Sedl. XII. Bifedfesof the Eyes. 141 fhould be previoully fixed with a fpeculum^ and after the excrefcence is rubbed over with cauftic, before removing the fpecu- lum it fhould be entirely wafhed off with a fmall brufh or pencil foaked in warm water 3 or in warm milk, which proves commonly more eifeclual than any other diquid for deflroylng the /a£livity of cau- flic. In this manner, all the advantages may be obtained from the ufe of lunar cauftic that we daily derive from it in the removal of excrefcences in other parts of the body ^ and when applied with caution, it may be done without rifk. I have already remarked, that when the conflitution is found, ulcers of the eye will commonly heal by the means that I have mentioned; but it happens in fome iii- ftances, that they flill continue obftinate, and even daily become more virulent,-not- withflanding the ufe of thefe and all the other remedies that are employed: In which event, whenever the difeafe has ad» danced fo far as to deftroy vifion, and I 3 when142 Bifeajes of the Eyes. Ghap, X^. when it is ftill proceeding to increafe, as nothing but extirpation of the morbid parts will afford any chance of prevent- ing it from fpreading to the contiguous found parts, this ought certainly to be advifed. The method of extirpating a difeafed eye will be the fubjqd of a diT foment fed^ion,Sed. XIII. Difeafes of the Eyes* 143 SECTION XIII. Df Specks or Films upon the Eye. IsiON is frequently obftruAed by o- pake fpots or films forming upon the eye ; a difeafe commonly termed Leucoma, Albugo, or Nubecula. Spots of this kind are met with upon the fclerotica or white part of the eye; but, as the inconvenience that enfues from them in this fituation is feldom of much importance, they do not often become the objeft of Surgery. In the tranfparent part of the eye, however, they always re- quire our moft ferious attention; for in this fituation, even the leaft degree of o- pacity is apt to terminate in an entire lols of vifion: And although we cannot in e- very inftance remove them entirely, yet we can often do fo, and, by proper treat- ment, we have it frequently in our power to144 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI, to preferve eyes which otherwife would in all probability be loft. I have already given a defcription of various affecftions that may tend to ob« ftrud vifion, by inducing an opake ftate of the tranfparent cornea and humours of the eye. Thus every high degree of in- flammation; the ftaphyloma, hypopyon, and ulcers on the tranfparent part of the eye; are all attended with this effecft : But as each of thefe forms a diftind: dif- eafe, requiring a method of treatment pe- culiar to itfelf, I have judged it proper to allot a feparate fedion for each of them. What I now mean to confider, are thofe white opake fpots frequently met with on the cornea, and which occur moft commonly as the confequence of inflam- mation. Affedions of this kind are for the moft part, indeed, fo evidently induced by in- flammation, that it may be doubted if they ever occur from any other caufe^ for all thofe fpecks that fucceed to wounds pf the cornea, as likewife thofe which oc- curSe6t. XIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 145 cur from fmall-pox and mealies, are al« ways preceded by an inflamed Hate of the eye: I therefore conclude, that they'de- pend, perhaps entirely, on inflammation^ by whatever caufe this may at firfl: be ex« cited. In attending- to the nature of thefe o- pake fpots upon the eye, it appears fulE- ciently obvious, that they are the effed: in molt inftances of that effufion, which inflammation, when in a high degree, al- ways excites. In fome cafes, when it terminates in complete fuppuration, a fmall abfcefs is produced 3 which either on burftmg, or on being opened in the manner direded in a preceding fedion, very commonly leaves an opake fpot, at- tended with fome degree of prominency or elevation of the parts in which it, is feated: But in others, when the effufion^, inftead of being near to the furface of the cornea, is diffufed. among the different lamellae of which this coat of the eye is compofed ; or when the degree of inflam- mation which takes place is not fufficient for14-6 Bifeafes of the Eyes. Ghap. XI. for carrying it on to fuppuration, the o- pacity induced by it does not, as in the cafe of an abfcefs, form a protuberance^ but appears rather to conftitute a part of the fubftance of the cornea itfelf. In the # one, the different lamellae of the cornea are evidently feparated from each other; and on the matter contained between them being difcharged, the fpeck which remains appears in the form of an adven- titious body, adhering to, but not inti^ mately connefted with that part of the eye on which it is feated : Whereas in the other, that is, when a fmall effufion only has taken place, and when no tendency to fuppuration occurs, although a very confiderable degree of opacity may be produced by it, yet the nicefl: examina- tion will not difcover the cornea to be at this part either elevated or increafed in thicknefs. In this cafe, the difeafe ap- pears to form a part of the eye itfelf, and cannot be feparated from it but with the deftrudion of the organ; whereas in the other, the appearaiKes which it exhibits 3 are147 Se6l. Xm. Difeafes of the Eyes. are {iich as would lead one to confider it entirely as a preternatural formation; and in many inftances it may be removed without much injury being done to the eye. Thefe fpots upon the eye are met with in various forms and in different degrees of magnitude ; but the inconvenience which they induce is always in propor- tion to their extent, to their degrees of opacity, or to their fituation with refped: to the pupil ; for as they prove hurtful merely by preventing the rays of light from palling to the bottom of the eye, it is evident that it is by one or other of thefe circumflances that this muft be deter- mined. When a fpot upon the eye, there- fore, is either fo fmall, fo flightly opake, Qi: fo far removed from the pupil, as not to injure vifion, it ought not to be confi- jdered as an objedl of Surgery; for till the ufe of the eye is impaired by it, as it is never attended with pain unlefs when the parts are inflamed, no other confider- ation ca,p render it proper to meddle with148 l>ifeafes of tie Efes. Chap. XL with it: For every praditioner knows €hat this organ is fo very delicate, as of- ten to fuffer more by the means employed for removing difeafes., than it previoully did by the difeafes themfelves. But whenever vifion is materially impaired, we are then authorifed to endeavour to remove the eaufe by thofe means which experience has fliown to prove mofl: fit for the purpofe. I have endeavoured to fhew that in- flammation is to be confidered as the prin- cipal and perhaps the only caufe of fpecks upon the eye : This fliould therefore be a powerful argument, in every inftance of inflammation of the eye, for lofing no time in the application of proper reme- dies for removing it ^ for whenever the difeafe has gone fo far, as to induce even the fmalleft degree of effufion, we can never be certain of being able to prevent either a partial, or perhaps a total lofs of fight. The means bell adapted for the removal of inflammation having been al- ready pointed out, it is not now necelTa- rySeft. XIIL Difeafes of the Eyes. 145 ry to repeat them; fo that I fhall men- tion thofe remedies only which are to be chiefly depended on in the treatment ©F Ipecks already formed. In the management of fpecks upon the eye, it is a matter of much importance to attend to the particular nature of each of them}, for the two varieties I have mentioned t)f this difeafe, are fo very op- polite to each other, that fueh remedies as prove beneficial in the one, are fcarcely^ if at all, admiflible in the other: And. hence we find, that the fame applications being indifcriminately employed in eve- ry cafe, much injury is done which ought not to happen; and remedies fall into dif- credit, which, when properly applied, prove highly ufefuL Thus we find by experience, that efcha- rotics of a moderate ftrength may with fafety be applied to the eye; and as fpecks upon the cornea are often removed by them, it has long been a common prac- tice to apply them with equal, freedom in every cafe. By attentive obfervation, . however.150 Bifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL however, to this branch of pradice, I am convinced, that it is in one variety of the difeafe only that remedies of this clafs ever prove ufeful; namely, in that which is attended with an evident promi- nency or elevation of the difeafed part. In fuch inllances, when the cornea be- neath is found, the removal of this eleva- ted opake fpot will leave it tranfparent, and fit for the purpofes of vilion; and in fuch cafes, mild efcharotics may with much propriety be employed : But in the other variety of the difeafe, where the effufed matter feems to fpread through the whole fubftance of that part of the cor- nea in which it is feated, without railing or elevating any part of it, no advantage can be expeded either from efcharotics, or any other outward application. In this cafe, the difeafed part of the cornea, as I have formerly mentioned, does not feem to be thicker than the other parts of it; and it is impoffible to deftroy the ejEfufed matter without deftroying the cornea it- felf. In fuch circumftances, the employ- mentSed. XIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 151 merit of efcharotics can never be proper^ and I have no hefitatibn in faying, that in this ftate of the difeafe, they can never be ufed but with a great rilk of doing harm. It fometimes happens, however, even In this variety of the difeafe, that the pa-^ tient recovers either a partial or even a complete ufe of his eye, by the opacity^ in the cornea being gradually carried ofl^ probably by abforption taking place of the effufed matter. As this has in fome inftances been effeded by a natural exer- tion of the fyftem, praditioners Ihould endeavour to affift -this operation of na- ture, by employing fuch remedies as are known to prove moft effedual in promo-, ting abforption: With this view, there is nothing perhaps to be more depended on than a gentle courfe of mercury. In fimi- lar effufions in other parts of the body, mercury often proves ufeful ^ and it is the Only internal medicine which, fo far as I have yet feen, fhould ever be employed in films or fpecks on the eye : IHues have m152 Difeafes of the Eyes» Chap. XL in fome inftances, too, appeared to be ufeful; and as a cord in the neck in gene- ral difcharges freely, it commonly anfwers the purpofe in the moft effedual manner. With the fame view, too, a brilk pur- . gative given from time to time proves fometimes ufeful 3 but it mull be acknow- ledged, that the effed: of our pradice in this difeafe is always uncertain : For al- though, in a few cafes, fome advantage has apparently been derived from the remedies I have mentioned, it has not happened fo frequently as to admit of our placing much dependence on any of them. But although we feldom derive advan- tage in this variety of the difeafe, either from internal medicines or external ap- plications, it often happens in the other^ that a due attention to the different cir- cumftances of the cafe proves highly ufe- fulr As in this cafe we fuppofe the difeafe to be produced by a thin lamella of the cornea being elevated and feparated from the reft of the tunic beneath, by an effufion of fomeSedi. XIII. Difeafes of the Epsi fome kind of matter, and as this fepara- ted portion Is In general opake, one chance of effedilng a cure is to rerriove it entire- ly. Even this will not always leave the eye perfedlly clear and tranlparent; for It fometimes happens, either from the ef- fufed matter having been of a lharp cor- rofive nature, or from its having beeil, long confined, that a roughnefs, attend- ed with fome degree of opacity, is left upon the remaining part of the cofnea. l"hls, however. Is not univerfally the cafe ; and, at any rate, although a complete cure liiay not in every cafe be obtained by the removal of the elevated part of the cor- nea, yet in almoft every Inftance fome advantage will be derived from it, by its admitting a greater quantity of light to pafs to the retina. Spots df this kind may be taken away either with the knife or efcharotics; but in general, the knife fliould be preferred,. The eye being properly fixed with a fpe- cuium, Plate XIV. fig. i. the furgeon fliould feat himfelf in a convenient height; VoL.IV. K betweenDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. ^54 between the patleijt and the clear light of a window 5 when, with repeated fmall ftrokes of the knife, Plate XII. fig. 4. he fliould endeavour to cut away and re- move all that portion of the cornea that he finds to be in any degree feparated the^ reft; for no part of it that is loofe will ever adhere again,^ and the cure will not be complete if any portion of it is al- lowed to remain. The natural delicacy and irritability of the eye would appear to render this ope- ration exceedingly difficult; but it may be done with fafety by furgeons of fteadi- nefs and obfervation. The fpeculum X have mentioned fixes the eye completely ; and on the head being properly fecured by an afliftant, the operation is done with eafe. The knife I have mentioned will in mofl cafes be found to anfwer; but iu a few inftances a knife with two edges I have .thought has anfwered better. A re- prefentation of this knife may be feen in Plate XVI. fig. i. Patients,Sed*. Xnii Dijeajes of the Eyes, 155 Patients, however, 'will not always fub- mit to this operation : In which cafe we are under the neceflity of employing ef- charotics^ and by thefe being continued for a fufficient length of time, we have it often in our power to remove blemifhes 6f much firranefs and of confiderable ex- tent : and although very ftrong applica- tions of this kind, are not admiflible, and have frequently done mifchief by crea- ting pain and inflammation, yet I think it right to remark, that there is no ne- ceflity for fo much caution on this point as is in genei*al inculcated 3 for daily ex- perience evinces, that a good deal of free- dom may be ufed in the application of remedies of this clafs to the eye. It has been alleged, that, befides exciting pain and a temporary flate of inflammation, efcharotics mufl; prove hurtful by corro-*- ding and inducing ulceration on the found part of the eye, juft as, readily as they will deftroy the fpot intended to be re- moved. This reafoning is fpecious, but not fupported by experience^ for every K 2 praditioner156 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. praditloner muft have obferved, and it is particularly well known to itinerants, who commonly ufe ho delicacy in matters of this kind, that fpecks upon the cor- nea are frequently removed by efcharp- tics alone, without any kind of harm be- ing done to tlie reft of the eye; and the fad, I think, may be accounted for. So far as I have been able to obferve, thofe fpecks In which efcharotics are employed with moft advantage, confift of a fub- ^ftance in which there is little or perhaps no animal life; at leaft they are perfedly white, are deftitute of the circulation of red blood, and are fo far infenfible that little or no pain is experienced from their being cut or even bruifed with much free- dom. Now we know, that in other in- ftances, efcharotic or corrofive applica- tions of a moderate ftrehgth will deftroy a part of a dead animal, which during the life of the animal did not in any de- gree ad on it. This is particularly re- markable In a procefs that fometimes oc- curs in the ftomach after deaths acurious fad,^S1 Se<3:. XIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. fa6l, firfl: taken notice of by that very in- genious pradlitioner Mr John Hunter of London. The ftomach has frequently been found on difledlion to have holes corroded in it, even where no pain or o- ther fymptom of difeafe of this organ had previoufly exifted 3 from whence we may fairly conclude, that the liquor ga^ ftricus, or that fluid which nature has provided for the purpofes of digeftion, al- though during the life of the animal it may a6l only as a moderate flimulus ter* the vifcera, yet after death, the ftomach being now deprived of the power of re-r filling the corrofive property of this li- quor, comes at laft to be deftroyed by it. In the fame manner we may fuppofe, that a dead lifelefs fpot may be removed by corrofive applications, the ftrength of which is not fufficient to affed the reft of the eye. We may thus perhaps account for the caufe of this phenomenon; but whether our reafoning lhall appear to be well found- ed or ^ot, the fad, as I have faid, is cer- K 3 tain^158 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap, XL tain, that corrofive applications may be made to the eye fufticiently ftrong for re- moving many of thofe fpots to which it Is liable, without doing any injury to the reft of the organ, For a confiderable time I was afraid to apply efcharotics to the eye; farther ex- perience, however, has convinced me, that they may be ufed with more fafety than is commonly imagined, Remedies of this kind may be ufed In different forms; but they are moil conve-r niently employed in the form of a powder, an ointment, or a wafli. Wh^n powders are ufed, they fhould be very finely levi- gated ; otherwife, by their fpicul^, they are apt to irritate and Inflame the eye : and, for the fame reafon, when conjoin- ed with ointments, they fhould be very finely prepared. Articles of this kind that are foluble in water, are perhaps prefe- rable to any; for in the form of folution they can never prove hurtful if their ftrength is duly regulated, as. in this man- nerSe<3:. XIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 159 ner none of their iharp fpiculae can come in contact with the eye. In the form of a powder, various ar- ticles have been employed; but the moll effedtual perhaps of any is red precipi- tate, or verdigris finely levigated, and mixed with three or four parts of fine fu- gar. Calcined alum, too, and white vi- triol, likewife mixed with a proportion of fugar, or with egg-ftiells in fine pow- der, have frequently proved ufeful. Ointments for the fame purpofe are pre- pared by adding to fine hogs-lard or .any emollient ointment of the' fame confift- ence, fiich a proportion of any of the powders I have mentioned as the patient is able to bear ; and waflies are made by diflolving a due proportion of the fiib- ftance to be ernployed, in water. For this purpofe, verdigris or white vitriol are em- ployed with advantage; and in fome in- ftances I have known good effeds refult from a weak folutioh of corrofive fiibli- mate. The following is a form of oint- ment much employed by Mr Pellier, both K, 4 forl6o Di/ea/es of the Eyes. Chap. XI* for the remoyal of fpecks and inflamma- tion. ]^. Mercur. precip. rub. Lapid. Ca- 1am. pp. slfs. Lythagyr. pp. 31. Tutiae pp. 3^s. Cinnab* Nativ. gi, F. pulv. tenu- ifllm.: mlfce cumaxungiae parcinae Jii. et adde balfam. Peruvian, gutt. xv. Of this, a little is introduced on the end of a blunt probe, between the eye- lids, evening and rnorning, at the fame 4ime that a weak faturnine folution is em- ployed as a wafh. It is impoflible. In cafes of fpots upon the eye, to confine any application to the flifeafed part 3 all we can do is to infert the powder, ointment, or walh, as much as poilibie within the eye-lid; by the mo- tion of which it is very quickly conveyed over the whole furface of the eye. In order, however, to have every poflible adr vantage from remedies of this clafs^ their ufe fliould be long perfifted in, and two or even more of them fhould be employed at the fame time. Thus, a fmall quanti- ty of any of .the powders or ointments | have mentioned, may be inferted within ^ theSfid. XIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. x6i the eye evening and morning, and a weak folution of eorrofive fublimate, of verdi- gris, or wl^ite vitriol, may be employed twice or thrice daily for wafliing the eye. It cannot be alleged, that thefe or any other remedies will in every inftance prove effedual; but I can with confidence fay, that a prudent and long-continued ufe of them has often removed fpots upon the eyes, which otherwife would probably have terminated in an entire lofs of vi- fion.162 Biifeajes cf the Eyes. Chap. XL SECTION XIV. Of Protujions of the Globe of the Eye from the Socket. . Every pradltloner mull hav^ met with inftances of the eye being pufli- ed more or lefs from its natural fituation in the focket, and various caufes are re- corded of it by authors. i.‘ A partial protrufion of the eye-ball takes place in fome of the difeafes treat- ed of in the preceding fedions; particu- larly in the hypopyon, ftaphyloma, and in dropflcal fwellings of the eye. , 2. The eye may be difplaced or pufhed from its focket by external violence. And, 3. It may be raifed or elevated by tu- mors forming beneath it. Even the llightefl: diftortion or dif- placement of the eye affords a very dif- 3 agreeable163 Sta. XIV. Di/ea/es of the Eyes, agreeable appearance; and to thdfe not accuftomed to meet with it, gives much caufe to fufped that vifion will be com- pletely deftroyed by it. All fuch affec- tions have therefore been in general con- fidered as incurable: Little or nothing has accordingly been attempted for removing them^ fo that patients labouring under them have for the moft part been allowed to finifh a miferable exiftence without any means being employed for their relief. But although vifion cannot in every affedlion of this kind be preferved, yet in mofl; in- stances it may be done; and wherever there is any chadce of this being prac- ticable, it ought always to be attempted. As the means of cure to be employed mufl: depend upon the caufe by which the difeafe is indue,ed, it is a point of the firfl: importance for pradtitioners to attend to it. When the ball of th^ eye is morbidly en- larged from any of the caufes I have mentioned^ namely, from water, pus, or any other fluid colleded in any part of it, if a portion of it is by this caufe pulhed164 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. pufhed - out from the focket, all that art can do, is to diminilh the fize of the eye in the manner I have pointed out in fome of the preceding fedions, either by pundure, incifion, or perhaps by re- moving a portion of it. In mofl: cafes of , this kind, vifion will be irrecoverably loft 3 but by the means I have mentioned, the deformity produced by the difeafe may be commonly removed. When, again, the eye-ball is pufhed from its focket by external violence, as the optic nerve will be fuddenly ftretch- ed, we might d priori conclude, that vifion would be deftroyed by it. This will moft frequently be the cafe 3 but it does not always happen ; For inftances hav6 occurred of the eye being pufhed fudden- ^ ly and entirely out of' the ibeket, and on being replaced, of vifion being as perfedl as it was before. Several years ago I met with an inftance of this, in which the eye was almoll entire- ly turned out of thefocketby afharp-polnt- ed piece of iron pufhed in beneath it. The iron pafTed through a portion of the focket, and.Sed. XIV. Difeafes of tie Eyes. 165 and remained very firmly fixed for the fpace of a quarter of an hour^ during which period the patient fulfered exquifite pain 3 he was quite blind in the affedted eye ^ and the eye-ball being pulhed fo far out as to give reafon to fufpedt a rupture of the optic nerve^ it was doubted whe- ther It would anfwer any purpofe to re- place it or not. As no difadvantage, how-^ ever, could occur from a trial being made of it, I refolved to attempt It; and with much pleafure and aftonifliment I found, on removing" the wedge of iron, which be- ing driven to the head was done with dif- ficulty, that the power of vifion inftantly returned even before the eye was replaced. The eye was now put eafily into the focket; and the effedts of inflammation being guarded agalnft, the patient enjoyed very perfedl vifion. A cafe of a fimilar nature to this is re- corded by a very ingenious pradtitioner, Mr White of Manchefter : In which the eye was ftill more completely difplaced than in the one I have mentioned, and in which166 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap; XI. which the power of vifion was fcarcely affedied As in thefe cafes the attempt to fave the eye proved fuccefsful, where the eye-ball remains entire, and is not altogether fepa- rated from the contiguous parts, we ought not to defpair, however fevere the in- jury in other refpedts may have been: Nay we here have evidence^of no ma- terial inconvenience being experienced even from a fudden extenlion of the op- tic nerve. No fuch cafe therefore Ihouid be confidered as incurable, till it has actually proved to be fo by the power of vifion being found to be entirely loft after every endeavour for preventing it has fail- ed. After every kind of extraneous mat- ter is removed, the eye ftiould be cautioufly replaced; and with a view to prevent or render moderate the inflammation, which otherwife there would be reafon to expedl to run high, blood-letting, both general and local, fliould be advifed, together with a * Vide Cafes in Surgery, See. By Charles White, F,R. S.>c.167 Sedl. XIV. Difeafes of the Eyes. / a very ftri6t antlphloglftic regimen. At the fame time, too, light fliould be exclu- ded from the eye, and it fliould be kept covered with any of the cooling faturrilne applications. When the eye-ball is protruded by a tumor fituated beneath or behind it, the cure mufl: depend entirely on a removal of the tumor. When an abfcefs or a col- ledlion of any kind of fluid is attended with this eflTecS:, a cure will fometimes be obtained merely by laying the cyfl: which contains the matter fufficiently open: But when the tumor is of a firmer nature, no- thing will prove effedlual but the remo- val of the tumor itfelf. It is neceffary in this place to remark, that practitioners are in general too timld^ in,operating upon tumors of this kind, owing to their near contiguity to the eye^ infomuch, that, when a tumor is fituated entirely within the orbit, a patient is com- monly directed rather to allow it to remain, than to fubmit to an operation. As long as no material inconvenience is experienced fromr68 t)ifeafes of the Eyes. Ghap. from fuch tumors; when they are not like- ly to degenerate into a worfe nature; and when they appear to remain llationary without receiving any additional increafe^ it would furely be improper to advife a patient to undergo the pain and terror of an operation: But whenever they begin to acquire an additional bulk; when them is any reafon to fufpedl that they may ever become Cancerous; and efpecially when they begin to impede the ^motion of the eye, and to pufli it out of the foe-* ket; no farther delay Ihould be admitted. In fuch circumftances, the removal of the tumor is abfolutely neceflary for the fafety of the patient; and as this mufl: daily be rendered more difficult, it ought to be immediately attempted. Even where thefe tumors have acquired a confiderable bulk, they are more ealily removed than is commonly imagined. By proceeding cautioufly they may often be taken out, even where they pafs deep into the Tocket^ without hurting the eye ; But where the eye has already fuffered, by being169 Sedi. XIV. Difeafes of the Eyes. being puflied frorn its natural fituation, as nothing but the removal of the tumor can prove ufeful, this ought always to be attempted, even although there fhould be fome rifk of the eye being hurt by it: For, befides the injury which fuch tumors do to the eye and other foft parts, when they increafe to any conliderable bulk, by preffing upon the contiguous bones they very commonly bring thefe like- wife into a ftate of difeafe. In fome in- ftances, the bones become carious, and pro- duce tedious ulcers 3 but moft frequently they fwell, become foft, and on being laid open, inftead of the ufual appearances of bone, they are found to conlift of a"" clear gelatinous matter. In this ftate of the dif- eafe no advantage can be expedled from extirpation, and it therefore ftiould not be attempted 5 but this diftrefsful fitu- ation may very commonly be prevent- ed, by the operation being advifed more early. It fometimes happens, that the eye is pufhed from its focket by an enlargement VoL. IV. L of170 JDifeaJes of the Eyes. Chap. ^1. of the glandula lachrymalls. This forms a kind of tumor, of more difficult ma- nagement than any other to which thefe parts are liable : We ought not however, even in this cafe, to defpair of effeding a cure; for even this gland in a ftate of enlargement has been entirely removed, without injuring the eye-ball ; and there will feldom be much difficulty in repla- cing the eye, on the caufe being remo^ ved by which it was puflied out. SEC-Sed,. XV. Difeafes of the Eyes. iji SECTION XV. Of Cancer of. the Eye^ and Extirpation of the Eye-ball. The eye, like every part of the body, is liable to cancer, a difeafe that cannot be cured by any remedy with which we are acquainted, and which therefore renders the removal of the dif- eafed part neceflary, in order to prevent the contiguous foqnd parts from becoming affeded. Cancer of the eye is apt to fucceed to ftaphyloma : The ball of the eye, after becoming enlarged, at lafl: protrudes be- yond the boundaries of the focket: It ac-^ quires a firm, and even a hard confiftence: Vifion is at lafi; deftroyed, and the tumor commonly acquires a red or flefiiy appear- ance. In fome inftances, a yellow gluti- nous matter, but moft frequently a thin L 2 acrid1^2 Dijeajes of the Eyes, Chap. XL acrid ichor, is difchargcd from the fur- face of the tumor. For a confiderable time the patient complains only of heat, or a fenfation of burning in the fubftance of the fwelling; but at laft he becomes diftrefled with fevere pains fhooting through the wholb of it, and 'acrofs the brain to the oppofite fide of the head. In this fituation, blood-letting, opi- ates, and the external ufe of emollients, are commonly advifed, with a view tp render the pain moderate 3 but although we may in fome inftances be able to ac~ complifir this by large dofes of opiates, yet no remedy will prevent the difeafe from fpreading; and as it is always a point of importance to remove cancerous tumors early, we fhould never hefitate in recommending the operation as foon as the difeafe appears to be evidently formed. 'In Chapter IV. SedionVIII. we entered fully into the confideration of Cancer. I there made it appear, that extirpation of the difeafed part, is the only remedy to be depended op that it often fuccedds _ . ' whenSe6t. XV. Difeafts of the Eyes. 173 when employed early In the difeafe; that it muft neceflarily frequently fltil, when the operation is long delayed ; and that pradlitioners have till of late years been often blameable, In having an ill-founded averfion to this operation, by which their patients have in many inftances be'en pre- vented from fubmitting to it fo early as they ought to have done. For a more particular difcullion of this point, I muft refer to the fedion I have mentioned; but it is here neceffary to remark, that this general averfion to operate in cafes of cancer, has been carried ftill, farther, when the difeafe is feated in .the eye, than in any other part of the body. This general objedion prevails againft the extirpation of cancer, wherever it is feated, that the difeafe is fo apt to re- turn, that the advantage to be derived from It is feldom equal to the pain, trou- ble, and confinement that arife from it. This, I' have eliewhere fhowiv is by no 'means the cafe : But when the difeafe, is feated in the eye, another objedion has L 3, beenif4 Difeafes of the Eyes* Chap. XI. been raifed to it; namely, the hazardous nature of the operation; for, as it is im« poflible, from the depth of the orbit,^ to fecure any arteries with ligatures that lie at the bottom of the focket, it^ has been fuppofed that much danger muft occur from this circumftance alone: And ac- cordingly, although we find the. method of extirpating the eye defcribed in books, excepting by a few pradlitioners the ope- ration has been very fetdom performed. There is no caufe, however, for this ti- midity : for although a good deal of blood is fent to the eye by different branches both of the internal and external carotid arteriesyet, at the place where thefe are divided in extirpating the eye, they are commonly fo much ramified, that no ha- zard, fa far as I know, has ever occurred from this operation; and I have not only done it in different infl;ances, but in various cafes I have feen it performed by others. It is not the extirpation of a portion of the eye, namely, that part of it which protrudes beyond the orbit,, that we are, o now175 Seft. XV. Dif^afes of the fyes*> now confidering, but the total removal of the whole eye, when it is altogether difeafed. A partial extirpation of tha eye is often indeed recommended, chiefly for the reafon I have mentioned, the dam ger that Is fuppofed to occur from a deep divifion of the ocular artery: but \Vhen- ever the eye is in a cancerous ftate, as all the difeafed parts mull be removed in or- der to render the patient fafe; as I have endeavoured to fliow that the eye may be altogether cut out without hazard 3 and as no advantage can be derived from a por- tion of it being allowed to remain 3 we Ihould never hefitate in removing the whole. The method of performing, the Ovperation is this. The patient fhould either be firmly feated in a proper light, with his head fupported by an afliftant; or, what an- fwers better in every tedious operation, he ihould be laid upon a table with his l)ead upon a pillow 3 the molt convenient pofture not only for himfelf but for the operator. When the eye-lids are difeafed, L 4 they176 BijeaJes of the Eyes, Chap. XL they fhQuid' be removed along with the eye itfelf; but whatever part of them is found, Ihould be allowed to remain as a protection to the orbit. In the cGurfe of the operation, it is a point of importance to have the palpebrse kept completely feparate; for the moll part this may be done by the hands of afliftants, but in fome cafes where the ball of the eye is much enlarged, they are more eafily feparat^ed by means of two flat hook^, one of which is reprefented in Plate XIII. fig* i. Wheii' the eye-ball has become fo large as to protrude beyond the orbit, the o- perator will in general be able to lay hold of it'with his fingers 3 but when this can- not be done, a broad flat ligature fliould be paffed through the centre of the tumor, in order to fecure it during the operation. While this is done with one hand, the furgeon, with a common fcalpel in the o- ther;, mufl: endeavour to feparate the whole ball of the eye from the different parts to whichjt is connected. All the difeafeA177 Setl. XV. Difeafes of the Eje's, difeafed parts ihonld be removed; but care fhould be taken not to injure" the bones ^ for as in fome parts of the orbit they are extremely thin, a good deal of mifchief v/ould enfue from their being much hurt. On the eye being taken out, the atten- tion of the operator is neceflarily direc- ted to the Hemorrhagy: But although in forae inftances this may take' place to a conliderable degree, yet this does not often happen; for in general, the dif- charge of blood is fo inconfiderable as fcarcely to require the aid of compreflidh to put .a flop to it. But whenever the hemorrhagy proceeds too far, it may be eafily commanded by prelTure alone; or,, a piece of dry fponge being applied to the mouths of the bleeding vefleis, prelTure may be applied along with it^ by fluffing the reft of the orbit with foft lint and applying a napkin over the whple, fo as to make it prefs with fome,firmnefs upon the fponge beneath., ^ WhenBijeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. 178 When fporige, however, is employed, fome attention is neceflary in applying it^ for when fponge is applied to the mouth of a bleeding artery, it adheres with fuch firmnefs, as renders a good deal of force, as well as fome management, neceflary to remove it. Before inferting the fponge, therefore, a piece of llrong waxed pack- thread Ihould be tied to it^ by which it may be pulled out wheii the haemorrhage is fupprefled. As foon as a free fuppuration takes place, the bandage and lint will be eafily removed; and the only neceflary drefling is a pledgit of emollient ointment, to be continued as long as any difcharge of matter is obferved from the orbit. In performing this operation, I havd diredted the common fcalpel to be em- ployed; and I have no hefitation in fay- ing, that it is preferable to any inftru- ment that has yet been propofed. Dif- ferent forms of fcalpeJs may be feen in books of furgery that have been invented for this operation, particularly one with . * aSeel. XV. Difeafes of the Eyes. 179 a conliderable degree of curvature. As this has been in fome inftances employed, I have given a view of it in Plate XXI. fig. I. But it does not anfwer the purpofe fo well as the ftraight fcalpel ^ and in u-’ ling it, we are more apt to injure the bones of the orbit. The operation I have deferibed, name- ly, the extirpation of an eye, is attended with much pain to the patient, and ap- pears to be of a cruel and dangerous na- ture to bye-ftanders > fo that few furgeons have refolution to perform it. It ought in no inftance to be advifed where a cure can be accomplifhed by means of a more gentle nature; but when this cannot be done, and when a patient will for certain die in mifery if the eye be not removed, it ought furely to be recommended as a means that may afford at leaft fome chance of fafety : For although it will npt always prove fuccefsful, yet we know from expe- rience, that in fome inftances lives have been faved by means of it, which other- wife would probably have been loft. We pught.l8o Difeafes of the Eyes. - Chap. XL V ought, however, to ^remember, that in every cafe of cancer, extirpation proves, caeteris paribus, moft fuccefsful when pra6lifed early; fo that it fliould always be advifed in cancer of the eye, as foon as it Is evident that the difeafe is com- pletely formed. S' E C-Sect. XVI. Difeafes of the Eyes, i8i SECTION XVI Of Artificial Eyes» the lofs of an eye is always pro« Ludtive of much deformity, our be- ing in fomc meafure able to obviate this, is not unfrequently a defirable ' obje(S; and by the ingenuity of modern tradef- men, it is eafily done. A thin concave plate of glafs, filver, or gold being fitted to the orbit, mufl: be coloured fo as to match the other eye as exadlly as poffible ; and if care is taken to render it perfedlly finooth, it may be introduced beneath the palpebrae, and ufed without pain being excited. Of all thefe fubftances, however, glafs is the mofl: proper 3 for jt not only can be made to refemble the natural eye more exacSly than the others, but it is much more cleanly. It has been objedted to the ufeDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. i82 ufe of glafs indeed, that it is apt to be broke by blows and other accidents: Of many, however, who I have known ufe this artificial eye, I do not remember an inftance of any who ever were hurt by it. An artificial eye may be fitted to any orbit, where the eye has either been funk by the evacuation of part of its contents, or where a portion of the eye-ball has been removed: But it feldom happens that any advantage is derived from this inven- tion where the globe of the eye has been entirely taken away 3 for when not fup- ported beneath, the artifigial eye finks too deep into the orbit, and can never be made to fit properly. It is chiefly, there- fore, in cafes of hydrophthalmia and ftaphyloma in which it has been found neceflary to evacuate a portion of the contents of the eye, or perhaps to remove fome part of it, that artificial eyes prove mofl: ufeful. - . S E C-Sea. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 183 SECTION XVII. Of Cataracts. § I. General Remarks on CataraEis., Various definitions have been given of the term Catarad ^ fome of which are fiifficiently accurate, but others have rather tended to convey an improper idea of the nature of the difeafe. ' Blindnefs, induced by an opake body immediately behind the iris, forms the difeafe we name Cataraft ^ and as we find from difiTedion that this opacity is in eve- ry inftance feated in the cryftalline lens, or in its invefting membrane, a cataradt may with propriety be defined, to be a deprivation of fight induced by an opake ftate of the lens or of its capfule. The real feat of cataradl being a late difcovery, we need not be furprifed at findingj84 Difeafes of the Eyes. Cliap. XI. finding very perplexed and contradidory accounts of it in all our ancient chirurgi- cal authors. By fome it was confidered as an affedion of the internal furface of the cornea ; others imagined that it was feated in the vitreous humour ^ whilfl: by many it was fuppofed to be produced by a new formation of a membranous fub- fiance within the cavity of the eye. By fome this new produdion was fuppofed to be attached to the coats of the eye: But others alleged that It ufually continued loofe, and floated in the aqueous humpur. Some writers of eminence, too, appear to have confounded the gutta ferena with this difeafe, the former being often men- tioned and defcribed under the name of the Black Catarad. The fad, however. Is now afcertained, that catarad, in a pure unmixed form, depends entirely on an affedion of the lens or of its capfule ^ and its appearance indeed is fo difiindly marked, that no praditioner of experience can ever be miftaken with regard to it: But for the ^ advantageSe6l. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 185 advantage of beginners, and of others not accuftomed to this branch of bulinefs, I fhall, in the firfl: place, give a fhort hi- ftory of the rife and progrefs of the dif- eafe; and fliall afterwards endeavour to point out fuch circumftances as diftinguifli it more particularly from fome other af- fedtions of the eye. Inftances fometimes occur, in which cataradls form fuddenly, and a total lofs of fight, with complete opacity in the lens, takes place at once without any pre- vious affedtion. This, however, is rare; and it commonly kappens, that the difeafe approaches in a very gradual manner, from a flight degree of dimnefs, with which it commences, to an entire lofs of vifion. The firfl: fymptom that ufually occurs in cataradl is what the patient terms a weaknefs of fight, and which commonly takes place long before ahy alteration is perceived in the flate of the lens. By . degrees this weaknefs, or rather dimnefs of fight, becomes more confiderable; and VoL. IV. M the186 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI, the patient^ being fro;n his feelings led to fuppofe that it is in fome meafure produ- ced by diift or motes floating in the ^ir, or by fome opake matter upon the extern nalfurface of the cornea, is often employ- ed in rubbing his eyes y and is furprifed to find that his fight never becomes clear- er from his doing fo. If in this ftate of the difeafe the eye is examined, the lens will be obferved to have acquired a dufky hue 3 and inftead of being clear and diaphanous, which it naturally is, it will be found to be flight- ly opake. By degrees, the dimnefs pf fight beconies more diftrefsful, till at lafl; it terminates either in total blind- nefs, or perhaps the patient may be able to diftinguifli light from darknefs; but in the advanced ftages of the difeafe, he can feldom diftinguifli colours, excepting thbfe of the brighter kinds, nor can he find his way in roads where he is not per- fedly acquainted. In proportion to the degree of blindnefs that takes place, the lens is ^obferved to 3 become187 Sed, XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes, become more and more opake, till at lafl it is found to be either entirely white, or of a light gray or pearl colour. In a few inftances this whitenefs is confined to a fmall portion of the lens, and forms a fmall opake fpot In fome particular part of it. In general, however, the whole body of the lens Is equally affected. During the whole courfe of the difeafe, the pupil contrads and dilate^ according to the degree of light in which it Is pla- ced y at leafl this will be always obferved when the eye is not otherwife difeafed. Catarads, however, are often combined with gutta ferena^ in which cafe the pu- pil Is not affeded by any degree of light we can apply to it: This, however, does not proceed from the date of the lens, but from the difeafed date of the optic nerve. Catarads are not commonly attended with pain; but in fome indances It is o- therwife, and every expofure to light creates much uneadnefs. This, however, is always to be conddered as an accident- M 2 al188 Bifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL circumftance, depending probably up- dn fome degree of inflammation at the bottom of'the eye, and not as a neceffary fymptom of catarad. I have already obferved, that cataradl has been confounded with other difeafes. This however can only happen from in- attention; for there is fcarcely any affec- tion of the eye to which it bears much re- femblance. But in books, we find it has be miflaken for the gutta ferena; for the hypopyon and ftaphyloma; and it has been confounded with white opake fpots upon the cornea. It is eafily diftinguiflied, however, from all of thefe. In cataradl, the pupil contrads when expofed to much light, and an opake body is obferved behind the iris : where- as tn an unmixed cafe of gutta ferena, the pupil remains in a ftate of dilata- tion whatever degree of light is applied to it, and no opacity is obferved at the bottom of the eye : It is diftinguifli- ed from.the hypopyon, ilaphyloma, and white fpots upon the cornea, by the ^ evidentSed. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. iSg evident marks of difeafe which in all of thefe take place in the anterior part of the eye, the cornea itfelf ^ which in all of them is opake, and which in the hy- popyon and ftaphyloma is commonly ele- vated into a fmall tumor or protuberance: Whereas in catara61, the only fymptom that occurs, is, blindnefs to a greater or lefler degree, attended with a white o- pake fpot behind the iris, the cornea and every other part of the eye remaining perfectly found. I have already obfer- ved, that this opacity is found by diflec- tion to depend upon a morbid ftate of the lens. For the moft part it is the body of the lens itfelf that is difeafed; fo that the opacity is removed, and the eye appears perfectly clear on this being taken out: But in a few inflances, the membrane or capfule that furrounds the lens is the feat of the difeafe 3 fo that the fame degree of opacity ftill continues even after the lens is removed.—This, however, is not a fre- quent occurrence^ but it Is fometimes M 3 met190 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XI* met with, and is with fufficient propriety termed the Membranous Cataraft. It Is dIfEcult, or perhaps Impoflible, to afcertain the proximate caufe of catarad ; but I think it probable^ that it confifts in fome degree of obftrud:ion of the vefTels of the lens, in fome inftances Induced by external violence, but moil: frequently by fome internal caufe,^ for which we cannot properly account* The exiftence of veflels In the cryftal- llne is doubted Indeed by many, who i- magine that nourifliment is conveyed to it by the fmall quantity of fluid that we meet with in the capfiile of the lens*—^But the fad 1 confider as eftablifli^ ed, that the lens is fupplied with veflels from its capfule, injedions having been made to pafs from one to the other, not .only In different animals, but in fome in- ftances in the human eye. But whether this could have been demonftrated or not, the exiftence of veflels in the lens, is re,n- dered, I think, fufficlently probable, by a circumftance I took notice of in the hiftorySed. XVII. Bifeafis of the Byes. 191 hiftory of the difeafe, namely, the fnd- den formation of catarads, which in a few cafes has been obferved. I.have now met with ftveral inftances of this; in fome of which the moil complete degree of opacity tpok place in the cryftalline in the courfe of a few hours from the fir ft fenfation of dimnefs ^ a fad that cannot be fo readily explained on any other fup- polition. It may be alleged, where the cataracft is fo fpeedily formed, that the opacity may probably arife from fome affedion of the veftels of the capfule, and not of the lens itfelf. In fome inftances this may be the cafe^ but in more than one of thofe to which I allude, the difeafe ap- peared to be fixed in the body of the cry- ftalline, and the capfule remained per- fedly found i, for on the lens being ex- traded, the opacity was entirely remo* ved. . In confirmation, too, of this opinion, of catarads being probably produced by fome degree of obftrudion in the veffels M 4 of192 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap, XI. of the lens, I may remark, that they occur more frequently in women about the' cef- fation of the menfes than at any other pe- riod ^ and we know that this period is par- ticularly produdive of obftrudions in o- ther parts of the body. As long as the opinion prevailed of there being different fpecies of catarads, a variety of means were recommended in the method of cure; but now that the real nature of the difeafe is known, our foie objed is to remove the opacity of the lens ^ or when this cannot be accomplifh- ed, to remove the lens itfelf from the axis of vifion. In confirmed catarads of long dura- tion, no advantage is ever derived from any internal medicine; but in the inci- pient ftate of the difeafe, before the opa- city of the cryftalllne is complete, mer- cury has in fome inftances proved ufeful. When inflammation takes place, blood- letting, both general and local; the ap- plication of blifters to the temples, toge- ther with a ftrid antiphloglftic regimen, Ihould193 Se<9:. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. fhould be advifed ^ and I have in a few cafes derived advantage from the opera- tion of brilk purgatives; but nothing I have ever tried has anfwered fo well as fmall dofes of calomel often repeated. Ex- tradlum hyofcyami, flammula jovis, and other vegetable productions, have like- wife been celebrated for their efficacy in cataract; but no trials that I have given them, and I have ufcd them all in dif- ferent inftances, can juftify the recom- mendation. When mercury, and the other reme- dies we may employ, are found to fail, our next object, as I have already obfer- ved, is to remove the difeafed lens from the axis of vifion: This we accomplifli by one or other of two chirurgical ope- rations, namely, bypreffingthe lens from its natural fituation in the centre down to the bottom of the eye, an operation com- monly termed Couching the Cataract; and that operation which we denominate Ex- traction of the Lens, by which the dif- eafed194 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. eafed body Is taken entirely out of the eye. Each of thefe operations has been much emplojed 3 fo that the merits of both ought long ago to have beenafcertained: But al- though the fubjedl is of the higheft im- portance, It ftill r*emains in a ftate of un- certainty. By fome praditioners, couch- ing is preferred 3 whilft others confider extradion of the lens as the only reme- dy on which we fliould place any depen- dence. The uncertainty in which we ftill re- main upon this point, proceeds, I believe, from this branch of pradice having hi- therto been for the moft part in the hands of itinerants : And as gentlemen of this denomination, have uniformly from their firft outfet in life, adopted one method of operating only, they have very univerfally condemned the other 3 which they them- felves neither pradife, nor perhaps under- ftand: So that regular praditioners, not being able to determine from their own experience^Sedl. XVII. Difeafes of the Efes^ 195^ experience, they have in general remain- ed upon this point very undecided. But the public appearing now to be convin- ced of the propriety of intrufting this, as well as every other operation of Import- ance, to eftablhhed furgeons of reputa- tion, opportunities will thus be afforded of determining the point in queftion by experiment; the only means by which any degree of certainty can be obtained. In profecuting the confideratlon of this fubjedl, I lhall endeavour to point out as clearly as poflible the refult of my own obfervatlons upon it, together with that of fome of our beft employed furgeons. With this view, I fhall firft defcribe the operation of couching; and after confi- derlng the different fteps of the operation of extrading the catarad, I fhall attempt to draw a juft comparifon of the merits of the two. OfJ9^ ' Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. Xt § 2. Of Couching, or Depression of tbt Cataract. I have already obferved, thslt the ope^ ration of couching conlifts in preffing the catarad or difeafed cryftalline lens from its natural fituation in the centre down to the bottom of the eye. By this means the opacity producing the difeafe Is removed from the axis of vifion; and although the fight will never be fo perfed as it was before the lens became opake, if the eye is otherwife found it will be quite fuffi- dent for the common purpofes of life. In the anatomical defcription of the eye, which makes the fubjed of the firfl part of this chapter, we have feen, that the lens is placed behind the pupil, where it is lodged in a flight depreflion of the vitreous humour, to which it Is attached by a capfule, formed by a portion or la- mella of the tunic which includes the vi- treous humour itfelf. In couching, the lens197 Sedl. XVII, Difeafes of the Eyes. lens is feparated from its capfule; and be- ing prefled down behind the iris, if the operation fuceeeds, it either remains there during life, or is diflblved in the aqueous humour in which it is lodged. Before we proceed to this operation, there are fome circumftances which par- ticularly require our attention ^ the moil: material of which are, the degree of opa- city which occurs in the lens, and the fi- tuation of the eye with refpedt to other difeafes. It is a fail well known to pra6titioners, that no operation can be performed upon the eye, but with the rifk of inducing in- flammation ; a fymptom that proves te- dious, or otherwife, according to the con- ftitution of the patient, and other circum- ftances of the cafe. This points out the propriety of proceeding with caution, and of attempting no operation on this organ, not abfolutely neceffary for the welfare or comfort of the patient. Where a pa- tient is rendered fo blind by catarads in both eyes, that he cannot condud him- felf198 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. felf in the common occurrences of life, we fliould not hefitate in advifing an ope- ration for his relief. In fuch circum- llances, any rilk of his fuffering from in- flammation is more than counterbalan- ced by the advantages he may derive from the operation. But when one eye only is affedled, and where therefore the patient enjoys a perfed ufe of the other; or where even both eyes are difeafed, if the opacity of the cryftallines is not fo confiderable as to prevent the patient from managing his ordinary bufinefs ; or if it does not deprive him of his fight la any remarkable degree; in ^any of thefe cir- cumftances, a prudent practitioner will rather avoid an operation, and will ad- vife it to be delayed as long as vifion re- mains tolerably perfeCl. The ingenious l)r Richter of Gottin- gen is indeed, of opinion, that the exifl:- ence of cataraCt in one eye is particular- ly apt to produce a fimilar affeClion in the other, and therefore he advifes the cry- ftalline to be removed as foon as it be- comesSt€t. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 199 comes entirely opake, whether it is difea- fed in the other eye or not. The propriety, however, of this advice can be only deter- mined by farther obfervation: But it often happens, that together with an opake flate of the cryitalline, the eye is in other re- fpeds fo much difeafed, as to affold no ,hopes of vifion being reftored by a remo- val of the catarad:: In which cafe, as no advantage could be derived from an ope- ration, it ought not to be recommended. This is particularly the cafe in the hypo- pyon, in the gutta ferena, and in every affection of the eye attended with an o- pake date of the cornea. Writers on this fubjed mention ano- ther reafon, which they think fhould have fame influence in determining the proprie- ty of operating in all cafes of catarad. It has very univerfally been fuppofed, that a catarad ought to be in a particular flate, in order to infure fuccefs from an opera- tion ; infomuch that we are advifed never to operate unlefs this flate of the difeafe is found to prevail. The flate to which I allude, is a fuppofed flate of maturity, whichaoo Difefifes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. which it is believed every cataradl will footier or later arrive at, and which is faid to be clearly and evidently pointed out by certain appearances of the opake cryftal- line. It Is true, that both in the operation of couching and extrading the catarad, the lens is fometimes found to be partly foft and in part very firm, and in a few cafes, it is even perfedly fluid ; a circum- ftance commonly confidered as unfavour- able : But although this may have firfl: fuggefted the idea of the unripe ftate of a catarad, as it is termed, yet no advan- tage has hitherto been derived from the diflindion^ for notwithftanding a variety of figns have been mentioned, by which the real ftate of a catarad is faid to be evidently marked, yet it does not appear to be fupported by experience: On the contrary, we often find that d catarad is" of a firm texture, that was previoufly fufpeded to be foft 3 and vice verfa. Nothing, indeed, can render it more obvious, that this idea of the mature ftate ofSe6l. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 201 of a ca^arail Is ill-founded, than the. variety of opinions that prevail refpedling it: For while by fome it is faid that this ftate of the dlfeale is indicated by a pure white or milky appearance, others affert, that a light gray or pearl colour Is the on- ly certain mark of it. Now, the fact is, that the real ilate of a cataradt can ne- ver be known from Its colour ^ and the beft Informed pradlitioners will allow, that no advantage is to be derived from this means of diftindion. The idea of a catarad being more ripe at one period of the difeafe than at an- other, originated, as I have obferved above, from the cryftalline being In fome inftances found to be fluid, which gave caufe to fufped that the firfl: effid of a catarad is to Induce a foftnefs of the lens, and that this foft or fluid ftatfe of it. is gradually altered by the progrefs or continuance of the difeafe, by which it is fuppofed to acquire a firm confiflence, when it is conceived to be thoroughly ripe. VOL. IV. N ThisDijeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. 202 This opinion, however, of the firfl: ef- fect of a cataradl upon the lens, is equally ill-founded with the idea I have mention- ed, of the real Hate of the difeafe being to be diftinguilhed by its external appear- ance 3 for we know from experience, that cataradls are often of a firm texture from the beginning. From my own, obferva- tion, indeed, I would fay, that the tno'fl: frequent effedl of cataradt upon thejens is to produce a preternatural of hardnefs through the whole of it^ <v^s, for the mofl: part, an extraded opake cr^tal- line is of a firmer texture than it is ever found to be when healthy and tranlpa-# rent. We are, therefore, to conclude, with refpedl to this circumftance of the ripe or unripe ftate of a cataradl, that in the treatment of the difeafe no advantage is to be derived from any thing we yet know concerning it. In the common accepta- tion of the term, indeed, the word ripe- nefs has in this refpedl no determined rgeaning affixed to it: I would therefore propofe,203 Sea. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. propofe, that inftead of being employed to fignify the appearances of a cataraa, it fhoaid be applied only to exprefs' the ef-^ fe ls that arife from it. In this manner, the term might ftill be retained with proprie- ty 3 for we might very properly fay that a cataraa.Is ripe when the patient is ren- dered entirely blind by it, and when there- fore it Is ready for an operation; and, on the contrary, that the difeafe Is ftill in an unripe ftate as long as vifion is not much impaired by it. As the ftate or confiftence of a cata- rad, Is much infifted upon by almoft all authors who have written upon it, I jud- ged it proper in this manner to enter on a particular confideration of the fubjed: And, upon the whole, this conclufion I think may be drawn from what has been faid, that in determining upon the pro- priety of operating, we are never to place any dependence on the appearance of the lens; and that we are to be folely dired- ed by the effeds produced by the catarad, and by the ftate of the eye with refped . N 2 tQ204 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI, to other difeafes. As long as vifion re- mains tolerably perfed:, whether in both or only in one eye, for the reafons I have given, a prudent praditioner would ra- ther avoid the operation: But, when the fight becomes much impaired, if the cor- nea is found to be tranfparent, and if the pupil admits of full dilatation and con-? tradlon according to the degree of light to which It is expofed, we fhould not he- fitate in advifing an operation as the on- ly effedual means, of relief. And when the operation of couching is refolved up- on, the following is the method of doing it. As it is of importance in this as well as in every operation upon the eye, to guard againft inflammation, nothing fhould be omitted that can in any way tend to pre- vent it: The patient fhould be coilfined, for feveral days before the operation, to a low regimen : He fliould lofe ten or twelve ounces of blood, and even more if his firength admits of It, and two or thfee dofes of fome cooling laxative me^ dicineSedl. XVI I. Difeafes of the Eyes'. 205 dicine iliould be exhibited at proper in- tervals. An apartment fliould be fixed upon that is perfectly light: but during the opera- tion the funfhine fliould not be admitted ; for by the irritation which it excites, the eye is prevented from being kept'fo fteady even with a fpeculum as it otherwife may be. A north expofure fliould therefore be preferred. The only apparatus to be provided for this operation is, a fpeculum of a proper conftrudlion, and of a fize adapted to that of the eye ^ and an inftrument termed a needle, for the purpofe of depreflrng the catara6l. Different forms of the needle are reprefented in Plate XV. and in Plate XIV. are delineated different views of the mofl: ufeful fpeculum that has yet been invented. As it is of much importance to have the eye properly fixed during the whole courfe of the operation, and as this can- not be done effectually in any other man- ner than with a fpeculum exaCtly fitted to N 3- the2o6 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. the e'^ye, eve'ry operator fhould be provi- ded with feveral fizes of ,this inftrument. The beft needle for this operation Is that of a flat form, reprefented in Plate XV. fig. I. The patient fhould be placed upon a low feat with his face towards the window, and the furgeon, upon a chair confiderably higher, fhould be feated diredly before him: An afliflant ftanding behind muft be direded to fupport the patient’s head, which is mofl eflfedually done by plac^iii^ one hand under the chin, and the other upon the forehead: And in order to pre- vent any interruption during the opera- tion, the hands of the patient fhouh be properly fecured by an afliflant on each fide. During the operation, it is of much im- portance for the furgeon to have his hand firmly fecured : For this purpofe, nothing proves fo efiedual as a proper reft being provided for the elbow. The elbow fhould therefore be placed either upon a table, or on the knee of the operator raifed ta fuch 3Se£l:* XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes, 207 fuch height that it may be nearly on a line with the eye of the patient. Sur-- geons in general trull to the hand being properly fecured by the ring and little fingers relling upon the cheek or temple of the patient: But this feldom proves fufiiclent for the perfedl Ileadinefs requi* red in every operation upon the eye; and whoever will make trial of the mode I have mentioned of fixing the elbow, will find it preferable. It is proper, indeed^ that any advantage to be derived from relling thefe two fingers upon the cheek Ihould be likewife laid hold of^ but this alone ought never to be depended on. An ingenious author, who has,, lately written on the catai;^61, has bommunrca- ted fome valuable pradtical obfervatlons tb^ the public *. His method of giving fup- port and Ileadinefs to his hand during the operation of extradHng the cataradl, and N 4 the * Vide A Treatife on the extradlion of the Catarad^ hy Frederick BifchofF, F. M. S. Oculift to his Majefty in the Eledorate of Hanover, and to her Majefty in England.Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. 2o8 the fame obfervatlons I may remark ap- ply with equal propriety to that pf couching, is to prefs the upper part of the arm and elbow of that hand with which he performs the operation, ftrong- ly againft his own breaft and ribs, and to lean his little finger about an inch from the outfide of the eye on the cheek- bone of the patient, at the fame time that he retains his breath, and remains as much as pofiible in that fituation, till the incifion of the cornea is finilhed.— He has alfo invented a chair for the pur- pofe of fixing the head of the patient, which he has ufed for. many years with much advantage. He very properly ob« ferves, that in the ufual method of fixing the head, by preffing it againft the breaft of an afliftant, that the leaft motion, evep what is occafioned by the afiiftant draw- ing breath, muft occafion a correfponding motion of the head of the patient.—The chair that he has invented, is reprefented in Plate XXVIII. and it appears to be well calculated for the purpofe for which it is intended. WhetherSed. XVII. Difeafes of the Eye$. 209 Whether the patient is feated on this chair, or in the ^manner I have advifed above, the afliftant is now to raife the upper eye-lid with the fingers of his left hand 3 and the furgeon applying the groove in the upper part of the fpecu*- lum, Plate XIV. fig. i. in fuch a manner that it may receive the edge of the eye- lid, the opening or circle formed by the brim of the fpeculum is to be prefled up- on the ball of iht eye, till the tranfparent cornea, and nearly about an eighth part of an inch of the fclerotica, is protru- ded; by which means, if a fteady and equal prefliire is continued upon the eye, it will be kept firmly fixed without any injury being done to k, at the fame time that a fufficient quantity of the ball will be left uncovered by the fpeculum for the purpofe of the operation. I am at prefent fuppofing that the ope- ration is to be performed upon the left eye. For this purpofe, the patient being fecured in the manner I have direded, the fpeculum being applied and fecured 2 by210 Bifeafes of the Eyes. Ghap, XI. by the furgeon’s left hand, and the fur^ geon himfelf being feated, with the elbdw of his right arm fixed at a proper height, he mufl take the couching needle in his right hand, and having fixed it, as we do a pen in writing, between the thumb and fore and middle fingers, while the ring and little fingers are made to reft upon the cheek or temple of the patient, the point of the inftrument mfift now be made to pafs the external cacithus of the eye^ and being brought nearly into contadl with the fclerotica, it fhould be quickly plunged through this coat fomewhat be- low the centre of {the eye and about one- tenth of an inch behind the iris. In Plate XVII. fig. I. is delineated a needle pafled into the eye y by which a better idea is given of the operation than can be done by any defeription. In order to avoid the iris, the inftru- ment ftiould be introduced with its flat furface towards this membrane, and fliould be carried forward in a ftraight diredion till the point of it is difeovered behind theSe£l. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. the pupil, as is reprefented in the figure I have mentioned. By depreffing the handle of the needle^ the point of it will be raifed, and the flat furface of it being turned downwards, it mull now be pufli- ed into the upper part of the cryllalline, when the operator, by elevating the han- dle, mufl: endeavour to carry the lens up- on the point of the inftrument down to the bottom of the eye ^ which will be in- ftantly difcovered, on the furgeon obfer- ving through the pupil that the catarail difappears, and by the patient difcovering more light than he has for fome time been accuftomed to. Were we certain that the lens would continue at the bottom of the eye, the needle might now be withdrawn, and the operation would be finifhed : But as we know from the anatomy of the eye, that there is a portion of the aqueous humour lodged between the vitreous humour and the iris ^ as it is into this part of the a- queous humour that the cryllalline is de- prefled ^ and as this humour is of a con- fiftenceDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL 212 fiftence too thin for preventing the adion of the mufcles of the eye from raifing the len^ again on the prefliire of the inftru- ment being withdrawn ^ we need not be furprifed at the operation being frequent- ly found to fail on being finiflied in this manner*. Inftead of this, on the cryftalline being prelled to the bottom of the pofterior chamber, it fliould be llowly carried oii the point of the inftrument towards the outer and back part of the eye; a move- ment which is eafily accompliflied, by the operator railing his hand fo as to elevate the handle of the needle, at the fame time that he makes it pafs fomewhat outward over the cheek. By this means, the cry- ftalline is to be partly lodged below the vitreous humour ^ which being of a firm confiftence, very commonly prevents it from riling again ^ and being brought to- wards the external canthus of the eye, if it Ihould afterwards be forced up by the adion of the mufcles, not being oppolite to the pupil, the paffage of light to the retina213 Sed. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. retina will not be obftruded, and vifion will accordingly be fcarcely more afFeded than if the catarad had remained at the bottom of the eye. As foon therefore as this movement is accomplifhed, the needle fliould be with- drawn ; and there being now no farther ufe for the fpeculum, it fliould likewife be taken off : But as it is of importance to have the eye properly fixed during the whole courfe of the operation, the fpecu- lum fliould not be removed till it is finifli- ed. On the inftrumeiit being taken away, it is ufual to try what effed may be ex- peded from the operation, by prefenting different objeds to the patient: But al- though no harm enfues from flight trials of this kind, they fliould never be car- ried far y for they may do mifchief by tending to promote inflammation, while no real advantage can ever arife from them.^ After the operation, a comprefs of foft lint, foaked in a weak faturnine folution, ihould214 Difeafes of the Eyes* Chap. XI. fliould be lightly applied over the eye^ and this being retained by the bandage, Plate XXIX. fig. I. the patient fliould be confined in a dark apartment and kept on low diet as long as there is any rifk of much inflammation: With the view, too, of preventing inflammation, a dofe or two of a brifk purgative may be exhibit- ed ^ and, when neceflary, blood fliould be taken from the temporal artery, from the jugular vein, or from the neighbourhood of the eye with leeches. . The eye fliould be looked at daily, that the real ftate of it may be known; but the patient, for a confiderable tlme^ fliould be kept in an obfcure light, with his eyes properly protected. For the mofl: part, we difcover in the courfe of a few days whether the opera- tion is to fucceed or not, but in fome in- ftances the patient remains for a confi- derable time perhaps equally blind as be- fore, and yet gradually recovers the power of vifion afterwards, fo as to di- Itinguifh objects with as much exadiiefs asSedt. XVII. DifeaJ.es of the Eyes. 2X5 as if the operation had proved fuccefsfui from the firft. This I fuppofe to happen from fome degree of inflammation being produced in the capfule of the lens, by the violence done to it in the operation, and which cannot be fpeedily removed. On removing the coverings from the eye, if the cataradt is not difcovered, the objed: of the furgeon is completed^ but Jf it has again got into its ufual fitua- tion, after a farther delay for the purpofe of allowing the inflammation induced by the firft operation to fubfide, another trial fliould be made with it: And it fre- quently happens, that a fecond or third attempt proves fuccefsfui when the firfl: has entirely failed. This arifes, however, in a great meafure, from the circumflance to which I have already adverted, the needle being withdrawn immediately on the lens being prefled to the bottom of the eye; for this being done, it is in ge- neral fuppofed that the operation is finifli- ed. I have endeavoured, however, to fhow, that this is by no means the cafe; and2i6 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap, XI. and that the cataradl will feldom rife a- gain if it be prefled towards the external canthus of the eye, and gently puflied be- neath the vitreous humour. Thofe who have not operated in this manner, will perhaps object to it, that by forcing the lens into the vitreous humour, an unneceflary violence is thus done to this part of the eye, by which it mufl: be fo much injured, as to have fome influ- ence on the fuccefs of the operation. This, however, is not found by experience to be the cafe; for I have often done the o- peration in this manner, and I never ob- ferved any inconvenience arife from it. We Ihould not wantonly hurt the vitreous humour V but we know that it is often much more materially injured in extrad- ing the catarad, and with little appa- rent detriment to the eye, than it can e- ver be in the operation of couching. Thus it often happens, in extrading the lens, that a confiderable portion, or even the whole, of the vitreous humour, is difcharged, and yet the operation proves perhapsSe6l. XVII.. Difeafes of the EyeL 217 perhaps as fuccefsful as If no fuch occur- rence had taken place. This is an acci- dent, indeed, that every operator would rather whh to avoid ^ but it fliows clearly, that no injury of importance can be done to vifion by the pradice I have advi-^ fed, of lodging the catarad in the opera- tion of couching, partly beneath, or e- ven entirely in the fubftance of the vi- treous humour. The operation I have defcribed is fup- pofed to be done, as I have already obfer- ved, upon the left eye.; for which purpofe the right hand of the operator muft be employed: But in performing upon the right eye, if the needle is to be enter^ed in the ufual way, from the outer or exter- nal canthus of the eye, it muft either be done with the left hand of the furgeon, qr, if he wifties to ufe his right-hand, he muft either fit or ftand behind the patient, when, by fupporting the head upon his breg.ft or upon his knee, he may in this manner accomplifli his purpofe. This mode of operating upon the right eye has VoL. IV. O beenai8 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. been frequently praclifed even by fur- geons- of eminence, but It is extremely awkward; and befides, the operator can never have bich a full command of the eye when he fits or ftands behind, as when placed before the patient. Few fur- geons, however, are fo alert in ufing their left hand, as to be able to perform with it this very nice operation; fo that with the ufual inftruments there is no other alternative than that of doing it from be- .hind. But in Plate XVI. fig. 4. and 5. there is delineated a form of needle, by which the operation may be done with eafe and fafety on the right eye with the right hand of the furgeon, whilfl: he is feated before and'oppofite to the pa- tient. Only in this cafe, inftead of en- tering the inftmment at the ufual place, by pufliing it inwards from the external canthus of the eye, it muft be entered at the internal angle and puflied outwards, as is reprefented in Plate XVIII. fig. i. In every other refped: the operation is to be conduded as I have already direded; only,Sed. VII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 219 only, the cataracS, Inflead of being car- ried to the external canthns of the eye, muft in this cafe be drawn by the point of the needle towards the nofe. In this manner the operation may be done upon the right eye by any furgeon who can per- form it upon the left 3 an improvement that many will judge to be important. As the operation of couching is very univerfally performed without the aflift- ance of a fpeculum, it may be conlid^r- ed as an affe6lation of fingularity to re- commend one. In anfwer to this, I mufl: obferve, that although the cataracS may be depreiled without the ufe of^a fpecu- lum, it may be done more perfedly, and with more eafe both to the patient,and furgeon, when a fpeculum is employed, than when it is not. By means of the fpeculum, delineated in Plate XIV. as well as with that in Plate XXII, fig. 5. the eye may be very firmly fixed, which allows the operator to manage the needle with more eafe than can otherwife be done. O 2 It220 Difeafes of the Eyes. Ghap. XR- It has been commonly objected to the ufe of a fpeculum, that it does not fecure the eye fiifficiently ^ and that it always proves detrimental, by exciting inflamma- tiomover the eye-ball. This obfervation, I believe, is well founded with refpedl to the inftrument in ordinary ufe, of which a delineation is given in fig. 3. Plate XII^ But it does not apply to either of the others y which, when properly fitted to the fize of the eye,, fecure it exactly; and when finely polifhed, they are never pro- dudlive of any inconvenience. Some practitioners, fenfible of the irn- poffibility of fixing the eye properly im the manner commonly attempted with the fingers alone, and finding the common fpe- culum infufficient, have propofed another inftrument for this purpofeIt confifls of a fliarp fpear or prong, fixed in a handle, with a crofs flat bar near the point, as is delineated in Plate XII. fig. 2.. This inftrument has long been employ- ed in fome parts of the Continetit: It is ufed by pulhing the point of it through theSed. XVII, Difeafes of the Eyes. 221 the fclerotic coat on the fide of the eye oppofite to where the needle is to be en- tered ; and it is prevented from penetra- ting far, by the crofs-bar near the point. In this fituation, it is fecured by an af- liftant on one fide of the patient; and the eye-lids being feparated by the furgeon himfelf, aflifled by the perfon behind who fupports the head', the eye may in this manner be fixed in fome degree, but ne- ver with fo much eafe and certainty as with either of the fpeculums I have men- tioned. Needles of various forms and fizes have been ufed in this operation; but the flat needle, fig. 1. Plate XV. anfwers the pur- pofe better than any that I have ever tried. It ought not to be broader than this, other- wife it makes too large a cut in the coats of the eye; and if much narrower, it does not fo readily carry the lens along with it. The round needle, fig. 2. of the fame Plate, has been much employed by ma- ny itinerants; but I have not found, up- 4m trial, that it anfwers fo well as the O 3 others222 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. other. After piercing the catarad, it parts with it too ealily: and befides, it enters the coats of the eye with more dif- ficulty, and it cannot be fo eafily moved when introduced as the others which be- ing broad in the cutting part of it near th'^^oint, it forms an opening in the, tu- nica fclerotica fomewhat larger than the diameter of the reft of the inftrument^ which admits of its being afterwards ea- fily moved in every diredion. It has been objeded to the flat needle, that by its breadth it is more apt than the round one to hurt the iris ^ but with the precaution I have mentioned, of in- troducing it with the flat furface towards this membrane, there can never be any hazard of this. The flat part of the needle may indeed be made broader than is neceffary, and this I believe is very com- monly done/^ by which the opening made with it is too large : more irritation is thus excited^ and when broad near the point, it does not fo readily penetrate the lens as when of a narrower form. The . needle223 Sea. XVII. Bifeafes of the Eyes,. needle delineated In Plate XV. fig i. is in every refpea of a proper fize. Fig. 3. re- prefents a needle with a fmall degree of curvature, by which I have fometimes thought that the catarad may be more eafily deprefled thanwithaftraightneedle^ but I have not yet ufed it fo frequently as to be able to fpeak decifively concerning it. In piercing the eye with it the con- vex fide of the curve muft be towards the iris, as this,membrane might probably be injured were it introduced in any other manner. In defcribing the operation, I defired that the needle might be entered at* one fide of the eye, by pafling it through the fclerotic coat at the diftance of one-tenth of an inch from the iris. And I likewife obferved, that it anfwers the purpofe bet- ter by introducing it fomewhat below the centre of the eye, than if entered, as is ufually done, in. a line with the centre of the pupil. It ought not, however, to be far below this point. The twelfth part of an inch is fully fufficient; for when the O 4 needle234 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap, XI. needle is introduced near the bottom of the eye, the catai^adt is not fo eafily de> prelTed with it. It has been faid by fome, that the ope- ration may be performed, not only with piore eafe, but with more fafety, by in- troducing the needle through the tranfpa- rent cornea, and after palling it through the pupil, to pulh down the c^taradl with the point of it to the bottom of the eye. This propofal, however, will never pro- bably be generally admitted, for it is im- pollible in this manner to deprefs the lens fo eafily as when the needle is entered in the manner I have directed, while it can fcarcely be done without injuring the Ins, § 3- Of225 Sed. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. § 3. O/'Extracting the Cataract. The operation of couching, or depref- fing the catarad, had been long pradifed, and was confidered as the only means by which an opake cryftalline could be re- moved, till the year 1737. when an emi- nent oculift of Paris, Mr Daviel, firfl: pro- pofed and pradifed the method of remo- ving it by extradion. It is true, that feveral years previous to this period, Mr Petit propofed to make an opening through the tranfparent cor- nea, for the purpofe of removing the lens when forced into the anterior chamber of the eye, either by external violence, or when puflied through the pupil in the ope- ration of couching, an occurrence which has fometimes happened: but, being con- lidered as extremely hazardous, it was rarely pradifed 3 nor was it ever fuppo- fed to be proper in any other date of the difeafe, till Mr Daviel, about the time I have226 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. hav6 menticned, put it frequently in prac- tice, in preference to the operation of couching. By fome the merit of this o- peration has been attributed to our coun- tryman Taylor, a famous itinerant of thefe times y but this will not be admitted by any who have paid attention to the hifto- ry given of it by thofe who had the beft opportunities of becoming acquainted with it. This operation confifts in an opening being made through the tranfparent cor- nea, of a fufficient fize for admitting the pafiage of the lens after it has palled through the pupil into the anterior cham- be?' of the eye. The operation itfelf was* nearly if not exadtly the fame when prac- tifed at firfl: by Mr Daviel as it is at pre- fent; but the method of doing it then was more difficult and tedious, by a great- er number of inftruments being ufed in if than are now found to be necell^ry. At that period knives of different forms were employed f as aifo, feiffitrs, forceps, a lancet concealed in a canula for open- 2 ing227 Sea. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. ing the capfule of the cryftalline, as well as many others. In the prefent impro- ved ftate of this operation, the only in- ftruments that are ufed are, a fpeculum for fixing the eye y one or other of the knives. Plates XVI. XXII. and XXIX. a fmall fcoop, Plate XVI. fig. 4. and a flat blunt-crooked probe, Plate XVIII. fig. I. In proceeding to this operation, the pa- tient fhould be placed in the fame kind of light, and fecured tn the fame manner as I have diredted for the operation of cou- ching. The furgeon fhould likewife be feated in the fame manner before the pa- tient, and ought to reft his elbow either upon a table, or upon his knee raifed to fuch a height as to bring his hand nearly on a line with the pupil. This being done, if the operation is to be performed upon the left eye, the fpeculum muft be applied in the manner I have dl- refted in the operation of couching, and muft be prefled upon the eye with the left liand of the operator with as much firmnefs as228 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL as IS neceflary for fecuring the eye ^ but more than this fliould be avoided, as^it not only gives more pain, but is apt to prefs the cornea into too near contadl with the iris 3 by which the latter is in great rifk of being injured in the fubfequent fteps of the operation. The furgeon is now to take the knife be- tween the thumb and fore and middle fingers of his right hand, allowing nearly an inch to projedl pafl: the extremity of his middle finger ; and the point of it being brought in coiitad: with the lucid dornea, it muft be made to penetrate this coat at the diftance of the fixteenth part of an inch or thereby from the iris, in a lind running from the external canthus of the eye diredly acrofs the centre of the pupil, as is reprefented in Plate XVII. fig. 2. The convex furface of the knife being ftill kept next to the iris, it muft be car- ried flowly forward in this dired|ion, till the point of it reaches the other fide of the eye diredtly oppofite to where it en- tered ;Sedt. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 22’f ^ tered ; and mufl: here be puflied out till nearly a quarter af an inch of it is free- ly through the cornea. The operator is now, in a gradual manner,. to form a ,fe- milunar cut in the under part of the cor- nea, by moving the knife downwards in fuch a manner, that all that portion of the cornea lying between the point at which it entered and that at which it paf- fed out, may be divided at an equal di- fiance from the iris; as is reprefented in Plate XVII. fig. 4. In this manner an opening will be formed fufficiently large for the paflage of the cataradl. While this femilunar cut is forming in the cornea, the prefliire of the fpeculura upon the eye-ball fhould be gradually lef- fened,, otherwife the vitreous humour is apt to be prefled out on the incifion being .completed. We are advifed indeed by fome to remove the fpeculum altogether on the knife being palled out at the oppo- fite fide of the eye ^ for which purpofe they leave an opening on one fide of the in- firument^2^0 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. Xt^ ftrument, to admit of its being taken offy as is reprefented in fig. 3. Plate XIV. But with an operator accuftomed to the ufe of the fpeculum, there is no neceiiity for this precaution; for a degree of pref- fure may be made with it fufficient for fixing the eye, without any rilk of forcing out the vitreous humour ; and by keeping the eye fixed to the laft, we are- enabled to form the incifion with more exadnefs than can pofllbly be done when tlae fpeculum is removed early in the operation. I have feen it indeed often done in this manner; but as foon as the eye has loft the fupport of the fpeculum, the prefliire of the knife is apt to draw the eye-ball too far down towards the under edge of the focket, by which a fmaller fegment of a circle is commonly formed than is fufficient for the paflage of the lens; for by the eye being drawn fuddenly downwards on the fpeculum be- ing removed, the under part of the inci- fion is almoft always formed at too great aSe£l. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 231 a diftance from the iris, and is thus made fmaller than it ought to be. When the eye-ball has been too for- cibly compreiled by the Ipeculum, the ca- taradl, together with all the aqueous hu- mour, and a confiderable portion of the 'vitreous, are very commonly prelTed fud- denly out: But when this part of the ope- ration is duly attended to, nothing but the aqueous humour palles out. As foon as the incifion is completed, the operator muft lay afide the knife; and having lifted the flap formed in the cor- nea with the flat crooked probe,, Plate XVIII. fig. 5. he muft with much caution pafs the point of this ^ inftrument through the pupil, in order to fcratch an opening in the capfule of the lens, or this may be done with the inftrument reprefented in Plate XXIV, fig. 2. & 3. This being ac- complifhed,the cataracftmuft be forced out by a very equal though moderate prefiure applied with the fpeculum over the globe of the eye. It232 Bijeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL It happens indeed in fome inftances, that a good deal of prefliire is required to force the cataradl out: But this always proceeds from fome fault in the previous fteps of the operation, almoft univerfally indeed from the incifion in the cornea being fmaller than it ought to be, by which the lens is with difficulty forced through the pupil; or if it is made to enter the anterior chamber of the eye, it does not pafs through the opening in the cornea fo readily as it ought to do. In this fituation, it is the common prac- tice to force out the lens by repeated applications of preffiire. This, however, ought not to be imitated; for nothing proves more deftruftive to the eye than violence applied to it in this manner: For befides the lofs of the vitreous humour with which it is commonly attended, the iris Is often materially hurt^ and much inflammation induced by it. When the lens cannot be eafily remo- ved from the anterior chamber of the eye by means of a fcoop, and In every iii- I ' ftanceSed. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 233 fiance where it is with difEcuIty forced through the pupil, the operator, inflead of perfifling to employ much preflure, fhould rather enlarge the opening in the cornea, uling for this purpofe a pair of finall probe-pointed fciflars 3 and this be- ing done, the operation mufl be finifhed in the manner I have already pointed out. With a view to render the paffage of the lens as eafy as poflible, the pupil fhould at this part of the operation be in the flate of the mofl perfed dilatation 3 for which purpofe, after the incifion of the cornea and the opening of the cap- fule of the cryflalline are completed^ a dark cloth or curtain fhould be placed be- tween the eye and the light, to be remo- ved on the lens palling out3 or the patient may be placed with his back to the win- dow. In a few inflances of catarad, the caufe of opacity is found to be, not in the lens itfelf, but in its capfule. When this is the cafe, the extradion of the catarad VoL. IV, P anfwers234 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL anfwers no good purpofe, as the opacity is equally ftrong after as it was before the operation. Some authors have there- fore in fuch circumftances advifed the opake capfule to be removed with forceps and other inftruments paffed through the pupil> but this can never be accomplifhed without much rllk of injuring the iris and other parts of the eye: So that it is more likely to do harm than good. For this reafon we Ihould rather truft to time and an antiphlogifllc regimen, for the re- moval of the opacity. No mifchief can enfue from this 3 and I have loiovm in- ftances of cures being performed by it : whereas the contrary pradlice, fo far as I have yet heard, has never in any cafe ef- fedled a cure ; and it has frequently de- ftroyed the eye entirely. When, again, the operation js to be per- formed upon the right eye, if the furgeon wiflies to do it in the ufual way with the knife commonly employed, he mufl: ufe his left hand^ but as few praditioners are able to perforin this nice operation with the leftSed. XVil. Bifeafes of the Eyes. 235 left hand with fufficient fteadmefs, I have delineated a knife, fig. 2. Plate XVI. by which it may be eafily done with the right hand, while the patient and furgeon are fitting oppofite to each other in the manner I have direded : only, in this cafe, the point of the knife muft be en- tered at the internal canthiis of the eye^ and mufl then be pufhed outwards to the oppofite,fide, inflead of being introduced at the external angle and carried towards the nofe. The operation being finiflied, the eye fhould be immediately covered with a comprefs of foft lint, or old linen, foaked in a weak faturnine folution, to be retain^ ed by the bandage, fig. 3. Plate XXIX. or any other that does not comprefs the head much, or keep it too warm. For feveral days after the operation, no light fhould be admitted to the patient’s apart- ment. A very low diet fhould be advifed: And the eye being very apt to inflame,, repeated blood-lettings are frequently re- (|uifite from the jugular vein or temporal artery. P 2 As236 Dijeajes of the Eyes* Chap. XI. As this operation indeed is more apt to fail by the, fubrequent inflammation upon the cornea than from any other caufe, it requires our utmofl: attention to guard againfl: it: And as the heal- ing of the incifion depends in a great ineafure on the eye being kept at reft, every caufe of irritation (hould be avoid- ed. When the operation fiicceeds, the cure of the incifion is in general completed in fourteen or fifteen days ^ but in fome inftanees the cut continues open for feve- ral weeks. In defcribing the difterent fteps of the o- peration, I adverted to a circumftance that frequently happens when every part of it is not done with caution, and which com- monly proves very alarming; namely, the lofs of a eonfiderable part, or perhaps the whole, of the vitreous humour. By this the eye becomes flat, ,and inftantly finks within ^the orbit: But although it ought to be guarded againfl: with the ni- ceft attention, it does not always prevent the fuccefs of the operation, I have knownSe£t. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 2 37 known indeed fome inftances of the eye remaining funk and ufelefs after this ac- cident, .but moft frequently the globe be- gins foon to fill again, and in the courfe of two or three weeks it has commonly acquired its ufual bulk. Whether or not this takes place from a regeneration of the vitreous humour, br merely from the ball of the eye being all filled with an aqueous fecretion, I will not pretend to fay. The latter is the common opinion 3 but why may not the vitreous humour be renewed as readily as the a- queous ? I am inclined to think that a re- newal of the one happens as readily as that of the other, from having often obfer- ved as perfedl a ftate of vifion after this operation where all the vitreous humour had been loft, as where none of it was eva- cuated. A remarkable inftance occurred of this in a woman who had the operation perform^ed upon both eyes. The eyes were both apparently found in other re- fpeds : In one, the whole of the vitreous humour was forced out along with the P 3 cataradt,Dtfeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL 23§ cataracS, and the eye funk entirely to the bottom of the orbit; in the other, the ope- ration was performed with much accura- cy 3 the catarad: was extraded, and none of the vitreous humour efcaped. In the courfe of three'or four weeks, however, from the operation, both eyes were of the fame bulk ^ their appearance was per- fedly jfimilar, and the patient difcovered objeds equally well with each of them. This does npt indeed determine the point with certainty, as it may be alleged, that the figure of the eye being preferved by the aqueous humour, the effed produced upon vifion by the lofs of the vitreous humour cannot probably be great; but we can fcarcely fuppofe that any part of fuch an important organ has been formed in vain, I fliall now* offer a few obfervations up- on the inftruments employed in this ope- ration. Knives' of various forms have been propofed for it 3 but thofe delineated in Plate XVI. have been moft generally ufed; and of thefe fig. i. and 3. ^are the239 Se£l. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. thebeft: The firft I have ufed fuccefs- fully in various'inftances; and the latter, which I now believe to be the beft that has yet been propofed, is the knife of the ingenious Dr Richter of Gottingen. The fliape of the firft is nearly that of a fpear- pointed lancet; only the back of it is blunt, excepting a fourth part of an inch or thereby near the point, which ftiould be fharp on both edges ; and that fide of the knife which pafles next the iris fhould be fomewhat round, while the other^ is nearly or altogether flat. By this we pre- vent, as much as pofiible, any rifk of hurt- ing the iris, which is apt to happen with a knife that is flat on both fides and with both edges fharp through its whple length.. The operation has frequently indeed been performed with this kind of knife, but it is. done with more fafety with the one I have mentioned. It raufl be remembered, however, that although a knife for this purpofe fhould be extremely fharp and finely polifhed, it ought likewife to be • P4 firm;240 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. firm ; for the cornea being of a coiifider- able thicknefs, it is more difficult to pierce than thofe not accuflomed to this ope- ration are apt to imagine, and who are therefore difappointed at finding the in* flrument in ordinary ufe too fine. It ought to be at lead: as firm as a common lancet. For the purpofe of opening the capfulc of the lens, nothing anfwers better than, the flat curved probe delineated in Plate XVIII. fig. 5. The inftrument conimonly ufed for this isreprefented in Plate XXIV. fig. 2. but we incur with it a greater ha- zard of hurting the iris. But whatever inftrument is employed, it fhould be paf- fed through the pupil with much fleadi- nefs, otherwife the iris may be readily in- jured, of whatever form it may be. I have thus deferibed all the fleps of the . operation as it is now practifed, withfuch improvements as it appears to admit of: But as it is an operation of much import- ^ ance, and liable to different objections, l^veii in its prefent improved ftate, I have been241 Sed. XVIL Difeafes of the Eyes. been been led to confider it with more than or- dinary attention, and to make experirnents upon different animals with a view to ob- viate thefe 3 the refuk of which I (hall now fhortly relate, although I did not think it proper either to place any weight upon them, or evfen to mention them in the defcription of the operation 3 for, till confirmed by experience upon the human body, no conjedlure, however well found- ed it may appear to be from experiments upon other animals, ftiould be allowed to have much influence on our opinion. The mofl; material objedtions that oc- cur to this operation are thefe:—The vi- treous humour is apt to pafs fuddenly off along with the catarad:; by which the eye is in fome inftances funk fo much as never to recover its form again :—The incifion being made in the tranfparent part of the eye, the cicatrix which enfues is frequently fo extenfive as to obftrud the rays of light in their paffage to the retina ; by which vifion is often as effec- tually obfeured, as if the catarad had not242 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL been extraded:—And laftJy, the Jens be- ing often too large for palling through the pupil, the iris is frequently much in- jured by this part of the operation, when in every other refpedl it is perhaps very properly performed. In regard to the firlt of thefe, it may be alleged, that it does not occur when the operation is properly done 3 and that it cannot with propriety be ftated as an obje£tion, merely becaufe it frequently happens from awkwardnefs or inattention in the operator. It is, however, fo fre- quent, that whatever can tend to prevent it, mull be conlidered as a very material improvement. This, I think, may be in fome meafure effecSed, by the incifion being rhade in a different part of the cornea. When the opening in the cornea is made, as in the u- fua! way of performing this operation, in the moft depending part of it, ail the a- queous humour is inftantly difcharged, and the vitreous humour by this means is deprived of fupport at its anterior furface^ any243 Se6l. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. The any preffure made upon the ball of the eye by the fpeculum, or even by the na- tural action of the mufcles of the eye, is therefore very apt to force it out. Inftead of this, when the incilion is made in the upper part of the cornea, the lens may be extradted with equal eafe 3 while a confi- derable part of the aqueous humour being Hill retained by the inferior half of the cornea remaining entire, the vitreous hu- mour is neither fo fuddenly nor fp entirely deprived of the fupport which it affords, and does not efcape fo readily as in the ordinary method of performing the ope- ration. At leaft, this I have found to hap- pen in other animals^ and there is reafon to imagine that it will likewife take place, when the operation is done on the human eye. It is probable, too, that another advan- tage may be derived from the incifion be- ' ing made in the upper part of the cornea* One material objedion to this operation, when done in the ufual way, arifes, as I have already obferved, from the cicatrix induced by the incifion on the cornea.244 Dijeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL The fame extent of the cornea will no doubt be cut, when the operation Is per- formed in the manner I have mentioned; but the cicatrix being in the upper pai^t of the eye, it will not probably prove fo hurtful, as it is of moft importance for objects to be feen diftindly that lie be- neath the eye. We frequently find that patients who have undergone this opera- tion, fee every objedl much more diftind- ]y, when placed above the eye, than when viewed beneath it^ a circumftance that cannot in any other manner be fo well explained. The upper part of the cornea is cut with the fame eafe as the under pai^t of it; the fame inftruments being employed, and the furgeon, patient, and affiftants, being placed in the fame manner : Only* in this cafe the knife muft be introduced v/ith the cutting edge of it towards the upper part of the eye, the incifion being to be ex- tended in this direftion: And as the un- der half of the cornea remains undivided, the lens, on pafling through the pupil, being245 Sett. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes* being apt to be retained by it, it mufl: be cautioufly removed, either with the fcoop, Plate XVI. fig. 4.^ with a' fmall fharp hook, Plate XVIII. fig. 2. or with the fmall forceps, fig. 4. which were made for this purpofe when I was engaged in the experiments that I have mentioned. In this manner the two firft objections to this operation are in fome meafure remo- ved 5 and from all the obfervation that I was able to make of it in the courfe o-f the experiments to which I alhide, I think it probable that it will anfwer in every re- fpeCl better than any other that has yet been propofed; but as I have never put it in practice in the human eye, I cannot fpeak decifively about it. It is therefore only propofed as a hint for future obfer- vation. But although we may by this means prevent the vitreous humour from efca- ping, and may in fome meafure avoid the bad effects that ufually refult from the ci- catrix after this operation, yet the third objection remains in equal force againil it 32^6 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XL it ; the catarad: muft necefTarily pafs through the pupil, and in doing fo the iris is often Irreparably injured. As this renders the operation much more hazardous than it otherwife would be, it has always appeared to me that it would be an objed of much importance to extrad the catarad in any other man- ner that would not expofe the iris to this hazard. It may be done by opening the eye behind this membrane, initead of making the incifion in the ufual place in the lucid cornea; audit would be attend- ed with this advantage, that no inconve- nience would enfue from the cicatrix. I have performed the operation in this way on other animals ; but it has never, fo far as I know, been put in pradice on the human eye. The objedions which occu^ to it are, that the opening being made in the fclerotica, the Inflammation induced by it muft probably be great; and this coat of the eye being thicker than the tranfparent cornea, wounds made in it are commonly fuppofed to be more diffi- 3 cult.^47 Sed. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes^ cult to heal. In forae experiments, how- ever, which I made upon rabbits with a view to determine this point, no reafon appeared for this conclufion. The inflam- mation induced by an opening made in the fclerotica was not more confiderable; nor was the cure in any refped more dif- ficult than when the operation was done in the ufual manner. If the operation is ever performed in this manner, the opening fhould be made in the upper part of the eye, by entering the point of the knife about the tenth part of an inch or thereby behind the tranfparent cornea 3 and the incilion be-r ing made of a fufficient fize for allowing the catarad to pafs, the fliarp curved, probe, fig. 2. Plate XVIII. fhould be. introduced, with a view to extrad it. As the point of the inftrument Is extremely fharp and fine, It penetrates the lens with eafe, and in this manner It may be re- moved without any prefliire being made upon the eye. Having248 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XL Having thus Finifhed the confideratipn of the two operations of couching and ex- tradllrig the cataradt, before concluding the fubjecl, I fhall offer a few obfervations upon the comparative advantages attend- ing them; and fliall at the fame time mention thofe reafons by which I have been Induced to prefer the one to the other. § 4. Comparative View of the refpeciive Ad- vantages and Difadvaiitages of the Ope^ rations of Couching^ and extracting the Ca- taraCi, The operation of couching, or depref- fing the lens, was the firft that was prac- tifed for the cure of the catarad. The ex- tradion of the lens was afterwards pro- pofed, as a more certain means of remo- ving the difeafe. Both methods have had their abettors, and much has been faid In favour of each. To appreciate, there- fore, the merits of thefe operations, and toSeft. XVII, Difeafes of the Eyes. 249 to afcertain that by which our Intention may be accomplifhed fn the fafeft and ea- fieft manner, are objecSs meriting particu- lar attention. It has been objeded to the operation of couching, i.That it frequently fails, from the catarafl riling again into its ufual li- tuation. 2. That it mull always falfwhen the lens Is in a foft or liquid ftate, by the fluid contained in the capfule difperling through the eye when the capfule is open- ed by the couching needle. And, laftly, When the opacity llesdn the capfule, and not in the lens, that it cannot be cured by couching. With regard to the firfl: of thefe, it mull: be acknowledged, that the cataradl fre- quently rifes again after having been de- prefled to the bottom of the eye: But "when the lens, inftead of being pulhed down immediately behind the pupil, is carried, as I have direfled, by the point of the needle towards one angle of the eye, and lodged partly beneath the vi- treous humour, it will feldom rife again*. VoL. IV.250 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL And even where the operation fails through the fault of the furgeon, or from any other caufe, the pain attending it is fo inconfi- derable, that few patients will refufe to have it repeated once or oftener ^ and I have feldom known it faih where this has been done. The fecond objedlion may appear of more importance to thofe who are not accuftomed to operate on the eye, but it is not fo in reality. A cataract in a fluid ftate, and fpreading over the eye imme- diately on the capfule being pierced with the needle, is not a common occurrence ^ from my own obfervation I would fay, that it does not happen more than once in twenty times: But were we even to meet with it more frequently, fo far from flaring it as an objedtion to the operation, we fhould rather confider it as an advan- tage. In this cafe the violence done, to the eye is not fo great as when the opera- tion of couching becomes neceffary in all its parts from the cataradl being of a firm conflflencej a repetition of the ope« ^ rationSed. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 251 ration can never be requilite; and the milky whitenefs communicated to the a- queous humour by the difperfion of the liquid cryftalline through it, commonly difappears In a fliort time after the ope- ration.' At leafl: that it commonly does fo, is confiftent with my own experience; and the obfervation is confirmed by the teftimony of others, particularly by Mr Pott, on whofe authority we may rely with confidence. Nay farther, even when the catarad: is firm and entire, if completely fepara- ted from its capfule by the couching- needle, it almofl always diffolves in the aqueous humour, without leaving any ye- ftige of opacity; an obfervation much in favour of the operation of couching, as it obviates the objedion founded on the rifing of the catarad after it has been deprelTed: It fhows, at the fame time, that there Is little or perhaps no reafon for ever putting inpradice the propofal of Mr Pe- tit for removing a catarad which in couch- ing may have been accidentally pufhed 2 into2^2 Difeafes of tie Eyes. Chap. XL Into the anterior chamber of the eye, as time will, in moft inftances, accOmplifh without pain or hazard what cannot be done by Mr Petit’s method but at the ex-^ pence of both. The lens will dilTolve in the aqueous humour fooner or later, according, as it is more or lefs firm when feparated from Its capfule. The opacity produced by the^ difperfion of a fluid lens in the aqueous humour, commonly difappears in a few days after the operation: Cataradls of a firmer confiftence are feldom altogether diflblved in lefs than feveral weeks; in ma- ny a fmall portion of a depreffed cataradt is obferved in an undifTolved flate a good many months after the operation, and in a few after feveral years have elapfed> but this is a rare occurrence. The third objedion, of which I took notice, the alleged impoflihility of remo- ving the difeafe by couching when tho caufe of the opacity lies in the capfule and not in the lens, feems a priori to be the moft conclufive againft this opera- tion > but it will not on examination be found253 Sect. XVlI. Difenfes d/the Ejes. found to be fo. In the firfl: place, this Variety of cataradl is rarely met with: It occurs occafionally, but by no means fo frequently as to lead us to prefer one mode of operating to another for this rea- fon alone. Secondly, 1 have already obferved that this variety of catarad: cannot be cured even, by extradion. The opake capfule may indeed be forcibly torn away with inftruments pafled through the pupil, but not without doing fuch violence to the eye as mufl: ima great proportion of cafes be produdive of certain blindnefs. I may therefore, without hefitation, predid, that although this operation may be perform- ed from time to time by thofe who are fond of innovation, and who wifli to fhow their dexterity at the expence of thofe intruded to their care, that it will never be generally pradifed. Farther, although I will not fay that this variety of catarad can in every in- ftance be removed by couching, yet an attempt towards it may be made with 0^3 perfed254 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XI. perfed fafety, by endeavouring to fepa- rate and deprefs the capfule with the point of the needle. If this can be done, the operation will prove as fuccefsful as if no fuch caufe of difeafe had fubfift- ed : And when it happens to fail, pro- vided the trial is made with caution, no detriment will enfue. Befides thefe objedions, it has been fald. In oppofition to the operation of couching, that the pain and inflammation that attend it, are frequently greater than what arife from extradion^ and that the vitreous humour is more apt to be de- ranged by the needle in couching, than by the other method of operating. But neither of thefe alTertlons will be admitted by thofe who have had fufEcient opportunities of putting both operations in pradice. They know, that In general the fymptoms of pain and inflammation arifing from the extraction of the catarad are more confiderable than thofe that pro- ceed from couching: And it will be ac- knowledged by all who fpeak impartially uponSed. XVII. Bifeafes of the Eyes. 255 upon this fubje6l, that the operation of extra6lion is more frequently attended with the lofs of fome part, or perhaps of the whole of the vitreous humour, than that of couching with any material de- rangement of it. We have thus feen that the feveral ob- jections ftated to the operation of couch- ing, are not well founded :—That the ca- taract can be removed by it as effectually as by the operation of extraction:—That it is attended with lefs pain, and lefs liib- fequent inflammation 3 while at the fame time it never can occafion thofe deformi- ties that arife from a large cicatrix on the cornea, or from the finking of the eye-ball, which fometimes occurs from the lofs of the vitreous humour. But thefe circumftances alone fliould not be allowed to decide a queftion of fuch importance: The ultimate and per- manent effecfls of the two operations ought to have much weight on our opi- nion, Now, from much obfervation, it appears clearly to me, that the operation 0^4 of256 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XL of couching proves upon the whole more fuccefsful than the other; that is, vifion is as perfedly reftored by couching, and, caeteris paribus, a greater proportion of thofe who fubmit to it receive benefit, from it, than of thofe who undergo the operation of extraftion. With thofe who have not had frequent opportunities of obferving the confequen- ces of extraction it proves always a very deceiving'operation. The removal of the cataraCt is in moft inftances attended with an immediate return of vifion, much to the fatisfaClion both of the patient and o- perator: But in a great proportion of cafes, even of thofe which at firfl have every appearance of proving fuccefsful, although vifion may be tolerably perfeCl for fome time, perhaps for feveral weeks, or even for months ^ yet it generally grows more indiftinCt, till at laft the pa^ tients become altogether blind. This is the refult of my obfervation; and it cor- refponds with the event of the operation whenSed. XVII. ' Difeafes of the Eyes, 257 The when performed by various good opera- tors. The late Dr Young of this place, who pradlifed furgery for a confiderable time with much reputation, had at one period a very high opinion of this operation. In the fecond volume of the Edinburgh Phyfical Ellays, he gave an account of his fuccefs in fix cafes in which he had operated a few months before, and which at the time of writing the paper appeared to be remarkably great: But in a conver- fation with the Doctor on this fubjed: a good many years afterwards, I fpund his Opinion much changed. The Dodor’s obfervations on the confequences of ex- tradion were exadly hmilar to thofe that I had made Upon it. In the great- er number of patients upon whom he had operated, vifion was reftored immediate- ly on the removal of the catarad ^ but in nearly the whole of them the fight beg^m to be impaired in a few months froii^ the operation, and became gradually worle, till total blindnels at laft was produced.Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. 258 The progrefs of the lofs of that degree of vifion which is reftored by the extrac- tion of the cataradl, is marked by the fol- lowing appearances. Some degree of im- mobility is at firft obferved in the pupil: —It remains inadive when the eye is ex- pofed to light:—It gradually becomes fmaller; and at laft it is found to be fo much contraded, as fcarcely to appear capable of admitting a crow’s quill : — It now remains immoveable to whatever light it may be expofed, and the patient is often reduced to a worfe ftate than he was in before the operation, being even incapable of diftinguifliing light from darknefs. This unfavourable event appears to pro- ceed from the violence, which, in the courfe of the operation, is doile to the i- ris. This, it is well known, is a mem- brane of the moft delicate texture; and as the pupil through which the catarad is forced is not fufficiently large for ad- mitting the lens to pafs with eafe, thi^ can feldom be extraded but with much hazardSe6l. XVII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 259 hazard of injuring this very nice and ufe- ful part of the eye. It may be faid, that the violence thus done to the iris fliould produce an imme- diate effed: ^ and that vifion, if not hurt by it at firft, fliould not afterwards be affeded. In various cafes, the Iris is torn in diflerent places, and appears to be irregular in its contradion and dilata- tion from the time of the operation being performed; But although in thefe, as well as in other inftances where the pupil is only overftretched, blindnefs does not take place immediately > yet It Is almofl: as certainly to follow as if it had been inftantly produced. The reafon of this it is perhaps impoflible to explain: But the fad is exadly what I have mention- ed 5 and by impartial obfervers it will be acknowledged to be fo. Proceeding upon the idea of the failure of this operation depending in a great meafure upon the injury done to the iris by'the pafTage of the catarad;, and being anxious to improve an operation for which at26o Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL at one time I had a great partiality, I have offered a propofal for this purpofe.-: By making the opening in the eye behind the iris, in the manner I have propofed, this inconvenience may be avoided ; but whe- ther this mode of operating will be found to fucceed or not, future experience alone, muft determine. In the mean time, till the operation of extradion is fo far improved as to obviate- the bad effects that I have pointed out, the method of cure by depreffion Ihould certainly be preferred, as being more ea- fily performed; lefs apt to injure the other parts of the eye ^ and in moft in- fiances produdlive of'more real advantage. S ESe£l. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 261 S E C T I O N XVIII. Of the Fistula Lachrymalis. iNUOus ulcer, with hard or callous ?dges, is in general termed a Fif- tula; but authors, in treating of difeafes of the lachrymal palTages, have afExed a different meaning to this term^• Every obftruftion to the paffage of the tears from the. eye to the nofe, is commonly, though improperly, denominated a Fiftu- la Lachrymalis. A finus in thefe parts^ attended with callofity, ought alone to receive this appellation 3 but as fome com. fufion might arife from any innovation that could be propofed, I fhall avoid, as f have hitherto done, any attempt to« wards it ^ and fhall endeavour to deferibe, as clearly as poflible, the various appear- s^nces which the difeafe in its different ftages is known to affume, under the ge- neral denomination of Fiftula Lachrymar lis. An262 Dijeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. An anatomical defcription of the eye having already been given in the fecond fedion of this chapter, I fliall now refer to what was then faid of the parts con- cerned in the difeafe that we are now to confider. An accurate delineHtion is like- wife given of thefe parts in Plate XII. fig. I. b reprefents the punda of the two lachrymal duds, by which tjie tears are carried from the eye to the fac from whence they are tranfiriitted by a canal which pafles in an oblique diredion through the os unguis into the nofe, where it terminates below the os fpon- giofum inferius. I formerly remark- ed, that the os unguis is divided longi- tudinally by a kind of ridge, which at this part forms the boundary of the or- bit ; and it is neceflary to obferve, that the groove in this bone, through which the nafal dud of the lachrymal fac runs, lies altogether exterior to the orbit, be- ing feparated from it by the ridge .that has juft been mentioned. ThisSed. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 263 The This ftiort recapitulation of the anato- my of the lachrymal paffages, will |:en- der the defcription now to be given of the difeafes to which they are liable more intelligible. The fiftula lachrymalis arlfes, as I have already obferved, from obftrudtion to the paflage of the tears into the nofe^ but the difeafe affiimes a variety of appear- ances, according to the feat of the ob- ftruftion, and to the effeds produced by it upon the neighbouring parts. Thus we may readily fuppofe, that the fymp- toms produced by obftrudion in the punc- ta lachrymalia, or in the duds leading from thefe to the fac, will be widely dif- ferent from thofe which arife from ob- ftrudion in the lachrymal fac itfelf, or in the dud leading from this fac to the nofe. And again, we might, a priori, conclude, that the appearances induced by a recent obftrudion of any cf thefe parts, mull probably be very different from thofe arlfing from a long contmua- tion of the difeafe.\ 264 Difeafes of th^ Eyes. Chap. XI. The lachrymal punda, and du6ls con- nedled with them, are apt to be obftrud- ^d by burns, wounds, or whatever ex- cites inflammation in any part of them, and when the tears are thus prevented from palling into the nofe, they necelTa- rily fall over the cheek, and where^they do not become acrid, fo as to excoriate or fret the neighbouring parts, this dif- charge of tears is almofl: the only fymp- tom which this variety of the difeafe ever excites: A drynefs indeed takes place in the Gorrefponding noftril, by the want of a fecretibn which ufed to be poured into it; but this inconvenience, is nevei* of much importance. It is this variety of the difeafe only which ought to be termed Epiphora, or a watery or weeping eye; for w^hen the obftruxflion is feated in any other part of the lachrymal palTages, the difeafe that enfues is attended with fymptoms of a more painful and more important na- ' ture. WhenS'ed:. XVril. Uifeafes of the Eyes. ’265 When the lachrymal pun6ta and dudls remain open, if obftrudion takes place either in the under part of the lachrymal fac, or in the dud; leading from it to the nofe, the firft warning that the patient' receives of it is a fmall tumefadion that forms in the internal canthus of the eye, that difappears upon prelTure being ap- plied to it, by a plentiful flow of tears palling into the eye, and from thence o- ver the cheek. In this Incipient ftate of the difeafe, fome portion of the tears fre- quently pafles into the nofe on the fac be- ing comprefled^ a circumflance always to be confidered as favourable, as it Ihows that the obflrudion is not altogether com- plete. If the tears are regularly prefled out before the tumor becomes large, and before they have remained colleded in the fac fo long as to become acrid, they are in general found to be clear, and of a natural appearance when forced out from the punda. From the refem- VoL. IV* R blance266 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. blance of this fluid to the contents of hy- dropic colledtions in other parts of the body, this fiage of tho difeafe has been termed a Dropfy of the Lachrymal Sac; a diflindlion, however, of no real import - ance. When in this ftate of the obfliriidlion the patient is attentive to a proper and frequent application of preflhre, and does not allow the lachrymal fac to be over- diflended, a complete cure may either be obtained, or the difeafe prevented from giving much uneafinefs; at leaft this is always the cafe fo long as the tears re- tain their natural appearance, and while a confiderable proportion of the contents of the tumor can be preiled into the nofe. It moft frequently happens,^ however, from the patient being inattentive to the ftate of the fac, and allowing it to be o- ver-diftended, that this moft Ample ftate of the difeafe proceeds in a gradual man- ner to turn worfe :—The palTage into the aofe becomes completely obftriicfted :~ 'yiie fwelling in the corner of the eye ac- quiresSea, XVIII. Bifeafes of the Eyes. 267 quires a greater bulk, but ftill retains the natural appearance of the Ikin The tears are now with difEculty prelied out, and they are obferved not to be tranfpa- rent, but mixed with a proportion of a thick, opake, whey-coloured mucus, fome- what limilar to, but when minutely ex- amined found to differ conliderably from purulent matter. ' Even in this ftage of the difeafe the patient feldom fuffers much pain, or any farther inconvenience than what pro- ceeds from the flowing of the tears and mucus over the.cheek: at laft, however, the tumor begins to inflame, to become tenfe, red, and painful to the touch ^ and the matter prelfed out from it has now a more purulent appearance. At this period the tumor has exadlly the appearance of a common boil or ab- fcefs > and by thofe not verfant in this branch of pradtice, it is frequently con- fidered as fuch. It becomes gradually itiore inflamed tod more tenfe, till the teguments at laft burft, and form an o- Pv 2 pening268 Bijeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. pening in the moft prominent part of it, at which the tears and matter contained in it are now altogether difcharged. When the opening thus formed is fmall, it commonly heals in the courfe of a few days; but it burfts as foon as any confiderable quantity of tears and mucus is coiledted; and continues thus to col- led and burft alternately, till the open- ing becomes fufficiently large to prevent any farther colledion. This ftate of the difeafe exhibits exad- ly the appearances of a finuous ulcer, with callous, and fometimes with retort- ed, edges, conftituting what is properly termed the Fiftula Lachrymalis. Tears, mucus, and purulent matter, are now a- bundantly difcharged from the fore. When the bone beneath is found, this difcharge is feldom either acrid or ofien- jfive to the fmell 3 for the .opening being in general in the under part of the tumor, the matter is difcharged almoft as ipeedi- ly as it is foim d 3 but when any of the contiguous bones are canons, they are notSe6t. XVIIL Difeafes of the Eyes. 269 .not only found to be fo by the the intro*- duction of a probe, but by the appear- ance, fmell/and effedts of the matter up- on the neighbouring pares. In this cafe, it is thin, fetid, and commonly fo acrid as to fret and corrode the teguments mofl contiguous to the ulcer: And when the difeafe is connedted either with fcrophula or lues venerea, an occurrence by no means unfrequent, the difeharge and ap- pearances of the fore are different accord- ing as it happens to be combined with one or other of thefe difeafes. I have thus deferibed the different fymptoms of this affedlion, and the pro- grefs which it ufually makes from the firfl: formation of obftrudion in the lachry- mal paffages, to the more advanced flages of the difeafe 5 and it is highly neceilary that praditioners fhould be acquainted with the different appearances which the various ftates of it afford ; for the method of cure belt fuited to one period of the difeafe, is frequently unfit for, and indeed altogether inadmifiible in others. R 3 From270 Difeajes of the Eyes, Chap. XL From the hlftory given above of the rife and progrefs of this difeafe it is evi« dent, that in every infhance it originates from obftmdiion in fome part of the la- chrymal palTages : The cure muft there- fore depend upon the removal of this ob- ftrudion ; but the means of elFedling this will vary according to the nature of the caufe by which it is produced, and to the particular ftage of the affeftion, as well as of the part in which it is leated: Our prognofis muft likewife be direded by at- tention to thefe points; for we may rea- dily conceive, that a cure will be more ealily and more certainly obtained in the cafe of a-recent obftrudHon, where the bones are yet perfe£liy found, and where there is no fufpiclon either of fcrophula or lues venerea, than in oppoiite circurn- fiances. When the obflrudlion is induced by the venereal difeafe or by fcrophula, and efpecially when the os unguis and other contiguous bones have become cari- ous, nothing will prove effedtnal till the general taint of the conflitution is remo- a- ved ;SecS. XVIII. Bifeafes of the Eyes. 'lyt ved ; and even then a weeping eye or a frequent flow of tears over the cheek ve- ry commonly enfucs: But when the fiftula lachrymalis arifes, as it moft frequent- ly does, from inflammation of the la- chrymal paflTages, induced either by cold, by the meafles, or any inflammatory af- fection to which the eyes are liable, if it has not, continued fo long as to hurt the bones beneath, we may in general give a favourable prognofis: For in fuch circum- ftances, a due perfeverance in the fmeans to be now pointed out, though not always^ is yet very commonly attended with an entire removal of the difeafe. Again, when obltrudtions are induced in the lachrymal canals by tumors in the contiguous parts, which they fometimes are, particularly' in cafes of polypi in the nofe, where the tumour by prefling upon the inferior extremity of the nafal du6l is apt to produce a floppage to the flow of tears, the prognofis muft in a great mea- fure depend on the practicability of re- moving the excrefcence ^ for till this is R 4 accomplifhed.2J2 ^ Difiafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI., accompliflied, nothing efTectual can be done in the treatment of the fiftula la^ chrymalis^ The lachrymal fac and dudts are lined with a mucous membrane, fimilar to the membrane that lines the nofe ; with which it Is connedled, and of which in- deed it appears to be a continuation. In a healthy ftate of thefe parts, the nafal du6t of the lachrymal fac will eafily ad- mit a crow’s quill; a fize perfedlly fuffi- cient‘for allowing a free palTage of the tears Into the nofe: But when this mem- brane that lines the du£l becomes infla- med, as the fulnefs or fwelling thus pro- duced mufl: diminilh the diameter of the canal, obftru(9;ion proportioned to the vio- lence of the inflammation mufl: neceflarily form in it. I particularly mention the nafal dudt, as it is in this duct that the obftru6lion producing the mofl; frequent variety of the difeafe Is feated, owing to its near contiguity to the nofe ^ by which, in cafes of violent catarrh, inflammatiop. Is apt to-.SetS. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 273 to be communicated to it from the mem- brane of the nofe: But obftrudion to the flow of tears into the nofe will juft as cer- tainly take place from inflammatiqn feated in the duds leading froni the eye to the lachrymal fac; and the principles upon which the method of cure proceeds muft be nearly the fame in both. When the difeafe proceeds from Inflam- mation, we fliould depeiid chiefly on fuch remedies as prove moft effedual in inflam- matory affedions of other parts of the bod,y. General and local blood-letting fliould be prefcribed in quantities propor- tioned to the ftrength of the patient, to- gether with laxatives and a low diet ; and a faturnine folutlon fliould be applied to the part affeded, either in the form of a poultice, or upon comprefTes of foft linen. In this manner, when the means are time- oufly employed and duly perfifted in, ob- ftrudions arifing from this caufe are fre- quently removed 3 but when the parts have been long in an inflamed ftate before any remedies were ufed^ it often happens thatj2 74 Diftafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. that a cure cannot afterwards be accom- 4)lifned even by the moft complete remo- val of the inflammation: For, as inflamed parts, when kept long in contadl, are every where apt to adhere, fo the fides of the lachrymal paffages, when much inflamed, very readily unite together; by which a very obftinate" variety of the difeafe is produced ; and which fliows, in a ftrong point of view the propriety of treating all fuch affedions with the utmoft atten- tion from the beginning : By doing fo, we -frequently have it in our power to pre-^ vent the formation of this obftrudion, and which nothing but a very painful operation can afterwards remave. When the obftrudion is ieated in the punda lachrymalia, or in the duds lead- ing from thefe to the fac, and when it Is found to continue after the inflammation which gave rife to it is removed, we are to endeavour to remove it by inferting a fmaii probe into each pundum, fo as to pafs it along the courfe of the duds into the lachrymal fac. In this manner the openingSea. xyill. Difeafes of the Eyes. 275 opening may be rendered pervious, and may be afterwards preferved by injeding, twice or thrice daily with a fmall Tyringe^ a weak folution of alum, faccharum fa- turni, or white vitriol 3 and by keeping at other times fmall filver or leaden probes , conftantly Inferted, till the fides of the duds become callous, the tears will thus find a free paffage to the fac, by which a cure will be obtained. This is no doubt a very nice operation ; but whoever is verfant in the anatomy of thefe parts, and accurately acquaint^ ed with the courfe of the lachrymal duds, will feldom find much difficulty in effeding it, ,The probes reprefented ini Plate XXL figs. 5. and 6. and the fy- ringe and fmall tubes in Plate XX, figs. T. 5. and 7. are the inftruments to be employed for it. In obflrudions of thefe duds, it has been likewife propofed to pafs a fmall cord or feton from the punda through the la- chrymal fac into the nofe, and to allow it to remain till the paflage becomes callous. But, I276 Difeafes of the Eyts. Chap. XI» But, befides the difficulty of effedling this, there is much reafon t ^ think that it would do more harm than good, as the frnallefl; cord that could be introduced would cre- ate much inflamjmation and pain. The obftrudtion, however, is moft fre- quently feated in the du6t leading from the fac to the nofe, forming a variety of the difeafe, that requires a more complex method of treatment. When induced by inflammation, a ftridl antiphlogiftic courfe, fuch as I have pointed out, will frequently remove it; but when this happens to fail, either from the difeafe having been im- properly treated from the firfl, or from any other caufe, other means fhould be employed. I fhall therefore fuppofe, that all fymptoms of inflammation are remo- ved ^ but that the nafal du6t ftill remains obftruded; that it is attended with a flight tumefaction in the internal canthus of the eye, along with a frequent flow^ or difcharge of tears over the cheek ^ and that the Ikin covering the fwelling ftill retains its natural appearance. ThiaSed. XVIIT. T>ifeafes of the Eyes. 277 This is the mofl: limple ftage of the dif- eafe. It is neither attended with pain nor with any material deformity or in- convenience ; and with no great atten- tion patients frequently prevent it from ever requiring the affiftance of furgery. By the lachrymal fac being preffed from time to time v/ith the finger, the contents of it are difcharged before they become acrid ; and although this will not accom- plifli a cure, it will in general render the difeafe very fupportable; and in this ftage of it, fo far as I can determine from my own experience, nothing farther fliould be attempted. Various means have indeed been recommended for elFeding a complete cure oft this ftage of the dif- eafe, but as they are all tedious and pain- ful, and efpecially as they are by no means certain, as long as a watery or weep- ing eye is the only inconyenience that oc- curs from it, a prudent pradlitioner will rather advife a patient to fubmit to this, than undergo the pain, confiiieait nt, and uncertainty, of an operation. As a iixfli attack278 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XI. attack of inflammation would be apt to reader the difeafe worfe, he will advife him to aToid expofure to cold, and what- ever might tend to induce an inflamed ftate of the eye and neighbouring parts; and in the mean time he will defire him to truft to gentle preflure alone for ob- viating any effecSs that might ^nfue from the obftrudion. For the purpofe of applying preflure to ' the lachrymal fac, various machines have been invented 3 the moft convenient form of which is reprefented in Plate XIX. fig. I. by which any neceflliry degree of compreffion may be continued with eafe and without interruption. But, as we are no\V fuppofing that the nafal duel of the lachrymal fac is completely ob- ■ftrucSed, and that no part of the tears can be forced into the nofe, no benefit caai be derived from a continued courfe of preliiire ^ and as any advantage to be ob- tained from the pradice is found to acrue with equal certainty from the finger be- ing applied from time to time on the courfeSe6l. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 279 coiirfe of the fac, I have always, in this ftage of the idifeafe, been accuftomed to depend upon»this alone. The other meansthat have been recom- mended for the cure of this ftage of the fiftula lachrymaftis, are, the intrododtion of a probe into the nafal dudi of the la- chrymal fac, with a view to force open the obftrudlion :—The injedling of wa- ter or any other inild liquid, for the fame purpofe:—And, laftly, it has been pro- pofed to introduce a quantity of quick- filver into the fac, through the lachry- mal pundla, the v/eight and fluidity of which being flippofed well iltted for ma- king it pafs through any ordinary degree of obftrudliom Mr Anel, a French pradlitioner, was the firft who brought to any perfedlion the method of introducing a probe, or the point of a fyringe, into the lachrymal fac: but although any one acquainted with the anatomy of thefe parts, may acconi- plifh this in a found or pervious ftate of the lachrymal paifages, yet in an obftrudt- ed28o Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. ed ftate of the nafal du6t it can fcarcely be done ^ and, even when efFe£led, it is not found that fo much advantage is de- rived from it as was at firfl: expecSted. Two modes are propofed for effeding this operation: In the one, a fmall probe, or tube of a fyrlnge, is inferted at one of the lachrymal pundla; and being infiniia- ted along the courfe of the CGrrefponding du6l, it is in this manner palled into the fac, and from thence we are directed to carry it through the nafal dud into the nofe: Or, when this cannot be fully ac- compliflied, we are defired to force an opening through this dud by an injedion thrown in with a fyringe inferted at one of the punda. The fyringe above men- tioned, with the fmall correfponding tubes, as delineated in Plate XX. is the in- ftfument recommended for this purpofe. By the other mode of doing the opera- tion, a curved probe, or tube, of a lar- ger fize, fuch as is delineated in fig. 4. of the fame Plate, is to be inlinuated in- to the noftril of the difeafed fide 3 and the I pointSe<a. XVIII. DifeafesoftbeEyes. 28I point of the inftruinent being palled in beneath the edge of the os fpongiofum in- ferius, it is there to be ealily moved about till it meets with the termination of the liafal dud; of the lachrymal fac, from whence it is cautioully carried forward till it pafles into the fac itfelf* Different objedions, hbweVer, occur to thefe operations. The punda lachryma- lia are fo very fmall, that no probe or fy- ringe can be palTed through them of a fufficient lize for removing any obftruc^ tion in the nafal dud. And although a fyringe of a larger lize may in a date of health be introduced through the noftril dlredly into the nafal dud itfelf, in a dif- eafed Hate of thefe parts, it can feldom be done but with much pain and difficulty. In obftrudions of this dud, as they very commonly arife from inflammation com- municated from the membrane of the no- ftrils, the difeafe often commences in the extremity or termination of the canal; fo that it is always difficult and often im- poflible to introduce a probe or fyringe VoL. IV. S, intOLDifeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XI. 282 into it I and if the operator is even fo for- tunate as to accomplifli this, it always re- quires fome violence to force it into the lachrymal fac. Hence a good deal of pain is excited, by which the du6l and fac are both apt to become, inflamed : fo that, inftead of any advantage being derived from the practice, much mifchief is apt to enfue from it. The propofal of curing this difeafe by injedions, is very ingenious 3 but, for the reafons I have mentioned, it will feldom I imagine be of much real utility. We are indeed told, that it will often prove effedual in cafes of flight obftrudion; and that all the pain and uncertainty of the ordinary means of cure may thus be pre- vented. But when an obftrudion is com- pletely formed, it is altogether inadmif- fible, from the impoffibility of introducing a. probe ^ and whenever the ftoppage of the tears is only partial, there will be much rifle of doing more harm than good, by the irritation, pain, and confequent inflammation induced by the operation. 3 InSed. XVIII. DifeafesoftheEyes, 283 In fuch circumftances, the patient fhould rather fubmit to any inconvenience attend- ing the difeafe than to uncertain trials of this kind. For the fame reafons that the palling of a probe, and of injections, into the la- chrymal pallages-, can feldom if ever prove ufeful, the introdudlion of quicklilver im to the lachrymal fac will likewife proba- bly fail : Where obftruction is already formed, it will not be able to remove it^ and unlefs obftructlon takes place, no at- tempt of this kind is indicated. The practice, however, is ingenious 3 and as it may be done with more eafe, fo it is lefs exceptionable than the ufe of probes or injections. In the early ftages of the obftruction, I have frequently paffed injections from the puncta lachrymalia into the nofe ^ but although this proved always fatisfac- tory at the time, I have not found that any real or permanent acjvantage has en- fued from it; for although I have now done it in upwards of fifty inftances, S 2 andDijeafes of the Eyes. Cfiap. XI^ and In many of thefe liquids were daily palled along the lachrymal paflages for fe- reral weeks together, yet in none has the difeafe been removed by it.—The liquids that I employ, are warm-water, rofe-wa- ter, and weak folutions of faccharum fa- turn I. I have thus defcribed the modes' of treatment ta be advifed in this the moft limple ftage of the difeafe; but I mull again obferve, that as long as a watery or ^ weeping eye, with perhaps a flight occaiional tumefadion in the in- ternal canthus, is the only inconveni- ence that it excites, nothing Ihould be advifed but the application of moderate preflure from time to time with the finger. But whenever the difeafe arrives at fiich a height as to produce either much pain or deformity, a different treatment is re- quired. When the tumor in the angle of the eye becomes large, inflamed, and pain- ful, as the colleded matter foon becomes fliarp and acrid, the contiguous bones are aptSed. XVIII. Bifeafes of the fyes. ±8^ apt to be injured, if the matter is not quickly difchar^ed* In fuch circumftances, a perfon not ac« quaiuted with the anatomy of the difea- fed parts, and with the, caufe of the tu- mor, would be induced to tri^fl: entirely to an opening being made in it fufhcient for difcharging the mattet*: For in this ftate of the difeafe, it alFumes exadly the appearance of a common boil or abfcefs > ^nd therefore this method of treatment might be confidered as proper and applir cable. But although fom.e temporary ad- vantage might thus be derived from the difcharge of the matter, as the caufe of the tumor would not be removed, a per- manent cure it is evident would not take place. We are here fuppofing that the difeafe originates from obftrudion in the nafaf dud leading from the lachrymal fac« It is clear, therefore, that the fae only be- ing laid open, will be attended with no farther benefit than that of producing an immediate difcharge of its contents 3 for while the tears are conveyed ipto it by S 3 _ the286 Difeafes of the Eyes, Chap. XI. the pun6la and lachrymal duds, if they do not find a free paiTage into the nofe, they mull necefiarily be either difchar- ged by the opening newly formed, or, if this is allowed to heal, they will again colled and produce a tumor fimilar to the firft. In this fituation, therefore, our views muft'be—Todifcharge the contents of the fwelling—To procure-a free difcharge in futyre for the tears from the lachrymal Xac into the nofe—-And to prevent the dud from being again obliterated* And this being accomplilhed, the external opening mult be healed up. While the tumor continues firm and hard, it ought not to be opened, as this wo’-ld not only excite more pain, but die parts beneath could not be fo free- ly examined as they otherwife might be. As long, therefore, as much hardnefs continues, a warm emollient poultice Ihould be kept conftantly applied to 'it^ and as foon as it becomes foft and com- prellible, it may be opened with freedom. ' '■ - OnSe£t. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 287, On account of the contiguity of the eye, and of the infertion of the orbicularis mufcle, to make an incifion into the lach- rymal fac, has in general been confider- ed as.a nice and hazardous operation, and particular diredions have be,en given, not only for the figure and fize of the inci- fion, but for difcovering the exad fite of the fac. There is no caufe, however, for an- xiety upon this point ^ for the fituation of the fac is always afcertained with preci- fion by the tumor itfelf, which is formed, as I have already obferved, by tears, and mucus colleded in the fac; fo' that any incifion that difcharges this colledion muft for certain reach the fac. Neither does the form of the opening make much difference in the hazard attending the ope- ration. A femilunar cut has commonly been recommended^ not only with a view to render the opening larger, but in or- der, as it is faid, to avoid with certain- ty the tendon of the orbicularis mufcle. There is no rifl^, however, of this ten- S 4 , don288 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL don being injured if the incifion is made where it ought to be, viz. in the moft prominent and moft depending part of the tumor j and it is eafier done with a common lancet than \yith any other in- ftrument. The point of the lancet fliould be puflied into the upper part of the tu- mor, freely into the fac, and carried down- wards in a flraight direction to the moft depending part of it. A few fibres of the orbicularis mufcle which are inferted into and fpread over the lachrymal fac, will indeed be divided by the incifion^ but no inconvenience is found to enfue from this. And a flraight cut, fuch as I have dhedted, admits of a yery free ex- amination of the parts beneath, at the fame time that it ferves to evacuate more effedually than any other the tears and mucus colleded in the tumor. An opening being thus formed, the con- tents of the fwelling are to be forced out by moderate preilure; a fmall doflil of foft lint fpread with emollient ointment fliould be inferted between the lips of th^ fore.Seft. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 289 fore, and a flip of moderately adhefive plaller may be employed to retain it. As a plentiful difcharge commonly takes place, it is necefTary to renew the dref- fings daily i and with a view to preferve the opening of a fize fufEcient for admit-r ting of a free examination of the parts beneath, inftead of a doflil of lint, a fmall piece of prepared fponge may be inferred into the fore every fecond or third day ; but as the fwelling of the fponge, by the moifture applied to it, tends to irritate and inflame the contiguous parts, it ihould previpufly be covered with a Angle ply of piled foft linen, which does not hinder it to fwell, at the fame time that it allows it to be more eafily withdrawn; for the purpofe, however, of removing it more readily, a piece of fl:rPng waxed thread ‘fliould be attached to it. In former times it was the common pradlice, after opening the tumor, to en- deavour to dellroy the hard edges of the fore, either with the a dual or potential cautery, or with ointments impregnated with2 go Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. with red precipitate, and other efcharo- tics. By this thp patient was made to fuffer much unneceflary pain^ more de- formity was produced,; while the chance of a cure was much lefs than when milder drellings are employed. Indeed the only way In which a cure can be effedled with fuch treatment, is the total obliteration of the lachrymal fac and du6ls connedled with it. Thefe being either deftroyed, or a confiderable degree of inflammation induced upon them, their internal fur- faces were fometimes made to adhere to- gether on prelTure being applied to them. Tills, however, could not frequently hap- pen ; for while the pundla lachrymalia and du£ls connedled with them remained open, the tears ftill finding accefs to the parts beneath, would neceflarily produce frequent returns of the difeafe; and when by the violence of the inflammation thefe duels happened to be obliterated, ftill the patient would be liable to a conftant trick- ling of the tears over the cheek. This idea, therefore, ought never to be kept in yiew.Sedl. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 291 view. Inftead of efcharotlc applications, the mildeft dreffings only Ihould be em- ployed 3 nor fhould the doflils of lint or fponge that I have advifed, be of fuch magnitude as to produce much pain ; all that is expedled from them being the dilatation of the lachrymal fac, by which we are enabled to fearch with freedom for the commencement of the » du6l leading from the fac to the nofe. In this manner any hardnefs remaining in the edges of the cut will foon be re^ moved ^ and the fore being fufhciently cleared of a tough vifcid kind of mucus, fomewhat refembling floughs, with which, for a few days after the operation, it is always covered, we are now to proceed to the moft important part of the cure, the fearching for and forming a free paifage for the tears from the lachrymal fac to the nofe. This part of the operation is effedl- ed in different ways: By clea!ring the natural dud: leading from the lachrymal fac through the groove in the os unguis into2^2 Bifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. mto the nofe : Or, when this proves to be impradticable, by forming an artificial opening into the nofe diredlly through the fubflance of this bone from the un- der and back part of the lachrymal fac. As unnecellary violence ftionld always be .avoided, we Ihould firfl; endeavour, by every probable method, to difcover the natural conduit of the tears, and to re- move the obftrudtion formed in it. For this purpofe, a firm round-pointed probe, or the curved inftrument, Plate XXV. fig. 2. fhould be inferted into the bottom of the lachrymal fac 5 and if the point of it can be inferted into the com- mencement of the nafal dudl^ fome hope may be entertained of the paflage being made pervious: Some degree pf force will be neceflary indeed for effeiSing this 3 but whenever it can be done, which often happens, by the probe being puflied forward in a proper diredion with mode- rate prefliire, it ought always to be pre- ferred to every other method of treat- ment. p TheSed. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 295 The paffing of the probe Into the nofe is the moft difficult as well as the moft uncertain part of this operation ^ for when this is accompllflied, we are in general able to preferve the opening, by keeping a piece of bougie, ca^tgut, or lead-wire conftantly inferted into it, till the paflage of the du(3: Is rendered fufficiently clear. But It fometimes happens,^ that ail our trials for the difcovery of the nafal dud: prove ineffedual. Much force, however, fhould never be employed; for, as the point of the inftruinent will more readi- ly be puflied againft the bone than into the dud, it would be more apt to do harrn than good. When it enters the fuperior part of the cai;ial with eafe, it may with fafety, and with fome probability of fuc- cefs, be puffied forward in the manner I have mentioned y but when the dud is ob- literated through its whole courfe by the hdes of it adhering together, an occur- rence, however, which I now believe to be lefs frequent than I once fuppofed it to be, it would be highly improper^ for the reafon294 ' Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. reafoh I have given, to ufe any violence in endeavouring to deted it. When, therefore, all our trials for dif- covering the natural palTage between the lachrymal fac and the nofe prove unfuc- cefsful, as we know that a cure will not be obtained if the tears be not conveyed into the nofe, our views muft now be fole- ly diredled to the formation of a’n eafy and free artificial opening for this pur- pofe. In the anatomical defcription that I premifed of thefe parts, we have feen that the pofterior part of the lachrymal fac is lodged in and attached to a groove in the os unguis; and as the fac is feparated from the cavity of the correfponding no- ftril by this bone only, it is evident that an opening made frotn the back part of the fac mull ferve to convey the contents of it into the nofe. It is this part of the operation that we are now to confider. I have already obferved that the adual cautery was formerly employed for de- ftroying the hard ecjges of the fore, and asSed. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 2 93 as it was a prevailing opinion with almofl: all the praditioners of the la'll and pre- ceding centuries, that the fiftula lachry- malis was almofl always connedled with a carious flateof the correfponding bones, the cautery was likewife ufed for affifting in the exfoliation of the difeafed parts. In confequence of this, a cure was fometimes accompliflied by a remedy that was em- ployed only for the removal of Vv^hat they confidered^ as an accidental occurrence, and not as a caufe of the difeafe: For the os unguis being extremely thin, ahot iron call fcarcely be applied to it without de- flroying the fubfiance of it entirely; and as this happened in fome inflances, a cure was obtained even where the pradlitioners who employed the remedy were totally ignorant of the manner in which it adied; for as they were unacquainted with the real caufe of the difeafe, from their igno- rance of the anatomy of the parts con- cerned in it, any cures that they perform- ed mufl have been more the effedl of acci- dent than of delign on their part. It ^2g6 - Difeafes of (he llyes. Chap. XL It is furprifing, however, to find even in later times, when the caufe of the difeafe is well known, and when the prin- ciples of the operation are founded on an exad knowledge of the parts affeded, that the fame method of treatment has been continued. Till of late, the adual cau- tery was very commonly employed by the heft furgeons of this country, for per- forating the os unguis. Even the cele- brated Chefelden patronifed this method ; and it is ftill pradifed in feveral parts of the Continent, With all the caution, however, that can be employed, of covering the hot iron with a canula, or wet clothes, it is an uncertain and dangerous pradice ^ fof parts muft be deftroyed by it, or at leaft much injured, which ought not to be hutt, as it is impoflible to convey a red-hot iron to the o's unguis, and to deftroy part of this bone, which alone ought to be perforated, without doing mifehief to the contiguous parts. TheSe6l. XVIII. Difeafes of the fyes^. 297 The cautery ought therefore to be laid afide^ and .this the more readily, as the' fame intention can be accompliflied with equal certainty, and with more eafe and fafety, in a different mariner, merely by forcing a firm fliarp mflrument, of the form and fizc of the common trocar, from the back part of the fac through the os unguis. A curved inftrument of this kind has commonly been employed, fuch as is reprefented in Plate XIX. fig. 5. but the ftraight trocar, delineated in the fame Plate, fig. 2. anfwers better. -With this inftrument, the opening through the bone may be made, either by twirling it round between the fingers; by moving it for- ward and backwards with the fingers or palm of the hand; or by pulhing it ftraight forward; and the furrounding parts may be protected, at the fame time that the inftrument is more fteadijy fixed than it otherwife can be, by palling it through a canula, fuch as is delineated in the fame Plate, fig. 4. VoL. IV. T In298 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL In proceeding to this part of the opera- tion, the patient’s head fhould be fup- ported by an affiftant; and the furgeon, fitting or {landing between him and the window, • fhould introduce the canula of the trocar into the opening made in the tumor; and the end of it being carried to the under and back part of the fac, it fhould be kept firm in this fituation with one hand, while the flilette is inferted in- to it with the other: The point of the flilette: mufl now" be pufhed firmly but flowdy forward in a proper diredion into the noflril, and we know that it has en- tered that cavity as foon as a difcharge of blood is perceived to take place from it. In making the perforation, a proper diredlon to the courfe of the flilette is a point of the firfl importance, and there- fore merits the greatefl attention. If turned in any degree outward, or in- clining towards the eye, it would pe- penetrate the orbit;—pofleriorly, it would pafs into the ethmoid bone;—and if pufh- ed in a horizontal diredion towards the nofe^Sed. XVIH. Difeafesof theEyer. 299 nofe, the os fpongiofum fuperius would be injured, while the intention of the ope- ration, that of affording a free paffage for the tears into the nofe, would be en- tirely fruftrated. In order to avoid thefe inconveniencies, the inftrument fhould be pufhed on towards the nofe in an oblique diredlion downwards from the inferior part of the lachrymal fac. Care Ihould be taken, however, not to endeavour to follow the courfe of the natural paflage of the tears, as by fome we are direded to do^ for in this manner we would not only injure the maxillary bone, but the opening here could not be made fo free and large as in that part of the os unguis where the lachrymal fac terminates, and where the commencement of the nafal dud takes place. ' On the inftrument having got into the noftrilj it fhould be moved with fome freedom; not by carrying it farther in, as this might injure the parts within the nofe; but by giving it a free rotatory mo- tion, fo as to render the opening made T 2 with300 Difeafes of the Eyes^ Chap. XE- with it fufficiently pervious : This being done, the ftilette fhould be withdrawn,: when a lead probe, fully equal to the lize of the canula, Ihould be introduced,, and then the canula fliould be taken out. One end of the lead fhould pafs freely through the opening in the os unguis, and^ the other muft project about the eighth, part of an inch or thereby pafl the level of the external fore.^ With a view to pre- vent it from flipping altogether into the nofe, this projedling part of it fhould be fomewhat curved after the canula is with- drawn. The fore fhould now be covered: with a fmall pledgit of lint fpread with emollient ointment, and the whole may be retained with a flip of adhefive plafter; for no bandage can be adapted to thefe parts but with much inconvenience and diflrefs. In this manner the operation is com- pleted ; but much attention is necef- fary on. the part of the furgeon to pre- ferve the opening, and to prevent it from- filling up in future. With this view, the lead-Seca. XVI];i. Bijeafes of tie Eyes. .301 iead-probe muft be continued for a confi- derable time, in order to render the paC- fage as callous as poflible, care being ta- ken to withdraw it every day or two for the purpofe of clea^ring it and the fore from any impurities;^ and at each dref- ling a quantity of infufion of oak-bark, a folution of alum, or any other aftringent, fliould be injedled with a fmall fyringe from the external opening into the nofe. The fyringe, fig. i. Plate XX. anfwers this purpofe praperly. No certain period can be fixed, at which we can fay the paffage will be fufhciently callous, and at which the lead-probe may be withdrawn 3 for this will in fome mea- fure depend upon the conftitution of the patient, as well as on the particular ft ate of the parts themfelves. . In fome in- flances, it may poflibly be done with fafety in a fhorter period ^ but I have ne- ver ventured on taking k away till the eighth or ninth week has elapfed, com- monly not fo foon. The inconvenience attending it is inconfiderable ^ and we are T 3 to302 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. to remember, that the fuccefsful iflue of the operation is to depend greatly on due attention to this part of it 3 for if obftruc* tion Ihould afterwards occur, either from the opening in the bone filling up with callus, or from the fofter parts adhering together, the patient will foon be in the fame difeafed ftate as before any attempt was made towards a cure. On withdrawing the lead, the external opening Ihould be cleared from any mu- cus with which it may be fluffed 3 and as by this time it will be reduced to a very fmall fize, it will foon heal merely by laying the fides of it together, and co- verin'g it with a piece of adhefive plafler: Or, when this does not prove effedlual in a few days, touching the edges of the fore with cauflic will in general complete the cure quickly. In the mean time, mo- derate preflure fhould be applied upon the courfe of the lachrymal fac, either with the finger of the patient frequently pla* ced upon it, or by means of the ma- chine, Plate XIX. fig. i. And this fhould be continued, till there is reafon to fup- pofeSe6t. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 303 pofe that the fac and contiguous parts have again recovered #the tone of which they were deprived by the long conti- nuance of the difeafe, as well as by the operation. What I have Taid with refped: to the propriety of continuing the lead-probe for a confiderable time, and of applying prefliire afterwards on the courfe of the fac, is equally applicable when the natu* ral palTage of the tears has been difeover- ed as when an artificial opening is formed in the manner I have advifed. Indeed more attention is necellary to this point in the one cafe than in the other; for we find by experience, that the difeafe is more apt to return when the operation is finifhed by the tears being carried through the nafal du6l, than when an artificial opening is made for them ^ owing, as I imagine, to a wider and more free pafTage being commonly formed by this lafl: me- thod of conducSing the operation. Inftead of a probe of lead, fome pradli- tioners employ a piece of catgut or'com- mon bougie 3 but neither of thefe anfwers T 4 the304 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap; XL the purpofe fo well. They are more dif- ficult to introduce;—they retain the mu- cus of the part, and therefore are not fo cleanly)—they are apt to be entangled by the newly divided bone; and they do not prove fo effedlual in rendering the paflage callous as the ocher. I have thus defcribed the different fleps of the operation ; and the pradlice I have advifed is fuch as experience has proved to be the moft fuccefsful. It mull indeed be acknowledged, that it does not in eve- ry inftance fucceed ; for cafes frequently occur which render fruitlefs every at- tempt that can be made for curing them. After performing the operation in the moft fatisfadory manner; when the paC- fage for the tears has been rendered com- pletely pervious ; and even where exter- nal preftiire has afterwards been conti- nued in the moft attentive manner; the difeafd is fometimes found to recur. In fiich inftances, however, we conclude,, that fcrophula, or feme other difeafe of the conftitution, takes place; by which alone, or by the contiguous bones being 1 carious.Sed. XViri. Difeafe^ of the Eyes. 305 carious, this operation, when properly performed, can be rendered abortive. It may fometimes indeed fail by too fmall an opening being formed in the os un- guis ; but this is the fault of the operator, and not of the operation. There is no caufe for timidity on this point: For al- though it has been alleged that mifchief may enfue from breaking this bone with the trocar, yet daily experience tends to prove the contrary^ for even where it has been broken with much freedom, I never knew any inconvenience arife from it. In order to prevent the bad confequen- ces which thofe not accuftomed to this o- peration have fuppofed would occur from the fplintering of this bone with a trocar, it has been propofed to take out a piece of it entirely with a fliarp cutting in-, ftrument, fuch as is delineated in Plate XVIII. fig. 3. ‘ By applying this inflrument to the os unguis, in the manner that I have diredted for the ufe of the trocar, a portion of the bone may be eafily cut out ^ but there is no3o6 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. no neceflity for this precaution. The o- peration is more effedually done with the trocar 3 and as no danger is found to en- fiie from it, it ought to be preferred. In the treatment of this difeafe, when it is unfortunately found to return even after the operation has been properly per- formed, if it appears to arife from a ca- rious ftate of any part of the contiguous bones, a cure may yet be accomplilhed by laying the tumor again open^ by en- deavouring to accomplifli an exfoliation of the difeafed bone ; and by afterwards forming another opening in the os unguis in the manner I have directed, if the open- ing made by the feparation of the exfoli- ated pieces of bone ftiall not be fufficient. But when a relapfe takes place, without fome obvious caufe of this kind, as. any opening we might form in the bone would probably be obliterated by a continuance of the fame difeafe of the fyftem by which the firfl: attempt was rendered fruitlefs, it could anfwer no purpofe to repeat it, were it not with a view to make trial of a dif- ferent mode of operating. 3 ItSed. XVIII. > Difeafes of the Eyes. 307 It was propofed a confiderable time ago by different pradlitioners, to obviate the uncertainty attending this operation, by introducing a fmall canula of gold or fil- ver, either through the natural paflage of the os unguis, or through an opening made with a trocar ^ and by leaving the canula, and healing the ikin over it, thus to form a paffage which no difeafe of the confti- tution could a<5t upon. By thofe who con- fider the ulual operation for the fiftula lachrymalls as very uncertain, it has been propofed to employ a canula of this kind in every cafe; but as this operation, when properly performed, proves for the moft part completely fuccefsful, and as patients in general confider it as a fevere meafure to have any extraneous body left in a wound with a view to remain, I would not advife it in any cafe till we have found by expe-. rience that the other will not fucceed. In every cafe, however, where the uliial o« peration has failed, the method of cure by a canula ought to be tried; and when properly performed, it will often fucceed. Tubes30’8 Difeafesof theEyes. Chap. XI-^ Tubes for this purpofe fhould all be of gold, as being lefs apt to be, injured by the fluids of the part affected than any other metal; and much care fhould be taken to have the canula* well poliflied, and as exa6tly fitted as poflible to the parts in which it is to be placed. When properly fitted, it gives little pain, even from the time of being introduced, and at Jafl it frequently fits with perfed eafc. In Plates XX. XXV. and XXVI. difFer- ent'forms are delineated of thefo tubes^ but of thefe fig. 5. and 6. Plate XXV. as recommended by Mr Pellier, are the beft. They are of a length that experi- ence has fhewn to anfwer in the mofl part of adults 3 and their diameter fhould be as large as the opening in the bone can admit, with a view to prevent, with as much certainty as poflible, the tears and mucus that may pafs into them from flopping them up. The proper length of the tube is obvi- oufly a point of the firfl importance in this operation. For, if too fhort, it will fail by the under part of it being apt to beSedt. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 309 be plugged up with the lining membrane of the nofe, and if too long, by the end of the tube being prefled againft the fep-- turn nafi on the oppoflte fide of the noftriL This laft objedtion appears to apply to the tubes of Mr Wathen, which, in one cafe in which they w ere tried here by my friend DrWardrop and me, proved unfuccefsful„ chiefly from this caufe ^ and as Mr Pel- lier’s tubes,which are confiderably fhorter than Mr Wathen’s, have anfwered in eve- ry cafe in which I have known them ufed,, I conclude that in this refpedt, as I be- lieve they are in every other, preferable to thofe of Mr Wathen. As the diredtions; given for the ufe of Mr Pellier’s tubes in the enfuing fedlion, are fufhciently fully I fhall now refer to them ^ and diredlions I for thofe of Mr Wathen will be feen in the explanation of Plate XXVI. in which the tubes, that he recommends are delineated* In defcribing the progrefs of the difeafe, I had occafion to obferve that the tumor in the corner of the eye, when it inflames and fuppurates, proceeds at laft to a ftate of310 Bifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL of ulceration. This circumftance, how^ ever, does not point out any difference in the method of treatment; only in this cafe, inftead of ufing a lancet for laying the fac more freely open, an incifion fhould be made with a fcalpel upon a di- redor introduced at the ulcer. In every other point the cure is to be conduced as I have already advifed, by rendering the natural palfage of the tears pervious when this is found to be practicable; and, when this cannot be accompliflied, by making an artificial opening through the os unguis. When, again, the os unguis and other contiguous bones are found to be carious, the fores fhould’ be preferved open till the difeafed parts are all removed ; when, if a large enough opening is not formed for the paflage of the tears, by the pieces of bone which have been taken away, it may now be made,, and all the other fleps of the operation completed in the manner I have already pointed out. In local af- fections of thefe bones, a cure may thus be in fome inftances accompliflied; but whereSed. XVIII. Difeafes of the Eyes. 311 where the caries depends upon a venereal taint, as is not unfrequ^ntly the cafe, al- though a well conducted courfe of mer- cury may cure the general difeafe of the conftitution, it is feldom able to prevent very extenfive exfoliations of the difeafed bones ; by which, the natural paflage of the tears being deftroyed, and the bones through which they lliould be conveyed, being either altogether removed, or per- haps rendered perfedly flat, they muft in future pafs entirely over the cheek; for in fuch circumilances art can afford no relief.Difeafes of the Eye^. Chap. XI. 312 SECTION XIX. Additional Remarks on Difeafes of the Eyes. IN the preceding fedHons of this chap- ter, the difeafes of the eyes were fo fully treated of,' that it was not my intention to fay any thing farther upon them; But a foreign oculift, Mr Jean Francois Pel- lier, having appeared in this country, where he defervedly acquired much repu- tation, I judged it proper in the former editions of this work, to communicate fuch parts of Mr Pellier’s pradice as appear- ed to be of importance. Pollefling the advantages of a liberal education, a found judgment, and much experience, Mr Pel- lier has been enabled to fuggefl: improve- ments in the treatment of almoft every difeafe to which the eyes are liable; and an uncommon degree of fteadinefs, con- joined to a quick eye-fight, give him a commandSeel. XIX. jbi/eafes of the Eyes. P3 command of himfelf and a facility of o- perating not often attained. I think it proper likewife to remark, that Mr Pel- lier communicated his knowledge of the difeafes of the eyes in the moft candid manner; which puts it in.my power to^ lay his obferyations before the Public, he having given me permiffion to do fo. While, by giving an early account of material improvements, I thus acquit my- ' felf of an obligation to the Public, I at the fame time embrace, with much fatif- faftion, the opportunity which it affords of announcing the merit of an operator, who, although a ftranger, and at yet not much known in this country, is perhaps one of the beft oculifts now in Europe. In the firft place, J fhall mention what I have learned of Mr Pellier’s pradHce ; and fhall then offer fuch remarks as occur to me upon it. On the fubjedt of the cataradl his ob- ' fervatrons are particularly valuable^ By attentive examination, he can almofl in every inflance fay whether a cataradi is. VoL. IV. U hard.314 Bifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI^ hard, fomewhat foft, or altogether fluid and as his' method of operating varies ac- cording to tliefe elrcumltances, it is of importance to be able to determine a pri- ori with regard to them* He can alfo af* certain whether a cataradl ia of a large or fmall fize ^ by which he is often di- redled in the different fteps of the ope- ration. I know that thefe are circumftances which pradlitioners in general confider it as impoflible to judge of with precifion, particularly with refpe€l to the confifl- ence of catarad:s ^ and I muft acknow- ledge, that I was clearly of this opinion, till of late that; I was convinced of the contrary, not by Mr Pellier’s aflertions alone, but by different proofs of the fadt. I ^aflifted Mr Pellier in different cafes^ v/here the cataradl was extradied : In all of them he previoufly foretold the coil- liftence and fize af the cataradt with per- fedl confidence ^ and in every iiiftance his prognofis was precife and accurate* I am credibly infermed, too, that this hap-rr ' j- eaedSed. XIX* Difeafes of the Eyes, 3 pened with other practitioners in whofe prefence he operated in different parts of this country. He diftinguifhes feveral varieties of ca- tarad, which in pradice ought to be kept in view. . The three principal varieties that he mentions are, the true or curable catarad; the mixed or doubtful klnd^ and the falfe or incurable. 1. What he terms the curable or true catarad, is known by the pupil retaining its natural power of contrading and dila- ting in full perfedion, while the pa;:ient is at the fame time able to diftingullh the light of a candle, or of any other luminous body, and even certain bright colours, fuch as red, green, &c. 2. The mixed or doubtful catarad, is at- tended with a weak feeble contradion and dilatation of the pupil, and the patient can fcarcely diftinguifh light from darknefs. Along v/ith an opake date of the lens, this isTuppofed to be attended with an af- U 2 fedion3i6 Hifiafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL^ fe6Hon of the retina, or of fome other part of the eye. 3. In what he terms the falfe or incu^- rable catarad,^, along with an opake ftate" of the lens^ there is' evidently a difeafed ftate of the pupil, which remains Immove- able to whatever degree of light it may h& expofed, at the fame time that the patient does not diftinguiffi between the moft bril-- liant light and perfedt darknefs. Gataradls may be either fimple or com- pound, or they may be complicated with other affedlions., 1. A fimple cataradl is a mere opacity of the cryftalllne lensj all the other parts of the eye remaining perfedly found. 2. A catarad is faid to' be of a com^ pound nature, when blindnefs is producei by an opake ftate of the body of the leiis, of the liquor which furrounds it, and of the capfule. 3. The difeafe is confidered as com- plex, when it is conjoined with other af- fedions of the Internal parts of the eye 5,. the moft frequent of which is amaurofia. 1%317 Se<3:. XIX, Difeafes of the Eyes, It is not unfrequently, top, attended with a diflblution of the vitreous humour, and fometimes with an opake ftate of iu This variety of the difeafe Is for the mofl; part produced by violent inflammation. It is eafily diftlnguiflied by thofe accuftom- ed to an attentive examination of the eye^; and it is particularly neceifary for opera- tors to be well acquainted with it^ for no operation, ^either extradlion nor depref- lion, fliould be ever advifed for it. The operation has never in any inftance of this kind of catarad been known to Suc- ceed ; and for the mofl part, Mr Pelller obferves, it is produdive of very dread- ful pain, and the mofl: violent degree of inflammation that he ever met with. In general, too, the pain and inflammation thus induced femain fixed and perma- nent, without yielding in any degree to the remedies employed for it. Catarads are fometimes too attended with an imperforated iris^ in v^hich cafe, as no light can pafs to the bottom of the eye, no degree of vifion takes places and Uj atBijeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. 3i8 at othfer times they arCv complicated with adhefions, either to the iris, or to the capfule of the vitreous humour. Preter-r natural adhefions of the lens to the cap- fule of the vitreous humour can fcarcely be diftingulflied by the eye; but they are very commonly met with v/here the dif- eafe has been originally produced by, or attended with, much inflammation; and they always render the operations of ex- tradion and couching difficult. It is this kind of adhefion, Mr Pellier imagines, which prevents the operation of couching xrom fucceeding fo frequently as it other- wife might do; for when it takes place in any degree, the catarad, fie fuppofes, will always rife again on the needle being removed from it. In forming an opinion of catarads from the real feat of the difeafe, different cir- cumftances require attention. I. It often happens, as I have already remarked, that the lens only is affeded.— This variety of the difeafe is moft frequent, MrSeftu XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes* 3^9 Mr Pellier pbferves, in adults, and efpe- cially in old'age. 2. When the opacity is feated in the eapfule of the lens, if the anterior part of it only is difeafed, it appears to be re- markably white, and to be placed very contiguous to the iris; while, on the con- trary, if the pofterior part of it only is affedled, it is commonly of a grey co- lour, and the opacity appears to be deep- iy feated. It fometimes happens, both after the operation of extradion and couching, that in the courfe of ten or twelve days, the capfule of the lens, which at firfl was perfedlly found, becomes quite opake.— This variety of the difea.fe Mr Pellier terms the Cataradte Secondaire. 3. When the body of the lens and its capfule are both opake, the c^ttarad is commonly foft or even altogether fluid, in this cafe, much care is required in the operation to prevent the capfule from burfting: A degree of nicety, Mr Pellier obferves, which thofe not much accuftom- ed320 Di/eafesof theEyes. Chap. XI. ed to this branch of pradllce can feldom aiTive at, but which is very pradicable with operators of experience. ♦ 4. In fome inftances, cataracts appeal- to proceed from a partial ajSeftion of the lens, fmall opake fpots being obferved in it, while the reft of it remains found. In this cafe, vifion is always moft perfed: in an obfcure light when the pupil is moft dilated. In forming an opinion of the confift- ence of catarads, three circumftances par- ticularly require attention. 1. When a catarad is of a firm confift- ence, it is in almoft every inftance of a brown colour; it appears in general di- redly behind the irisj not fo deep as the lens is ufually placed 3 and the pupil di- lates and contrads very flowly. 2. A fluid or foft catarad is not com- monly white, but rather of a cream co- lour, fomewhat refemblin'g purulent mat- ter 3 and for the moft part in this variety of the dileafe, the globe of the eye ap- pearsSeft. XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes. 32I pears full, and fomewhat more prominent than ufual. 3. It fometimes happens, Mr Pellier obferves, that along with this fluid ftate of a catarad:, the capfule is much thick- ened. To this he gives the appellation of the Cyftic Catarad. The colour of a catarad is another point of importance. 1. I have juft obferved, that a foft or fluid catarad is for the moft part of a cream colour ^ but in that variety of the difeafe fometimes met with in children at birth, although it is always fluid, the colour is almoft always a rnilk white. In general, however, at other periods of life, a white catarad is of a firm, cheefy confiftence. 2. When a catarad is yellow, a fmall portion of the^ lens. often Remains hard, tlie reft of it being diffolved into a thin tranfparent fluid, forming that variety of the difeafe ufually termed the Hydatid Ca- tarad. 3. Although322 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap, XI. Mr 3. Although a black catarad is not a frequent occurrence, Mr Pellier fays he has mejt with it in different inftances. The onlj difeafe for which it may be inif- taken is the gutta ferena; but with due attention, the one may be diftinguilhed from the other. In the gutta'ferena the difeafe for the mofl part comes on fud- denly, the pupil is of a deep black, it remains immoveable in every degree of light, and the patient cannot diftinguifh Gololirs, or the cleareft light from perfecl darknefs ^ w^hereas, in the black cataracl, the accelfion of blindnefs is commonly flow and gradual 3 the pupil, to a certain degree, contrafls and dilates on bein^ ex- pofed to light. The bottom of the eye is of a dark colour, but not of fuch a deep black as in the gutta ferena f and the patient can .diftinguifh light and vivid colours. In fhort, the fymptoms of this variety of the difeafe are exadly the fame with thbfe of the common catarad ; on- ly, inftead of being white, the opacity is black.SecS. XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes. 3^3 Mr Pellier prefers the method of cure by extraction, excepting in a few cafes where the pupil is uncommonly fmall, when he operates by depreffion." He al- ways prepares his patients for the opera- tion, by confining them to a low diet for five or fix days 5 by giving two or three dofes of falts and fenna; and when ple- thora prevails; he takes a\vay ten or twelve ounces of blood. In extracting the cataract, he makes the incifion of the cornea in the ordinary place and of the ufual fize ^ but he has fome peculiarities in his method of doing it. Inftead-of placing his patient with his face oppofite to a clear light, he feats him with his fide towards it. If he is to operate upon the left eye, he ufes his right hand, and the right fide of the patient is placed towards the window. He always ufes his left hand in operating upon the right eye ^ and in this cafe the patient is made to fit with his left fide towards the light. The324 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. The patient being feated with the eye that is not to be operated upon tied down with a bandage, an afliftant fup- ports his head behind, while at the fame time he fixes the eye with the fpeculum, fig. 5. Plate XXII. The figure repre- fents the inftrument of the full fize. It is made of wire ; and it may either be of gold, filver, or any other metal. The head being fixed by prefling it againfl: the breafl; with one hand under the chin, the afliftant takes this inftrument in the others and placing the round curvature of one of the ends upon the upper eye-lid imme- diately behind the cartilaginous border of the eye-lid, he muft by gentle gradual prefliire upon the eye-ball, .fix it above, ^hile the operator with the fore and mid- dle fingers of his left hand, when the ope- ration is to be done upon the left eye, muft fix it below, at tfie fame time that he draws down the under eye-lid. In ufing this fpeculum the upper eye-lid is forced almoft entirely into the orbit, but it im- mediatelySedl. XIX, Difeafes of the Eyes. 325 m^'diately returns to its natural fituation on the inftrument being withdrawn, , The eye being thus fixed, the knife^ fig. I, Plate XXII,. fixed in its handle,^ muft be put into the operator’s right hand^ who now divides the cornea in the ufiial manner: But when the point of it comes oppofite to the pupil, if the capfule of the lens is to be divided, Mr Pellier has arrived at fuch dexterity in this operation, that he plunges the point of the knife through the pupil into the lens; and with- drawing it gently, he carries the point of it forward to the oppofite fide of the eye, and finifhes the operation in the ufual way. But in making the latter part of the incifion, he is very attentive to the prefiure made by the fpeculum, which he defires the ailHlant to remove entirely be- fore the incifion is completed, in order to prevent the vitreous humour from efca-, This being done, the eye-lids are im- mediately fliut; and while they are in this Hate, a flow, gradual prefiure is made upon326 ' Difeafes of the- Eyes. Chap. XI, upon the eye-ball, with the flat end of the inflmment which he terms a Curette, fig. I. Plate XXV. which for this purpofe Is placed immediately above the tarfus of the upper eye-lid. As the accefs of ^ light to the eye is thus prevented, the pupil remains In a ftate of dilatation, by which the lens is more eafily prelled out than it otherwife could be; and if the preflhre.be applied in a cautious-manner, no part of'the vitreous humour is ever forced out. When the cataradl does not come out entire, which is fomecimes the cafe,^or when it is found to adhere to the conti- guous parts, the end of the curette is in- troduced through the pupil, and any ad- hefions that take place are gradually fepa- rated^ at the fame time that any detached pieces of the lens are turned out through the opening in the cornea: Or, inftead of the curette, the ciftatome, figi 3. Plate XXIV. is fometiraes employed for fepara- ting fuch adhefions. 3 InSe(S. XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes. 327 In the courie of this operatioa, it fome- times happens that the iris is forced toa much forward into the anterior chamber of the eye, or even altogether through the incilion In the cornea. With a view to prevent the bad effeds that might refult from this, Mr Pellier infinuates the flat fide of the curette into the wound in the cornea, fo as to prefs the iris into its natural fituation. This is the ufual method* In which Mr Pellier performs this operation; but cir- cumftances fometimes occur that require fome peculiarity of management.. The moft material of which are thefe : When he has reafon to conclude that the catarad Is in a fluid ftate without any opacity of the capfule, inftead of making any open- ing into the cornea of the ufual fize, he introduc es a fiiarp-poi nted knife, fomewh at convex on the back,, into the inferior part of the tranfparent cornea at a proper di- ftance from the iris; and having made an incifion of about thfe tenth part of an inch in length, he puflies the point of the inflru- ' merit328 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. ment upwards till it comes oppofite to the pupil, when he carries it cautioully on till it reaches the lens; and having now made an opening in the capfule fufEcienly large for difgharging the fluid contained in it, he withdraws the inftrument with the fame caution with which it was introdu- ced, and in this manner the operation is finiflied : The catarad being in a flatc of fluidity, it pafles gafily off without any prefliire. When, again, along with a Toft or fluids catarad, there is reafon to fuppofe that any part of the capfule is ppake, or even where the capfule alone is fuppofed to be difeafed, he carefully avoids opening it or burfting it in the courfe of the operation: In either of thefe events, he fays it would be with difficulty extraded. He therefore by flow gradual preflurc with the curettCy in the manner I have mentioned, forces out the lens, contained, as he imagines, in its capfule or cyft; and he does it, he fays, in every inftance without forcing out any part of the vitreous hupioui% In fome I cafesySed. XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes. 329 cafes, however, he finds it necelTary to introduce the end of the curette through the pupil, and to feparate the capfule of the lens from the contiguous parts ^ but even this, he fays, does no harm to any part of the eye. The irnportance of ouf being able to judge from the appearances of a catarad, of the real ftate of the difi eafe, is therefore fufficiently obvious, from the difference which this variety of it re- quires in the method of conduding the operation. In extrading the cacarad, it is a matter of the firft importance to avoid the iris with the knife ; but as this is extremely difficult in eyes that are not prominent, Mr Pellier often employs a knife with that fide of it convex which pailes next to the iris. One of thefe inftruments is reprefented in Plate XXIL fig. 2. In every other refped this knife is the fame with that which he ufes in ordinary cafes, reprefented in fig. i, of the fame plate. In the courfe of this operation, it fome- times happens that the aqueous humour VoL. IV^ X efcapes330 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. efcapes in too great quantity before the point of the knife is carried acrofs the eye fo as to penetrate the oppofite fide of the cornea: When this takes place, which it often does when the hand of the operator is not perfedly fteady, as the iris is apt to pafs in before the point of the inftru- men t, Mr Pellier advifes the fharp-point- ed knife to be withdrawn, and the other with the probe* point, fig. 3. to be intro- duced at the opening in the cornea ; and the point being flowly carried over to the oppofite fide of the eye, an inclfion is there to be made, either with the other fliarp-pointed kfiife or with a common lancet,' fufficlently large for letting out the blunt" point of the other ^ when the operation is to be finiflied, by pufhing it forward, and making a femi-circular in- cifion in the ufual way In the under part of the cornea. ^ As foon as the cataradl is extradled, it h the common pradlice to prefent a watch or fome other objedl to the patient, with a view to difcover the fuccefs of the ope- ration,,Sed. XIX. Difeufes of the Eyes. 33^ ration. In fome inftances Mr Pellier has been forced to confent to this, but he does not approve of it. Inftead of this, he im- mediately clpfes the eye-lids, and covers each eye with a fmall bag of foft old li- nen or cotton about half filled with foft fine wool. Thefe bags are applied dry, and are fixed with pins to a .circular ban- dage of old linen palled round the fore- head, which again is kept firm In its fitua- tion by a flip of the fame linen made tt> pafs beneath the chin and over the upper part of, the head ; care being taken to fix them both with pins to the night-cap be- low. The patient is now to be undrelTed, and with as little exertion as polfible Ihould be laid in bed, upon liis back, with his head low: In this fituation he is defired to remain with as little variation as polfible^ during the firlt fix or eight days^ as it tends more than any other he can be pla- ced in to a fpeedy cure of the wound in the cornea. If the patient is not low and emaciated, Mr Pellier always adviles X 2 - eightDifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XIl* 332 eight or ten ounces of blood to be taken^ in the courfe of a few hours after the ope- ration. He keeps the patient upon a low diet, and gives fmall dofes of opiates from time to time, which anfwer better* than a large dofe at once, which often ex- cites licknefs and vomiting,fymptoms that by all means Ihould be guarded againft; for nothing fo readily hurts the eye after this operation as the exertion of vomiting, couching, and fneezing* For which rea- fon he does not admit of tobacco being, ufed in any form, for the firll eight or ten days. An eafy ftool is procured daily, and on the fourth or fifth day the drellings are removed y when after clearing the eye of any mucus or matter that has formed on it, and the eye-lid being cautioufly lifted,. to examine the flate of the wound, the fame kind of bandage is applied again. From this time forward the drefling hr- renewed every fecond day, and in ten or twelve days from the operation the eye fhould be bathed before the new bandage: is:Se<9:. XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes, ' 333 is applied, with a weak faturnine folutlon^ but till this period warm milk and water is confidered as preferable. About the end of the third week the bags of wool, after having been gradually leifened, are ta- ken away, and a piece of green filk put over the eyes inllead of them. If no unufual interruption occurs to the cure, the diet is now made gradually better ; and when the operation has been perform- on one eye only, Mr Pellier commonly allows the patient to go abroad at the end of the fourth week, but never fooner; and even then the eyes are directed to be v/ell covered : But when both eyes have been cut, he advifes a confinement of at leafi fix weeks. This is the plan of treatment which Mr Pellier purfues in ordinary cafes ; and he attributes much of the fuccefs with which his operations are attended to a rigid ob- fervation of thefe regulations. But where there is a particular tendency in the fy- iiem to inflammation, remedies of a dif- ferent kind are required. X3 The334 Difeajes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. The eye becomes in fome cafes fo much inflamed even in the cotirfe of a few hours from the operation^ that one blood-letting is not fufficient., In this cafe he advifes leeches to be applied to the temple and contiguous parts ^ and if a fecond or third general evacuation is neceflary,he directs the blood to be taken from, the foot, as by experience he finds this to prove more fuccefsful than taking it from the arm or neck. The patient is deflred to drink plen- tifully of Arabic emulfion, with a large proportion of nitre. The pediluvium frequently repeated he finds proves life- ful. And^ for the removal of that violent pain which Inflammation fupervening to this operation commonly excites, nothing that has yet been tried, he thinks, anfwers fo well as a liniment compofed of the white of an egg and powdered alum beat for a confiderable time together: A ligtle of which ftiould be applied to the eye every two hours between two plies of foft old linen. Befides affording relief from p^in, it tencfs more effedually than any 3 , otherSed. XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes. 335 other remedy to flop the progrefs of in- flammation^ infomuch, that Mr Pellier employs it in every cafe as foon as the eye begins to inflame. Inftead of alum, he fometimes adds to the white of an egg three grains of white vitriol, and the fame quantity of faccha- rum faturni -diflblved in a fpoonful of rofe water; and the whole being well beat to- gether till it puts on the appearance of white froth, a little of this is inferted between the eye-lids with a fmall pencil three or four times a-day, at the fame time that the eye-lids are covered with a fmall bag of thin linen in which fome of it is contained. When the heat and pain attending the inflammation begin to abate, he advifes a poultice compofed of a ripe apple well boiled, with the water prelTed out of it, and a fmall quantity of camphor and powdered falFron added to it. By perfevering duly in thefe means the inflammation is commonly at laft remo- ved. In fome inftances, however, .the X 4 reverfe336 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL reverfe of this takes place, and notwith- ftandlng the utmoft attention, all the fymptoms become worfe; the veflels of the tunica conjundiva become turgid; the eye -lids fwell to a confiderable iize; and. the pain, which before was fevere, is now infupportable. In this fituation, nothing has any effed in flopping the progrefs of the inflammation but local blood-letting carried to a confiderable extent by inci- fions made in the affeded parts. For this piirpofe the mere divifion of the tur- gid vefTels with a lancet or fmall fcalpel fometimes anfwers; but in general it proves more fuccefsful to take away fmall portions from different parts of the inter- nal furface of the eye-lids with fmall con- vex fciffars, fuqh as is reprefented in Plate XXII. fig. 4. This, Mr Pellier obferves, feldom fails of giving immedi- ate relief: he has never found that it does harm afterwards, and the flate of the eye being very critical, no remedy fhould te omitted that affords any chance of obviating the prefent danger j for if r this337 Sed. XIX, bifeafes of the Eyes* this is not quickly done, fuppuratlon will foon take place either in the coats of the eye, or in one or both of the chambers, by which the power of vlfion is very com* monly entirely deftroyed. When matter is evidently formed, a frequent ufe of warm emollient fomen- tations, applied particularly to the eye by means of a funnel of pafteboard, or of any other fubftance, will fometimes pro* duce a flow dlfcharge of it at the incifion in the cornea: But when this does not fuc- ceed in the fpace of a day or two, no more time fliould be lofl;^ the matter fliould be difcharged by an incifion, made in the moft depending part of the abfcefs, when feated in the fubftance of the cornea ^ Dr, by opening the lips of the incifion made for extradiing the cataraft, when the col- ledlion is in either of the chambers of the eye. By this means the patient will be immediately relieved from pain, while at the fame time it will give him the only chance of preferving the ufe of his eye. During338 Difeafes of the Eyes* Chap. XI. During the firfl: two or three weeks af- ter this operation, a kind of herniary fwelling is apt to form in the eye, by the Iris or fojme other part being forced out at the opening in the cornea, either by, violent coughing, fneezing, or fome other effort p and in fome Inftances, by expo- ling the eye too foon and too frequently before the cicatrix is fufEciently firm for refifting the prefliire thus produced upon it. When the tumor is fmall, it may commonly be removed by touching It fre- quently with a fmall pencil dipped in Goulard’^ extrad: of lead, concentrated by evaporatlom, or in any mild antimo- nial efcharotic ^ an attempt, Mr Pellier obferves, that may be made with fafety, if care be taken to prevent the cauflic from hurting the reft of eye, by touch- ing the difeafed part only, and iminer- ling the whole eye immediately in warm milk, or In fome warm emollient decoc- tion. But when the difeafe is farther ad- vanced, and the tumor firm and folid, it ^ anfwers better to remove it entirely either withSed. XIX. Bifeafes of the Eyes. 339 with the fcalpel or fciflars; or if it ap- pears to be any part of the aqueous hu- mour contained in a thin membranous production, as is fometimes the cafe, all that is neceflary is, to make an incifion into it with a lancet of a lize fufhcient to difcharge what it contains. It is fcarcely neceflary to obferve, that after either of thefe operations, the parts mufl: be treat- ed with much attention, otherwife, much harm would arife from it. A ftric^l anti- phiogillic reginien mufl: be obferved. The eye Ihould be lightly covered, either with a fmall bag, fuch as I have mentioned a- bove; filled with foft wool, or with a comprefs of old linen foaked in a weak folution of faccharum faturni. Mr Pellier’s method of extracting the oatarad, which I have thus endeavoured to defcribe, with his treatment of the confequences that fometimes enfue from h, is the refiilt of much experience, and ufually proves more elFedual than any other with which we are acquainted. Much of Mr Pellier’s fuccefs undoubted- ' ' • ly340 jyifeajes of the Eyes. Chap. Kh ly proceeds from his fuperior dexterity in performing the operation ^ but much of - it alfo depends upon the minute attention that he gives to every cafe for a confider- able time after the operation. In ordi- nary pradice, and efpecially with the moft part of itinerants, it is commonly fuppofed, if the operation is properly performed, and if the catarad: comes a- way eafily, that little more is required of the operator; but it is much otherwife with Mr Pellier, who confiders the after treat- ment as fo eflential, that he commonly declines to operate where he cannot have the fubfequent management of the cafe for two or three weeks: And by conftant and afliduous attention, he is often able to obviate fymptoms that would otherwife prove alarming; and which often might even render operations abortive, which would otherwife prove Completely fuc- cefsful. This I had various opportuni- ties of obferving. In the preceding fediou, I entered In- to a full difcuflion of the relpedive me- ritsSe£t. XIX, Difeafes of the Eyes* ^41 rits of the two operations of couching and extracting the cataradt; and I then endeavoured to eftablifh the preference of the former : But if experience fliaH Ihow, that Mr Pelller’s method of operating is attended with more permament advan-- tages, I fliall be very ready to retraCt my opinion^ for which purpofe, I fhall care- fully attend to the confequences of thofe operations that he has performed in this country ^ and as the public will probably be interefted in them, I fliall at fome fu- ture period perhaps communicate the Invent of them. There are two points'of importance In this operation, with refpeCl to which I differ in opinion from Mr Pellier. When he confiders it as proper to divide the capfule of the lens, he frequently does it, " as I have already obferved, by inlinua- ting through the pupil the point^ of the fame knife with which he makes the incl- lion of the cornea, even before the inci- flon is completed. This342 ' Difeajes of the Eyes. Chap. Xf. This may poffibly be done with fafety by fuch a very dexterous operator as Mr Peliier : But as moft pradtitionefs, by imi- tating him, would run the rifle of hurt- ing the iris, the pradlice fliould not be encouraged; for when the capfule of the lens is to be divided, it is furely better to do it after the incifion of the cornea Is finiflied, by lifting up the flap, and paf- fing in the end of the blunt probe repre- fented in Plate XVIIL fig. 5. or of the ciftatome, Plate XXIV. fig. 3. The other point to which I allude re- Ipedls the pradficabllity of extradling the capfule of the lens^ without doing any material injury to the eye. When the cataradl appears to be of a firm confiftence^ and when the difeafe is fuppofed to be confined entirely to the lens itfelf, Mr Peliier frequently opens the capfule in the manner I have juft de- feribed, with a view to allow of a more eafy extradlion of the lens; and in this cafe he admits that the capfule remains in the eye : But when he finds, after an operation,Se6l. XIX* Difeafes of the Eyes* 343 operation, that the capfule of the lens becomes opake, or if he obferves that any part of it has been previoufly in a Hate of opacity, he advifes it to be can- tioufly extradled with fmall forceps : And again, in every cafe where he fufpedls the catarad to be fluid, forming what he calls ,the Cyftic or Hydatid Cataradl, he avoids the divifion of the capfule, and advifes the lens to be taken out included in it ^ which he fays may be done in the manner I have mentioned, .by making an equal and gradual prefTure upon the ball of the eye immediately after the divifion of the cornea; or by feparating any ad« hefions that take place between the cap- fule of the lens and the contiguous parts, with the curette, Plate XXV. fig. i. pafled through the pupil. I have not indeed feen Mr Pelller ex- tradl the capfule of the lens, after removing ^ the lens itfelf; for no cafes requiring it occurred during his refidence kere : I re- ceived, however, full information of his method of doing it, by introducing fmall forceps344 Difedfes of the Eyes. Chap. XI,^ forceps at the pupil. But as I cannot ima- gine how this can be done without in- juring the eye materially, I mufl: ftill re- tain the opinion I advanced of it in a pre- ceding fedlion, till I have evident proofs of its being pradifed with advan^ge. And whenever thefe are offered, I fhall receive them with much fati^fadion, as it would in many inftances be a material improvement of this operation. We have now to confider the poffibility of extrading the capfule entire along with the lens : Several praditioners in this country had opportunities of feeing Mr Pellier extrad catarads, as they fuppofed, in this fituation. I faw him operate in two inftances of this kind, where he as well as feveral others imagined that the real capfule was taken out along with the lens 5 but as I entertain a different opi- nion on this fubjed, it is proper to ftate the reafons which have led me to adopt it. I. The capfule of the vitreous humour^ and that which contains the lens, are fo intimately34S Sed. XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes. intimately conneded together, that it Is difficult, or perhaps impoffible for the heft anatomift to determine whethef they are fepkrate produdions or not: 'At leaft they are fo intimately connected, that they ap» pear to be formed of the fame fubftance, the cryflalline lens being furrounded with a coat which feems to be a thlii lamella of that which forms the eapfule of the titreous humour. The contrary, I know, has been alleged ; but whoever will make the expeririient, will find that the eapfule of the lens has exadlly the appearance that I have mentioned. It appears to be a production of the other ^ and they cannot be feparated without tearing or de- ftroylng foitie part of one or both of them: Now, if this is the cafe when the con- tents of the eye are all laid open, and when all the affiflance can be got that nice dif- fedion affords, it appears to me Impoffi- ble that they fliould be feparated in the operation of extrading the catarad with- out injuring the reft of the eye, and par- Vox. IV* Y ticularly346' Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. Xli ticularly the vitreous humour, very ma- terially. 2i 111 performing this part of the ope*» ration, viz. in attempting to extract the^ capfule of the lens entire, Mr Pellier does it by means which Jo not appear ade- quate to the intended effed. He does it in moft inftances, by making a gradual equal prefliire over the ball of the eye, , and not by the Introdudion of forcepSo Now, it Is difficult to conceive in what manner preflure applied to the eye can feparate that intimate connexion which certainly takes place' between the capfule of the vitreous humour and that of the cryftalline lens : By preflure they are fre- quently both forced out; but no operator would wifli to meet with this, and no per- fon guards with more anxiety againfl it. than Mr Pellier, infomuch, that the efcape of the vitreous humour, or even of any part of it, is an occurrence he rarely meets with. In fome cafes indeed Mr Pellier infinuates his curette, as I have already remarked, through the.pupil, with a view" to?' *•347 Sed,uXIX. Bifeafes of the Eyes. to detach the capfule of the lens from the contiguous parts : He allows^ however, that this is not always neceilary ^ and be^ lides, there is much caufe to fufpedl that the eye would often be hurt by it. 3. When it is found, however, as I have already obferved, either during the ope- ration or afterwards, that the capfule of the lens is opake, even Mr Pellier him^ felf does not attempt to extradl it by pref- fure. In this cafe he does it with for-^ ceps pafled through the pupil. Now, if prefliite anfwers in one variety of the difeafe, it ought probably to d© fo in O- thers, fo that the ufe of forceps fliould not be neceflary 3 but it is only in the hy- datid or foft cataradt which Mr Pellier allows that this pradtice by preffure fuc* ceeds. 4. But as feveral pradlitloners, both here and elfewhere, have feen Mr Pellier extradl the cataradt, furrounded, as they imagined, with its proper capfule 5 and as he aflerts with confidence, that it may be done merely by preflure 5 it will be Y 2 alked,34^ Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XH» afked, In what manner Is this apparent’ contradidHon to be explained? I canac-’ count for It only on the fuppojGtion of there being In all fuch: cafes, where thisr pradice of extrading the capfule"^ entire/ is confidered as admiflible, a preternatu- ral formation of a new membrane within' the capfule of the lens^ which being of a firmer nature than the capfule itfelf, and probably very little, if at all, attached to the contiguous parts, we can eafily fee how it may be forced out entire,, evemby moderate prefliire,, and how- eafily by- ftanders may be deceived with it. When I firfl: faw it done by Mr Pellier, as he previoufly faid that he would extrad the whole capfule along with the lens ^ as I had; heard from very refpedable authority thats he had done it in different inftancesimGlafi' gow 3 and as. I certainly faw the cryftal^ line puftied out, furrounded with a mem-^ branous bag, I muft own that I was near- ly converted to Mr Pellier’s Opinion : But on further confideration, the reafons I have mentioned againft it appeared toa conclufive^.‘S€d. XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes. 349 cisnclufive, even for' this weight of evi- dence, to remove^ and fince that period, a circumftance has occurred, which with me puts the matter beyond a doubt. A catarad: of a foft nature was extraded by Mr PeHIer, furrounded with this mem- brane or bag quite entire. From the firfl: I doubted much of its being the proper capfule of the lens, as it was fald to be : For this tunic is well known to be exceed- ingly fine and delicate; whereas this wa^ a membrane of a tolerable degree of firm- nefs, which required fome force to tear it. The patient, however, diftinguiflied objeds immediately after the operation 5 and what was then advanced concerning it could not be well refuted : But by fome caufe or other, pollibly from the eye be- coming inflamed, an opacity foon began to form in the old fite of the cryftalline, diredly behind the pupil, forming to all appearance a real catarad ^ arid it now continues even after the inflammation is removed. Whatever explanation may be given of this by thofe who are inclined to Y 3 fupport35^ of the Eyes. Chap. XL fupport the contrary opinion, it proves to me a convincing proof that fome decep- tion takes place where the capfule is fup- pofed to be extraded entire along with the lens; for in this cafe, where the capfule was imagined to be taken entirely out, the opacity which fucceeded, and which ftill exifts, appears evidently to be feated in the capfule, and no where elfe., I there- fore conclade, where pradlitioners have imagined the capfule was extradted entire, that they have been deceived by the lens being enveloped with a preternatural bag or eyft, formed perhaps by an inflamma- tory exfudation from the internal furface of the capfule : That this produdtion how- ever is certainly formed in this manner, I will not pofitively alTert; but in my o- pinion it is the mofl: probable way by which we can account for it. It is certainly right, however, to at- tempt to extradl this membrane, l^hen- ever it is met with, for vifion mufl: be ve- ry imperfedl while it remains. But if I may venture to diflent from the opinion of35^ "Sefl. XIX, Difeafes of the Eyes. of one fo verfant in matters of this kind as Mr Peliier is, I would obferve, that we ihould not, even in the moft fluid cataradl, endeavour to extract: it without opening the capfule fo as to difcharge the contents of it: For as the cyft, of which we have been fpeaking, does not appear to be firm-- ly attached to the neighbouring parts, they might probably be feparated with as much eafe, when the cyfl is empty, as when per- fedly full, and it would in this ftate pafs through the pupil with lefs rilk of hurting the iris; an object that I have elfewhere endeavoured to fliow is perhaps the moft important of any in this operation. Thefe are the remarks thatl have to offer on Mr Pellier’s theory and pra(9:ice in the treatment of cataraft. If farther obfer» nation fliall convince me that I am wrong, I will readily acknowledge my mlilake ^ but in the mean time, the reafons I have adduced appear to evince the impropriety of extradling the capfule piecemeal, by means of forceps paffed through the pupil.352 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XL as well as the impoffibillty of making it paf^ entire along with' the lens. It fometimes happens in fmalhpox, as well as in fevere inflammation of the eye, from whatever caufe it may proceed, that the centre of the cornea is left in a ftate of opacity, by matter forming between the coats of it. When not carried off by the remedies ufually employed, if the i- ris, retina, and other parts of the eye appear to be found, Mr Pellier advifes an operation, from which he has in differ- ent Inftances derived much advantage. The centre of the cornea being opake, the rays of light are thus prevented from palling to the bottom of the eye through the pupil; but when the fides or external border of the tranfparent cornea ftill re- main clear and found, light may be al- lowed to pafs to the retina by enlarging the pupil ^ which, Mr Pellier fays, may be don^ with fafety by making an inci- fion from one fide of the iris to the other. And his method of doing it is this; He firfj: makes an incifion in the prominent part353 SecS:. XIX. Bifeafes of the Eyes. part of the cornea, in the fame manner as for extracting the cataraCt: He then in- ferts a fmall grooved direCtor beneath the flap of the cornea through the pupil; and having pafled it in a horizontal direction immediately behind the iris towards the outer angle of the eye, he now takes a pair of fmall curved fciflars, and pafling one of their blades along the groove of the director, he at once divides this part of the iris, when he withdraws the in- ftruments and makes a fimilar incifion on the oppolite fide of the eye. By this means, when the opacity is confined to the centre of the cornea, which it often is, the rays of light which pafs through the fides of it get accefs to the bottom of the eye by the pupil being extended from one fide of the iris to the other; and thus a degree of vifion is produced which could not otherwife be obtained. It will readi- ly be Imagined that perfeCt vifion is not to be expected in this fl:ate of the eye; for a variety of reafons concur againfl: it: But it is a matter of importaiace for a ? perfonS54 lyifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI. perfon already totally blind to be render- ed capable of finduag his way, and of con- ducting himfelf from one place to ano- ther, which, by this operation, Mr Pel- lier has done in different inftances : And, fo far as^ I know;, the public are indebted to him alone for propofing it. After the operation, the eye muft be tied up, and treated in the fame manner and with the fame attention as is done after extracting the cataradt ; for where fo much violence is done to the eye, if inflammation be not guarded againft, much mifehief may enfue from it. In deferibing the method of dividing the iris, I have faid that it fhould be done with Iciflars j for this membrane being loofe and unfupported, it would yield be- fore the edge of the fharpefl knife. In the introduction of the director and feif- fars, care fhould be taken, in palling them between the iris and lens, not to injure either the lens or its capfule; that is when the difeafe is not complicated withSeft. XIX. Dtfeafes of the Eyes. 355 with cataradl; for when the cryftalline is opake it fhould be extraded. In the treatment of the fiftula lachry- malis, Mr Pelller has much merit 3 for, with moft operators, it often happens that no permanent advantage is obtained from any of the remedies that they employ, and even thofe who prove moft fuccefsful very frequently fail. Mr' Pellier does not fay that he always fucceeds; but he does fo in moft inftances; and I know that his method has often proved fuccefs- ful where others have failed. In a confirmed fiftula lachrymalis, the curative intention is, to form an opening between the lachrymal fac and the corre- fponding noftril. In a preceding fedion of this chapter, I have ftiewn that this is accompliflied in different methods ; by fearching with a blunt probe, to difco- ver the natural palfage: if this fails, by making an artificial opening through the os unguis: And when neither of thefe fucceed, by leaving a tube or canula, ei- ther in the natural or artificial opening, for35 S Difeafes of the Eyes, Cliap. XI. for the purpofe of conducing the tears to the nofe. As we know from experience, that the operation fails frequently from the paf- fage becoming again impervious, and this whether it may have been done by open- ing the natural paflage or by forming an- other, it would be the idea perhaps of moft pradlitioners to leave a tube in the opening, were it not liable to one very important objedlion, namely, the uncer- tainty of its continuing fixed in its fitua- tion: For hitherto we have not been pof- fefled of any certain method of prevent- ing the canula either from rifing and for- cing its way out at the corner of tlie eye, or from palling down and coming cut at the nofe. In Plate XX. I have delineated various forms of tubes that have been ufed for this purpofe; and of thefe, figures 3. and 10. will frequently be found to anfwer: For when prefled fufficiently into the opening through the os unguis, the bulge or prominence with /wbicli they are furnilhed above, for the moll3ed. XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes. 35^" uioft part prevents them from 'rlfing^ while their conical fliape prevents them from palling Into the nofe. I mnft, how- ever, acknowledge, that they fometimes fall ^ and that an Invention of Mr Pel- ller’s anfwers better. Mr Pelller allerts^ that when properly Introduced It never fails 3 and from any experience that I have had of It, I am clearly of the fame opinion. In a patient of mine, on whom the operation was performed upwards of eleven years ago^ the tube Is Hill firm and immoveable, and anfwers the pur- pofe of giving a free palTage to the tears.. Two reprefentations of this tube are given in Plate XXV. figures 5. and 6. They may be made either of gold or lead. Mr Pellier commonly employs lead: But when of gold, the tube is not fo bulky if of the fame ftrength; and as this metal re- ceives a finer polllh, by which the open- ing through it is not fo readily filled up with the tears, it ought, I think, to be preferred, Tim35^ Bifeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XIr The peculiarity of form of Mr Pellier^s tubes confifts in their having two project ing edges ^ one at the top forming a kind of brim, correfponding as nearly as pof- fible to the fize of the lachrymal fac; and the other near to the middle between this and the other end of the inftrument f by which means, when properly fixed in the paflage where it is to remain, it is kept firm in its fituation by the granulations that fhoot out from the contiguous parts > and which, by grafping as it were that part of the tube which lies between the two projeding edges, effeftually prevent it from palling either upwards or down- wards ; and hence that material inconve- nience is avoided which praditionets who employ cylindrical tubes always com- plain of. It is neceflary, however, to obferve, that the utmoft nicety is required in the ufe of thefe as well as of every variety of tube 3 in the firft place, in adapting them with exadnefs to the fize of the openings through which they are to pafsj and af- terwardsSed. XfX. Di/eafes of the Eyes. ' terwards In afcertalnlng the depth to which they- fhould be prefled into the nofe : For if a tube be eitrher too imall or too large for the opening through the os unguis, we may readily imagine that it will not anfwer ; and if it is prefled even- in a trifling degree too far into the no» ftril, it will neceflarily irritate tlie lining, membrane of that cavity fo as to create much pain and inconvenience. The tubes reprefented in Plate XXV. are of a fize both in length and thicknefs that anfwer for the moft part of adults,, but pradi- rioners fhould be provided with: them of various fizes. The method of ufing them is this. Af- ter laying the lachrymal fac freely open- in the ufiial way, the natural conduit of the tears is fearched for, either with a firm probe, or with the condudor, Plate XXV. fig. 2.; and Mr Pellier afletts that he never fails in finding it. As foon as this is difcovered, the tube muft be put upon the condudor, previoufly furnifhed with the] comprefibr, fig. 3. as in|fig. 4. f and:and the tube Ihould be of fueh a fize that the condudlor may fit it exactly in point df thicknefs, while the end of this inftru- ment is fo much longer as to pafs through it about the tenth part of an inch. The point of the condudtor is now to be infi- nuated into the lachrymal du6l, and be- ing pufliedf in till it reaches the noftril, which may be known either by inferting a probe into it, or by a few drops of blood being obferved to fall from the nofe, the condudor being no longer ne- cefiTafy, mufl: be withdrawn, taking care to leave the compreiTor upon the upper brim or edge of the canula; which muft be firmly prefied down with it in the left hand, while the condudor is removed with the other. If this precaution be not attended to, the canula would be brought out along with the condudor 3 but this inconvenience is in this manner very ef- fedually prevented, while the fame in- ftrument ferves more eafily than any 0- I ther to prefs the canula to a fufficient depth in the lachrymal dud : A point of" theSe£l. XIX. Difeafes of the Eyes. 361 the firfl: importance in the performing of this operation^ for if the canula be not fixed with fome degree of firmnefs even at the firft ammpt, there will afterwards be more pain'and difficulty in doing it. This being done, the compfeflbr mufl next be taken out^ and, with a view to difcover whether the canula is at a pro- per depth or not, a little milk and water Ihould be injefted through it with the fyringe, Plate XX. fig. i. If the in- jedfion pafles jfreely and eafily into the noftril, while the upper part of the canu- la is preffed down to the middle of the lachrymal fac, there will be no reafon to doubt of its being properly placed: If, on the contrary, any obftrudion occurs, there will be reafon to fufpecS that it is ,already pufhed too far, and that it prefles againft the os fpongiofum inferius ^ in which cafe the canula fliould be with- drawn, with a view to fhorten it, when it mufl be again introduced in the man- ner I have mentioned. ^^ VoL. IV. Z Asv363 Bifeafes of the Eyes. Chap.XI^ As the wound recently made in the fac will yield a coxifiderable quantity of mat- ter, it is neceflary to preferve it open for eight or ten days with a bit of foft lint fpread with any emollient ointment, ta- king care to cover the whole with a com- prefs of foft old linen, fecured with a pro- per bandage. An injection of milk and water fhould be daily pafled through the canula; and at the end of this time^ or whenever the fuppuration is ’ much dimi- niflied, and the fore looking clean and in a healing ftate, the doflil of lint fliould be removed; and a piece of court-plafter being laid over the fore, it may in this ftate be left to heal, care being taken to renew the plafter occafionally if any mat- ter appears to form beneath it. By this mode of treatment, cafes of fi- ftula lachrymalis that do not depend up- on difeafed contiguous bones or any la- tent difeafe of the conftitution, will for the moft part, as Mr Pellier obferves, be completely cured in three weeks, nay fometimes hi a fortnight, which by the ufualSedl, XIX. Difeafes of ihe Eyes. 363 ufual pra£Hce might require three, four, or five months. In Plate XXVI. I have delineated the form of tube, as well as all the other parts of the apparatus employed for this operation by Mr Wathen ; but although rhe invention is ingenious, hnd may an- fwer in a great proportion of cafes, as Mr Pellier’s tubes appear to me to be better adapted 10 the form of the lachrymal paf- fages, while his mode of introducing them is more fimple, I think it probable that they will meet with a preference. As I have been witnefs nf the moft complete fuccefs of Mr Pellier’s practice in this difeafe, I have confidered it as a point of juftice, not only to Mr Pellier but to the Public, to give this full detail of it. Indeed, if I had not been convin- ced of the fuperior utility of Mr Pel- lier’s pradice, and of the unreferved manner in which he communicated his knowledge of the difeafes of the eyes, I ihould have deemed it impertinent to have Z 2 given3^4 Difeafes of the Eyes. Chap. XI# given the preceding account of either to the Public. Since the firft edition of this volume was publiftied, the opinion which I then fuggefted, of the impoffibllity of extract- ing the capfule of the lens entire, has been the fubjedt of much inveftigation : And as it now appears that it cannot be done, I ftill conclude, that Mr Pellier, and others who adopted a different opi- nion, have been deceived. PHAP-Se(S. I* Difeafes of the Nofe. The Z3 CHAPTER XII. Of the Diseases of the Nose and Fauces^ S E C T I O N i. Anatomical Defcription of the Nose and Fauces. A Minute defcription of t&efe parts is not necefTary for our^purpofej but a few remarks upon their general form and flrucSure may ferve in fome meafure to elucidate the nature of the difeafes to which they are liable.Difeafes of the CHap. XIIw 366 The external prominent, part of thfe nofe is chiefly compofed of hones and car- tilages, which ferve to protedl the more deep-feated parts of the organ of finely , and ta form a kind of vaulted pafTage for the air to the throat. This paflage, divided by the ieptum nafi, forms the noflrils, which extend almofl: in a horizontal direction, from the fuperior part of the upper lip back- wards to the pharynx, where they ter- minate above the velum pendulum pa- lati. The fuperior and lateral parts of the arch of the nofe are formed by the na=*- fal procefs of the os frontis,—by the two ofla nafi, — by the olTa unguis,—» and by an extenfive procefs from each of the ofla maxillaria, to which the car- tilaginous alse of the nofe, covered by the cbmmon teguments, are immediately at- tached. The feptum narium is formed by the nafal procefs of the ethmoid bone,—^by the:isoje and Fauces. 367 Sea. I. the vomer,—by the middle cartilage# of themqfe,—and by the fpinous procefles of the palate and maxillary bones. The under part of the cavity of the nofe is anteriorly bounded by a horizon- tal procefs of the olla maxillaria, and backwards by a procefs of a fimilar form, from each of the ofla palati. The fphe- moid and ethmoid bones form the boun- daries of the pofterlor part of the nares. Towards the upper part of the nofe, we meet with a very beautiful contrivance pf nature for enlarging the organ of fmell. In the fuperlor part of each noflril, oppo- lite to the feptum, we find a fpongy, cel- lular produdtion pf bone, proceeding from ;he os ethmoides, which, from their form^ texture, and fituation, are termed Conchae, OlTa Spongiofa, or Ofla Turbinata Supe-^ riora : And beneath thefe, on the fame fide of the noftrils, are two bodies of a fimilar texture, which have likewife been fuppofed to be productions of the ethmoid bone, but of which there is no evidence. Thefe, from their fituation, are termed Z 4 OflaDifeafes of the Chap, XII. 368 Ofla Spongiofa Inferiora, In fome inftan- ces, two, and even three, fmall bones'of this kind have been met with in each no- ftril^ but this is not a frequent occur- rence. Thefe bodies being prominent, and even fomewhat irregular on their furfaces, give the noftrlls a winding, or even a crooked appearance: But every practitioner will know that they are fo In appearance on- ly ; infomuch that a common probe may be palled almoft in a llraight line from the external nares to the throat. We meet with feveral openings which terminate in the noftrlls, fome of which it is material for furgeons to be acquaint- ed with; viz. The ductus inciforii, which commence at the under and back part of the noftrlls, and terminate behind thb dentes incilivi of the upper jaw^—the finufes of the fphenoid and frontal bones, which both open into the upper part of the naresthe finus of each maxillary bone, commonly termed the Antrum Max- illare, or Highmorianum, which opens in- toSea. I. Nofe and Fauces. 369 to the nofe between the upper and under ofla fpongiofa of the fame fide;—and laft- ly, the du£ls of the lachrymal facs, which in the preceding Chapter I have had occa- fion to defcribe, and which terminate on each fide immediately beneath the os Ipoii- giofiim inferius. All the cavity of the noftrils 3 the dif- ferent finufes I have mentioned, as well as the paffages leading to them ^ the whole furfaces of the olTa fpongiofa, and even the fauces, are covered or lined with a thick foft membrane, which, from its af- fording a plentiful fecretion of mucus, is commonly termed Membrana Pituita- r ia, or Membrana Schneideri, from Schnei- der, the firfl: anatomifi: who gave an accu- rate account of it. This membrane appears to be a conti- nuation of the cuticle. Towards the ex- ternal nares, near to its connection with the epidermis, it is exceedingly thin; but as it proceeds backward upon the feptum nafi and on the ofia fpongiofa, it acquires a Gonfiderable degree of thicknefs; and ^ again370 Difeafes of the Chap. Xlli again becomes thin as it proceeds to line the different finufes. The cavity of the nofe, as I have al- ready remarked, is feparated from the mouth by a plate of bone, formed by a procefs from each of the offa maxillaria, and by the olfa palati. To the pofteripr edge of the lafl: mentioned bone there is' a firm membrane connected, termed the Velum or Valvula Palati, formed by a junction of the common membrane of the mouth, with a continuation of the Membrana Schneideri, together with fe- veral mufcular fafciculi, intended for the motion of this and the contiguous parts. This membrane, ^as it ftretches back from the palate,/alls down and terminates in the uvula immediately above the root of the tongue^ by which it is not only well fit- ted for preventing the food, during ma- ftication and deglutition, from palling up to the nofe, but for conveying backwards to the pharynx all fuch parts of the mu- cus furhifhed by the membrane of the nofe andSeci. I. Nofe and Fauces. 371^ and contiguous finufes as are not difchar- ged by the external nares. Qn each fide of the throat, at the ter«- itiinktion of the velum pendulum palati^ there is fituated a prominent glandular fobflance, commonly termed the Amyg- dalae. or Almonds of the Ear*= They ate naturally of a foft, yielding texture; and in general they have evacuations of dif- ferent degrees of deepnefs on various parts of them, whichi, by thofe not acquainted with the ufual appearances of thefe parts, are often miflaken for ulcerations. Oi> looking farther into the throat, along the courfe of the tongue, a thin, elallic, car- tilaginous body is obferved, termed Epi- glottis, which is fo placed as to prevent the food from falling into the trachea in its paffage from the mouth to the pha- rynx, a wide capacious bag, which ter- minates in the oefophagus, and occupies ail that part of the throat that is feen on looking into the mouth. From this defeription it is evident, that the pharynx is furniflied with feveral open- 1 ings372 Difcafes of the Chap. XII. ing's or outlets. Below, it terminates in the oefophagus;—anteriorly, it commu- nicates diredly with the mouth ;—and from the fuperior part of the bag it has a free dire6t communication with the pofte- rior openings of the noftrils. We ftiall now proceed to confider the difeafes of thefe parts, and the operations that are pradifed for them. The fubjeits to be treated of are,—Hemorrhagies from the Noftrils—Ozgena^—Imperforated No- ftrils—Polypous Excrefcences intheNofe and Throat'—Extirpation of the Amygda- lae and Uvula—Scarifying and Fomenting the Throat. - SEC-S€(S. II. Nofe and Fauces, 373 In SECTION II. Of Hemorrhagies from the'NoJlrils, HE internal parts of the nofe are fupplied almoft entirely with blood from the internal maxillary artery: And, in. general, the branches of this artery that go to the nofe are fo fmall, as to render a divifion or rupture of any of them an ob- ject of little importance. In fome inftan- ees, however, it is otherwife, and he- morrhagies occafionally occur from thefe parts that give much anxiety and diftrefs to praditioners, and prove very hazardous to patients. They have fometimes even baffled every attempt that, could be made to reftrain them. However trifling, there- fore, this evacuation may for the mofl: part appear, it ought always to be treat- jsd with attention.374 Difeafes of the Cliap. XIL In a great proportion of cafes, a proper application of cold puts a temporary flop to the difcharge; and in general, any fu- ture returns of it may be prevented by blood-letting, a moderate ufe of cooling laxatives, and a low regimen. In order to obtain all the advantages that ma/ be derived from cold, it muft be employed In various ways, and to a confiderable extent. The patient fliould be placed in a large apartment, with a current of cold air palling through it: His food and drink ought all to be cold : His face fhould be frequently bathed, and even immerfed, in cold water, or in cold water with a proportion of vinegar: The mouth Ihould he kept filled from time to time with a cold folution of alum, or any other aftringeut: Comprelles, wet in any liquid of this kind, Ihould be applied over the nofe: When In bed, the patient Ihould be lightly covered ; and he Ihould lleep with his head as high as pollible. By thefe means duly perfifted in, nafal liemorrhagies may in general be remo- ved pSeit. II. No/e and Fauces. 375 ved ; but in fome inftances no advantage is derived from them, the flow of blood not being in any degree diminiflied by the moil exad application of them. In fuch cafes, comprelllon of the rup- tured blood-velfel is alone to be depend- ed on; but when deeply feated in the no- flril, the application of prefliife is both difficult and uncertain. It will fome- times happen that a doffil of lint palled into the bleeding noftril will put an im- mediate flop to the difcharge. This, how- ever, is a rare occurrence; for the ex- tent and diameter of the paflage through which the doffil mull be pulhed being ve- ry unequal, the effed; produced by it mull likewife be fo: From this circumftarice, we cannot place much dependence on this method of applying prefliire. In former editions of this work., when treating of evacuations of blood from the anus in cafes of piles, I advifed the ap- plication of prefliire, by the introduction of a piece of gut, tied at one end, into jhe redum, and by filling it at the oppo- lite37<5 Difeafes of the Chap. XII. In fite extremity xvith any cold liquid, to in- creafe the degree of preilure by forcing up the liquid and fecuring it with a liga- ture. The fame remedy may be employ- ed in hemorrhagies from the nofe. It has already been fuccefsfully made ufe of in a few inftances; and may frequently, I think, be employed with advantage. A piece of hog’s gut, that has been previ- oully dried and moiftened again, anfwers beft. One end .of it firmly tied with a bit of fmall packthread, fhould, by means of a probe or diredlor, be pufhed along the whole courfe of the noftril from which the blood is difcharged, to the upper end of the pharynx. The gut fhould now be filled with cold vinegar, water, or any other cold liquid, by means of a fyringe inferted at the end hanging out at the noftril^ and as*much being injected as the gut will admit, the whole fhould be prefled as far up as poflible, and fecu- red in this fituation with a firm liga- ture.II. / Uofe and Fauces^ 377 In this manner a very confiderable de- gree of preflure may be applied; and Ibme advantage may be derived from the ap-r plication of cold diredly to the veflel from whence the blood is difcharged. In fome inftances, however, even this may fail, owing to the ruptured veflel being fo fitu- ated that preflTure cannot 'in this manner be dire(Sly applied to it. In fiich circum- fiances, we muft attempt by other means to put a flop to the hemorrhagy; and it may commonly be done in the following mannetf Let the curved inflrument, fig. 4. Plate XXX. be inferted at one of the noflrils with a piece of catgut or firm waxed thread contained, in it; and being con- veyed into the throat, the ligature mufl be laid hold of with a pair of forceps, and taken out at the mouth, when the in- flrument is to be withdrawn and again in- troduced at the other noftril with a liga- ture of the fame kind.. A bolfter of fo^ lint, of a fufficient fize for fluffing or fill- ing up the poflerior nares, is now to be VoL. IV# A a firmly37^ Difeafesof the Ghap. XII« firmly tied tq the two ends of the liga- tures hanging out at the mouth, when the oppofite ends of them muft be pulled for- ward at the noftrils till the culhion of lint is firmly applied to and fixed in the upper part of the pharynx; when a com- prefs of lint muft be applied to *each no- ftril, and fixed in this fituation by tying the two ligatures over it. The patient ftiould now be laid to reft. If the boh fters of lint have been properly applied, no bipod will efcapc either from the pofi terior or anterior nares ; any blood that is effufed into the noftrils will foon coa- gulate, and thus a ft op will be put to the Tiemorrhagy. It is evident, however, that in order to infiire fiiccefs to this opera- tion, the bolfters of lint ftiould not only be applied with much exacftnefs, but con- tinued for a length of time fufficient for admitting of the healing or re-union of thriipturtd blood-velTels. In fixing the bolfter of lint in the back part of the mouth, 1 have advifed two li- gatures to be'employed 3 one to be palTed ' throughSed:. IL Nofe and Fauces. 379 through each noftril. In this manner it may he applied not only more firmly, but more equally, than by the ufual method of on- ly one ligature palled through that noftril from whence tlie blood is difcharged. I alfo think it right to remark, that a liga- ture fliould be attached to the bolfter of lint in the pharynx, of a fufficient length to hang out at the mouth, by which the bolfter may be withdrawn on the hemor^ rhagy being" completely flopped : Other- wife, when the bolfter is firmly fixed be- hind the velum pendulum palati, it can- not be removed but with much trouble, both to the furgeon and patient, of which I have met with different inftances: In one of thefe, after various attempts had been made for taking the bolfter away, it was allowed to remain for three or four weeks, till it fell into the throat in the night- time, when it nearly fuffocated the patient before being got out. A 4 2 S E C-'Dijeajes of the Ch^ap. XIL 380 SECTION III Of an Oz^NA. HE term Oz^ena has in general been A applied to fuch ulcers of the nofe as are foul 3 that difcharge a fetid matte^j. and are attended with a carious Hate of' one or more of the bones ^ whilft by fome the fam^ general denomination of oz'dena- is applied to every ulcer in the noftrils, whether attended with caries or not.— prefent I fhall adhere tp this laft accepta- tion of the term. Every catarrh affedling the lining mem- brane of the nofe, is attended in a great- er or lefler degree with an inflamed ftate of the parts in which it is feated. But we know, that in general this terminates eafily, a'nd that the inflammation is remo- ved by a plentiful difcharge either of mucus or thick yellow matter. In fome inftances, however^, even after eve^y a- therSe£t. III. Nofe and Fauces. 381 ther catarrhal fyixiptom is removed, this difcharge of matter continues obftlnate, either from ulceration alone, or perhaps from ulceration conjoined with fultiefs and fwelling of the lining membrane of the nofe. Expofure to cold is to be.confidere'd as the rhoft frequent caufe of this ftate of the difeafey but external violence of eve» ry kind that terminates in an inflamed ftate of the membrane of the nofe, fuch as the application of acrid irritating fub- ftances, blows and bruifes, may likewife produce it. When the fyfteni is hot otherwife dif. eafed, this is the moft Ample variety of an ozaena ^ and as in this ftate we fup- pofe the aifedion to be perfectly locals local remedies ought alone to be employ- ed. In this ftate of the difeafe, drying and aftringent applications are chiefly to be trufted. Of thefe, decodions of walnut-tree leaves, or of Peruvian or oak bark, mixed with a folution of a|um, fo- A a 3 lutions382 Difeafes of the Chap. XII, lutions of white Titriol, and all the fatur- nine folutions, are perhaps equal if not preferable to any. Brandy or any other ardent fpirks diluted with water, and lime-water, may likewife be employed with advantage. Doffils of foft lint foaked in any of thefe Ihould be introduced into the af- fedled noftril three or four times daily, and fliould be pulhed up fo as to be brought into contad with the affeded parts: And every night at bed-time an ointment fliould be applied, prepared with a confiderable proportion of calcined zinc or lapis calamiiiafis. By a due continuation of thefe means, almoft every local affedion depending on ulceration of the membrane of the nofe will at lafl; be removed. But inftances have occurred of other difeafes being mif- t^ken for fores in the nofe, and of the running produced by them continuing to refifl: every effort that could be made for removing it. This is particularly the CafeiSed. III. Nofe and lances* 383 cafe with collections of matter in the an- trum maxillare. In the anatomical defcription I have given of thefe parts, we have feen, that there is naturally a paflage or opening from the antrum maxillare into the nofe immediately below and covered by the os fpongiofum inferius of the fame fide. In collections of matter in this cavity, when in confiderable quantity, it is occafional- ly difcharged by this outlet into the nofe in every pofture of the body, and almofi: always when the patient lies on the found or oppofite fide, if the palTage be not ob- ftruCted* The method of treatment befl: fuited for the removal of collections in the antrum maxillare will be the fubjeCt of a feCtion in the enfuing chapter: At prefent we have only to fay, that in the treatment of difeafes attended with a dif- charge of matter from the nofe, practi- tioners ought to be on their guard, left, by miftaking one difeafe for another, mif- chief may be done^ not only by a mifi applieaaon of remedies, but by thofe . A a 4 meansDifeafes of the Chap. XI t 3^4 means being omitted from whence alone any real advantage could be derived. When, again, the matter difcharged from an ulcer in the nofe is thin, fetid, and of a brown or fomewhat black co- lour, as this will give caufe to fufped that the contiguous bones are carious, it will be in vain to expedl a core till thefe are removed. We may in general be certain of the exiftence 9f caries by the peculiar fetor of the 'matter that the fores afford; but when any doubt re- mains of this, we have it commonly in our power to be determined with certain- ty by the introduction of a probe. As a carious ftate of the bones of the nofe occurs more frequently as a fymp* tom of lues venerea, than from any other caufe, this fhould be kept in view in all affections of this nature: And whether we may be able to trace it with certain- ty as a fymptoili of this difeafe or not, whenever there is the leafl caufe for fu- ipicion, the patient ought, without hefi- taiion, to be put upon a long continued Gourfe385 Se<a. III. Nofe and Fauces. courfe of mercury. From whatever caufe the difeafe may arife, mercury will not probably do harm; and as I have feen it prove ufeful even where no venereal taint ever exifted, I now in general, in all fuch cafes, advife it immediately. In the mean time the local treatment of the fores fhould not be neglected. The parts ifhould be bathed from time to time with one or other of the decoctions I have mentioned; and as the foft fpongy bones of the'nofe, are apt, when carious, to produce troublefome fungous excref- cences; ointments, impregnated with cor- rofive applications, fhould be employed occafionally; and of thefe there are none I have ever employed that anfwer fo well as prepared verdegris or red precipitate. A general prejudice indeed prevails ' a- gainft the ufe of remedies of this kind in difeafes of the internal parts of the nofe, from a fear of their doing mifchief, by irritating the very fenfible membrane to which they are applied. There is no good caufe, however, for this timidity; $ and3^6 Difeafes of the Chap. Xll; amd I can fay from experience, that olnt-^ jnents, fuch as I have mentioned, of a ftrerigth fufhcient for keeping down fun- guous excrefcences, may be employed with much fafety, and without any rilk of injuring the contiguous parts. It is fcarcely neceflary to remark, that in the ufe of remedies of this kind, fome pru- dence and attention is required to adapt the ftrength of them to the parts to which they are applied. The internal furface of the nofe will not bear the fame degree of irritation that may with fafety be ap- plied to fome other parts of the body 3 but it will bear the application of corro- live ointments more ftrongly impregna- ted than is commonly imagined. A lini- ment compofed of wax and oil, with an eighth or ninth part of red, precipitate, may be employed with fafety, and the corrofive powers of it can be occafional- ly increafed or diminifhed. In ufing ver- digris, from ten to twenty grains may be added to an ounce of liniment. The growth of fungous excrefcences being thusSed. IIL t^ofe and Fauces,. 3^7 This thus prevented, and the fores kept clean by the frequent ufe of an aftringent anti“ feptic wafh, the paflage of the noftril will be preferved pervious, the difeafe will not fp'read fo readily, and at the fame time the carious bones will proba- bly be more quickly feparated and thrown off than when thefe circuinftanccs are o- verlooked. Till the caries is removed, no perma- nent cure can be expedted. The treat- ment therefore that I have juft pointed out Ihould be perftfted in till this is fully ac- compliflied. Indeed, after a fufBcient quantity of mercury is exhibited for the removal of any latent venereal taint that might exift in the fyftem, all that we can exped: farther from art, is to allift in the manner I have advifed, in effeding a fe- paration of fuch bones as are difeafed. This being done, the fores will aflurne a milder afped, and will in general heal by a continuance of the aftringent applica- tions alone.388 . Difeafes of the Chap. XII. This is the pradtice that by experience I have found to prove the mofl; fuccefsful in cafes of ozsena. It muft however be acknowledged, that no remedies with which we are acquainted can with cer- tainty be depended on: This kind of ulcer proves always tedious, not only from the difficulty of reaching the fore with proper dreffings, but from the ofTa fpongiofa, when they become carious, being al- ways flow in exfoliating. When how- ever the fyftem is not otherwife difeafed, the means that I have mentioned will very commonly fucceed at laft. s:ec^Se6t- IV. Nofe and Fauces. 3S9 ^ SECTION IV. Of Imperforated Nostrils. Hildren are not unfrequently born with the vagina or anus in an imper- forated ftate; and although we know of no reafon why the noftrils fliould not allb be ifrequently imperforated, we are cer- tain that it is a rare occurrence. Every practitioner, however, muft have met with fome inftances of preternatural ad- helioiis of the noftrils, the confequence of confluent fmall-pox, of burlis, or ve- nereal fores. ObftruClions of this kind are In various degrees. In fomq cafes the noftrils are on- ly flightly contracted, without producing any material impediment to refpiration : In others, they are fo much drawn toge- ther, as hardly to admit a common probe pr a fmall quill ? And in a few, the paf. fage is entirely obliterated. In39^ Difeafes of the Chap. XIL In all fuch cafes it is the object of fur- gery to remove every preternatural ob- ftrudion; but as any operation for this purpofe is produ6Hve both of pain and in- convenience, the afliftance of art is not frequently defired. It ought undoubtedly, Jiowever, to be employed whenever the breathing is much obftrudled, or the de- formity produced by the difeafe is confi- derable. When an opening is left in the obftruc- ted noftril, however fmall it may be, much afliftance may be derived from it in elFedl- ,ing our intention. A fmall grooved di- rector being inferted into it, the pallage may be eafily enlarged to its natural fize, by running a fmall biftoury or fcalpe;! into the groove in the coiirfe of the adhe- fion : But when there is no palTage what- ever, whether it may be the effect of a natural conformation, or of any other caufe, we fhould in the firft place, by flow diffection with a fmall fcalpel, en- deavour to difcoverone of the noftrils, ta- king care, with as much caution as pdf- fible,Se6t. IV. l>!ofe and Fauces* 391 fible, to keep the opening in a proper di- rection between the feptum and the conti- guous external cartilage : And the paffage being once difcovered, it mufl be enlarged to the natural fize in the manner I have mentioned, by the introduction of a di- rector and biftoury. This being accom- pliflied in one noflril, we endeavour, by the fame cautious difleCtion, to difco- ver the other. A clear opening being thus formed into (?ach noftril, our next objeCt is to preferve it of a full fize, and to prevent the parts from adhering together 3 which by expe- rience we know they are apt to do, and which much attention alone can pre- vent. ' , The introduction of dofiils of lint of an adequate fize, or of any other foft fub- flance, and retaining them till there is no rilk of future adhefions, taking care how- ever to withdraw them daily for the pur- ppfe of cleanfing or renewing them, might no doubt anfwer the purpofe : But me- tallic tubes, adapted to the fize of the openings^392 Bifeafes of the Chap. XII. openings, at the fame time that they ad- mit of a free refpiration through the noftrils, ferve to diftend the parts with more equality, and are more eafily retain- ed in their fituation. Before Being intro- duced, they ftiould be covered with foft leather fpread with any emollient oint- ment ; by which they fit with more eafe, and are' more readily withdrawn "at the different dreffings. Various forms of tubes have been re- commended for this purpofe. Thofe re- prefented in fig. 2. Plate XXX. are of a form that anfwer perfedly well 5 and they #ire eafily retained either with a a bantiage round the head, or with adhe- five plafters for attaching them to the contiguous partSk They fhould be com tinned as long as any degree of forenefs or excoriation remains in the courfe of the iiicifions ^ for if withdrawn, before thh fores are completely healed, new ad- hefions or contraftions will very certain- ly enfu^o ItSed. IV. . Uofe and fauceu 393 It fometimes happens from burns, as well as from the confluent fmall-pox, that along with a contraction, or perhaps a to- tal obliteration, of one or both nollrils, an adhefion is produced between the ndfe and the Ikin of the upper lip. In this cafe the adhefion of the lip to the nofe fliould, in the firfl: place, be removed with a fcalpel ^ and the fore thus pro- duced fliould be perfectly heal and firm^ ly cicatrifed before we attempt to open the noftrils. It is fcarcely neceifary to remark, thgt, during the cure, the fore fliould not only be kept properly covered, but with a view to remove any improper contraction which the lip may have ac- quired, it ought at each drefling to be tied down with feveral turns of a double- headed roller pafled round and over the head. B b VoL. IV. SEC-Difeafes of the Cliap. 19+ SECTION V. Of Bolyvi in the Nose Throat* HE lining membrane of the nofe Is- liable to excrefcences,. whiGli, from> their fuppofed refemblance to infeds of that name, have commonly been termed Polypi* Every part of the nafal eavityy and of the baek part of the throat, is liable to thefe excrefcences; but moflr frequently they arife from that part of the membrane of the nofe thati lines or covers the ofla fpongiofa. For the moft: part they are confined to one fide of the nofe, and they do not commonly appear; fo far back as the throat; but in fome inflances they occupy both iioftrils,- and?, in others they are fo large as to be di- ftindly perceived on looking into the pharynx. In fome cafes, indeed, they are found to arife in the pharynx. The.Sed. V, Nofe and Fauces. 395 The firfl warning that a patient com- monly receives of this difeafe, is a partial lofs of fmell, attended with a fenfatlon of fulnefs or obftrudion in fome particular part of the nofe, very fimilar to what Is experienced from the fluffing of the no- flrils in a common cold or catarrh. This continues to increafe, till a fmall tumor or excrefoence is perceived in one, and fbme- times in both noflrils^ which in fome in- flances never defcends farther than to be merely perceptible when the head is fome- what elevated ; while In others it falls a confiderable way down upon the upper lip, and at the fame time perhaps pulhes back into the throat. In fome this elongation of the tumor continues fteady and permanent, while in others it retrads altogether within the noflrils in dry weather, and protrudes only in rain; and more efpecially in thick hazy weather.' Indeed, the influence of weather on the fize of thefe excrefeenees is often aftonifliing. I have known fome patients who in clear dry weather were B b 2 notDijeafes of the ' Chap. XI 39*5 3 thofe not known to labour under the difeafe^ In whom the tumors always protruded to a confiderable length on the leafl: tendency to a damp atmofphere. Thefe tumors are of virions degrees of firmefs. In a great proportion of cafes they are foft and comprellible, but in others they are fo firm as to be equally hard with cartilage : All kinds of them are apt to bleed on being fretted or rough- ly handled : But it is the foft fpongy kind only that are fo remarkably affected by changes of weather. The colour of thefe tumors is likewife variable: For the moll part they are fome- what pale and tranfparent, but in fome in- ftances they are of a deep red; and, fo far as I have yet had opportunities of obferving, I would fay, that there is fome connedtion between their colour and te^^- ture. The experience of others may lead to a different conclufion ^ but in the courfe of my obfervation it has uniformly happened, that the foft compreflible poly- pus has been of a pale complexion, whileSed. V. Nofe and Fauces. 397 thofe of a firmer texture have always been of a deep red. In the commencement of this kind of tumor, the pain attending it is always in- confiderable ; and in the fofter kinds of it there is feldom much pain, even imits moft advanced ftages. But thofe of a harder nature become painful as they In- ereafe in fize, particularly on any caufe of irritation being applied to them. In fome inftances they become unequal and ulcer- ated over their whole extent. In this flate, confiderable quantities of a thin fetid mat- ter are difcharged 3 and if a cure be not obtained by extirpation, they,are now very apt to degenerate into cancer. It is pro- per, however, to obferve, that it is the firm flefhy kind of polypi only that are apt to become cancerous, and that this change rarely or never happens with thofe of a fofter texture. But although the fofter kinds of polypi feldom end in cancer, and are rarely pro- ductive of much inconvenience in their early ftages, or as long as they are con- B b 3 fined398 Dtfeafes of the Chap. XII, fined to either of the nafal cavities; when more advanced, they are often attended with much diftrefs. Befides the trouble and perplexity which occurs from their falling down upon the lip, they fometimes pafs fo far back into the fauces, as not only to impede deglutition, but to obftrud refpiration; and in fome inftances they become fo large, as not only to diftend the fofter parts of the noftrils, but ta ele- vate and even to feparate and diflblye the firm bones of the nofe. This, indeed, is not a common occurrence) but every pra6litIoner muft have met with it: I have feen different inftances of it. Various opinions are met with in au- thors of the caufe of polypous excref- cences. By fome they are faid to depend moft frequently upon a fcrophulous taint) while others imagine, that a venereal in- fection often gives rife to them, I will not fay that polypi do not occa- fionally occur along with the venereal difeafe and fcrophula. They may even he met with as fymptoms of thefe difeafes. ButSed. V. Nqfe and Fauces. 399 But In fuch inftances I would confider the general difeafe of the fyftem in no other light than as an occafional or exciting caufe of the local affedionj for in almpfl overy cafe of polypus a local injury may be traced as the caufe of it; and from ^very circumftance relating to the difeafe, <1 conclude., that it is always of a local and circumfcribed nature^ For even w^here a polypus originates from a vene- real infedion, this particular fymptom is fo far of a local nature, that it remains fixed and permanent after the general taint of the fyftem Is removed. Nor is it aded upon by any quantity of mercury that is given. All the harder kinds of polypi may probably originate from the fame caufes that produce tumors of a fimilar texture in other parts of the body ^ but in moftiin- rftances they appear to be conneded with, and even to proceed from, a caries of the bone beneath^ and it is this chiefly which renders them more hazardous and much more difficult of cure than thofe of B b 4 a400 Difeafes of the , Chap. XII, a fofter nature, which, in general, I con- ceive to be produced by a mere diflention or relaxation of the membrana Schneider- riana. When any portion of this mem- brane becomes inflamed, either by the efl- fedls of cold or from external violence, if in this ftate any part of its furface is ruptured or eroded, as frequently happens from picking or blowing the nofe toQ forcibly, a degree of weaknefs or relaxa- tion is thus produced, that is apt to ter- minate in a fulnefs or prominency of the parts immediately afFedled ; and this be- ing Increafed by every fucceeding cold, the difeafe we are now confidering comes in this manner to take place. The farther progrefs of the difeafe may append on various caufes^ but in general it will advance quickly or flowly, accord- ing as the parts affefted are more or lefs liable to inflammation. Thus I have known yarious inftances of polypi re- , maining fmail and ftationary for a great nurtiber of years, when the patients have not been obliged to be much expofed to theSe6t. V. ' Nofe and Fauces. 401 the open air ; while it commonly happens among poor people, wIk) are expofed to every inclemency of weather, and w^ho are therefore more liable to frequent re- turns of catarrh, that they advance with more rapidity. In the treatment of every difeafe, it is a point of importance to be able to form a juft prognofis, not only of the manner in which the fymptoms may probably terminate, but of the effedts to be expect- ed from the remedies that may be em- ployed for them; and in no inftance is this more defirable than in polypous ex- crefcences of the nofe. By fome we are led to conclude, that polypi are always doubtful with refpedl to their termination : That for the moft part they are even of a dangerous nature; and therefore that we fhould confider e- very perfon in whom they occur as in a ft ate of hazard: Whilft others aflert, that although they may occafionally excite fome inconvenience, yet that they are feldom or never attended with rilk. Some,402 Dijiafes of the Chap. XII. Some, again, are fo timid with nefpecS: to polypi, as to fuppofe that they ought never to be meddled with; and allege, that there is more chance of doing harm than good by any operation we can ad- vife for removing them ; whilft by o- thers we are told that they may be taken away with fafety. This difference of opinion In regard to the nature of polypi, and of the effeds to be expefted from the remedies employed for them, has arifen in a great meafure from authors not having diftinguiflied the different kinds of thefe excrefcences with fuch precifion as they ought to have done: For while in one variety of the difeafe there is little rilk to_ be dreaded, and no great caufe to doubt of our being able to remove it; in others, there is un- doubtedly a good deal of hazard, and much reafon to fear that no remedies whatever will be able to prevent a return of it. I have already obferved, that polypi are of various degrees of firmnefs 5 and allSed* V. Nofe and Fauces. 403 all the obfervatlon that I have been ena- bled to make of them, has led me to con- clude, that in general the rilk with which they are attended is nearly in propor- tion to their firmnefs. The foft compref- fible polypi are not only lefs painful than the others, but they may at any time be removed with more fafety.' In- deed they are not commonly attend- ed with pain; and it feldom happens that any material inconvenience occurs from their extirpation: But the firm flefhy kind of polypi are in general not only painful, but more apt to return af- ter being extirpated. In forming an opi- nion, therefore, of the probable event of polypi, this circumftance of texture dfe- ferves particular confideration. In a foft, yielding polypus, if the conflitution is healthy, we may perhaps in every in- flance give a favourable prognofis : For as long as the difeafe remains of a mode- rate lize, it feldom proves troublefome, and therefore it ought not to be meddled withDifeafes of the Chap. XII. 404 with 3 and again, when, by acquiring a great additional bulk, the removal of the tumor becomes neceflary, it may always be undertaken with much probability of fuccefs. But, on the contrary, in poly- pi of a flefliy confiftence, and efpecial- ly when of a firmer texture even than this, the patient or his friends ought al- ways to be ipformed of the rilk being confiderable: For it frequently happens that they cannot be entirely removed^ and even when this is eafily and com- pletely pradicable, they are apt to re- generate, and in fome inflances, as I already obferved, to become cancerous. In all fuch cafes, therefore, a guarded prognofis fliould be given ^ otherwife, if the difeafe ftiould afterwards return, the operator would be juftly blameable, at the fame time that the operation itfelf would fall into difcredit. Indeed fome pradlitioners are fo averfe tp this‘operation in all cafes of firm or hard polypi, that they always decline to meddle with them. As long as they re- mainSe6t. V. 4^5 Nofe and Fauces. main ftatlonary, and do not give pain, if they do not obfl:ru<3: the breathing or de- glutition, they ought not to be touched : But whenever they become painful, and efpecially when they have acquired luch a bulk as to obftruft either the paflage to the ftomach or lungs, we ought certainly to endeavour to extrad them, if this be not already rendered impradicable by their adhering through the whole of their extent to the bones of the nofe, and by thefe being rendered carious; which in the late ftages of the difeafe is very fre-- quently the cafe. All the fofter kinds of polypi, which are liable, as I have already defcribed, to be affeded by the ftate of the weather, may frequently be prevented from becoming large by the ufe of aftringent and efcha- rotic applications, particularly by a ftrong folution of alum, or white vitriol, the pow- der of calcined alum, a decodion of oak- bark,* or the application of vinegar or ar- dent fpirits. By one or other of thefe being applie’d from time to time over the fur- face of the tumors, I have known differ- ent4o6 Difeafes of the Chap. XII. ent inftances of their being prevented for a great length of time from giving any kind of difturbance^ and, in fome cafes where the remedy has been freely em- ployed, they have at laft fhrivelled and become confiderably lefs. It muft be ac~ knowledged, however, that they have ne- ver accompliflied a cure; but It is a mat- ter of no fmall importance our being able by gentle means to render any painful o- peration unneceflary. On the firft appearance, therefore, of a polypus, we ought by a free ufe of fome aftringent or efcharotic application to en- deavour to prevent its farther increafe; but when thefe do not fucceed, we are to confider by what mode the tumor may be jnoft effedually removed. , Various methods have been propofed for the removal of polypi:—Namely, the ufe of cauftic or corroding applications > —the adual cautery ^—the palling of a fetonor cord through the difeafed noftri4 —excifion with a fcalpei or fcilTars 3—the application of a ligature round the neck ofSeft. V. Nofe and Fauces^r 407- of the tumor 3—-and evulfion or extradlioii by a proper application of forceps. An ignorance of the circulation of the blood, and of the eafy method with which we are now acquainted of putting a flop to hemorrhagies, led in earlier times to the practice of removing tumors, where- ver they were feated, by corroiive appli- cations, and even by the ufe of the acSual cautery. If this praitice was confidered as neceflary in other parts of the body, it is not furprifing to find it propofed for the removal of polypi in the nofe, where the effeds of hemorrhagies were more dread- ed. Gauterifing irons were therefore in- vented for this purpofe, together with metallic tubes for eondudting them. But even with the utmoft attention the difea-^ fed parts cannot be dcftroyed without in- juring the found. Remedies of this kind are therefore very apt to do harm, fo that they are now very generally laid afide; as are likewife all kinds of ftrong corroding applications, which are equally liable to uncertainty, by their being apt to fpread to the4o8 Difeafes of the Chap. XII. the contiguous found parts of the nofe and throat. As fomc have imagined that polypi may be removed, by inducing a fuppuration upon them, it has been propofed to infert a cord of lilk or cotton into the difeafed noftril, and one end of it being taken out at the mouth, by daily drawing it, and covering that part of it that remains in contadl with the tumor, with a llightly irritating ointment, thus to create fome degree of inflammation’and confequent fuppuration over it. I will readily allow, that in this man- ner a plentiful flow of matter may be ex- cited ; but it is not probable that this can have much influence on the fize of the tumor. Till of late indeed, it was ima^ gined that the formation of pus is necefla- rily attended with a diflTolution of the fo« lid parts in which it occurs. Upon this principle Mr Daran and others en- deavoured to explain the operation of bougies in obftrudions of the urethra; and a fimilar idea fuggeflied the remedy ofSed. V. Nofe and Fauces. 409 of which we are now fpeaking, In poly« pous excreicences of the nofe. But It Is now known, as I have elfewhere fully Ihown*, that the diflblutlon of folid parts is by no means neceflary for the forma- tion of pus. It Is alfo known, that In difeafes of the urethra, bougies prove ef- fedual only by their form, and by the prefliire which they produce; and I have lio difficulty In faying, that It is in this manner only, by which a cord, if^lt ever proves ufeful, can have any effed on po- lypi of the nofe. As the paffage of the noftrlls is very unequal, being wider in one part than another, and as the roots of polypi are frequently fo fituated that no preffure can be applied to thern^ I am not of opinion that they can ever be removed by the adlon of a feton paffed through the nofe, as many have Imagined. But after the extirpation of polypi in the manner I fliall hereafter point out, if their roots are not entirely removed, fome advantage may be derived from our en- VoL. IV. C c " deavcuring Vide Chapters I. and III-410 Difeafes of the Chap. XII. deavouring in this manner to clear the paflage more completely. It was for this purpofe folely, I may remark, that the pradice we are now confidering was firft propofed by that judicious obferver Mon- fieur Le Dran. But although it might, in tills' manner, fometimes prove ufeful, yet from being troubiefome in the appli- cation, it has feldom been employed. We lhall have occafion however, in a fubfequent part of this fe^tion, to fpeak of it again. In other parts of the body, the remo- val of tumors by excifion is univerfally preferred to every other method; and it would likewife be fo in polypi of the nofe, were it not for their inacceflible lituation. But we feldom find them fituated fo as to render this mode of treatment pradi- cable; for although fcalpels and fciflars of various forms have been invented for this purpofe, the roots of polypi are in general feated fo high in the noftrils, and the paflage is for the moft part fo com- pletely filled by the tumor itfelf, as to rendejT4II Sea. V. Nofe and Fauces. render it always difficult, and often im- poffible, to remove them by excifion. But when it is found that the tumor originates from the under part of the noftril, and when the point of a fcalpel can be made to reach the root of it, we ought,, without hefitation, to employ this method of taking it away, even in pre- ference to that by ligature: For in this manner the whole of the tumor may be more effedually removed 3 and in this fi- tuation there is no reafon to be afraid of hemorrhagies, as compreffion can be rea- dily applied to any blood-veflel that may be cut in the under part of the noftrils. We rarely find, however, as I have ob- ferVed already, that a polypus is feated fo far down in the noftrils as to render this method of treatment pradlicable. It therefore appears that all the means we have yet confidered for the removal of polypi in the nofe, are either inade- quate for the effedt, or altogether inad- miffible ^ and hence we are under th^ ne- ceflity of employing either the method Cc^ by412 Difeafes^ of the Cliap. XII^ by ligature, or that by extradlon with the forceps. As the removal of a polypus, by tear» iug or twifting it off, Is attended with much more pain than the application of a ligature round the neck of it, the latter would always have been preferred, if it- had been confidered as equally practi- cable. And as we now know that it can be done in a very fafe and eafy manner, it will probably in future, be very gene- rally employed. The method I allude to, is that which Monfieur Levrette of Paris firfl: recommended, for the remo- val of polypi in the vagina, and which we now find may be ufed with equal pro- priety in fimilar affections of the nofe and throat. The following is the method of; applying it in polypi of the throat. Fig. I. Plate XXXI. reprefents a piece of pliable filver wire paffed through a double canula,and the wire fliould belong enough, when doubled, as to pafs through the nofe into the pharynx. Let the wire be taken from the canula, and the doubling at the I endSefl. V, ’ Nofe andlFaucesn 413 end of It be flowly and gently itifinuated through one of the noftrils : As foon as it appears in the throat, the operator, with his fingers inferted into the' mouth, muft open the doable fiifEcIently for palling it over the pendulous extremity' of the tu- mor ^ and having prefTed it down to the *neck or root of it, the two ends of the II- gature hanging out at the noftrll muft be again pafled through the canula ; which is now to be pufhed back along the courfe of the wire, till it comes in contacft with the root of the polypus. .The fingers ftiould ft ill be continued In the throat, to retain the ligature at the root of the tumor; and the canula being placed in the manner I have direcfted, the wire muft be drawn to- lerably tight; and the ends of it being fixed on the wings or handle of the ca- nula, as in Plate XXXII. fig. i. it muft be left In this fituatlon till the following day, when being again drawn femewhat tighter, "and this being daily repeated, the tumor will fall off fooner or later, according to its fize. When the, excrefcence is fmall, Cc3 it414 Difeafes of the Chap. XII. it fometimes drops ofFin the courfe of the fecond day; and tumors of even a large fize often come away on the third or fourth. It is better, however, to make the comprellion in a more gradual manner: For when the wire is drawn with much force, inftead of ading as a ligature, and removing the tumor by compreffion, it removes it too quickly, by cutting it a- crofs, and may thus be equally produdive of hemorrhagies, as if the operation had been done with a fcalpel. In this manner, allthofe polypi maybe removed, that either originate in the throat, or that proceed back from the no- ftrils into the fauces; and the pradice may be extended even to thpfe that are deeply feated in the pharynx, if the liga- ture can bq properly applied over them, either with the lingers, with the afliftance of forceps, or with an inftrument, fuch as is delineated in Plate XXXllL lig. 3. Some inllances, indeed, have occurred, of excrefcences leated too far down in the oefophagus, for admitting of ligatures be- 3Se6l. V. No/e and Faucis. 415 ing applied upon them in this manner ^ nor is it admiffible even where the upper part of the tumor is acceffible, if the bafe or neck of it be fo low down» as to pre- vent the ligature from being applied to it. In the third .Volume of the Phyfical and Literary Eflays of Edinburgh, there is a cafe related in which a very ingenious me- thod was put in pradice by the late Mr Dallas, for furrounding a deep feated po- lypus with a ligature; and although in- ftances of fuch excrefcenc^s are extreme- ly rare, yet, as they are fonaetimes mer with, I think it right to give a delinea- tion of the inftrument which in this in- ftance was fuccefsfully employed. In this cafe both breathing and degluti- tion were impeded by a large flefhy ex- crefcence originating in the oefophagus, a confiderable portion of which was thrown into the mouth, by every exer- tion to vomit; but it foon retraded and remained concealed witnin the pharynx till vomiting or retching was, again ex- cited. This portion of the tumor, which C c 4 ' pccaiionally4i6 Difeafes of the , Chap. XIL occafionally protruded, was entirely re- moved by the method I have mentioned, and which I have more particularly de- fcribed in the explanation to Plate XXXIV. The patient was in this manner relieved from much inconvenience and diftrefs; but anotjier branch of the tumor that extended towards the ftomach, becoming after- wards very large, he died of the effcds of it, in about two year^ from the operation. I think it right to remark, that this pa- tient might probably have been faved by the ufe of the ligature and double canula, fuch as I have defcribed, and that in fimi- lar cafes it is to be coniidered as perhaps the beft means of relief. When a poly- pus is fufpedled to have formed in the oefophagus, if no part of it is obferved to protrude into the pharynx, there will be much caufe to imagine that it proceeds down towards the ftomach 3 fo that, if the double of a piece of flexible wire be piifhed down the oefophagus, the pendu- lous part of the tumor may very proba- bly be laid hold of in withdrawing it3 or, ifSe£l. V. Nofe and Faiwes. 417 if one attempt fliould fail, other trials may fefely be made with it: And as foon as the double of the ligature is found to-be firmly fixed, all that portion of the tumor which it furrounds, may be eafily re- moved by the application of the double canula, in 'the manner I have advifed. It is proper, however, to obferve, that the ligature and canula fiiould both be car- ried through one of the noflrils into the oefophagus y for in this manner they will not prove fo troublefome as when palled through the mouth, and they may be ap- plied with equal eafe and advantage. For this purpofe the canula muft have fome degree of curvature, as is reprefented in Plate XXXI. fig. 2. In a^reat proportion of cafes ligatures may be applied round polypi of the back part of the nofe and throat, in the man- ner I have direcled, and without inter- rupting refpiration ^ but when deeply feated in the oefophagus, and on all occa- fions when the application of the ligature is difficult and'^tedious, it is proper to fe- cure418 Bifeafes of the Chap. XlL cure an eafy and free refpiration during the operation, by previoufly advifing bron- chotomy. By this no additional rifk is incurred, for it may with eafe and fafety be accompllfhed ^ and it puts it in our power to fihifli the operation more per- fedtly than we otherwife could do. It is likewife proper to remark, that although the operation may often be done without any affiftance from a fpeculum oris, yet, whenever it proves tedious, and when the ligature cannot be eafily applied, this in- ftrument fhould be employed. I have now to mention the method of applying a ligature to a polypus feated in the anterior part of the nofe, and which, inftead of paffing back into the pharynx, proceeds down one of the noftrils towards the upper lip. Let the double of the li- gature be palTed over the moft depending part of the polypus, and be flowly puflied up to the root of it with the flit probe, Plate XXXIII. fig. 2. The probe being gi- ven to an afliftant to preferve the ligature in this fituation, the two ends of it mufl; beSea. V. 419 Nofe and Fauces. be pafled through a double canula; which being inferted into the noftril on the op- polite lide of the polypus, and being pulh- ed ealily along till it reaches the root of it, the ligature muft now be drawn fo tight as to make fome imprellion on the root of the tumor, when the ends of it muft be tied to the wings of the inftru- ment, and daily pulled fomewhat tighter, till the tumor drops off. In this manner almoft every polypus in any part of the nofe may be extirpated. Thbfe who have not feen it put in prac- tice, may be apt to doubt of this aflertion; but a few trials will ftiow that it is not on- ly the moft effectual method, but the fafeft and eafieft that has yet been propofed of removing polypi of every kind : It alfo has the advantage over every other me- thod of applying ligatures upon polypi in the nofe, of anfwering equally well in the large as in the fmaller kinds of them—and it may even be applied where the tumor is fo large as to diftend the noftril to a confiderable fize. In Plate XXXIII. fig. i. thereDifeafes of the Chap^ Xll. 42 Q there is delineated a remarkable form of a polypus extirpated in this manner, un- der the diredlion of Dr Monro, who was the firft, I muft obferve, who put in prac- tice this method of removing polypi from the nofe and fauc-es. This polypus filled the noftril completely^ to fiich a degree Indeed, that it could not have been re- moved in any other manner^ not even with forceps, for the blades of the dnftru- ment could not have been inferted^ Befides this, another method has been propofed of applying ligatures round po- lypi in the noftrils : By introducing a li- gature through the noftril in which the tumor is feated, puftiihg it back to the throat, and pafling it in fuch a manner that the doubling may include the root of the polypus, if the oppofite ends of it be taken out at the mouth, they may be fiif- ficiently twifted> it is alleged, for re- moving the tumor. In a few cafes this might poflibly an- fwer, but it would often fail: I think it right, however, to mention it, as it is re- commendedSe6l.^ V.^ Nofe and fauces^ 421 Gommended by a very judicious praditionr- er, Mr Chefelden. Fig. 2. Plate XXXIL exhibits a reprefentation of a polypus fur- rounded with a ligature in this manner. Various forms of forceps have beea iavented for the purpofe of removing polypi. Thofe that anfwer the inten- tion beft, and now moil: generally ufed, are reprefented in Plate XXXV. Thofe of a ftraight form are intended for ex=*. trading polypi by the anterior nares, and the crooked forceps are employed by fome for the removal of thofe excrefcencea which pafs into the throat behind the uvula. I have fliown indeed that polypi of this kind may be more eafily removed with ligatures, but I think it right to deli- neate fuch forms of forceps as are ufed by thofe who prefer a different method. In proceeding to extrad a polypus with' forceps, the patient ought ta be firmly feated, with his head leaning back, and fupported by an afliflant behind; and as it is of much importance, our being able to difcover as nearly as poflible the ori- giii422 Difeafes of the Chap. XII. gin of the excrefcence, fome advantage may be obtained from the face being placed in fuch a manner that the light of a clear fun may fall into the noftril. In the ordinary method of performing this operation, the furgeon now takes the forceps, fig. 2. Plate XXXV. and inferting one of the blades on each fide of the po- lypus, he carries them eafily along till he brings their points as near as poffible to the neck of it, when he lays hold of it firmly, and endeavours to extract it en- tire, either by pulling direcSly downwards, or by moving the forceps from one fide of the noftril to another; or, as fome more properly advife, by turning or twilling the polypus round, till it is completely leparated. By this laft method I think it probable that the root or attachment of the ex!crefcence will be more readily loofened than in any other way, at the fame time that that part of the lining membrane of the nqfe will not be fo much injured as when the tumor is torn away - , bySed. V. Nofe and Fauces, 423 by being pulled either laterally or in a perpendicular diredion, downwards. When a polypus is of a firm texture, If the operation is properly conduded, we may frequently be able to bring it all a- way at once: But when foftand yielding, it commonly requires repeated applica- tions of the forceps; and we Ihould never defifl, as long as any portion of it remains that can with propriety be removed* It is proper, however, in this place to obferve,. that the firft application of the forceps is commonly attended with fuch a great difcharge of blood, that beginners are apt to d6fift before the operation is neaily finilhed, from their being afraid of fatal confequences from the hemorr- hagy; but this ought not in general to be regarded, as long as by a farther ufe of the forceps, we can extrad any more of the polypus. And even when the opera- tion is finifhed, if the patient is in any degree robuft and plethoric, fome advan- tage may enfue from a farther difcharge, by which inflammation may be prevented, which424 Difeafes of the Chap. ,XII. which otherwife might produce very trou- blefome confequences. Profufe hemor- rhagies from this operation feldom hap- pen; by no means fo frequently as thofe are apt to imagine' who have not often had occafion to pradife it. I will not pretend to fay that inftances may not occur of more blood being loft by this operation ^than is proper; but I can fafely aflert, that it is not a common occurrence. When it is found, however, that the hemor- rhagy is proceeding too far, we lliould im- mediately employ thofe means that we know from experience are moft effedual, in putting a ftop to it; but thefe having already been fully treated of in Sed. III. of this Chapter, it is not neceflary to en- ter upon them at prefent. As it fometimes happens that feme parts of the roots of polypi are not extraded by the forceps, we are defired by fome prac- titioners to deftroy them, by inferting cauftic or corrolive applications into the noftrils immediately after the operation. Unlefs, however, we can evidently ob- ferve^Sea. V. Nofe and Fauces. 425 ferve the fpot on which the cauftic fliould be applied, I am clearly of opinion that this praaice fliould not be adopted^ for otherwife we mufl: work entirely at ran- dom, and \\^ill more probably do harm than good. But when, by expofing the noftril to a clear light, we can bring the feat of the excrefcence into view, we may with propriety touch any parts of it that remain, with a piece of lunar cauftic, pro- perly covered with a canula in order to' protea the contiguous found parts. An inftrument for this purpofe is reprefented in fig. I. Plate XXXIV. This, however, fliould not be attempted on the day of the operation, as is commonly advifed; for while any difcharge of blood continues^ a clear view of the parts affeaed cannot be obtained : But it may with propriety be done on the following day; and the cauftic fliould be repeated every fecond or third day, as long as any remains of the excrefcence are obferved. When, again, the root of a polypus lies fo deep that it cannot be difcovered, if we VoL. IV. D d find,Difeafes of the Chap, XII. 426 find, either by the introdudllonof a probe, or by the breathing through this noftril not being free, that the excrefcence is not entirely removed by the forceps, al- though, for the reafons I have mentioned, cauftic Ihould not in this fituation be em- ployed, it may be extremely proper to endeavour to deftroy it by means of a more harmlefs nature. In this cafe, the pradtice I Have defcribed, of palling a fe- ton through the noftril into the throat might fometimes prove ufeful; but the fame Intention may be accompliflied with more certainty by the ufe of a large bougie. I ftiall hereafter have occafion to remark, that in the removal of obftruc- tions in the urethra, bougies feem to ope- rate chiefly by mechanical preffure ^ and there is caufe to imagine, that upon the fame principle they may be employed with advantage for tKe removal of thofe parts of polypous excrefcences in the noftrils that cannot be taken away with the for- ceps. Nay more, were we confulted ear- ly in the dneafc, before the excrefcence haisSed. V, l^aje and Fauces, , 427 iias acquired any confiderable bulk, they might, I think, be fuccefsfully employed in preventing their farther increafe ^ and if duly perfifted in, they might, in fome inftances,' In this incipient date of the difeafe, remove them entirely. Pradi- tioners, however, arefeldom advifed with, till the difeafe has gone too far to admit of this. I have only had one opportunity of trying it^ but in this cafe, the effecds of it were fuch as to juftify our putting it to the teft of future experience. This was the opinion that I publifhed of this remedy feveral years ago, and fince the former editions of this work were printed, I have had many opportunities of putting It to trial. In all it gives.great relief, by enabling the patient to breath with more freedom through the nofe, and in fome it has entirely removed the difeafe. It is not, however, the common bougie that I employ, but a piece of bougie plafter, rolled up into a flat form,, near- ly of the breadth and thicknefs of the f6r^finger of an adult; and of a length to D d 2 paf^Difeafes of the Chap. XII. 428 pafs into the pharynx, while half an inch or thereby remains out of the noftril. The plafter Ihoiild be of a firm confiftence 3 the plug fhould be perfedly fmooth^ and if well covered with oil, it may be eafily palTed, even where the excrefcence is fo large as to fill a confiderable part of the noftril: The patient is foon able to infert it himfelf, and by doing it every night at bed-time, and withdrawing it in the morn- ing, it gives him no great inconvenience in the application, while it commonly foon affords relief to the ftate of his breathing. The perfon in whom this mode of treat- ment .was firft employed, haft for feveral weeks complained of a kind of fluffing, and interruption to breathing in one of his noftrils. On looking into it I clearly faw and touched with the probe, a fmall, pale coloured, foft polypus, at a confider- able depth. ' As it did not yet produce much inconvenience, I did not think of advifing it to be extradfed; but confider- ing it as a fit cafe for trying th^ effefts • ' ofSe£t. V. No/e and Fauces. 429 of compreffion, a roll of bougie plafter of a proper fize was introduced along the courfe of the noftrll; and being gradually increafed in iize, the paffage through the noftril became clear and pervious; and in the courfe of feven or eight weeks the excrefcence difappeared almoft entirely : But the patient was at this time obliged to go abroad, and I have not fince heard of him. In the latter part of the treatment of this cafe a filver tube covered with pla- fter was employed 3 by which the breath- ing went freely on; and being of fuch a length as to pafs into the pharynx, it was eafilykept inferted, and it was prevent- ed from falling out or from paihng back to the throat, by a piece of adheiive plaher connedted with it by means of a ftrong thread being applied acrofs the upper lip. In defcribing the operation of extracl- ing polypi, I proceeded upon the idea of the forceps in common ufe being to be employed^ and when the excrefcence is fmallj they anfwer the pu'rpofe as well as D d 3 anyDifeafes of the Chap. XIL. 430" any other: But when the polypus is fo / large as nearly to fill the noilTil, they cannot be either eafily or properly ap- plied: For the two-blades of the forceps^ being both-, introduced at once, they can- not but with much difficulty be puflied deep into the noftril already much ob- flrudled; and the more they are prefled forward upon the exer^fcence, and. the nearer it is brought to the axis of the inftrument,,the more widely the blades of- it are neceflTarily opened at their extremi- -ties; by which the tumor cannot be fo equally comprefled, nor is there fuch a chance of extirpating the root, of it by means of them, as if they were fo con- ftruded as to apply preiTure equally through their whole length. To remedy thefe inconveniencies, fevc- ral improvements have been propofedybut the befl: I have met with is one by the very ingenious Dr Richter of Gottingen*. A reprefentation of it is given in Plate XXXV. fig. This inftrument may be ufed in the ordinary way by introducing I _ bothNofB and Fauces. 431 Sea. V. both blades at once when the polypus is fmall}, but when the tumor is large, it an- fwers better to introduce the blades fepa- rately as is done with midwifery forceps^ One of the blades being carried flowly and cautioufly forward along the courfe of the polypus, the other muft in like manner be introduced at the oppofite fide of it, fo that they may now be firmly locked toge- ther at the joint. The blades are accord- ingly made to feparate eafily, and to fix in fuch a maimer as to admit of their being employed in the way I have men- tioned. Thefe and every other variety of for- ceps employed for this operation, ought to be as thin and flender in that part of them which is inferted into the nofe as^ the nature of the difeafe will admit; for I muft again obferve, that the ftraitnefs of the part in which we have to operate, is one of the principal difficulties we have to encounter. But when the forceps are made of well-tempered fteel, they need ne- D d-4 ^ ver432 - Difeafes of the Chap. XIL be fo thick and bulky as they are common- ly made. When, however, polypi have acquired a large lize, the obftrudtion they produce in the noftril is in fome inftances to fuch a degree, that no forceps can be inferred: In fuch circumftances, as a conliderable fpace may be gained by laying the noftril open, it may in fome inftances be proper to divide the cartilaginous part of it by a longitudinal incifion^ and, after extract- ing the tumor, to reunite the divided parts either by adheftve plafters or with one or more futures. At the fame time, however, that I men- tion this, I think it right to obferve, that it is a meafure which ought not in any in- ftance to be haftily adopted ^ but I alfo think, that it ftiould not be univerfally condemned, as we find it to be by fome practitioners. I do not imagine that it would in every cafe prove fuccefsful: But when a polypus has already become fo large as entirely to fill the noftril 3 when therefore n6 forceps can be inferred for removingNofi and Fauces. Sea. V. 43.3 removing it; when the tumor is ftili con- tinuing to increafe; and when of courfe there is much reafon to fufpea that it may terminate fatally if it be not extraa- ed; it will furely be better to give the patient any fmall chance that may be de^ rived from the pradice I have mention- ed, than to leave him to die in mifery; which in all probability he would do were no attempt made for his relief. If cii laying the noflril open, it is found that the tumor can be with fafety removed >vith forceps, a complete recovery may poilibly be obtained; and thus the palti that the patient has fuffered, and the trou- ble of the operator, will be amply reward- ed, whilft at the fame time no material injury will be done nor no kind of rhk in- curred, if on laying the parts open, ,it is unfortunately found that no part of the tumor can with propriety be taken away. In'the firm flefliy kind of polypi, which in fome inftances degenerate into canceiy when it is found that the tumor is already in a ftate of ulceration, and that the con- 2 tigiioiis434 Difeafes of the Chap. XII. tiguous cartilages and bones of the nofe are difeafed, it would no doubt be impru- dent to advife the treatment I have men- tioned, for no advantage would probably accrue from it; the patient would be made to fuffer a great deal of unneceffary pain; and the operation itfelf would be brought into difrepute: but in the fofter kinds of the difeafe, which rarely or never become cancerous, and when the more external bones and cartilages of the nofe are not affeded, we ought without hefitation to adopt it, when the tumor, as is here fup- pofed to be the cafe, is meant to be re- moved with the foi*(ieps, and when this cannot be done in any other manner. In the cafe of a firm flefhy excrefcence, which filled the noftril fo completely that the forceps could not be introduced for removing it, a method was put in prac- tice by Dr Richter for reducing the fize of it; which to a certain degree anfwer- ed the purpofe, and afforded confiderable relief. A hole or opening was made through the centre of the excrefcence by puiliingSea. V. 435 Nofe and Fauces. piifliing* a common trocar through the whole length of it, after being made red hot and covered with a canula. By this means a paflage was formed through which the patient breatlied eafily, and the tumor was much lellened; but the Doc- tor was unfortunately prevented from at- tempting to complete the cure, either by extraaion or otherwife, by the pa- tient leaving the place.—This cafe, how- ever, affords an ufeful praaical hint, and points out a mode of treatment which in tumors of this particular kind may in fome inflances be fuccefsfully em- ployed I have thus defcribed the method of extraaing polypi of the nofe with for- ceps ; but I muft again remark, that they may be removed both with more eafe and fiifety with the ligature : And as this mode * For a more particular account of this cafe, and of the forceps mentioned above, V. Augufti Gottlieb Rich- teri Obfervationum Chirurgxcarum 'fefciculus fecundue. Gettings,Difeafes of the Chap. XIL 43^ niode of operating is admifhble in a great proportion of cafes, it feems only to re- quire to be more generally known to be very univerfally preferred. SEC-437 Se£t. VI. Nofe and Fauces. S E C T I O N VI. Of Extirpation of the Itonfds* The Amygdalse or Tonfils are fre- quently, even in a natural ftate, fo large as almofl: to fill up the pafTage from the mouth to the throat. As long, how- ever, as they remain found, and are not attacked with inflammation, any inconve- nience that they produce is feldom of much importance : But tonfils of this enlarged fize are very apt to inflame on the patient being much expofed to cold ; and frequent returns of inflammation are often attended with fuch an addition of bulk as to pro- duce nearly a total obftrudlion to the paf- fage of food, drink, and air. It is this enlarged ftate of the amygdala that in general is termed a fchirrous ftate of the Tonfils 3 but I think it right to ob- ferve, that the term Schirrus appears here to be very improperly applied ; for, ex- ceptingDifeafeiofthe Chap.XIL 43^ cepting the clrcumftahce of a firm tu- tnor, every other charaderiflic of fchir- rus is here very commonly wanting. A real fchirrus is attended with frequent ftiooting pains, and it very commonly ter- minates in cancer: Now we know, that pain very feldom occurs in cafes of en- larged tonfils,.except from inflammation : While iti an inflamed fl:ate, they are fre- quently indeed very painful ^ but as foon as the inflammation fubfides, no more pain i^ experienced, and they remain per- fectly eafy and Indolent till tho patient Is again expofed to cold. This, however, is never the cafe with fwellings of the real fchirrous kind; for whenever they become painful, they uniformly proceed to turn worfe : And, again, enlarged tonfils are feldom or never known to terminate in cancer. I never knew an inftance of their doing fo; and few practitioners, I imagine, have met with it. Mr Sharpe, when treating of this fxib- jeCt, recommends a more frequent extirpa- tion of enlarged, or what he terms Schir- rousSeft, VI. Nofe and Fauces. 439 rous Tonfils, than what has hitherto com- monly prevailed ; and he is induced to do fo, from having obferved that the dlfcafe never returns, as it too frequently does af- ter the extirpation of fchirrous tumors in other parts. His words being much in point, I fhall tranferibe them. All other tumors of the fchirrous kind, whether of a fcrophulous or cancerous nature, are fub- je6t to a relapfe; the poifon either remain- ing in the neigbourhood of the extirpa- ted gland, or at lead falling on fome other gland of the body. In this cafe, I have never met with one fuch inftance ; and the patient has always been reftored to perfed: and lading health*.” Mr Sharpe has here communicated a very intereding fad ^ the more valuable, by coming from a man of high reputation, and whofe pradice was very extenfive. By many, however, the truth of his af- fertion has been doubted, from its being univerfally * V. Critical Inquiry, &c. by Samuel Sharpe.— Fourth Edition, fedl. VII.44^ ' Difeafes of the Chap. XII. imirerfally known' that fchirrous tumors frequently return in other parts of the body after being extirpated. It would indeed be furprifing to find the extirpa- tion of fchirrous tonfils prove always fuc- cefsful when the fame operation often fails when pradlifed for fimilar affedions in other parts. But the explanation I have given fcts it in a more diftind point of view. Thefe tumors of the amygda- lae, commonly' termed Shirrous Tonfils, are not of the true fchirrous nature; and hence it is that they never degenerate in- to cancer, nor return 'after extirpation; and this is accordingly a very weighty argument for removing them as foon as they become fo large as to impede either deglutition or refpiration. Till this, however, takes place to a confiderable degree, no praditioner ought to advife this operation; for, as it is attended with a good deal of pain, it fhould be avoided as long as the fafety of the patient does not require it ; but whenever the tumor becomes fo large as to produce much intern- rapt ionNofe and Fauces. 441 Sea. VI. ruptlon to the paiTage of food and air, we fhould not hefitate to advife it. Different methods have been propofed for removing enlarged tonlils. — Some have advifed the repeated application of the adual or potential cautery: Others recommend excifion with the fcalpel or with crooked fciffars: And, laflly, it has been propofed to do the operation with ligatures. Cauftic appVcatiqns., hAwever, fliould here be confidered as inapplicable, from the impoflibility of ufing them without injury to the neighbouring paints; and we are debarred from the ufe of the knife and fciffars by the profufe hemorrhagies that fametimes occur from excifion. Ne- ceflity therefore obliges us to employ the ligature^ and with due attention, almofi; every tumor may be removed by means of it to which the amygdalae are liable. In the preceding fedtion I have given a detail of the beft method of applying ligatures to polypous excrefcences in the throat, and it likewife appears to be the VoL. IV. E e eafieft442 Difeafes.of the Chap. XII. eafieft and bed: method of forming liga- tures upon tumors of the amygdalae. It ought to be done with pliable lilver-wire, but catgut of a proper ftrength will like- wife anfwer; and although the double ca- nula to be paffed through the nofe might be of a ftraight form, it will anfwer bet-*' tdr if fomewhat crooked, as in fig. 2. Plate XXXI. The double of a ligature, formed of pliable filver-wire or catgut, being inferr- ed into one of the noftrils, muft be pufh- ed bdck till it reaches the throat, when the operator, introducing his fingers at the mouth, muft open the ligature; and having palled it over the tumor, it Inuft now be prelfed clofely down to the root of it. In this fituation, he muft conti- nue to preferve it with his fingers; while an afiiftant having inferted the two ends of the ligature into the canula, muft pulh it eafiiy along the noftril, till the far- ther end of it is either feen or felt in the throat; and the wire being now pulled fo tight as to fix it in the fubftance of the tumor,443 Nof€ and Fauces. Sea, VI. tumor, the ends of it hanging out at the other end of the canula^mufl be tied in the manner pointed out in the laft feaion, to the wings or handle of the inftrument; and the ligature being made tighter from time to time, the fwelling will foon fall off. The more pendulous the tumor, the more eafily will the ligature be fixed. But however broad the bafe of it may be, it may with little difficulty be done; for the fwelling is always very promi- nent : So that when the double of the wire is fairly palled over, it may eafily be pufhed down to the bafe ^ith the fingers; and being preserved in this fituation till pulled fufficiently tight, it will not after- wards be in danger oFmoving. I have advifed the ligature to be firfl: carried through the nofe before being put over the tumor. It might indeed be in- ferted by the mouth; but in this- manner more inconvenience would enfue from the ligature and canula hanging out at the mouth during the cure. This method, E e 2 however.Difeafes of the Chap. XII. 444 however, may be adopted when any dif- ficulty occurs in the application of the li- gature in the manner I have mentioned. For the moll part we find both tonfils nearly equally enlarged • In fome cafesp the removal of one of them forms a fuffi« cient opening for the paflage of the fogd^. but \yhen it becomes neceflary to extir*- pate both, it anfwers better to. allow any inflammation or tenfion induced by the removal of the firft, to fubfide entirely before attempting to remove the other.^ This mode of applying ligatures upon thefe tumors, is in my opinion the bell; but it may often be done in a different manner. Let a ligature fufiiciently ftrong be formed of waxed thread ^ and let this be carried round the tumor either with the fingers or with a fplit probe, fuch as is reprefented in Plate XXXIII. fig. 2. A noofe is now to be made upon it, with which a knot of any degree of tightnefs may be formed- on it by fixing one end of the thread at the fide of the tumor in the throat, with the inflrument, fig. 2. Plate XXXVIILSeel. VI. Nofe and Fauces. 445 XXXVIII. while the other is firmly drawn with the other hand of the fiirgeon out at the mouth. This method was firfl put in pradice by Mr Chefeldeh; and it has fince that period been recommended by Mr Sharpe and others. In order tt> fix the ligature where the ttimor is of a pyramidal form with a broad bafe, a needle with an eye near the point, fiich as is reprefented in Plate XXXVIII. fig. 3. was likewife pro- pofed by Mr Chefelden. A double ligature being put into the eye of the needle, the inflrument is to be puflied through the centre of the tumor near to its bafe, and the threads being difengaged with a pair of forceps, the needle is withdrawn. In this manner two ligatures are to be form- ed, each of them being made to compre- hend one half of the tumor by one of the threads being tied above, and the other below.—The inftrument, fig. 2. of the fame Plate, is likewife necefiary here. Although it is proper to mention this method of fixing ligatures upon tumors E e 3 of44^ Difeafes of the Chap. XII* of the tonfils with broad bafes, it will not probably be often employed. The double canula renders it unneceflary, as by means of it fuch a degree of force can be ap- plied as will at once fix the ligature in the fubftanceof the fwelling: Even when the operation was done in a manner that di^ not admit of the ligature being fo firmly fixed as may be done with the double ca- nula, Mr Sharpe was of opinion, that Mr Chefelden’s method of performing the o- peration was unneceflary. His obferva- tion on this point is, “ That he had ne- ver in one inftance found it neceflary to employ the double ligature recom- mended by Mr Chefelden By whatever method, however, the o- peratibn is performed, it may in fome in- ftances happen that the tumor does not fall off by the firfi: ligature; in which cafe another mufl: be applied, and conti- nued till the cure is completed. S E C . ^ Vide Mr Sharpe’s Treatife on the Operations of Surgery, Chap, xxxii.Nofe and Fauces. 447 Sed, VII. SECTION VII. Of the Extirpation of the Uvula. HE Uvula, by frequent attacks of inflammation, as likewife perhaps by other caufes, becomes in many inftan- ces fo relaxed and elongated as to be pro- dudive of much diftrefs, not only by im- peding deglutition, but by irritating the throat fo as to induce cough, retching, and even vomiting. Any flight degree of enlargement of this part may in general be removed by the frequent ufe of aflringent gargles, compofed of ftrong infufions of red rofe leaves—Peruvian bark—or oak-bark, with a due proportion of alum or vitriolic cid; and as long as remedies of this kind prove effedual, no others fhould be advi- fed. But when thefe fail, and when the tumefadioa of the uvula is fo confider- able as to create much diftrefs, we de- pend448 Difeafes of the Chap. XII, pend on extirpation alone for removing them. ^ . The uvula may be extirpated either with a ligature or by excifion. By the laft, the parts affeded are quickly removed, and the patient obtains immediate relief3 whereas the other is not only flow in its operation, but it is applied with dif- ficulty. But by excifion, troublefome hemorrhagies fometimes occur, while no rlik whatever enfues from liga- tures. Some praditioners indeed allege that no danger can enfue from any he- morrhagy that takes place from the re- moval of' the uvula by excifion ^ but al- though this may frequently happen, yet I know from experience that inftances of the contrary fometimes occur^ and that large quantities of blood have been loft by-this operation. This will moft readi- ly happen where the uvula is much~en- larged, and where of confequence the veffeis with which it is fupplied are in an enlarged ftate. Where the uvula is mere- ly elongated, there will feldom, I imagine, be449 Sed. VIL • Mo/e and Fauces. be much rifle in removing it by excifion. In this ftate, therefore, of the difeafe, excifion fliould be preferred 3 but when the parts to be removed are much increa” fed in bulk, it anfwers better to'do it with ligatures. Different inftruments have been invent- ed for cutting off the uvula. 'One of tliefe that has~been mofl: frequently ufed, is re- prefented in Plate XXXIX. fig. i. But neithis nor any other of a fimilar form an- fwers the purpofe fo w^ell as a curved probe-pointed biftoury, fuch as is delinea- ted in fig. 3. of the fatjLie Plate. Or the operation may be very eafily done with feiflars of the common form, or with a curve, fuch as is reprefented in Plate XXXVI.^fig. 2. When any of thefe inftruments are em- ployed, the mouth being firft fecured with a fpeculum, fuch as is reprefented in Plate XLI. fig. I. the uvula ftiould be laid hold of with a pair of Pmail for- ceps, or with a _fharp hook, by which it will be more eafily cut off than if left loofeDifeafe's of the Chap. XII. 450 loofe in its natural pendulous ftate. Af- ter the operation, if much blood is dif- charged, it may be reftrained by the ufe of an aftringent gargle ^ by the applica- tion of ardent fpirits;. or even by touch- ing the bleeding veffel with lunar cauftic. It will feldom happen, however, that any precaution of this kind is neceflary; for a ttioderate fiov/ of blood will never do harm, and more than this will rarely oc- cur where the parts are not much enlar- ged. When, again, a ligature Is to be employed, the mode of fixing it defcri- bed in the laft fedion may be adopted: It may be done by the double canula paf- fed through one of the noftrilsor the canula may be introduced at the mouth ^ -—or it may be done by the method em- ployed by Mr Chefelden for applying li- gatures upon the tonlils, alfo defcribed in the laft fedion.^ After palling the liga- ture round the ,mmor, which in general will be eafieft done with the fingers, a knot may be tied upon it in the manner I 3 p ' have45-^ Sedl. VII., Nofe and Fauces. have there direded, with the inftrument^ fig. 2. Plate XXXVIIL I have likewlle thought it right to re- prefent another inftrument, hitherto al- moft the only one employed for fixing a li- gature upon the uvula, Plate XXXI. fig. 3. From the name of the inventor, it has commonly been termed the Ring of Hil- danus. The invention is very ingenious^ and by means of it a ligature may be firm- ly applied upon the uvula : But the fame intention may he accomplifhed in a more fimple manner by either of the other me- thods defcribed above 3 fo that this will probably be laid afide. SEC-Dijeafes of the Chap. XII, 452 SECTION VIII. Of Scarifying and Fomenting the ^Throat. IT frequently happens in inflammation of the amygdalae and contiguous parts^ that fcarifications become neceflary^ in the firfl; place, for leflening the degree of inflammation by inducing a topical dif- charge of blood; and afterwards for the difchargeof matter contained in abfcelles, when fuppuration has not been prevented by the means ufually employed for this purpofe. . In Plate XL. figures i, and 3. I have delineated different forms of inflruments for this purpofe: The wings with which fig. I. is furniflied are particularly well adapted for comprefling the tongue, while the fcarificator is employed in the back part of the mouth. With cither of thefe, fcarifications may be made, or abfcelTes opened, in any part of the mouth or throat with entire fafety. InSe£l. VIH. IJofe and Fauces, 453 In the treatment of inflammatory affec- tions of thefe parts, we often find it ne- ceffary to recommend fomentations 3 a remedy, too, which proves frequently highly ufeful in catarrhal affedlions of the trachea and lungs. Various methods are propofed for conveying fleams to thefe parts; but the befl I have ever feen, and it is likewife the neatefl and moft fimple in its conflrudion, is the inflru- ment delineated in Plate XL. fig. 2. the invention of Mr Mudge of Plymouth. By means of it, the throat, trachea, and lungs, may be very effedlually fomented by drawing warm fleams into them, and without any difficulty or inconvenience to the patient, who may lie in bed during the whole operation.—This inflrument I confider as fo highly ufeful in the treat- ment of every cafe of catarrh, that I think every family fhould have it. CHAP.454 Bifedfes of the Lip^f Chap. XIII. CHAPTER XIII. Of Diseases of the Lips. SECTION I. Of the Hare-lip. Natural deficiencies are not fo fre- quent in any part of the body as in the lips. Children are often born with fiffures in one of the lips, particularly in the upper lip. In fome inftances this is attended with a confiderable want or real deficiencySe6l. I. Bifeafes of the Lips. 455 deficiency' of parts; in others we only meet with a fimple fiffure or divifion; whilfl in fome again, there is a double fifliire with an intermediate Ipace left be-' tween them. Every degree of this affec- tion is termed a Hare-lip, from a refem- Jblance that it is fuppofed to bear^to the lip of a hare. For the moft part this fiffure or open- ing is confined to the lip itfelf: Biit it often exttods backward along the whole courfe of the palate, through the velum pendulum and uvula into the throat; and in fome inftances the bones of the palate are either altogether or in part wanting, while in others they are only divided or feparated from each other. Every degree of the. hare-lip gives much deformity, and it fometimes pre^- vents a child from fucking. When In the under lip, which is not, however, often met with, it commonly prevents the fa- liva from being retained ; it is always produdive of fome degree of impediment offpeech ; and when the divifion extends along45^ 'Difeafes of the Lips. Chap. XIII, 2 eight, along the bones of the palate, the patient is much incommoded both in chewing and fwallbwing, by the food palling rea-* dily up to the nofe. Thefe are all very urgent reafons for an early removal of the hare-lip being at- tempted : Where it interrupts, indeed, the fuckling of the child, the operation muft either be done immediately, or the child muft be fed with a fpoon; but by praditibners in general we are defired at all events to delay th^ operation to the third, fourth, or fifth year; left the cry- ing of the child ftiould render the means employed for obtaining a cure altogether abortive. This reafoH, however, does not appear to be of importance; for till a child ar- rives at his twelfth or fourteenth year, when we may fuppofe him to be poflefled of fuSicient fortitude for fubmitting eafi- ly to the operation, the* fame objedion holds equally ftrong: Nay, a child of fix or eight years of age is in every, refped more difficult to manage than one of fix,457 Sed. i. i)ifiafes of the Lips, ^ight, or twelve months. I am there- fore clearly of opinion, that in a healthy child the operation fliould never be long delayed; for the more early it is per- formed,. the fooner will all the ineonve- viencies produced by the difeafe be ob- viated ; and fo far as I can judge from experience, I think that it may be done even in very early periods of infancy, perhaps in the third or foiu'th month, with the fame profped of fuccefs as in any period of life. I have done it in the third month with very complete fuccefs, but the twelfth or thirteen anfwers betr ter. . Praditionets all agree in regard to the intention of^this operation, which is ac- compliflied by cutting off the fides of the fiflure fo as to reduce the whole of it to the date of a recent wound; and this be- ing done, the edges of the divided parts are drawn together and retained in con- tad till they adhere firmly. But al- though the principles on which our prac- tice is founded are univerfally admitted, VoL. IV. F f authors45 8 Difeafes of the Lips. Chap. XIIL authors have entertained very oppolite opinions of the heft method of carrying it into effedl. By fome we are directed to employ the interrupted future, for re- taining the fidcs of the filllire: Others prefer the twilled future: Whilll by many, futures of every kind are faid to be improper; and that a cure may be always obtained with adhelive plafters, or bandages; by which means a great de^l of pain, would no doubt be avoided,, which futures are always fure to excite. This is a point of much importance, and therefore merits particular difcuf- lion; and more efpecially as it has been warmly contefted even by furgeons of, re- putation. In the treatment of all difeafes, our principal objedt is to obtain an elFedlual cure^ but every praditioner will allow, that the ealieft mode of effeding this Ihould always be preferred. On this principle much pains have been taken to Ihow, that futures are feldom necellary 111Sed. I. Life a/e s of the Lips. 459 in wounds of any kind, efpecially in the treatment of the hare-lip 3 and in fupport of this opinion various cafes are recited of cures being effeded with bandages a- lone: Nay, fome have gone fo far as to affert, that in every inftance of hare-lip a cure may be accomplifhed with more certainty by a proper bandage alone than when futures are employed ^ for they al- lege, that the irritation produced by fu- tures ferves in a great meafure to coun« terad the very purpofe for which they are employed. After the edges of the fiffiire are cut off dr rendered raw, the contradion of the adjoining mufcles is the only difficulty that we have to en- counter : And this, we are told, inftead of being removed by futures, is always increafed by them; while the fame in- tention, it is faid, rnay be accompliflied with no inconvenience whatever, by a bandage applied in fuch a manner as td keep the edges of the fore in clofe con- tad, which it does by fupporting the coti^ tiguous parts fo as to prevent the reac^ F f 2 tion460 Difeafes of the Lips* Chap. Xllf. tion of the mufcles with which they are conneded. That a hare-lip may be completely cured with the uniting bandage, or even with adhefive plafters aloiie, there is nO reafon to doubt ^ and being attended with lefs pain than the method of cure by fu- tures, it ought in every cafe to be prefer- red, if with equal certainty it could be relied on: But although with much pain^ and attention, we might in fome inftances be able to accompliih a cure, with plafters and bandages 3 yet, from the nature of- the remedy, there is caufe to imagine that it would frequently fall; for in the cure of the hare-lip, if every point of the parts meant to be united be not kept in contact till complete adhefion takes place, our in- tention is always fruftrated, and nothing afterwards proves fuccefsful but a repeti- tion of the operation In ail its parts. Tdie edges of the fore muft be again rendered raw, and the patient muft fubmit either to another application of the bandage, or to the ufe of futures ^ which, if employ- edSe6l. I. Difeafes of the Lips. 4^1 F f 3 fure ed at firft, might have faved much trouble both to himfelf and the operator: For it is proper to obferve, that in cafes where the operation is applicable, the method of cure by futures, when rightly conduced, never fails, at leafl: I have never known an inftance of it. It fometimes happens, indeed, that the deficiency of parts is fo great as to render it impoflible by any means to keep them in contad 3 and if fu- tures are employed in cafes of this kind, they mufl: no doubt prove unfuccefsful: This, however, is not the fault of the remedy, but of the operator, in ufing it in an incurable variety of the difeafe. As I have had often occafion to pradife this operation, and being at firfl: prepof- fefled In favour of the method of cure by bandages and plafters, 1 gave them both a fair trial; and the refult was ex^ adly what I have mentioned. I found, that by a proper application of bandage*^ and plafters, a complete cure might in fome Inftances be obtained, but that th^ greatcft care and attention could not in-4-63 Difeafcs of the Lips. Chap. XIII. fare fuccefs ; and finding that dlfappoint- ments never occur from the ufe of fu- tures when properly employed, I have now laid every pother method afide 3 and hitherto I have had no caufe to regret my having done fo. I fliall therefore proceed to defcribe the operation as it ought to be performed with futures ^ and as none of the methods by bandages or futures, will ever probably be received into gene- ral ufe, it would be confidered as fuper- fluous to give an account of them: And befides, our doing fo here is unnecelTary, as the fubjedl has already been fully treat- ed of by various authors of reputation, particularly by Monfieur Louis of Paris, who has given a paper in the 4th Vo- lume of the Memoirs of the Royal Aca- demy of Surgery, that contains every ar- gument that has been fuggefted in favour of this method of curing the hare-lip with bandages. In proceeding to the operation, the pa- tient, if an adult, fliould be feated oppo- fite to the light with his head properly fupported by an affiftant ^ but if a child, heSedl. I. Difeafes of the Lips'. 463 he will be more firmly fecured If laid up- on a table, and kept in a proper pofture by an afliftant on each fide. ' The operator is now to make an atten- tive examination, not only of the parts to be removed, but of thofe with which they are connecfted. The upper lip fhould be completely feparated from the gums be- neath, by dividing the frenum that con- joins them. This admits of the lip being more equally ftretched ; and when one of the fore-t^eth is found oppofite to and projeds into the fifiure, as is often the cafe, it ought to be t^ken out, as it will irritate and ftretch the parts if allowed to remain. In fome inflances too, efpe- cially when the fifiure runs through the bones of the palate, a fmall portion or corner of bone is found to projed from one or both of the angles. This fhould likewife be removed; and it maybe eafily done with pliers or forceps, which fhould be both firm and fharp, as is reprefented in Plate XLIII. fig. 2. ^ Ff4 Thefe '464 Difeafes of the Lips. Chap. XIII? Thefe preparatory Heps being adjufted, the furgeon, {landing on one fide of the pa- tient j mull take one fide of the lip between the thumb and fore-finger of his left hand ^ and defiring an affiftant to do the fame with the oppofite fide, and to ftretch it fomewhat tightly, he ihould with a com- mon fcalpel, make an incifion from the un- der border of the lip up to the fuperior part of it; in which he muft take care to include not only all the parts immediately * concerned in the fiiTure, but even a fmall portion of the contiguous found Ikin and parts beneath: And this being done on one fide, a fimilar incifion mull be made on the oppofite fide; which ought to be of the lame length with the other, terminating in the fame point in the upper part of the lip^. By this means^ if the operation is rightly done, a piece, including the fiiTure com- pletely, will be cut out, of the form of the letter V inverted; and the deficiency will in every part of it have the aj5pearance of a recent woimdo ’ ^ . WithSe£l:. I. Difeafes of the Lips, 465 With a view to prevent inflammation, the divided arteries fhould be allowed to difcharge freely, efpecially if the patient is plethoric ^ and this being done, the fur- geon fhould proceed to unite the fides of the fifliire. In this he will be much af- fifled by defiring the cheeks to be pufhed forward fo as to bring the edges of the wound nearly into contadt, although not altogether fo clofeas to prevent him from feeing freely through from one fide of it to the nther ; the affiftant behind being direded to fupport the parts in this fitua- tion during the remaining fteps of the operation. The furgeon is now to fee that the two fid^s of the cut correfpond exa^Sly with each other 5 and this being done, the pins intended to fupport them mufl: be intro- duced in the manner I have direded in defcribing the twifted future, Chap. V. Sed. V. The firfl: pin fhould be near to the under edge of the lip : If poflible, in- deed, it fhould be placed entirely within ^he red part of the lip, Jeaying no more fpace^66' Difeafes of the Lips. Chap. XIII. fpace beneath than Is merely necefTary to fupport it. In adults, another pin Ihould be inferted in the centre of the cut, and a third within a very little of the fu- perior angle. By fome we are advifed to ufe a greater number of pins; but even in adults three are always fufficlent, and in infants two will very commonly anfwer. In palling them, they Ihould be made to enter nearly half an inch from the edge of the fore ^ and being carried nearly to the bottom, which will be feen by retaining the wound open in the man- ner I have directed, they raufl: be again pafled outward, in a iimilar diredion and to an equal diftance on the oppofite fide of the fiflure. The ailiftant fhould now pufli for- ward the cheeks, fo as to bring the edges of the fore clofe together, when a firm waxed ligature fliould be ap- plied over the pins in the manner I have formerly direded for the twilled future, and as will perhaps be better underllood by fig, 3. Plate XLIV; The 3 furgeonSed. I. Difeafes of the Lips. 467 furgeon lliould firfl: apply the ligature to the under pin ; and having made three or four turns with it, fo as to defcribe the figure of 8, it fliould then be carried to the contiguous pin; and being in a fimi- lar manner carried round this pin, he is then to finifli the operation by carrying it to the others taking care in the whole courfe of applying it, to draw it of fuch a tightnefs as may retain the parts in contad 5 but not lo ftrait as to irritate or inflame them, as is too frequently done. By fome we are defired to ufe a fepa- rate thread for every pin, in order, as they fay, to admit of one pin being re- moved, if it fliould become necelTary, without difturbing the others. This, how- ever, I have never found to be the cafe; fo that the precaution is unnecelTary, while it prevents us from deriving any advantage from palling the ligature dia- gonally from one pin to the another, by which we have it in our power more ef- fedually to prevent the fides of the fif- fure between the pins from riling into un- equal468 Difeafes of the Lips. Chap. XIIL equal heights than otherwife could poC- fibly be done. A piece of lint covered with mucilage to retain it, Ihould now be put over the courfe of the cut, with a view to proteft it more effedually from the air; and it fliould likewife be made to cover the ends of the pins, to prevent them from being entangled with the bed-clothes, or other- wife y and this is all the dreffing or ban- dage that in general is required. We are defired indeed by many, after the pins are all fecured, to apply the uniting ban- dage, in order to fupport the mufcles of the cheek, fo as to prevent the pins from cutting or irritating the parts through which they pafs, v/hich they are apt irt • fqme degree to do, when the deficiency of parts is confiderable. This however is a practice that I have never obferved prove ufeful, and it of- ten does harm; Tor a bandage cannot be applied with fuch tightnefs as to give any fupport to the mufcles of the cheek without exciting much pain and in- ^ convenience:Sed. I. Difeafes of the Lips. 469 convenience : And it is apt to d^arm, as I have elfewhere obferved, by preffing up- on the ends of the pins over which it mufl: pafs ^ for even although a flit Is made in that part of the bandage corrcr fponding to the lip, as fome have advifed, prefliire upon the pins can fcarcely be prevented: And befides, although a ban- dage may be applied fufficiently tight a|^ firft, the motion of the jaw commonly loofens it foon, fo as to prevent it from having any farther effed. When, how- ever, the deficiency of parts is great, and when the edges of the fore are with diffi- culty brought together, fome advantage ihay be derived from a proper applica- tion of adhefive plafters* An oblong piece of leather,, fpread either with com- mon glue, or with ftrong mucilage, fuch as is employed In making court-plafter, being applied over each cheek, and of a fize fufficient for reaching from the angle of the jaw, to within an inch thereby of the pins on each fide, and each piece of leather having three firm ligatures fixed to47^ Bifeafes of the Lips. Chap. XIII. to that end of it next the pins, one at each corner and another in the middle, the cheeks fhould now be fupported by an afliftant, when the ligatures Ihould be tied fo as to retain the parts in this fitua- tion ^ and if care is taken to make the li- gatures pafs between the pins, and not immediately over them, no harm or in- convenience will be done them. It rare- ly happens however, that this kind of af- fiftaiice is needed; for I have, in almoft e- very inftance, found that [the pins alone anfwer the purpofe. It is fcarcely neceffary to obferve, that while the pins are in the lip, the patient fhould be fed upon fpoon meat, and fhould be prevented from Jaughing, crying, and firetching his mouth in any manner of way. The pins having remained in the lip for five or fix days at farthefl, they fhould then be taken out; for by this time, as I have found by experience, the parts are firmly united ^ and by remaining longer^ they are apt to leave marks which do not fo471 Sed. I. Difeafis of the Lips, fo readily difappear as when they are re- moved fooner. I have reafon indeed to think that three days would frequently prove fufhcient 3 but as I know from ex- perience that the pins may^, without de- triment, be allowed to remain for five or fix days, I think it better not to remove them fooner. This is the pradice that I would ad/«^ vife for a common cafe of hare-lip 3 and, as a farther illuftration of it, feme figures are delineated in Plate XLIV. reprefent- ing the appearance of the difeafe before the operation—the parts which ought to be removed—the application of the pins —and the appearance which the parts fhould have when the operation is finifhed. But for a more particular account of thefe, I mufl refer to the explanation of the Plate. What I have hitherto faid relates to the difeafe in its mofl ordinary form. In the cafe of a double hare-lip, the opera- tion requires to be performed twice in all its parts 3 firfl in one fiflure, and then in the472 Difeafes of the Lips. Chap, Xllf ^ the othei\ By fome we are direded to do them both at the fame time : But this fhould never be attempted^ for by doing fo, we incur the rifk of lofing all the ad- vantages to be derived from the interme- diate found parts, and of which I once met with a very difagreeable inftance. The found part of the lip lying between the two liffures, was by no means incon- fiderable, but being much ftretched with a great number of pins pafTed through it, it began to inflame immediately after the operation; and the inflammation and pain increafing, the whole pins were obliged to be removed, and the patient would not afterwards fubmit to any farther trial. We ought, therefore, firfl: to complete the cure of one fiflure ; and this being done, we may in the fpace of two or three weeks venture with much fafety On the other. In defcribing this operation, I have de- fired, that although the fiffure may not ex- tend the whole breadth of the lip, yet that the cut ihould pafs up to the upper part473 Difeafes of the Lips, Se£l. I. part of It: Aild any perfon accuftomed to this operation will know that the parts may be united much more neatly in this manner, than when the lip is only cut through part of its breadth. By one me- thod of treatment, the parts, when drawn together, are fmooth and equal; but by the other, they are apt to be uneyen, and much puckered* I have alfo defired that the furgeot^ Ihould take particular cafe to make the two fides of the cut.exadly of an equal length. A point of much importance in' this operation, and requiring more atten- tion than It commonly meets with : For it is obvious, if one lide of the wound is long- er than the other, that the cicatrix will not be fmooth and even, as it ought to be: By inferring the firft pin at the edge of the lip, this part of it will indeed be ve- ry properly united, but the reft of it muft be uneven. The moft effedual preventa- tive of this, is to mark with fmall dots of ink, not only the length of the cut on each fide, but the diredlion that it ought- VoL. IV. G g to474 Di/eajes of the Lips* Chap. XIIL ta take, by which every chance of going wrong IS prevented. It is of much importance to have the lip equally and tightly ftretched In ma- king the incilion, otherwife the edges of the fore will be ragged and uneven : This may be always prevented by proper at- tention ^ but with a view to guard againft it as much as poffible, curved forceps may be employed for laying hold of the lip. Different forms of thefe are delineated in Plate XLII. fig. 2. and 3. They fhould be made fo as to comprefs the lip equal- ly p and being applied in the diredion in- tended for the Incifion, the fcalpel is car- ried along the fide of them, by which means the cut rnay be made very exadl and even. Other forms of this inflrument have been recommended; but thofe that I have delineated are more fimple, and anfwer the purpofe better than any that I have met with. / By f6me we are defired not to employ any inftrument of this kind, under an ap- prehenfion of its irritating and bruifing’^ thq475 Sed. I. Difeafes of the Lips. the lip. This fiifpiclon, however, can have occurred only to thofe who have ne- ver ufed it; for when the blades are fmooth and equal, a degree of eompref- fion may be made with it perfeclly fuffi- cient for fixing the lip without giving a- ny degree of uneafinefs to the patient. This I can affert from much experience of its utility. Inftead of making the incifion in thjs manner, fome have diredled it to be done by fitting a piece of pafteboard, lead, or tin, to the gums beneath; and the lip being placed upon it, it is divided by cut- ting down upon it with a fcalpel into the fupporting fubftance : The operation may no doubt be done in this manner, but the cut is more eafily made in the man- ner I have advifed. Till of late the incifion in this opera- tion was commonly made with fciflars ; and although they are now very general- ly laid afide on the fnppofition of their bruifing the lip, yet I know that the ope- ration may be very properly done with G g 2 them.Difcafes of the Lips, Chap. XIIL ' them* Sciflars fliould not be employed' to cut a part of much thlcknefe, but the lip is feldom fo thick as to render it im- proper to ufe them in the operation for the hare-lip. They have of late been ufed, in this place by different pradi- tioners; and as the point can be de- termined by experience alone, I have likewife employed them. In order t©^ afcertain which of the two modes of ope- rating, that with the fcalpel or fclffars, fhould be preferred, I have in different cafes made the incifion on one fide Vi^ith a fcalpel, and on the other with fciffars. The patients commonly fay that the fciffars give leaft pain, probably from their making the cut in lefs time than can be done with the knife; and, diiting the cure, that fide of the lip on which the cut is made with fciflars, neither fwells' nor inflames more ^han the other. I do not from this, how- ever, mean to fay, that fciffars are pre- ferable to the fcalpel; I mention it only to fhow that the common idea entertained of them is iu-founded, and that the ope- ration.iSed. I. Difeafes of the Lips. 477 ration maybe equally well done with both inftruments. ScifTars for this purpofefliould be very ftrong, and particularly firm at the joint- They fliGuld alfo be highly pO“ liflied. The fize and form of them re- q)refented in Plate XLIII. fig. i. has been frequently ufed, and is found to anfwer. When defcribing the Twifted Suture in Chapter VT I gave the preference to gold pins 3 and I am Hill of opinion that they are the beft. When of a proper form, fuch as are reprefented in Plate* IV. figs. 2. 3. and 4. they pierce the lip with much eafe, without any alliftance from a porte-aiguille: But they who think that a' fliarper and firmer point than can be given to gold will anfwer better, may have fieel-points added, as is reprefented in figures 6, 7, and 8- of the fame Plate and the fleel-points being moteable, they may be removed after the pins are pafTed, by which every rifk is pre- vented of their wounding the contigu- ous parts. By fbme praditioners, flexible needles are employed for this opera- tion; but they do not anfwer fo well G^3 as478 Difeafes of the Lips. Chap. XIII, as thofe that are firm and give fuffieient refiftanee to the ligatures. In paffing the needles, I have faid that they fliould go nearly through to the op- pofite fide of the lip: This merits parti- cular attention, otherwife a fifllire is apt to remain in the inner part of the lip, from which a good deal of trouble may be afterwards experienced. And befides, although the difcharge of blood that fuc- ceeds to this operation is always fl:opt immediately on the parts being drawn together by the ligatures if the- pins have been properly introduced, yet when not palled to a fuffieient depth, the blood will continue to get out behind, and may af- terwards be productive of much diftrefs. I have feen an inftance of this where ^ very troublefome oofing of blood conti- nued for feveral days after the operation^ and an inftance is recorded even of death, having enfued from it. ^ In order to pre- vent the lip from being ftretched by the patient in fpitting, it is the ufual praClice fo defire him to fwallpw his faliva with thqSed:, I. Difeafes of the Lips. 479 the blood that may be difcbarged from the fore. In this cafe the patient com- plied Implicitly with the diredions given him; and ,he died from the caufe I have mentioned, namely, a great lofs of blood. His ftornach' and bowels were found fill- ed with blood that he had fwallowed I have thus deferibed all the fteps of the. operation for the hare-lip; and h is proper to obferve, that they are eqiially applicable in the treatment of a fifliire in the lip by whatever caufe it may be form- ed ^ only, in a recent cut, as the edges of it are already raw, all that the furgeon has to do is to infert the pins and apply the ligatures. In wounds where fuppu- ration has already commenced, there is ufuaily fome degree of inflammation up-, on their edges. While this continues it would be improper to draw them toge- ther by ligatui'es ^ but as fopn as the in- flammation fubfides, we may with proprie- G g 4 ty * Vide Memoiii^s de rAcademie Rojale de Ghirurgie, Tom. IV. p. 427.480 Difeafes of the Lips. Chap. XIIL ty and fafety infert the pins and finifli the operation in the manner I have direfted. We are t6ld indeed by many, that this pradticewill fucceed only inrecent wounds, and that it Ihould not be recommended where matter is already formed: I have often, however^ aded otherwife : And I have uniformly found, where the edges of a fore have not become callous, that they have been united as 6afily when co- vered with pus as when perfedly recent and covered with blood. In hare-lip accompanied'with a fiJlure in the bones of the palate, after uniting the foft parts in the manner I have point- ed out, fome advantage may be derived from a thin plate of gold or filver exadly fitted to the arch of the palate, being fix- ed by a piece of fponge flitched to the convex fide of it, and inferred into the fiflure. If the fponge is properly fitted and inferred dry, the moiflure which it imbibes from the contiguous parts will for the moft part make it remain fiiffi- ciently firm, by which both fp^ech and deglutition481 Difeafes of the Lips. deglutition will be rendered more eafy. In fome cafes, however, the form of the fillure is fuch as to prevent the fponge from having any effedl. This always happens when the opening is wldeft out- wardly. For fuch cafes other means have been propofed, efpecially thin plates with gold fprings, made fo as to fix upon the contiguous parts ; but no invention of this kind has been yet found to fucceed. SEC-482 Di/eafes of the Lips. Chap. X^II. SECTION IL Of the Extirpation of Cancerous Lips. The underTlp is more frequently at- tacked with cancer than any other part of the body; and as we know of no internal remedy by which the diieafe cart be cured, the only means we employ for it is the removal of the difeafed parts. When treating of cancerous ulcers, in the fifth Chapter of this work, I endeavoured to fhow, that little dependence can be placed on arfenic or any other of the cau- ftic applications, that have been fo much recommended for this purpofe; and that we are to truft to the fcalpel alone for relief. When a cancerous fore has fpread over any confiiderable part of the lip, and efpe- cialiy v^hen the lip is altogether difeafed, all that a furgeon can do is to remove the difeafed parts 3 to fecure the divided ar- teries' v/ith ligatures, when this is found 2 neceffary^483 Sedl. II. Difeafes of the Lips. neGefTary; and to drefs th^ fore as a re- cent wound. In this manner a cancer may be efFedtually taken away; but it gives a very difagreeable appearance, the under teeth and gums being left all un- covered; while the patient can neither retain his faliva, nor fwallow liquids ea- iily. There is here, however, no alter- native; for where the whole lip is taken away, thefe inconveniencies mufl: nebef- farily enfue, as there is no poflibility of drawing the divided parts together. But when the difeafe has not attacked any confiderable part of the lip, we may always have it in our power to draw the edges of the cut together fo as to make them unite with the twilled future in the manner defcribed in the lafl: feblion: By which we not only prevent deformity, but the patient is equally capable as be- fore the operation, of fwallowing liquids and retaining his faliva: And befides, this method of treatment, as I have elfe- where remarked, by leaving a fmall ex- tent of cicatrix, feems to have fome ef- fed484 Difeafes of the Lips. Sea. II. fea in preventing a return of the difeafe ; at leaft this has been evidently the cafe with thofe that have fallen under my ob- fervation. Where the operation has been performed in the ufual way, without draw- ing the divided parts together and uni- ting them with ligatures, the difeafe has in feveral inftances returned : But, excepting in a very few unfavourable cafes, it has never returned where the hare-lip me- thod of treatment has been employed. Nay more, this will fometimes fucceed where the other has failed. A man ap- peared at our Infirmary here with a can- cer on the under lip. It had been twice removed by extirpation in the ufual way ; but the difeafe returned after each opera- tion almoft as foon as the fore was healed: The lip being ftill fufficiently full, the hare-lip method of treatment was accord- ly put in pradHce. The cure was com- pleted; and I had an opportunity of know-- ing, eight years after the operation, that the man remained in good health, with- out any return of his difeafe. Nor fhould weSed, II. Difeafes of the Lips. 485 we be deterred from doing the operation in this manner by the difeafe being ex- tenfive, if we find that the parts that have been divided can be drawn together and retained by the twilled future: And this, I may remark, may be always done where the difeafe does not render It neceflary to remove almofl the whole lip. The parts, forming the lip, flretch fo confidera^y, that in general this method of treatment may be adopted, although only a third part of the lip may remain. With refpedt to the method of doing the operation, I muft refer to the laft fecSion. In addition to which, I have to obferve, that all the cancerous parts ought in the firft place to be removed, taking care to form the cut in fuch a manner as will mofl readily admit of the divided parts being eafily and neatly drawn to- gether. When the difeafe is feated in the lip only, the parts will have nearly the fame appearance after this operation^ as they have after that fox the hare-lip. But when the cancer extends to the cheek, as is fometimes the cafe, a longitudinal; divilion486 ' Difeafes of the Lips. Chap. XIIL divifion of the lip will not only be need- ed, but a tranfverfe cut into the cheek y both to be united by pins and ligatures : An operation which, in different inflan- ces, I have put in pradice with very com- plete fuccefs. CHAP48^ Sed. I. Difeafes of the Mouth. CHAPTER XIV. Of the Diseases of the Mouth, a SECTION I. Anatomical Remarks. Before proceeding to confider the dif- eafes that are the objed of the pre- fent chapter^ it may be proper to premife a Aort anatomical defcription of the teeth, gums, and jaws, the parts in which thefe difeafes are chiefly feated. Or488 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV^ On examining a tooth, we find it divi- ded into three parts ;—that part of it which lies above the gums, termed the Body or Corona of the tooth;—^^the roots or fangs, which the gums, in a flate of health, cover entirely;—and a kind of deprelfion between the body and fangs, juft where the gums commonly termi- nate: This is termed the Neck of the Tooth. The root, as well as the interior part . of the corona, is compofed of an ofleous matter; but it appears to differ from bone by our not being able to throw injedions into it: For although we are told that this may be done, there is much reafon to imagine that the opinion is ill-foifiided, from the beft anatomifts having failed in it^. This offeous part of the teeth being of - a foft texture, would foon fuffer and wear away by maftication: But nature has am- ply * Vide the Natural Hiftorj of the Human Teeth, by John Hunter, id edition, p. 36, Stc. ^489 Sedl. I. Bifeafes of the Month* ply provided againft this inconvenience^ for we find all that part of them lying above the gums, covered with a firm, hard fubftance, termed thfe Enamel. This part of a tooth, befides being much harder than bone, differs from bone in our not being able to pafs the mofl: fiibtle injedlion into it p nor can it be tinged by feeding an animal upon madder, or any other co- louring fubftance, as is the cafe with eve- ry bone in the body. The enamel is thick- eft on the upper furface of the teeth, ef- pecially in the grinders, where it is moft needed 3 and it becomes gradually thinner as it approaches the neck, where it ter- minates. At this part we firft find the periofteum, which befides covering all the roots of the teeth, is intimately connedi- ed with them, as well as with the fur- rounding fockets. In the interior part of every tooth we difcover a hollow, or cavity, correfpond- ing to the fize and figure of the tooth it- felf. It commences by a fmall opening in the extremity of the root or fang, at VoL. IV* Hh which49^ of the Mouth. Chap. XlVa which the blood-veflels and nerves of the tooth enter; and this canal becoming wi- der as it proceeds forwards, terminates at lafl in the body of the tooth, where the cavity is filled with a pulpy kind of fub- fiance, probably formed by an expanfion of the blood-veffels and nerves that belong to it. A tooth with one root or fang has commonly only one hole or opening; bnt fome teeth have feveral fangs, and every fang not only has a canal paffing through it, but is fupplied with diflindl blood-vef- fels, 'and probably with feparate branches of nerves, although theft have never beea clearly traced into them. The teeth are fixed in what is termed the Alveolar Procefs of each jaw. This confifts of a broad thick edge, with which the jaws are furnifhed,, divided into fepa- rate cells or openings for the fangs of the teeth ; and the roots of the pofterior teeth being larger and more expanded than the others, we find accordingly that this part of the jaw is thicker and broader than the fore part of it. In the upper jaw this o; ' difference^Sed. I. Difeafes of the Mouth. 491 difference, with refped to thicknefs, Is iiicreafed by the antrum HIghmorlanum, a large cavity In each maxillary bone Immediately above the large molares or grinders of each fide. This finus has no communication with the mouth, but it opens into the noftril between the two ofla fponglofa, by a canal, which in the fkeleton is large enough to admiF a com- mon quill. The alveolar procefs of the upper jaw is divided from this cavity by a thin plate of bone, in which the roots of the pofterior molares commonly ter- minate f but in fome fubjeds they pafs through this plate into the antrum itfelf. The lower jaw is in infancy compofed of two bones, united at the chin by what is termed the Symphyfis of the jaw. Thefc- bones however are foon joined fo firmly together, that they have the appearance of one continued and conneded piece. Befides the alveolar procefs, the under jaw is on each fide furnifhed with othei^ two procefles, with which it is neceffary for graditioners to be acquainted. The H h 2 anterior.492 Difeafes of the Mouth, Chap. XIV. anterior, which feems to be chiefly Intend- ed for the infertlon of the temporal muf- cle, is termed the Goronold Procefs. It arlfes in the form of a ridge from the out- fide of the jaw oppofite to the two pof- terior rnojares ^ and proceeding backward and upward, it terminates in a thin fliarp point: And the pofterior, or condyloid procefs, which is fhorter, thicker, and ftronger than the other, terminates in an oblong head or condyle, by which the ar- ticulation is formed between this bone and the head. The coronoid procefs gives a degree of ftrength and thicknefs to the external plate of the alveolar procefs in this part of the jaw that does not take place in any ather part of it. This renders it high- ly improper to attempt the extradlion of the two lafl: molares by turning them out- wards. They Ihould always be pulled to- wards the inflde of the mouth. Through all the reft of the jaw, the fockets or al- veolar procelTes are weakeft on the out- fide, although the difference is inconfi- derable >Se<3:. I. Difeafes of the Mouth. 493 ’derable; and they are in both fides weak- er in the upper than in the under jaw. The full number of teeth in an adult is thirty-two; and being of different forms, and intended for different purpofes, they are accordingly diftinguifhed by particu- lar names. The four anterior teeth in each jaw are named Incifores 3 the next to thefe on each fide are the Canine; and the five pofterior teeth on ea€h fide are termed the Molares or Grinders ^ the two firfl the fmall molares, and the other three the large molares or grinders. In childhood there are only twenty or twenty-four teeth, which continue till the fixth or feventh year, when they begin to ‘ drop, and are fucceeded by others that we term the Adult or Permanent Teeth. The firfl: fet, or milk teetfi as they are commonly called, as well as fome of the others, are formed in the jaw before birth; but they do not in general appear above the gums till the child is feveral months old. In fome inftances, about the fourth or fifth month, but moft frequent- H h 3 ly'494 Difeafes of the Mouth, Chap* XIV, ly about the eighth or ninth, two of the incifores appear in the lower jaw. Thefe are commonly fucceeded by two in the Upper jaw, and the other four fore teeth appear afterwards, at uncertalu periods, between this and the tenth or twelfth month. About the hxteenth or feveu- ' teenth month, four of the large molares appear; for in childhood there are no fmall molares : One of thefe pufh out on each fide, leaving a fpace between them and’ the incifores for the canine teeth: which being formed farther up in the jaw, fel- dom appear before the twentieth month: But about this period, or between this and the end of the fecond year, they and other four molares commonly make their appearance. Thefe are the periods at which the in- fantine fet of teeth ufually appear; but much variety is met with in this. I have known the canine teeth appear before any of the molares. In one inftance they came forward before two of the incifores. Jn fome cafes the incifores have been ob- ferved495 Seft. I. Difeafes of the Mouth. ferved in the fecond and third months, nay even at birth; whilfl: in others, I have known the fourteenth or fifteenth month pafs over before any have ap« peared. Thefe teeth continue firm till the fifth or fixth year. About this period they be- gin to loofen 3 and between the feventh and twelfth year they are commonly all filed and fucceeded by others. By this period too, the jaws are fomewhat length- ened, fo as to admit of other four molares. Between the twelfth and fixteenth years four others appear; and in general about the twentieth year the four laft of the molares appear, ufually named the Dentes Sapientiae. The two fets of teeth have very different appearances, info much that we may in general know, from the appearance of a tooth, whether it belongs to the infan- tine or permanent fet i and as this is often a point of importance, praftitloners ought all to be able to judge of it; particularly in the treatment of thofe difeafes of the H h 4 teeth496 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. teeth that occur about the time of flied- dlng the firft fet 3 for it frequently hap- pens that we would have no hehtatlon in pulling a tooth, were we certain that it belonged to the firfl fet y while we would rather allow it to remain, if it appeared ito be one of thofe that fliould continue du- ring life. It has happened indeed in a few inftances, that a third fet of teeth have appeared; but this is fuch a rare oc- currence, that it can only be Jconiidered as a very unufual deviation of nature. The fockets of the teeth, and a fmall portion of the teeth themfelves, are co- vered with a red, firm, flelhy kind of fubflance, termed the gums. This fub- ftance feems to be almoft entirely vafcu- lar; for the llighteft wound or fcratch in it is always attended with a difcharge of blood. The alveolar procefs of each jaw is entirely covered with it; fo that there is a fmall portion of gums between every two teeth. , In fome difeafes, particularly in the fcurvy, a partial feparation of the gums from the teeth often takes place 3 butSe(3:. I. Difeafes of the Mouth* 497 but in a healthy ftate they adhere fo firm- ly to the necks of the teeth as to have fome effed: in fixing them in their fockets. We ftiall now proceed to treat of the difeafes of thefe parts, and of the opera- tions performed upon them. SEC-498 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. SECTION II. Of Dentition. DURIN G the approach of the firfl: fet of teeth, and in fome inftances of that of the fecond, muchdiftrefs is apt to arife from the irritation that they ex- cite upon the gums. For this reafon I have thought it right, before proceeding to the difeafe^ of the mouth, to offer a few general obfervations on Dentition. In Dentition, the gums inflame and be- come full about the part where the teeth are afterwards to appear. The child is conftantly rubbing them with his fingers. The faliva is for the mofl: part inci*eafed in quantity 3 but in a few inftances it is otherwife, and the mouth becomes per- fectly dry. The bowels are commonly very irregular, fo that we feldom meet withSe£t. !!• Difeajes of the Mouth. 499 with a medium between obftinate cofUve- nefs and fevere degrees of purging: The heat of the body is increafed, and quick- nefs of pulfe takes place along with other Xymptoms of fever. Thefe are the moft fre- quent fymptoms of dentition; but it often happens that fubfultus tendinum, and even convullions fupervene. As thefe fymptoms all arlfe from irrita- tion, thofe means are chiefljpx) be trufted thatprove moft effedlual In counteradllng this. Hence we derive much advantage from opiates, blifters, and efpecially from warm bathing. But when thefe fail, which they often do, we have it frequently in our power to remove every fymptom, by ma- king an incifion through the gums dired- ly upon the approaching tooth or teeth ; an operation ufually termed fcarification of the gums. A common prejudice prevails againft this operation, from an idea of its doing- harm, in the event of a cicatrix being left upon the gums; which fometimes happens when the tooth is not juft at hand;5 oo Difeafes of tke Mouth. Chap. XIV; hand; for it is fuppofed that the cicatrix will afterwards be worfe to penetrate than if the gum had not been touched. For this reafon the operation is feldom or ne- ver advifed till the tooth is obferved to have elevated the gum: But in this we are wrong; for when delayed fo long, almoft all the advantages that might be derived from it are loft. I have com- monly obferved, that the very worft fymptoms of dentition take place before the teeth have come this length; and that they ufually abate on the teeth ap- proaching towards the furface of the gums, probably from the gums being rendered more infenfiblc by the long con- tinued prefliire of the teeth beneath. Whenever there is caufe, therefore, from the nature of the fymptoms, to fu- fped that they are owing to this caufe, we fliould without hefitation make a free incifion through that part of the gums where the tooth appears to approach; and if this incifion ftiould afterwards heal, and if the fymptoms Ihould again fuper- vene,Sed. II. Difeafes of the Mouth.^ 501 vene, no rlfk could occur from the ope- ration being repeated. I have frequent- ly found it neceffary to cut two or three times upon the fame tooth; but with a view to prevent the neceflity of this, I commonly make a crucial incifion down to the depth of the tooth, and I have never found it to do harm. We need never be afraid of hemorrhagy. Indeed the cut feldom bleeds above a few drops, and it commonly heals ea- fily. The operation may be done with a common lancet; or with a biftoury or fcalpel; the inftruments ufually employ- ed for it: But it cannot be neatly done with any of thefe; and befides, we are in danger, either with a lancet or fcalpel, of hurting the contiguous parts. The inftrument reprefented in Plate XXXVI. fig. 4. is not liable to any of thefe objec- tions; and being of a fmall fize, it may be entirely concealed in the palm of the hand. The child being fecured by the nurfe, the502 Difeafes of the Mouth. ChapaXiV. the furgeon with the fingers of one hand fiiould open the mouth; and conducing the edge of the inftrument v/ith the fore- finger of the other, the incifions fiiould be finifiied before it is withdrawn, care being taken to make a crucial cut over every tobth that appears to be approach- ing. The incifion, as I have already ad- vifed, Ihould always be carried to the depth of the tooth, fo as to lay it entire- ly bare; and when this is freely done, the effedts that refult from it are often remarkable. I have feen inftances of children being inftantly relieved by it, who previoufly appeared to be in the moft imminent danger. It fometimes happens too, as I have al- ready obferved, that difagreeable fymp- toms take place from the approach of the fecond fet of teeth. I have known pain produced over the whole jaw, attended with fwelling and inflammation of the gums, cheeks, and contiguous parts, from a Angle tooth not.getting freely out. This happensSedl. ir. Bifeafes of the Mouth. 5°3 \ happens moft frequently with the dentes fapientlae ; in fome inftanc^Sj from the ir- ritation that they produce upon the gums^ which in the back part of the jaws are very thick; but in others from there not being room in the jaw to admit them. In the firfl; cafe, we have it commonly in our power to remove all the fymptotns, by making a free incifion diredtly upon the tooth ^ but in the other t^is dots not al- ways prove fufficient, and nothing will frequently anfwer but extradion of the tooth. When it is difcovered that the fymptoms arife from this caufe, we fliould not hefitate in removing the tooth: For it feldom happens, that any advantage is gained from delaying it, and the inflamma- tion induced upon the gums often fpreads to the throat and contiguous parts 3 and is thus produdlive of much diftrefs, which might be eafily prevented. When the throat inflames and fwells, no other re- medy will prove fuccefsful, while the moft violent degree of inflammation will be re- moved504 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. moved in the courfe of a ihort time, by / the removal of the tooth. This I have known where the fymptoms had obfti- nately refilled every other means for a great length of time. 3 E^e(S. lili l^ifeafes of the Mouth. 505 SECTION irl. Of the Derangement of the TEETri; HE fecond fet of teeth ftequently appear in a very irregular manner: Some of them will be very properly pla- ced, while fome are farther out, and others farther in, than they ought to be. When the dersingement is iiot very ' tematkable, it feldom meets with much attention; but it often happens, that the deformity is fo confiderable, that artifts are applied to for removing it. It hap- pens moft frequently with the incifores and canine teeth, feldom with any of the molares. Derangements of the teeth may Jtake place from different caufes:—From a de- ficiency of fpace in the jaw, by which they cannot be all admitted in the fame VoL. IV. li linej5o6 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV^ line \—from a natural mal-conformation^ —or from fome of the firft fet remaining’ firm after the fecond fet have appeared. It will fbmetimes happen, that teeth that are out of the line will fall into it without any force being applied to them,, on fpace being given them by one or more of thofe that are in the line being pull- ed. When it appears, therefore, that the derangement proceeds from any of the firfl: fet not having dropped, they ought to be removed ; for the longer this is de- layed, there will be the lefs chance of the irregular teeth falling into their fitua- tion: But when it even proceeds from thofe of the fecond fet being too large for the fpace they are to fill, we fiiould not hefitate in removing fome of them, for no, other method will anfwer. Vf hen the teeth which occupy the natural circle of the jaw are regular and have a good ap-- pearance^ the tooth or teeth that are out of the circle ought to be pulled 5 but when either of the contiguous teeth do not fill the place fo properly as thefe would do^Sed. III. Difeafes of the Mouth, 507 I i 2 ged do, or when they are rough, or otherwife of a difagreeable appearance, it is fome- times advifeable to remove one of thefe that are in the circle^ while at the fame time we endeavour to bring the others in- to it. If this is doiie before the teeth have been long fixed, and if they are not far diftant, they will fometim^ in a gra- dual manner, as I have already obferved, fall into the vacancy without any ance 3 but when this does not ftappen foon by an effort of nature alone, we may frequently employ means for pro- moting it. Nq attempt, however, of this kind can be made fill the body of the de- ranged tooth has palfed freely out from the gums, as till then we cannot with cafe lay hold of it. The ufiial method of moving teeth that are out of the range, is to apply a ligature round them, and pulling it tighter from time to time, to fix each end of it firm- ly to the contiguous teeth: Or a plate of gold ot filver is fitted to the contiguous teeth, and made to fiirround the deran-508 Difeafes of tHe Mouth. CHap. XI ged teeth in fuch a manner, that when^ firmly preflBd» down by the oppofite jaw, it ads with confiderable force in bringing, the teeth nearer together. This lafl me- thod, however, proves troublefome to the patient^, and ,the other, at the fame time that it in fome degree moves the deran- ged teeth towards the circle, ferves nearly in the feme degree to draw the others^ out of it y but we may in a difFereat mam ner apply a ligature for this purpofe with fafety, and it is the beft that h have feen for the purpofe. Let a thin place of gold, of a length fufficient to paf& over four, of the contiguous teeth, be exadly fitted to the outfide of the two teeth on each fide of the vacancy into which the deranged tooth is to be moved. The plate fhould be perforated with leveral fmall holes: On being applied to the teeth,, and fixed to them with afoit of waxed thread, let a piece of flexible wire be paf- fed through two of the holes and the doubling of tiie ligature being carried o- ver the tooth to be moved, the two end&. of it fhould be firmly drawn through the . holes,.Se£l. HI. Hifeafes of the Mouth. 509 holes, and fixed with pliers^ Every two or three days the ligature fhould be made tighter ^ and this being perfevered in, al- moft every tooth in this fituation may at laft be ba^ought into the circle. It fometimes happens that much defor- mity js produced by an opening in the anterior part of the jaw, formed either by one or more teeth being accidentally driven out, or from there being a natural want of them. When a furgeon is called immediately on a tooth being driven out, he fhould inflantly replace it ; or if the tooth is broken, or othprwife much in- jured, he may confult the inclination of the patient with refped: to the tranfplant- ing of a found one from the mouth of an- other perfon. But patients feldom com- plain till the injured parts have become inflamed and tumefied, when it is too late to put this method of treatment in prac- tice. In this fituation we mufl wait till the pain and fwelling are removed; when, if more than one tooth is wanting, the deficiency muft be fupplied with artificial , I i 3 teeth5 Id Difeajes of the Mouth, Chap. XIV. teeth fixed to thofe that remain firm ; but when one tooth only is wanting, we may ,frequently, in young people, be able to removp the. deformity, by palling a liga- ture round the two contiguous teeth, fo as by degrees to draw theni nearer toge- ther. Nature will frequently accomplifli this, in fome degree, of herfelf: But the operation is commonly flow; and befides, it is feldom dqne fo completely as, when ligatures are employed. By this mean§ the bodies of the teeth are equally drawn together but when ligatures are not u- fed, although the teeth, from want of lupport, will fall nearly together at their points, the opening will commonly re- main nearly the fame at their roots. S E5II Sed. IV. Difeafes of the Mouth, SECTION IV. Of Gum Boils. TH E gums, like all the foft parts of the body, are liable to abfcef- fes ; but they are more frequent here than in other parts, from the gums being more expofed to caufes that tend to pro- duce ‘them. Abfcefles may in this fitua- tion proceed from cold and from exter- nal violence, as well as from every paufe that tends to produce inflammation -in other parts; but for the mofl: part we may trace them' as the confequences of toothach : And they arife not only from carious teeth, but from inflammation at the roots of teeth, when perhaps in eve- ry other refpeft the teeth are perfectly found. . ' A gum-boil commonly appears after a fit of tdothach has continued for fome time. It begins with fome degree of pain, attended with a fmall tumor on the part affeded.' By degrees the cheek fweils; I i 4 and512 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap, XI V, and this fwelling frequently fpreads over the whole face, fo as to produce much de- formity. On fuppuration taking place, the fmall tumor, which is commonly feat- ed on the outfide of the gums exadly op- pofite to the difeafed tooth, begins to point; and if It be not opened, it gene- rally burfts either through an opening in the fide of the gum or between the gum and the tooth. A quantity of matter is now commonly difcharged, by which the patient is in general completely relieved. But as the caufe flill remains, the dif- charge likewife continues; for the dif- -eafe being mofl: frequently induced by fome aifedlon of a tooth, 6r by a portion of the jaw becoming carious, a^diibharge of matter ufually continues, either till the tooth is removed, or till the carious part of the jaw^ has exfoliated: Or, if the opening happens to clofe, the difeafe is quickly renewed : The fwelling returns, and again goes through all the ftages of inflammation and fuppuration in the man- ner I have juft defcribed. When indeed |he difeafe proceeds merely from inflam- mationSe£l. IV. Difeafes of the Mouth. 513 mation at the root of a tooth, and when the root happens not to be denuded of its periofteum, after the matter of the ab- fcefs is difcharged, the fides of it may col- lapfe and adhere^ and a cure will in this manner take place: But when it arifes either from a carious tooth, or from a ca- rious portion of the jaw, or even when it proceeds from inflammation alone, if the root is laid bare by the matter, the difeafe will recur from time to time, till the tooth or carious part of the, jaw is removed; for thefe will continue to irritate the contigu- ous parts in the fame manner with extra- neous bodies of any other kind. In the cafe of a fpoiled tooth, we fliould advife it to be immediately removed; but when the dif- eafe proceeds altogether from inflamma- tion at the root of a tooth, before pull- ing it every method of a more Ample na- ture fliould be tried; and the fame means that we employ for the cure of abfceiles in other parts fliould be put in pradice here. When a free opening is formed by the burftiiig of the abfcefs, we may fome- times be able to dry up the running, by injeding I514 Difeafes of the Mouth* Chap. XIV. injecting from time to time lime-water— ardent fpirits — tindure of myrrh — or tindure of Peruvian bark properly dilu- ted. But although trials of this kind may be advifable with timid patients, who will not fubmit to other means, we can feldom place much dependence upon them: Our furefl: pradice ' is to lay the abfcefs open by an ihcifion from one end to the other, and to endeavour to heal it from the bottom by inferting a fmall dof- fil of lint between the edges of the cut, with a view to open them, till a fufficien- cy of granulations form beneath. This is the furefl: method of obliterating the impoflhume ^ and when any part of the focket is carious, it will in this manner more readily exfoliate than it would do were it flill covered with the gums. I have hitherto been fuppoling that the matter has been colleded in the fubflance of the gums, or between the gums and the tooth, or perhaps that it furrounds the focket of the toothy but abfcefles in thefe parts are often more deeply feated, ^ when515 Se£t. IV, Difeafes of the Mouth when they not only create more imme- diate pain and diftrefs, but more fubfe- quent rifk : For when the more folid parts of the jaw become carious, which they commonly do when the matter of im- pofthumes gets into contadl with them, the cure not only proves tedious, but external marks of a difagreeable nature are apt to enfue from them. W^th a view to obviate this, the ufual pradice of ap- plying warm pqultices fliould be avoided^ we fhould rather, by warm fomentations taken into the mouth, and by the appli- cation of any warm ftirnulating fubftance, fuch as a roafted onion, to that part of the gum which appears to be moft affed- ed, to endeavour to promote the forma- tion of any abfeefs that may point into the mouthy and as foon as matter,appears to be formed in it, it ought to be opened without waiting till complete fuppura- tion has taken plade. In the after-treatment of the abfeefs, all that we can do is to preferve a free Depending orifice for the difeharge of the matter,516 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV* matter, by which any farther mifchief will be prevented, and by which alone we caii^ reafonably expeft a cure; for e~ ven where the' difeafe is conned:ed with a carious ftate of the jaw, giving a free vent to the matter is perhaps all that art ought to attempt. If the conftitution is otherwife found, this, together with the removal of any of the contiguous teeth that are difeafed, and of fiich parts of the jaw as are carious and feparatc from the reft, will ultimately effed: a cure if this by any means can be done. But in difeafed ha- bits of body, efpecially in fcrophulous conftitutions, this kind of tumor is al- ways of difficult management, and can feldom indeed be healed till the general difeafe of the fyftem is removed. S E C -$€6!. V. Difeafes of the Mouth. 5 i f SECTION V. Qf Abscesses in Antrum Maxillare. Matter may colle<5t in the antrum maxillare from various caufes : Whatever tends to induce inflammation on the lining membrane of this cavity may produce them. Hence they may be induced by blows and other injuries done to the cheeks. Inflarnmatory affedions of the membrane of the nofe, and even long-continued inflammation of the eyes, by fpreading to the contiguous mem- brane of the antrum, have often an in- fluence in producing colledions of this kind I and much expofure to cold has frequently been traced as the caufe of them. But their mofl: frequent origin is pain and irritation excited in the jaw by repeated and violent returns of tooth- ach. Fromjf iS Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap, XI From this account of the caufe, the nature of the fymptoms will be readily underftood. Indeed, if we make allow- ance for the naturfe of the parts in which thefe colledlions are feated, the fymp- toms will be found to be nearly fuch as take place from inflammation and abfcefl fes in other parts of the body. At firfl: fome degree of pain Is felt over the cheek, and this commonly continues for a con- fiderable time before any external fwel- ling is perceived. On a farther conti- nuance of the difeafe this pain becomes more fevere, and in fome inftances fpreads to the neighbouring parts, fo as to'create uneaflnefs in the eye, hofe, and ear^ and at lafl: an extenfive hard fwelling appears over the whole cheek, which fooner or later points at a particular place, moft frequently in the centre of the cheek, a little above the roots of the pofterior mo- lares. In fome inftances, indeed, the matter burfts out between the roots of thefe teeth and the gums, by which the external tumor upon the cheek is prevent- edSed. V. Difeafes of the Mouth, 519 ed from pointing. This, however, does not commonly happen; and It only takes place, I imagine, when the roots of the teeth penetrate the antrum, by pailing through the palate at the bottom of the focket. For the mofl: part, too, as foon as matter is fully formed in the antrum, we find fome of it difcharged by the cor- refponding noftrll when the patient lies upon the oppofite fide with his head low; and if this frequently happens, it pre- vents the external fwelling for a confider- able time from pointing at any particu- lar place, and confequently from burft- ing, which it would always do if the mat- ter was not difcharged in fome other man- ner. ' This difcharge of matter by the dud leading from the antrum to the noie does not indeed take place in every inftance ; but as I have met with it in feveral cafes, I am not inclined with Mr Hunter to con- fider the obliteration of this dud as a frequent caufe of thefe colled:iQns * : In- deed * See a Pra<!iHcal Treatife on the Difeafes of th« Teeth, by John Hunter, F, R. S. p, 44.520 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XT^i deed I doubt if it is ever the caufe of them. For the moft part, they may be traced as the efFed of one or other of the caufes that I have mentioned } parti- cularly of toothach, dr of inflammation excited in fome other manner. When oh-' flrucflions therefore happen in this dud, they are rather to be confidered as a con- fequence of the difeafe : More frequent- ly, perhaps, as the eflTed of the adhefive ftage of inflammation, than as the caufe of the collection. A difcharge of matter from one of the noftrils, when it fucceeds to pain and in- flammation of the cheek, will for the moft part be found to proceed from aii abfcefs in the correfponding antrum max- illare^ but we ought to remember that matter may be difcharged from the nof- trils from other caufes; particularly from an inflamed ftate of the membrana Schnei- de'riana > from an ozena; from affections of the frontal finufes; and from abfcefles in the lachrymal fac. In forming our opinion, therefore, every circumftance connededSeft. Vi Difeafes of the Mouth, 521 connedted with the difchar^e fhould be taken into confideration, otherwife much difappointment may enfue from our treat- ing one difeafe for another^ In the treatment of abfcefles of the antrum maxillare, nothing will accom- plilh a cure but our giving a free dif- charge to the matter: CoHedtions of mat- ter, indeed, in this fituation^ fliould be confidered in the fame light with affec- tions of a fimilar nature in whatever part of the body they may be: Wherever matter is difcovered, it ought to be dif- charged; and in no inftance is attention to this more neceflary than in abfcefles of the antrum maxillare : For if the matr- ter be not difcharged, it will diilend and elevate the bones of the cheek, and at lafl: will probably render them carious. With a view to prevent this diftrefsful occurrence, a perforation fhould be made into the antrum as foon as we are con- vinced, from the nature of the fymptonis, that it Contains matter. It may be per- forated in two different parts. In that VoL. IV. K k part52 2 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV* part of it which projedts outwardly over the two great molares 3 or one of thefe teeth may be taken out and an opening made into the antrum, by perforating diredtly upwards in the courfe of one of the fangs. As moft people wifh to avoid the pulling of a tooth when not altoge- ther necelTary, the perforation is com- monly made above the roots of the teeth. This lenity, however, proves often hurt- ful ^ for in this manner the perforation muft be made in the fide of the antrum, by which a depending opening cannot be given to the matter; nor can it be obtain- ed in any other- way than by making a perforation in the manner I have men- tioned in the diredion of one of the roots @f the teeth. I have already obferved, that either of the two -large molares may be drawn in order to admit of this perforation. When either of them is Ipoiied, the difeafed tooth ihould be taken out; for, being ca> rious, there will be caufe to fufped that it may have fome lhare in the formation 2 of523 Se6t. V. Difiafes of the Mouth; K k 2 the of the difeafe: But when this is not the cafe, we. fhould remove the fecond great molaris, or that tooth which lies next to the dens fapientise ^ for although the tooth immediately anterior to this is fomewhat more aeceffiblCj the difference in this refpe£t is inconfiderable ^ and the plate of bone that feparates the antrum frbm the roots of the teeth b^eing thinner in the back part of the jaw than in the anterior part of it, the perforation is ac- cordingly more eafily made in it. On removing one of thefe teeth, it fome- times happens, that the matter is imme- diately difchar'ged with freedom from the antrum; owing either to the roots of the teeth having been fo long as to pafs into this cavity 3 or, to the matter having corroded the bone that feparates the roots of the teeth from the antrum : In this cafe, if the opening is fufEcieiit for gi- ving a free vent to the matter, the opera- tion will thus be completed : But as it is eafily enlarged, it ought always to be done where there is caufe to doubt that524 Difeafes of the Mouth, Chap. XIV. the matter will not be difcharged with freedom ^ and, when no difcharge of mat- ter takes place on pulling the tooth, an opening muft be made into the antrum In the manner I have already advifed, by pufhing a fliarp inftrument into it in the diredlon of one of the fangs. A com- mon trocar is ufually employed for this, and in general the operation may be well enough done with it; but the curved in- ftrument reprefented in Plate XXV. fig. 2. anfwers better. In making the perfora- tion, the patient ftiould be feated on the floor oppofite to a clear light, and his head ftiould be laid back upon the knee of the operator, who may either ftand or fit behind him. The inftrument ftiould be withdrawn as foon as it has entered the antrum, which is eafily known by the refiftance being removed from the point of it. The matter will now flow out freely; and as foon as it is all difcharged, a fmall wooden plug exactly the fize of the trocar fhould be introduced into the openings wi til a view to prevent not only theSed:. V. Difcafes of the Mouth* 525 the air, bilt the food in maftication, from getting into the antrum^ and when the plug is properly fitted to the opening, it will remain fufficiently firm, while at the fame time there is no rifk of its flipping in, if formed with a knob or head fome- what larger than the opening. This plug fhould be removed from time to time, perhaps twice or ^rice in the courfe of a day 3 by which all the matter will be quickly difcharged; and no more being,allowed to colled, the difpofition to form It will in general be foon remo- ved, and a cure will thus be obtained. But in fome inftances, either from much relaxation of the lining membrane of the antrum, or from a tendency in that mem- brane to inflame, the difcharge of mat- ter does not diminifh, but continues near- ly the fame both in quantity and confift- ence long after the operation. In this cafe we may often forward the cure by throwing liquids of a moderate degree of aflringency from time to time into the antrum. A decodion of bark is com- K k 3 ' moniy526 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. rnonly employed for this purpofe : But nothing fhould be ufed that contains the lead: particle of folid matter, as there is always fome rifk, when liquids not pro- perly filtered are injeded, of depofi- tions being left in the antrum; and iil different inflances I have feeii mifchief enfue from this. I commonly employ a folution of alum, or faccharum faturni, brandy properly diluted, or lime-water. When the, contiguous bones are found, a cure will at lafl be accomplifhed by a continuation of thefe means; but when "any of thefe bones are carious, it will be in vain to expert a cure till the difeafed portion either exfoliates, or diffolves and comes away in the matter. By the in- trodudlion of a probe we may always know whether the bones of the antrum are carious or not; but in general we may reft our judgment upon this point on the fmell and appearance of the difcharge. When the hones are, carious, the matter is always thin and fetid, and'it becomes thickerSed:. V. Difeafes of the Mouth. 527 thicker and lefs ofFenilve as this ftate of the bone diminifhes. I have hithetto been fuppofing that the antrum is perforated for the purpofe of giving a difcharge to matter; but the fame operation becomes neceflary for the removal of other caufes. I once met with an inftance of a violent blow on the cheek ending in a large colle6iiop, of blood in this cavity; and worms that form in it can only be removed b^, this operation. In what manner worms are produced in this fituatlon is difficult to determine; but whenever their prefence is indicated by fevere pains in the region of the an- trum, not Induced by toothach or any o- ther obvious caufe, there can be no rilk in making an opening for extracting them; but in this cafe there is no neceffity for removing any of the teeth. A perfora- tion made into the antrum, immediately above the roots of the Large mol ares, will anfwer the purpofe fiifficiently. We fhould not howeyer reft fatisficd merely with extracting fuch worms as appear at K. k 4 the528 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. the opening: We fhould injed from time to time fuch liquids into the antrum as will moft probably deftroy any that may remai f; particularly oil, a filtrated folu- tibn of afafoetida, and perhaps a weak in- fufion of tobacco: And the perforation fliould he kept open for a confiderable time, to prevent as much as poflible the rifk of any worms being left. I have mentioned the only two parts in which I think the antrum can with pro- priety be opened; namely in the direc- tidn of the roots of the two larg^ molares of the upper jaw ; and immediately above the roots of thefe teeth on the nutfide of the jaw. I think it right however to ob- ferve, that it has been faid that a perfo- ration may be alfo made into the antrum from the noftril. None will doubt of this being pradicable; but we might with perhaps equal propriety fay, that an opening may be made into it by enter- ing the inftrument from the roof of the mouth. It is evident, however, that it would not be fo proper to perforate the antrum529 Sed, V, Difea/es of the Mouth. antrum in either of thefe parts as in thofe that I have "mentioned ^ and therefore I would hot have judged it neceflary to no- tice them here, were it not with a view to give my opinion of this method of ma- king an opening from the noftril; which being propoled by very refpedable autho- rity, I think it right that the younger part of the profeffion, for whom this is chiefly intended, fliould know that there is much caufe to doubt of the propriety of the advice By purfuing the means that I have pointed out, all fuch fymptoms as arife from colledions in the antrum maxil- lare may be removed: But the antrum is liable to fwellings of a different kind, of a more hazardous nature, and which frequently do not terminate but in the death of the patient. The tu- mors to which I allude feem to proceed from an enlargement of the bones of the cheek. No matter^ is ' found in the an- i trum; * Vide the Natural Hiflory of the Human Teeth, Part II, p. 46. firft Edition. Bj John Hunter, F. R. S, &c.53^ Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV.i tram; and therefore no advantage is de- rived from our making an opening into it. I have in different inftances, indeed, obferved much mifchief enfue from ir: For thofe who are not accuftomed to this branch of pradlice are apt to be mif led by the ftate and appearance of the fwellings; and fufpebting that they con- tain matter, they very commonly make perforations into them, w^ich frequently aggravates all the fymptoms by occafion- ing a more rapid increafe of the difeafe. We fhould therefore attentively diflin- guifh between fwellings of this kind and real coiledions of matter in the antrum. In the latter the cheek feldom fwells to ally great extent ^ and when the difeafe is of long duration, if the matter does not find an opening into the noftril, or along the roots of the teeth, it commonly points towards the moft prominent part of the cheek. But when no matter is colleded, and when the difeafe proceeds from a ca- rious ftate of the bones, the fwelling by degrees arrives at a confiderable fize, but itSed:. V. Difeafes of the Mouth. 531 it fpreads equally over the whole cheek, without pointing at any particular part, excepting in its more advanced ftages, when the furrounding foft parts becoming afFeded, matter fometimes forms in them. Till the fkin becomes inflamed, which does not happen till the difeafe has been of long continuance, the fwelling remains perfedly colourlefs. But the molt cha- raderiftic mark of it is a remarkable de- gree of elafticity that it acquires. The bones yield to prefllire; but they inftant- ly return to their fituation on the fiOger being removed; and if in this ftate an incifion is made irito them, which in dif- ferent inftances I have known done, they are found to be reduced to a foft cartila- ginous ftate, and in the advanced ftages pf the difeafe to a confiftence fomewhat gelatinous. This kind of fwelling is of a nature fo very obftinate, that hitherto I have fcarce- ly known any advantage refult from any remedy that has been employed for it. Jn a few cafes where it appeared to be produced532 Bifeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. produced by caricms teeth, the removal of the teeth has put a temporary flop to its progrefs. But even this has never produced any permanent advantage; I mean in the difeafed ftate of the bones that we are now confidering; foV the cheek is, like other parts of the body, liable to fwellings of a more harmlefs na- ture, which yield to the remedies com- monly employed for them. But in this no benefit occurs either from internal medicines or external applications. A long continued gentle courfe of mercury along with decodion of mezereon, I have fometimes known prove ufeful; but the good effeds refulting from thefe or any other remedy have nevei? been of long duration. S E C-Se<3. VI. Difeafes of the Mouth. 53^ SECTION VI. Of Excrescences on the Gums.^ EXcrescekces of different degrees of firmnefs occafionally |orm upon the gums : They are all of a red colour, near- ly, the fame with the gums themfelves; but fome of them are foft and fungous, while others are firm, and even of a hard warty nature. In fome, they are pain- ful ^ but for the moil part they create no farther inconvenience than an impediment in fpeech and maftication. We meet with them in both jaws, but moil frequently in the under jaw, and in the infide of the teeth. In fome inftances they are con- nedted to the gums by a fmall neck, but in general they adhere firmly through their whole extent. This kind of excrefcence fteqiiently o- riginates from carioua teeth, and in a few inftances534 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap* XIV. inftances from a carious ftate of the al- veoli; in which cafe the removal of the Ipoiled teeth, and the fubfequent exfolia- tion of the carious part of the jaw, will often accomplifli a cure. Like fungous excrefcences in other parts of the body arifing from a carious bone beneath, as foon as the difeafed part of the bone is removed, the excrefcence ufually begins to fhrlvel, and at lafl; it commonly dlfap- pears entirely: But when this does not happen, it fhould be removed as foon as it gives pain; and thisfliould be the more readily propofed, as the operation is at- tended with little or no rifk. An aver- , lion, indeed, generally prevails againfl meddling with this kind , of tumor, ei- ther from an idea of its being cancerous, and that it will probably be rendered more inveterate by an operation; or from a dread of the hemorrhagy that the ope- ration will induce. I know, however, from experience, that in general there is no caufe to he afraid of this. I have ex- tirpated feveral tumors of this kin^; and ISe^. VI. Difeafes of the Mouth. ^ 535 I never knew an inftance of cancer ha- ving followed, or of any hemorrhagy of niuch importance. When the excrefcence is attached to the gums by a narrow neck, it ftiould be removed by palling a ligature round it of a fufficient tightnefs for making it fall off; but when connedled to the contiguous parts by a broad bafe, we are under, the necellity of taking it away with the fcal- peL The adtual and potential cautery ufed to be employed for this; but as this pradice is now laid afide, and will not readily be revived again, I do not think it necelTary to fpeak of it farther. In proceeding to the extirpation of the tumor, the patient Ihould be firmly feated oppofite to a clear light, with his head fupported by an affiftant Handing behind. If he is poflefled of fufficient refolution, no inftruments v/ill be needed for keeping the mouth open;, but where we cannot with certainty trull to this, which with children is commonly the cafe, a fpecu- lum oris becomes requifite. .Of this in- ftrument,536 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV, ftrument, we have various forms. Thofe in common ufe are reprefented in Plate XLI. fig. 2. and 3^; but they occupy too much fpace in the mouth to admit of the free application of other inftruments. To obviate this, I fome time ago propofed the one delineated in the fame Plate, fig. i.; and by experience it is found to anfwer. A common fcalpel will for the mofl: part anfwer for diffeding the tumor a- way; but an operator fliould always be provided with others, particularly with a curved knife, fuch as is reprefented in PlateXXI. fig. I. and likewife with crook- ed feiflars, fuch as are delineated in Plate XXXVI. fig. I. and. 2.; for in fome cafes the roots of the excrefcence are more ea- fily feparated with a curved fcalpel and feiflars, than with thofe of a ftraight form, .But whatever inftrument is em- ployed, much advantage may be derived from raifing the tumor as much as pollible from the parts beneath with a difleding hook and for this purpofe a hook fliould be ufed with two fangs, fuch as is repre- , fentedS37 'Sed:, VI, Difeafes of the Mouth. VoL. IV. L 1 The fented in Plate XXXVIL fig. 3. In the courfe of the operation, care fliould be taken to remove the difeafe entirely, at the fame time that the incifion fliould not be carried fo deep as to injure the parts be- neath, unlefs the tumor is firmly and clofely attached to them ^ in which cafe, it may not only be proper to remove a portion of the gums, but even to go to,the depth of thefocket: But as this ^ill incur the rilk of injuring the contiguous teeth by laying their ropts bare, it fliould never be advifed when with any propriety it can be avoided. After the operation the blood-vefiels that have been divided fliould be encou- raged to bleed freely : But when the he- morrhagy proceeds too far, it Ihould be reftrained, by the patient being made to take from time to time a mouthful of fpi- jrit of wine or tindure of myrrh ^ or if this does not prove fufficient, the appli- cation of lunar cauftic to the bleeding ar- teries will feldom or never fail.53S Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. The fituatlon of the fore renders the application of dreffings inadmiffible: For fome days, however, after the operation, the mouth fliould be frequently waflied with a warm emollient decodion^ and afterwards, if a cicatrix does not readily form, the cure may be promoted by the application of lime-water. Port- wine, tinc- ture of rofes, and other mild aftringentSe SEC-539 Se6l. VII. Difeafes of the Mouth. SECTION VII. Of Loofe "Teeth. The teeth ought naturally to continue firm till they becoi^ loofe by the ordinary efFe61s of old age : But they are liable to difeafes which render them loofe, and which even make them drop out at early periods of life; and as this is often the caufe of much diftrefs and deformi^. ty, it becomes frequently an important objedi: with practitioners. As the teeth may become loofe from various caufes, all of which require a dif- ferent method of treatment, I fhall enu- merate the mofl material, and at the fame time lhall point out thofe means of cure which feem to be befl adapted for each of them. The teeth are frequently loofened by external violence: By falls and blows— L 1 2 and540 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. and often by an improper ufe of inftru- ments in pulling the contiguous teeth. Teeth loofened in this manner can be made fall only by being kept for fome time firmly in their fituation 3 which may be done by prefling them as far into the focket as they will go, and fixing them with ligatures of Indian-weed, catgut, or waxed filk, to the contiguous teeth, and feeding the patient upon fpoon meat till they become firm. In youth, when teeth are loofened by external violence, as the fockets at this age are complete, they readily become firm again when kept a due time in their fituation with ligatures: Nay, even when forced entirely out of the fock- ets, they will foon become firm, if they are immediately replaced and retained in their fituation. I have in feveral in- fiances put this method of treatment fuc- cefsfully in pradice, and no harm can re- fult from the trial. But in old age, what- ever may be the caufe of teeth becoming loofe, the chance of their ever becoming firmSeci. VII. Difeafes of the Mvutb.^ 5 : firm is exceedingly finally fo that in ad- tanced periods of life the practice fhould never perhaps be attempted. The teeth fometimes become loofe from thick layers of tartar forming over them^ and pafling in between their roots and the gums, and in fdme eafes even between their roots and the fockets. In this eafe> the removal of the caufe, if it has not fubfifted longj will eommo|iJy remove the efFed. That the operation, however^ may |)rove effedual, the tartiir fhould be com- pletely fcaled oif, and it ought to be done early 3 for the longer the teeth remain loofe, the lefs chance there is of their ever again becoming firm^ In fome inftances,'they become loofe from the gurus having acquired a fpongy foftnefs, and feparating not Only at their necks, but often a confiderable way down from the roots. This is fometimes the effe6l of a long continued courfe of mer- cury 3 but it is commonly, although often improperly, fuppofed to proceed from feur- Vy t We no doubt meet with it as a fymp- L 1 3 tom542 Difeafes of the Mouth.' Chap. XIV. tom of real fea-fcurvy: but this is a very uncommon difeafe at land; while the o- ther^ viz. a foft fpongy ftate of the gums, is frequently met with. When, however, it proceeds from a ge- neral fcorbutic ftate of the fyftem, no- thing but a removal of this will accom- plifti a cure; but when entirely local, to- pical remedies are alone to be trufted. When teeth have remained long loofe, we can never with certainty fay that any means we may employ will render them firm; but the moft effedlual reme- dy that hitherto has been employed, is a frequent fcarification of the gums both in the outfide and infide of the loofe teeth. The incifions fhould be carried deeply into the fubftance of the gums: They fliould be allowed to difcharge freely, and fliould be repeated from time to time as long as any of the teeth remain loofe. In this manner that fpongy ftate of the gums that I have defcribed, is often re- moved, and a difpofition produced' in themSed. VII. 'Difeafes of the Mouth. 543 them to adhere to the invefling membrane of the teethj by which they often become firm and healthy. With a view to remove this fpongy ft ate of the gums, aftringents are commonly prefcribed ^ but I have feldom known any advantage fenfue from them : On the con- trary, a frequent ufe of them feems to do harm, by inducing a difpofition in the gums, that deprives them for ever of the power of adhering to th^parts bT^neath : At leaft, I have met with different inftan- ces where this was evidently the cafe; In which by a long continued ufe of aftrin- gents, the gums became fo hard and firm, that the fcarifications afterwards employ- ed had no effecft in fixing them. They fhould not therefore be ufed till adhefton takes place between the gums and teeth, either by means of fcarifications, or in fome other niannet ^ and this being ac- Oompliflied, they may be employed with freedom, and even v/ith advantage. The remedies of this clafs that are moft to be L 1 4 trufted,544 Difenfes of the Mouth. Chap. XtV*= ttufted, are, tlndlures of Peruvian bark,, and of oak bark, tlndure of myrrh, and a ftrong folution of alum. The mouth fhould be frequently walhed with cold water, llrongly impregnated with any of thefe, at the fame time that the patient fliould be direded not to ufe the loofe teeth, till they have for fonle time been perfedly firm. The .teeth fometimes become loofe by abfcefles forming between their roots and the alveoli 3 efpecially when the alveoli,, from being thus immerfed in matter, at laft become carious; But this having al- ready been minutely treated of in the fourth fedlonof this chapter, when {peak- ing of gum-boils, I mull now refer to what was then fald upon it. It is fcarcely neceflary to mention the loofening of the teeth that occur in old age y for this takes place from a caufe for which there is no remedy. Not from the roots of the teeth decaying, or from their being pufhed out of their fockets^ butSedt. VII. Difeafes of the Mouths 545 but from- a real annihilation of the foc- kets probably in canfequence of the of* feous matter of which they are eompofed being abforbed, while nature having now no ufe for teeth^ does not continue to fupply it. SEC-54^ Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XI SECTION VIIL Of Cleaning the Teeth. HE teeth are apt to become foul from different caufes, and frequent- ly require the affiflance of a dentift to render them clean. 1. They fometimes lofe their natural healthy colour, and acquire a dufky yel-^ low hue: Or they become to a certain degree black, without any adventitious matter being perceptible on any part of them. 2. At other times they become foul, and give a difagreeable putrid taint to the breath, merely from a too long remora of the natural mucus of the mouth. 3. But the moft frequent caufe of foul teeth is a calcareous matter that forms upon them, commonly termed the Tartar of the Teeth, which feems to be a depo- jfition from the faliva, as calculi in the bladderSe£t. VIII. Difeafes of the Mouth. 547 l)ladder are from, the urine. Few people are entirely exempted from this ^ but fome are much more liable to it than o- thers, infomuch that I have known dif- ferent inftances, of the teeth becoming thickly incruftated wdth it in the courfe of a few weeks after they were complete- ly freed from it. Tartar firft appears in the fore-teeth, and in thofe parts of them that are leaf: liable to be rubbed upon by the tongue or lips. Hence it is firft perceived on the outfide, in the angles between two of the teeth near to the jundion of the gums. The ordinary effeds of maftica- tion prevents it in general from fpreading towards the points of the teeth: But the difpofition to form it is in fome conftitu- tions fo great, that I have known it proceed from the gunks upwards even over the flat furfacesof the grinders; and infuchinftan- ces, when not removed, it is apt to fpread over the whole teeth, and to give the ap- pearance of a continued incruftation from one end of the jaw to the other. In fome cafes^4^ Dijeafes of the Mouth. Chap^XlVo cafes again, Inftead of paffing over the whole, it feems to fix more particularly on one or two of the teeth; and in fuch inftances the depofition of this matter goes on fo qiiickly as to give caufe to fu~ fpedl that the whole calcareous matter of the mouth is by fome caufe or other at- trailed to this particular point, I have known one or two teeth completely co- vered with it in the fpace of a few weeks, while none of it formed in any other part of the mouth. In fome thefe partial incruftations are fo large as to disfigure the external appearance of the cheek; and, by thofe not accliftomed to this branch of pradtice, they are fometimes miftaken for difeafes of a worfe nature : they have even been treated as exoftofes arifing from the jaw bone. While the tartar confifts of a thin fcale only, and as long as it is confined to the external furface of the teeth, and does not prove hurtful to the gums, it feldom meets with much attention: But wheri it forms in any. confiderable quantity, it verySed. VIII. Difeafes of the Mouth. 549 very commonly hurts the gums by pro- ducing flight ulcerations upon thofe parts to which it lies contiguous > or, it infi- nuates between the gums and the alveoli, fo as to feparate them to a confiderable depth from each other. In either of thefe events, thofe means fliould be em- ployed by which we know that it will be moft effedlually removed. When the teeth have rejnained long co- vered with any kind of extraneous matter, if it has acquired any degree of firmnefs, it cannot be removed but with the help of inllruments. Even a flight difcolour- ing, although not attended with any per- ceptible covering of an adventitious mat- ter, when of long continuance, it can fel- dom be removed in any other way. But when once the'teeth are thoroughly fcaled with inftruments, they may in general be preferved in this ftate with an ordinary degree of attention. Frequent walking with cold water 3 and rubbing every fe- cond or third morning with burnt bread ; Peruvian bark; cream of tartar; chalk; or55^ Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV. 3 or ally other mild fubftarice in fine pow- der, will for the moft^part keep them clean and white: But this we muft ob- ferve is not univerfally the cafe ^ for the tendency I have mentioned to a foul- nefs of the teeth, efpecially to a depofition of tartar, is in fome inftances fo great, that the greateft pains and attention does not prevent the renewal of it. This, however, is not frequent^ for it is well known, that due attention to cleanlinefs will very generally prevent every forma- tion of this kind. I have faid, that when once the teeth have become foul, they cannot be clean- ed but with the help of inftruments. This is at leafl: the beft, as it is the fafefl; and furefl: method. It is necefiary, however, to obferve, that rubbing the teeth with a- cids of a certain ftrength, will in general render them perfectly white 3 for the tar- tar and other kinds of matter that ad- heres to them being foluble in acids, a frequent ufe of them removes it com- pletely^ and we accordingly find, that acidsSed. VIII. Difeafes of the Mouth. 551 acids of one kind or another form the ba- fis of almoft every wafli that has been ad- vertifed for the teeth. The public, how- ever, Ihould be much on their guard a- galnft all applications of this kind 5 for the teeth themfelves are very apt to be hurt by acids, infomuch that it is per- haps impoffible to employ acids of a fufE- cient ftrength for diflblving any extrane- ous matter upon them, ^hat will not at the fame time prove injurious to the ena- mel. Every one knows that even the mlldefl: vegetable acid will render the teeth rough, and fet them on edge : We may therefore fuppofe, that thofe of a llrong nature, the mineral acids, very commonly ufed by itinerants for this pur- pofe, muft prove much more hurtful; and in fad many have loft their teeth en- tirely by the ufe of them. It is indeed fald by many, that in clean- ing the teeth of tartar the inftruments have done much harm, by hurting thq enamel. This I believe has in fome in- ftancgs happened: But it Ihould not be confidered552 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV* ] confidered as the fault of the remedy, but of the manner of ufing it. A ftiarp inftrument may no doubt be fo impro- perly applied as to remove the enamel; but this muft always be the fault of the operator: For every incruftatibn to which the teeth are liable may be taken ofTwith fafety, and without doing any injury to the teeth. In Plate LVIII. inftruments of various forms are reprefented for this operation. Figs 2. 3. and 4. are the beft, and will anfwer for moft purpofes; but the others are Sometimes necellary for the removal of fuch parts of the incruftation as form between the teeth. They ftiould all be moderately fharp, otherwife the opera- tion is done with difficulty : But the edge of none of them fliould be fine, otherwife it will be apt to turn, and even to break, with the force neceffary for fcaling off the tartar. In performing this operation, the pa- tient fhould be placed upon a low feat, with his face oppofite to a clear light and his head fupported by an affiflant. The furgeonSeft. VIII. Difeafes of the Mouth. 553 furgeon himfelf fhould be feated upon a chair fomewhat higher. It is commonly indeed done while the operator is Hand- ing ; but I have in difFerent parts of this w^rk had occafion to remark, that fur- geons ought to fit at every operation when it can with propriety be done. The furgeon fiiould now wrap the fore- finger of his left hand in a wet cloth, with which he fhould prefs firmly upon the point of the^tooth intended to befirft cleaned, while the back part of the fca- ling inftrument will form a point of re- finance for the thumb of the fame hand. In this manner the tooth may be firmly fupported fo as to prevent every rilk of its being loofenedby the inftrument. This in every cafe is a necelTary precaution ; but efpecially when any of the teeth are loofe. The fharp edge of the inftrument is now to be infinuated beneath the under part of the incruftation, care being taken to a- void the neck of the tooth, otlierwife, if puftied down this length, and if much force is employed, there will -be much VoL. IV. M ra rifk554 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV, rifk of loofening, or even of turning out, the tooth entirely. On being certain that the infl?rument is properly placed, it muft be puflied with firmnefs from below up- wards to the top of the tooth, anci mull be repeatedly applied in the fame direc- tion till all the incruftatipn is removed: And one tooth being cleaned, all the reft that require it muft be treated in the fame manner. This being done, the teeth Ihould all be well rubbed over with a bit of fponge In the form of a brufh, covered with a fine pov/der prepared of equal parts of cream of tartar and Peruvian bark ^ and this being continued from time to time, farther afliftance will feldom be required: But if, notwithftanding of this, the teeth ftiali again become foul, any new incruftation muft be fcaled off in the manner I have mentioned. This is the beft and moft efFediial me- thod of cleaning the teeth when they be- come foul from extraneous matter having formed on them ^ but they fometimes lofe theirS5S Sedl. VIII. Difeafes of the Mouths their colour, as I have already obferved, and acquire a kind of foulnefs, when no incruftation is perceived on them: Even in this cafe, as long as the furface of the teeth remains fmooth and found, mode- rate fridion with the edge of a fcaling inftrument will frequently prove ufeful ^ and if the operation is done with cau- tion, no rifle will accrue from it. But when the teeth become black from this caufe, we fometimes find the enamel cor- roded, or perforated as it were with an infinite number of finall holes; and this, I muff obferve, is the worfl: kind of foul- nefs to which they are liable : For it is difficult to remove, and when removed^ it in general foon returns, nor does it com- monly flop till all the teeth that it has at- tacked are deftroyed. As this kind of foulnefs cannot always be removed with inftruments, we endea- vour to diflplve it with fome chemical pre- paration. All the mineral acids will do it in the moft effedual manner 5 but for the reafons I have given, they ought never M2 to556 Difeafes of the Mouth. Chap. XIV^ - to be ufed. I have commonly employed faponaceous, or even pure alkaline appli- cations; by which the teeth may be often rendered perfectly clean without any in- jury being done to them. A ftrong la- ther of common foap will often anfwer ^ and a folutlon of fait of tartar applied over the teeth with a fmall pencil or brufh, proves in fome inftances equally fuccefs- ful. When in this manner the foulnefs is removed, the moft eifedlual means for preventing a return of it, is to waih the. teeth frequently with cold water, and to rub them from time to time with , one of the powders that I have men- tioned. I have fometimes, too, thought that repeated applications of tindure of, Peruvian bark have ferved to prevent it® As this variety, indeed, of foul teeth feems to depend upon fome degree of pu- trefcency ; for it is evidently attended with a caries or mortified flate of the dif- eafed teeth; there is caufe to imagine that 3-Se£l. VIII. Difeafes of the Mouth. 557 that antifceptics of every kind would prove ufefiil in the method of cure. For the purpofe of applying powders and other applications to the teeth^brufhes of different forms, and various kinds of roots properly prepared, are daily ufed. Lucerne and alkanet roots dried and beat at one end into the form of a brufh, are much employed for it, and they may be ufed both with fafety and advantage for cleaning the interftices between the teeth; But neither thefe, nor any kind of brufh Ihould be employed for rubbing the roots of the teeth and upper parts of the gum 5 for as their points pafs between the gums and the fockets, they are apt to fe- parate the one from the other, from which much mifchief is apt to enfue. For this reafon, I always employ a piece of fponge fixed in a fmall handle, with which the roots of the teeth may be rubbed with fafetyr END OF VOLUME FOURTH.PXATE ;xit. Tiff.l. DLizbi'S Sc.,tlpIPLATE Am . ■sSculp'P3. ATEI 1M.AI K XV. I Ki<x.j .13^LATE AVT.PLATE XAir.iisfe PLATE XIX: .PJLATE XX;. Jm-.l. ■Fig. ||x3. Iig.||6. Eig. 7. Eig .ll/i 10. .Fig. 11.:PX ATE AXl .PIA^TE XV3II.TX ATE AXIV.MATE AAV". X'T.izersTLATK \XA L.PX ATE AXX .\In.A^-ry. :xxxi. ■ DLiTT.ATE XXXIt.E X A T Tli XKXUr .XKXy.4PLATE Amr:,PLATE xronr.PL ATJ^i AXm.EXPLANATION OF THE P L A T E S;. Plate XIL Fig I. A Delineation of fome parts of the eye, referred to in dif- ferent parts of Chapter XI ay Thefe points reprefent the openings or orifices of the glands of Melbomius y by which, a vlfcid glutinous fubftance, commonly termed the Gum of the Eyes, isTeparated and dlfcharged. c/, The caruncula lachrymalis* VoL. IV. N n Cy The * Vide Defcriptio Anatomica Oculi, Iconibiis illu- ftrata, Auilore Johanne Getfreid, Zinn. M. D.562 'Explanation of the Plated. a Cf The membrana femilunarls, whiefe feems to have fome effed: in direding the tears towards the pnnda lachrymalia from whence they are conveyed by their eorrefponding duds into the faccus lachry-^ tnalis e, and afterwards to the noftril by the nafal dud. In the cure of the fiftula lachrymalis, it is of the utmoft importance to be well ac- quainted with the anatomy of thefe parts : This delineation will convey a more exad idea of them than could be given by defcription. Fig. 2. A fliarp-pointed inftrumenty from its figure termed a Hafla-, ufed in fome parts of the Continent for fixing the eye in extrading and couching the catarad: It does not anfwer the purpofe however fo well as different inftruments^ to be hereafter defcribed.^ Fig. 3. A fpeculum oeuli in common ufe, but it does not fix the eye fo well or fo eafily as the fpeculum delineated iir Plate XIV. or the inftrument, fig. 5. Plate XXII. FifrExplanation of the Plates. 563 Fig. N n 2 Fig. 4. A very ufeful form of knife for various operations on the eye-bail and eye-lids, particularly for cutting or fca- rifying turgid blood-veffels upon the eye : A lancet is commonly iifed for this; but this knife is ufed with more fteadinefs, and being round or blunt on the back, it does not fo readily injure the contiguous parts. Plate XIII. Fig. I. A bandage for the eyes; by which any quantity of light can be ad- mitted that a patient may wilh for, while at the fame time the eyes are fufficiently proteded, without being kept too warm, or too clofely tied down, as is commonly done with the bandages ufually employ- ed. It confifts of two pieces of polifhed timber excavated into the form of cups, correfponding to the fize of the eyes for which they are intended: And thefe being covered with a black or green riband, the inftrument is fixed by the riband tied round the head.564 Explanation of the Plates^ Fig. 2. A cup of an oval form, for ih& purpofe of bathing the eyes either, with water or any other liquid. Being of an oval form correfponding to the hze and figure of the orbit, the eye can be more effedlually walhed or bathed In any li- quid contained in it than In any other manner. Fig. 3. A bag of refina elaftica, fit- ted with an ivory pipe for the purpofe of throwing warm water between the eye-lid and ball of the eye, In order to remove fand, lime, or any other extraneous matter that happens to be lodged between them. Figs. 4. and 5. Flpes of different forms, that may be occafionally fitted to one of thefe bags. Fig. 6. A flat-hook, either of polifhed filver or ftee4 for feparating the eye- lids from each other. This is commonly done by the fingers of the operator, or by an afliftant; but In many of the more minute operations on the eye, this kind' of flat hook is employed with much ad- vantage;:Explanation of the Plates, 565 A vantage: fo that every furgeon in this branch of bufinefs fliould be pofleffed of it. Plate XIV. The figures of this plate reprefent dif- ferent views of an inftrument frequently mentioned in the courfe of this work. Various forms of a fpeculum oculi have been delineated in books ; but they have feldom been iifed in practice. They have in general been found either to comprefs the eye too much, fo as to induce pain and inflammation; or not to fix it fuffi- ciently. The inftrument here reprefent- ed, when properly polifhed, creates little uneafinefs, at the fame time that the eye may be fo comprefied with it as to be kept perfedly fteady. The handle may be either of fteel or timber, but the reft of it fliould be made of filver or fine poliflied fteel. Operators fliould be provided with fpecula of different fizes. The views here delineated are taken from a fize that anfwers for moft part of adults 3566 Explanation oj the Plates. Fig, A well adapted fpeciilum Is an ufeful inflrument in many difeafes of the eyes, but particularly in the operations of couch- ing and extracting the catarad:. As it has been imagined that it may be an advan- tage to be able to withdraw the fpecuium while the knife or needle remains in' the eye, It has been propofed to leave a va- cant fpace for this purpofe in the circle which furrounds the eye-ball, as is repre- fented in fig. 3. The fpecuium fliould be always kept, however, upon the eye, as long as either the extrading knife or couching needle remains in it, otherwife the eye cannot be rendered fufficiently fteady : But to thofe who are of a differ- ent opinion, this form of the inflrument delineated in fig. 3. will anfwer the pur- pofe exadly, Plate XV, Fig. I. A couching needle of the beft form I have ever ufed. It penetrates the eye, more readily than the round needle, fig. 2. and the catarad is more eafily de- prefled with it.Explanation of the. Plates* 567 Fig. 3. A needle of a flat form fimilar to fig. I. with a fmall curve near to the point. With this curve I have fome- times found that the catarad; is more ea- lily depreiled than with a flraight needle ; but I have not yet ufed it fo frequently as to be able to fpeak with certainty a- bout it. Figs. 4. and 5. Two needles, for per- forming the operation of Couching, by entering the inftrument at the internal angle of the eye, and pufliing it out to- wards the other. By which means the operation may be done upon the right eye with the right hand; w^hereas, with the common flraight needle, the left hand mufl be ufed for the right eye ; a degree of fteadinefs, which fome praditioners cannot always attain with the left hand. All thefe inAruments are delineated of a fize exadly fit for ufe. The handles fhould be made of light timber, and the fteel part of them fliould be poliflied in the mofl exquifite manner. None of them fliould exceed forty grains in weight. N n 4 Plate568 Explanation of the Plates* Plate XVI. Fig. I. A form of knife for the ope- ration of extracting the cataraCt. It iliould be tolerably firm and highly po- lifhed. Near the point both fides of the knife fhould be fharp, by which the cornea is more eafily penetrated, but backwards the upper edge of it fliould be round; which not only gives more flrength to the inftrument, but makes the rifk lefs of hurting the iris, Fig. 2. A knife of the fame form in the cutting part of it with fig, i. But by means of the bend, the operation may be per- formed on the right eye with the right hand of the furgeon. Fig. 3. A knife commonly ufed in Germany in extraCling the cataraCl. Fig. 4. A fmall fcoop for removing ei- ther the whole body of the lens, or any part of it, when in extracting the cata- raCl it happens to lodge either in the pu- pil or anterior chamber of the eye between the iris and tranfparent cornea. PlateExplanation of the Plates*' 569 Plate XVIL Fig. I. A delineation of the eye with the couching needle inferted into it. Fig. 2. The knife employed for divi-' ding the cornea in extradling the cata- rad, is here inferted acrofs the eye, be- tween the cornea and iris. And in fig. 4. the cut is delineated which ought to be formed in the cornea in the ufual me- thod of performing this operation. Fig. 3. reprefents the cornea divided in the fu- perior part of it, in the manner I have mentioned in defcribing the method of extrading the catarad. Plate XVIII. Fig. I. A view of the right eye with one of the curved needles of Plate XV. inferted into it.^ by which it is evident that a catarad may be couched in the Tight eye with the right hand of the furgeon. Fig. 6. Reprefents a curved knife in- ferred beneath the cornea in the opera- tion57^ Explanation of the Plates. tion of extrading the catarad with the right hand from the right eye^ Fig. 2. A fiiarp curved probe for remo- ving the cataradl, by making an opening behind the iris, in the manner I have ad- vifed in the Chapter on that operation. Fig. 4. Small forceps, which may oc- calionally be employed for the fame purpofe. Fig. 5. A flat curved probe, either of gold or fllver, for inferting through the pupil, in order to tear or form an open- ing In the capfule of the lens, fo as to ad- mit of an *eafy expulfion of the catarad. Fig. 3. A tube of fl:eel with an edge fufficiently fharp for penetrating a hard bone, by which a portion of the os un- guis, correfponding to the flze of the tube, may be removed, when in the ope- ration for the fiftula lachrymalis this may be judged proper. Plate XIX. Fig. I. An inftrument for the purpofe of comprellingthelachrymalfac. cur- vedExplanation of the Plates. 571 ved plate of fteel covered with flannel or filk, and adapted to the forehead, upon which it is flxed by the ribands CC. 5, Ano- ther plate of fteel connected to the former; which pafling back towards the occiput, ferves to fix the machine with more cer- tainty by means of the riband at its ex- tremity. D, a fmall moveable bar of fteel, pafling through an opening in the plate to be firmly fixed at any par- ticular height by the fcrew F. G, a fmall cufliion or button of fteel covered with filk or foft flannel; which being placed upon the corner of the eye immediately above the lachrymal fac, any necelTary degree of prefltire may be applied by means of the fcrew H. The moveable bar D is feparated into two pieces by a fcrew at £; fo that by turning this fcrew, the cufliion G may be turned more or lefs outward at pleafure, according to the par- ticular form of the part on which it is to be applied. The inftrument here delineated is in- tended for the left eye; but it-is eafily made572 Explanation of the Plate's. made to anfwer the right eye by moving the bar D into the flit or opening on the oppOiite flde of the plate A A. Fig. 2. A trocar and canula, for perfo- rating the os unguis in the operation for the fiftuia lachrymalis. Fig. 3. The ftilette^ and, fig. 4. the canuia, reprefented feparately. Fig. 5. A curved trocar; the inflru- ment commonly employed for the fiftuia lachrymalis. The ftraight trocar, how- ever, fig. 2. anfwers better. Plate XX. Fig. I. A filver fyringe for the purpofe of throwing liquids into the lachrymal palTages. Fig. 4. A curved tube, adapt- ed to the fyringe, and of a proper fize for being inferted by the noftril into the extremity of the nafal dud of the la- chrymal fac. Fig. 5. A fmall tube, of a lize correfponding to the lachrymal punc- ta, for throwing injedions through thefc openings into the fac. Figures 6. and 7. Tubes of a larger fize for throwing liquids throughExplanation of the Plated, 57S through the fac into the nofe by an exter- nal opening, when this has either been made by an Lncifion, or when the fac has burft in conrequence of tears and matter eollefting in it. Figs. 2. 3. &. 9. 10. and ii. Tubes of different forms, which have been employ- ed in the operation for the fiftula lachry- malis, when the paffage through the os unguis cannot in any other manner be kept free and pervious. Of thefe, how- ever, figs. 3. and 10. are the beft. The fmall bulge with which they are form- ed, not only prevents them from palling through the opening altogether into the nofe, which cylindrical tubes are apt to do, but when they are once properly fix- ed, it prevents them from rifing againft the fkin, which they are otherwife ready to do. The tubes here reprefented, are of fizes, both as to length and thick- nefs, which anfwer for the moft part of adults 5 butrthefe are circumftances which muft depend upon the nature of every ©afe, and will accordingly be liable to fome574 Explanation of the Plates. fome variety. Tubes for this purpofe fliould be made of gold polifhed in the fineft manner. Plate XXL Fig. I. A curved fcalpel, employed by fome praditioners for extirpating the eye- ball. By its form it is fuppofed to be well fulted for this purpofe 3 but the com- mon ftraight fcalpel is by experience found to anfwer better. Figures 2. 3. and 4. Curved probes, of a proper fize for inferting by the noftril into the nafal dud of the lachrymal fac, by thofe who wilh to clear thefe paflages in this manner. Fig. 5. and 6. Probes of a fmaller fize, for inferting into the lachrymal punda. Plate XXII. Fig. I. The knife commonly ufed by Mr Pellier in extrading the catarad. It fliould be highly poliflied, and fo lharp as^explanation of the Plates. 57j^ Fig. as to penetrate the eye with eafe, at the fame time that it fliould be fufficiently ftrong for dividing the cornea without yielding. This, as well as the other two knives in this plate, are made to fit the handle reprefented in Plate XXIII,. fig. I. Fig. 2. A knife exadly of the fame form and fize with the other; only in this, that fide which paffes next the iris is round or convex, with a view to pro- tect that membrane from being injured, which it is apt to be when the common flat knife is employed in eyes that are not prominent. Fig, 3. A probe-pointed knife, which in fome cafes may be employed wdth ad- vantage for finifhing the operation, when by any accident the aqueous humour e-* fcapes before the point of the other knife has pierced the oppofite fide of the cor- nea : But for a more particular account of the method of ufing it, I miifi: refer ta VoLIV* page 330,^5 7 S Explanation of the Plates. Plate Fig. 4. Curved fciffiirs of a proper fize for every operation on the eyes where fciflars are needed : Indeed every opera- tor who pradlifes much in this branch fliould have them. Fig. 5. This is the only fpeculum which Mr Pellier employs. It may be made of gold or filver wire, or of any other metal. It is here reprefented of the full fize both in length and thick- nefs of wire. In ufing It, one of the curves is placed upon the upper eye-lid diredlly behind the cartilaginous bor- der \ and being given to an afiiftant, a degree of force is applied with it fufii- clent for fixing the eye ^ which is eafily done, if the operator at the fame time makes fome refiflance, by placing the in- dex and middle fingers of one hand on the under edge of the orbit, fo as to com- prefs the eye beneath. All the inftniments of this plate are re- prefented of the full fize.Explanation of the Plates^ 577 Plate XXIII. Fig. I. A knife ufed by Mr PelHer in fome cafes for extrading the catarad. It is fixed in the handle at 5 by a male- ferew, fitted to a female fcrew, which is turned by the nut A. This handle may be made to anfwer figures 4. and 5. as well as every knife employed In operations on the eyes. Fig. 2. An inftrument for deprefling the under eye-lid. When an afliftant cannot be procured, it may often prove ureful. The two flat hooks at the upper end of it being fixed upon the cartilaginous edge of the eye-lid, the other end of it hang^ ing over the cheek by its weight draws it confiderably down. Fig. 3. An inftrument for determining the quantity of fkin to be removed In ope- rating for the Trlchiafis or Inverfion of the eye-lids. When it is found necefFu-y to remove a portion of fkin from beneath the under eye-ild, or from the fuperiot part of the upper palpebra, it may be done with a common fcalpel, while an afliftant VoL. IV. O o fupportsExplanation of the Plates, fupports or elevates it from the parts be- neath either with his fingers alone or with forceps made for the purpofe > but this inftrument anfwers better, as by means of it the quantity of parts to be removed can be afcertained and cut off with more precifion. Fig. 4. A knife for opening fmall col- ledlions of matter on any part of the eye- ball. Being blunt on the back and round on the end, it is ufed without any rifk of injuring the contiguous parts. Fig. 5. A fliarp-pointed curved knife, for dividing the veflels of the eje or of the palpebrae. Thefe inftruments are all delineated of the full fize*- Plate XXIV. Fig. I. A curved needle fixed in a handle for palling ligatures beneath the pterigium, and other fmall excrefcences fometimes met with on the external furface of the eye-lids, and not unfrequently on the eye itfelf. Fig* i. is intended for tumors ^Explanation of the Plates. 579 tumors on the right eye, and to be ufed with the left hand of the furgfeon. Fig. 4. is for the left eye> and to be ufed with the right hand. Figs 2. and 3. An inflriiment termed a Ciftatome, being meant for opening the capfule of the chryftaHIne lens. It may be made of gold or any other metal. In ufmg it, it is held between the thumb and fore and middle fingers of the right hand, care being taken to place the thumb upon the button^ or C, which is connedled with a fheath that covers the fharp point B, The hand being fupported upon the cheek by the ring-finger and little finger, the point of the inftrument covered with the fheath mufl: be cautioufly pafled through the pu- I pil till it reaches the lens ^ when the but- ! ton C being drawn back with the thumb, the point of the inftrument is thus fet at liberty without the hand being moved. This is an ingenious invention, and an- fwers the purpofe with eafe and fafet'y. Thefe inftruments are all reprefented of the full fize. O o 2 Plate580 Explanation of the Plate Plate, Plate XXV. Fig. 1. A fmall fcoop, which anfwers better than any other inftrument for re- moving fmall ftones, peas, and fuch like fubftances, from the noftrils or cars. Figs. 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. Are inftruments employed by Mr Pellier for the operation of the Fiftula Lachrymalis. Fig. 2. is a perforator and conductor for clearing the paffage through the os unguis into the nofc. Figs. 5. and 6. are tubes for lea- ving in the paflage. Fig. 3. is a compreflbr for fixing them after they are inferred ; and the eafieft method of iiiferting a tube is by putting it upon the condudlor after it is pafied through the comprelTor, as i& reprefented in fig. 4. The condudor, arm- ed with the tube and compreflbr, be- ing pafied through the pafiage into the nofe, muft be withdrawn^ when, by means of the compreflbr, the tube may be firmly fixed. Thefe inftruments are all reprefented of the full fize.Explanation of the Plates. 581 O o 3 Figs. Plate XXVI. The figures in this plate reprefent In- ilruments of Mr Wathen’s for the cure of the fiftula lachrymalls. Figs. 2. and 3. A tube and tent for inferting into the natural pafTage between the lachrymal fac and the nofe : Thefe inftruments may either be of lead, filver, or gold : When made of lilver or gold, it is neceffary to have one or two turns of a female fcrew in the top of the cup or cylinder^ but not when formed of lead. Fig. 4. The ftile of the tube. Fig. 5. The ftile of the tent. The ftiles are meant to condudl their correfponding tubes and tents into the paflage. And, Fig. I. A fcrew ftile for the purpofe of removing the tubes or tents when necef- fary, for which purpofe however finall forceps anfwer better. Figs. 6. and 7. A tube and tent v/ith a firing fixed to an aperture at the top of each.582 Explanation of the Plates. Figs. 8. and 9. A tube "and tent with a ftile and firing united to each and rea- dy for ufe. Thefe tubes and tents Mr Watheri ob- ferves are of the largeft fcale : There are two inferior fcrews; the middlemoft of which proves mofl generally applicable. I have thus given a delineation of this part of Mr Wathen’s apparatus, with which I doubt not that the fiftula lachry- malis may be cured; but I confider it in every part as inferior to what I have delineated in Plate XXV. both for the form of tubes and method of introducing them. For a more particular detail, how- ever, than can be given here of the me- thod of ufing Mr Wathen’s apparatus, his book jfhould be confultedy in which many valuable obfervations will be met with Plate * Vide A New and Eafj Method of curing the Fi- flula Lachrymalis ; the Second Edition, &c. By Jo- n^^than Wathen Phipps, Surgeon, London.'Explanation of tie Plates. 583 O o 4 more Plate XXVII. Fig. I. Mr Berenger’s knife for the operation of extracting the catarad. Fig. 3. Baron Wenfel’s knife. Fig. 4. Do£tor Richter’s knife. Fig. 2. A fpeculum oculi, the Inven- tion of my friend Dr Wardrop, whofe experience in difeafes of the eyes has been very extenfive. This fpeculum will be found very ufe- ful when the operator cannot have the aid of a good affiftant. In fcarlfying the veflels of the eye, this inftrument anfwers the purpofe of holding back the eye-lids completely, and gives a fufEcient degree of fteadinefs to the ball of the eye. The infide of the eye-lids are alfo turned out- wards, at the fame time that they are puflied backwards, fo as to expofe the partsr in the moft complete manner. The hinge fliould be made very eafy, that the operator may have little refin- ance to overcome, and thus he will be584 Explanation of the Flrdes, Plates more fenfible of the degree of preffiire to be made upon the eye. The other parts muft be fo firm as not to yield to any force that may be employed. The points of the forceps are connected with the femicircular pieces obliquely, to pre- vent the hand that holds the inftrument from obfiruding the light. Thefe femicircular parts ftiould be co- vered with thin leather that has fome de- gree of ^roughnefs. In ufing the inftrument, it ftiould be placed, ftiut upon the eye-lids, and gra- dually opened as the eye-lids are pufhed backwards; then as much preftTure is to be made as may be found necellary. Fig. 5. Small forceps, ufed by Baron Wenfel, for extradling the capfule of the lens, when in the operation of extract- ing the cataraCt it is found to be opake.Explanation of the Plates. 58 5 Plates XXVIII. & XXIX. The figures in thefe plates form a very ufeful part of the apparatus of an oculift. It is employed by Mr Bifchoff=^. All the figures of Plate XXVIIL re- prefent a chair on which the patient is placed during the operation of extracting the cataract, by which his head is kept much more fixed and fteady, than it can poffibly be in the ufual way, fupported on the breaft of an ailiflant ^ and as fteadi- nefs is of the greateft importance in all operations on the eye, the ufe of this chair may be extended to many others. Figs. I. and 2. Reprefent a flrongmade chair, to which is faftened a back which on each fide by means of a fcrew B, moves backwards and forwards. In the top £), which can at 6*, if necelTary, be turned back, is a concave cloth cu- fliion * For a more particular account of this apparatus, fee a Treatife on the Extradtion of the Cataradl, by Fre- derick BifchofF, F. M. S. Oculift to his Majefty in the Eledorate of Hanover, and to her Majefty in England."586 Explanation of the Plates. fhion for the greater fecurlty of the head, and to prevent it from flipping : Being made of a height to admit of the opera- tor ftanding, there are different pieces of wood, Plate XXIX. fig. i. to put under the cufhion, fig. 2.; each of thefe pieces of wood have two pegs E F, which fit correfponding holes in the feat of the chair: The cufhion, fig. 2. Plate XXIX. is made in a wooden frame, to which is fixed two projeding pieces of iron, which go through the holes E F in the chair, fig. 2. Plate XXVIII. and fallen at the back, in the hind part of the chair with an iron peg, fig. 3. HH. In fig, 3* Are two bars //, to fupport the top : X is a fland to prevent the top from falling, received into the notches L, which enable the operator, by their different diflances, to incline the move- able top more or lefs backwards, as he may find convenient. Fig. I. Plate XXIX. reprefents a very ufefui bandage for different operations on the eyes, particularly for the after treat- mentExplanation of the Plates. 587 Fig. 3 ment of the operation for the catarad. It confifts of a double piece of linen A A, about three fingers broad, and propor- tioned in length to the circumference of the head: At each end are fixed two firings 5 5 to tie it upon the forehead: To this piece of linen are fewed two pie- ces of double, dark-coloured filk or linen C Cy about fix fingers fquare, fo that the piece which covers the difeafed eye fliould be a little under the other piece, that no light may poflibly reach the eye on which the operation has been performed ; while fome degree of light, if the operator thinks proper, may be admitted to the other. Fig. 4. is a knife for extrading the ca- tarad, nearly the fame, although fome- what different from Dr Richter’s, Plate XXVIII. fig. 4. Plate XXX, . Fig. I. Forceps of a convenient form for extrading fmall bones or other fub- il^nces from the throat-588 Explanation of the Plates, Plate Fig. 2. An inftrument for preventing the noftrils from collafping after the ope- ration defcribed in Vol. IV. Chap. XII. Sedl. IV. AB, Two moveable tubes for inferting into the noftrils, to be retained in their fituation by a ribband palled through the opening CD, and tied on the ba ck part of the head. Fig. 3. A fide view of one of the tubes* Thefe inftruments are all reprefented of the full fize. They, as well as fome others in this volume, are taken from fome elegant engravings publiflied by Mr Bam- brilla of Vienna. Fig. 4. A tube for the purpofe of con- veying a waxed ligatute through one of the noftrils into the fauces, when the li- gature being drawn out at the mouth, a cuftiion or pad is attached to it, when it is drawn forcibly into the back part of the nofe, for the purpofe of putting a ftop to haemorrhagies from the noftrils that do not yield in any other manner. See Vol. IV, Chap. XII. Sed. II.'Explanation of the Plates, 5S0 Plate XXXI. Fig I* A double canula for fixing liga» tures upon polypous excrefcences either in the nofe, throat,, ears, or vagina. The ligature may either be of catgut or pliable filver-wire. Fig. 4. Is a canula for the fame purpofe, but of a different conllrudion. When the other is ufed, the ligature is tied round the handles of the inftrument. In this the ligature pafles through a move- able handle, and is eafily turned to any degree of tightnefs. Fig. 2. Is a canula of the fame kind with the others ^ but being crooked, it is better calculated for removing polypi deeply feated in the throat. The me- thod of ufing thefe inftruments is defcri- bed in different parts of Vol. IV. Chap. XII. Fig. 3. Is an inftrument for pafling a ligature over the uvula. A thread being paffed through the tubular part of the handle with the probe [noofe is then formed£go ^explanation of the Plates. formed on it; tod being lodged in the groove on the inhde of the ring, the other end of the thread is palled through the two fmall holes on the outfides of the ring; and thus it is ready for ufe. This is commonly termed the Ring of Hlldanus, from the name of its inventor. All thefe inftruments are reprefented of the full fze. Plate XXXII. Fig. I. A feflion of the bones of the head, reprefenting a polypus in the throat hanging down behind the velum pendu- lum palati, with a ligature palTed over it and fixed at the root of it, with a double canula inferted through one of the noftrils. Fig. 2. This figure is taken from Mr Chefelden. It reprefents a polypus in the nofe, with part of it palling back to the throat, and the reft into the noftril, with a ligature inferted from the noftril into the throat, in fuch a manner as to include theExplanation of the Elates. 591 the root of the excrefcence in Its doubling. By afterwards twilling the ends of the ligature, a degree of compreilion may be applied upon the root of the polypus fuf- ficient for removing it; but it would not anfwer In every cafe ; and as the method with the canula is not only more eafy but more effedual, the other will never pro - bably be ufed. Plate XXXIII. Fig. I. A polypus of fuch a lize that it diftended the nollril completely. It was removed with a ligature as is here repre- fented. The extremity of the poly- pus which appeared without the nollril. Cy A probe of lilver or any other metal, fplit at the end, in fuch a manner as to retain a piece of catgut or filver-wlre; the doubling of which being inferted in- to the flit, Ihould be pulhed up to the root of the polypus on one fide, while the tube B being pafled upon the two ends of it, mull be pulhed up to the root of it on the592 Explanation of the Plates, the oppofite fide, when the ligature may be eafily drawn to any neceflary degree of tightnefs. Fig. 3. A flit-curved probe, which may be ufed for the fame purpofe, to wit, for applying a ligature to the root of a poly- pus in tumors feated in the throat. By this Ample invention a ligature may be carried to the root of almofl: evefy poly- pus that can occur. Plate XXXIV. Fig. I. An inftrument for applying cauftic to any part of the mouth or throat. It may be made of filver or any other metal. Ay A moveable tube in which the cauftic is fixed, when by pulling the ring at the other end, it muft be drawn fo far into the furrounding canula as to be com- pletely covered with it^ when the end of the inftrument being applied upon the part affedted, the cauftic muft be again puflied forward to a proper length, which may be always afcertained with exadnefsExplanation of the Plates* 593 by means of the fmall pin tied by a thread to the ring at the oppofite end of it. This, as well as the inftruments of Plate XXXIII. I am favoLtred with by Dr Monro, whofe improvements in furgery are numerous and important. Fig. :2, 3. and 4. Are different parts of an inftrument mentioned in Se£l. V. Chap. XII. Vol. IV. for the purpofe of putting a ligature round a polypus in the throat. Fig. 2. A waxed thread with a noofe adapted to the fize of the groove in the ring CD, fig. 3. ED, EC\ Two tubular pieces of brafs two inches and a half long, flipporting the ring which is placed hori- zontally upon them. At the upper ends of each they fhould be made perfedly fmooth and round, fo as to allow the thread to Aide more eafily, and to prevent it from being cut by the edges of the tubes. CD, The apertures where the ends of the thread are inferred. E, One of the openings at which they are brought out. The other opening cannot be feen in this A^ol. IV. P p view594 Explanation of the Plates. view of the inftrument. The handle of the Inftrument is of ftrong wire, feven or eight inches long, and bent a little that it may be the more eafily introduced. Fig. 4. An inftrument for making a fecond noofe. F, Two brafs wheels fixed in a fmall cafe of brafs. The two wheels are five-eighths of an inch broad, and half an inch deep. After forming a fecond noofe, the ends of the thread fliould be paffed over the wheels in the manner here reprefented, when the handle of the in- ftrument being puflied upwards, a knot may be formed of any degree of tightnefs. This inftrument is evidently formed upon the fame principle with the ring of Hildanus, Plate XXXI. fig. 3. and was the invention I believe of the late inge- nious Mr Dallas, furgeon in Mufsleburgh. Plate XXXV. Fig. I. Curved forceps for extrafting polypi from the throat, and from behind the velum pendulum paiati. Fig-595 Explanation of the Plates. Fig. 2. Straight forceps for extrading polypi from the noftrils. Fig. 3. Forceps for the fame purpofe with the laft, but fomewhat different in form. The method of ufing both thefe and the others, is deferibed in Sed. V. Chap. XII. Vol. IV. Plate XXXVI. Figs. 1, 2. and 3. Different forms of curved fciflars, for extirpating tumors within the mouth, as well as for other purpofes. Fig. 4. An inftrument nearly of the form of a fleme, which anfwers better than any other for fcarifying the gums of children in dentition. Plate XXXVII. Fig. I. A fcarificator for feparating the gums from the roots of teeth intend- ed to be extraded: It fhould be very fharp, but at the fame time not fo fine in P p 2 the596 l^xplanation ef the Plates* the point or edge as to be hurt by being infinuated bet\^een the gums and the teeth. Fig. 2. A curved trocar for perforating the antrum maxillare. Figs. 3. and 4. Two diflediug hooks with two and three prongs, which anfwer better for many purpofes than the iingle pronged hook in common ufe. Plate XXXVIIL Fig. I. An inftrument for palling a li- gature round the uvula or any other pen- dulous excrefcence in the throat 3 but al- though the propofal is ingenious, it does not anfwer the purpofe fo well as the in- ftruments delineated in Plate XXXI. figs. I, 2, 3, and 4. Fig. 2. An inftrument firft propofed by Mr ChelTelden for tying a knot upoji fchirrous amygdalae after palfing a liga- ture through the bafis of the tumor, in the manner reprefented in fig. 3. The pin in fig. 2, is meant to reprefent a part upon which a knot is to be formed. PlateExplanation of the Plates, 597 Plate XXXIX, Fig. I. An Inftrument for removing the nvula by excifion. That part of the uvula intended to be removed being palled through the opening in the body of the inftrument, the cutting Aider, which ought to be very Aiarp, muft be prefled forward with fufficient firmnefs for divi- ding it from the parts above. Fig. 3. A curved probe-pointed biftou- ry for removing fmall tumors in the throat or any part of the mouth : And flg. 2. forceps for laying hold of tu- mors intended to be removed in this manner. Plate XL. Figs. I. and 2. Two fcarificators of different forms for opening abfcefles in the throat, and for fcarifying the amyg- dalae. The two wings with which the canula of fig. i. is furniflied, are intend- ed for comprefling, the tongue, while the point of the inftrument is palled more deeply into the throat.59^ ^explanation of the Plates. Figs. 2. and 4. Mr Mudge’s machine for conveying fleams of warm water and other liquids to the throat and breaft. Fig. 2. The inhaler as it appears when fit- ted for ufe, except that the grating which then ought to cover the hole, is now turned back, to fhow the opening in- to the valve. Fig. 4. A fedion of the cover, in which is fhown the conflrudion of the cork-valve JS, and alfo the conical part C, into which the flexible tube D is fixed. When the inhaler, which holds about a pint, after being tliree parts filled with hot water, is fixed at the arm-pit under the bed-cloaths, the end of the tube E is to be applied to the mouth y the air, in the ad of infpiratlon, then rufhes into the apertures F, and pafling through the hollow handle, and afterwards into a hole in the lower part, where it is foldered to the body, and therefore cannot be re- prefented, it rifes through the hot water, and Is received Into the lungs, impregna- ted with vapour. In expiration, the contentsExplanation of the Plates. J99 contents of the lun^s are difcharged up* on the furface of the water 3 and inftead of forcing the water back through the hollow handle, the air efcapes by lifting the round light cork valve fo as to fet- tle upon the furface of the body under the bed‘Cloaths. Thus the whole a6i: of refpiration is performed, without removing the inftru- ment from the mouth. The flexible part of the tube D is a- bout fix inches long, fitted with a wooden mouth-piece E at one end, and a part G of the fame materials at the other, to be received into the cone C on the cover. This flexible tube is made by winding a long flip of filkoil-lkin over a fpiral brafs- wire. This fliould be then covered with one of the fame fize, of thin filk, and both fecured by ftrong fewing filk wound fpirally round them. Some length and degree of flexibility is necelfary to this tube, for the fake of a convenient ac- commodation to the mouth when the head is laid on the pillow. Care6od Explanation of the Plates. Care fliould be taken by the work^ man, that the cover is made to fit very exadly ; or, if it; does not do To, the de- feat Ihould be remedied by winding a piece of cotton>wick, or fome fuch con- trivance, round the rim underneath the cover, fo as to make it air-tight. The cork, likewife, which forms the valve, fhould, for the fame reafon, be made as round as poflible. It is alfo neceflary to remark, that the area of the holes on the upper part of the handle taken together; the fize of the hole in the lower part of the handle which opens into the inhaler; the opening of the conical valve itfelf; and that in the mouth-piece; as well as the cavity or infide of the flexible tube, fhould be all equally large, and of fuch dimeiifions, as to equal the fizp of both noftrils taken together; in fliort, they fliould be feverally fo large, as not only to obftrud: each other, but that refpira- tion may be performed through them with no more labour than is exerted in ordina- ry breathing.r. t ■ •' V ,'V;