Med K84841 1 ■BREAKFAST DISHESHOUSEHOLD MANUALS. Price 1«.; or cloth, silver gilt, U. fid. each. TEMPERANCE AND LIGHT DRINKS. By H. C.Standage, EASY AND ECONOMICAL COOKERY FOR YOUNG HOUSEKEEPERS. By Millicent Ko^e Fardell. HEALTHY HOUSEHOLDS : A Plain Guide to Sanitation in the Home. By Guy Cadogan Rothery. THE NURSE'S COMPANION IN THE SICK ROOM. By Mary Davies. FANCY PASTRY. By Frederick Davies. For Sixty Tears Confectioner. CAKES AND BISCUITS. By Frederick Davies. COOKING POULTRY-, ONE HUNDRED AND ONE METHODS OF. "With Hints on Selection, Trussing, and Carving. By Aunt Chloe. ECONOMICAL FRENCH COOKERY FOR LADIES. Adapted to English Households. By A “Cordon Bleu.” PRACTICAL VEGETARIAN RECIPES. By Charles W. Forward. BREAKFAST DISHES for Every Morning of Three Months. By Miss M. L. Allen. SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. By Miss M. L. Allen. SOUND INVESTMENTS FOR SMALL SAV- INGS. By G. Bartrick Baker. London: J. S. YTRTUE & CO., Limited." 2R, Tvy T.&ne.FOR EVERY MORNING OF THREE MONTHS z By Miss ALLEN (Mrs. A. Macaire) FIFTEENTH EDITION LONDON J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Limited, 20, IVY LANE PATERNOSTER ROW 1893rKEFACE. r - a This little work has been undertaken with a view to supplying a want long acknowledged by housekeepers both of small and large establishments. Almost every one complains of the monotony of breakfast dishes, which consist for the most part of boiled eggs, bacon, dried fish, or sausages. It has been, therefore, the writer’s aim not so much to provide new receipts, as to collect and arrange those that appear suitable for the purpose in hand from manuscripts lent her by friends chiefly, and from other sources ; but any ordinary cookery-book will be found to contain a good many of them. The compiler does not aspire to offer the public anything startlingly fresh, but she believes that her arrange- ment of breakfasts will greatly facilitate a house- keeper’s efforts to vary the usual monotonous routine. It may appear at first sight that some of the dishes recommended are of too costly a character to be obtainable except by the very rich ; but a farther examination will serve to show that such a varietyPREFACE. vi of receipts are given for each breakfast, that if some are not suitable there are others which are emi- nently so. For instance, on January 1st pheasant rissoles are recommended, but as well there are receipts for kidneys a la maitre d’kotel, potted shrimps, but- tered eggs, and quince marmalade, surely some of which dishes would not be beyond the most limited means. It will be found that some things, such as sweet- breads, for instance, are very expensive in London ; but on the other hand the writer knows places in the country where they are so little thought of as to be given away by the butcher with other meat that may be bought of him. Oysters, which are largely used in the breakfast dishes of this little book, can be bought at a cheap rate in tins, as well as lobster, and it will be found that the dishes prepared from them are almost as delicious as if made with the more costly article. If anyone has a prejudice against tinned food, as some have, let them, if they cannot manage the fresh article, pass that dish over, and content themselves with others they feel able to afford. Again, it may be contended that some of the dishes are too heavy and substantial for breakfast. Let it be pointed out that tastes differ in that respect, as in all others; and, moreover, what is a sufficient breakfast for a man whose occupation is sedentary, would be a very inadequate one for another whose days are spent in the open air, whether riding, shooting, fishing, or walking.Vll PREFACE. • • The compiler of this little hook has selected January, February, and March, the three first months of the year, because in them it is possible to get more variety of food than in any other three consecutive months, i.e. game, spring poultry, lamb, trout, sal- mon, &c. Mushrooms and tomatoes can be bought pickled, forced, or in tins ; all the other things given will be found to be in season during the months named. At the same time, the dishes given will be found, with the exception of pork in the summer months, and oysters in May, June, and July, to be obtainable at any other time of the year, excepting, of course, game. To an intelligent cook the receipts given, and the daily arrangement of breakfasts for three months, will suggest other dishes that will be equally suitable, or she will observe that other material prepared in the same way, when that given is out of season, will answer her purpose. M. L. A.RECEIPTS FOR PREPARING DISHES FOR BREAKFAST. Buttered Eggs. Put into a stew-pan two ounces of butter; break four fresh eggs, and add half a tablespoonful of salt, and pepper; stir it on the fire continually. Have ready some slices of buttered toast, on a hot dish; pour the eggs on the toast and serve hot. \ To Boil a Ham. Soak your ham for twenty-four hours. After the ham has been scraped or brushed as clean as possible, pare away lightly any part which disfigures it, lay it in a ham kettle, and cover it plentifully with cold water; bring it very slowly to boil, and clear off carefully the scum, which will be thrown up in great abundance. So soon as the water has been cleared from this, draw back the pan quite to the edge of the stove, that the ham may be simmered softly but steadily until it is tender. On no account allow it to boil fast. Put into the water in which it is to be boiled either a quart of old cider or a pint of vinegar, or better still, a pint of champagne, a2 BREAKFAST DISHES. large bunch of sweet herbs, and a bay-leaf. When it is two-thirds done, skin, cover it with raspings, and set it in a oven until it is done enough. It will prove incomparably superior to a ham boiled in the usual way. To Bake a Ham. A ham for baking should be well soaked; then wipe it dry, then trim away any rusty places under- neath, and cover it with a common crust, taking care that this is of sufficient thickness all over to keep the gravy in. Place it in a moderately-heated oven, and bake for nearly four hours. Take off the crust and skin, and cover with raspings, the same as for boiled ham, and garnish the knuckle with a paper frill. This method of cooking a ham is, by many persons, considered far superior to boiling it, as it cuts fuller of gravy, and has a finor flavour, besides keoping a much longer time good. Duck Olives. Cut into two joints the legs of a cold duck or chicken; take off the drumsticks; mix half a teaspoonful of pepper with five or six teaspoonfuls of breadcrumbs, some mixed herbs, a very finely chopped onion, and two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Cut four thin slices of bacon, sprinkle with the crumbs, roll up each joint of fowl in the bacon, tie securely; make hot in a frying-pan or before the fire. Serve on a piece of fried toast.3 BREAKFAST DISIIES. Breakfast Cakes, One pound of flour, tliree ounces of flutter, one gill of new milk, one tafllespoonful of brewers’ yeast, (or German yeast), a piece of flutter the size of a walnut ; flaked in a hot oven. Sausages and Chestnuts. Roast and take tlie busk and skin from twelve Spanish chestnuts ; fry gently in a morsel of flutter -six small flat oval cakes of fine sausage-meat, and • when they are well flrowned lift them out, and pour :into a saucepan, which should he Aright in the inside, • the greater part of the fat in which they have fleen :fried; mix with it a large teaspoonful of flour, and - stir these over the fire till they are well and equally ‘browned. Then pour in fly degrees nearly one pint > of strong fleef or veal broth or gravy, and one glass t of good white wine; add a small bunch of savoury i herbs, and as much salt and pepper, or cayenne, as 'will season the whole properly. Give it a boil; lay : in the sausages round the pan, and the chestnuts in •the centre. Stew them very softly for nearly an 'hour, take out the herbs, dish the sausages neatly, i and heap the chestnuts in the centre; strain the e sauce over them, and serve them very hot. There ►should be no sage mixed with the pork to dress thus. French Cold Meat Pudding. Fowl, Pheasant, or Turkey Pudding. Two ounces of suet, three-quarters of a pound of imeat chopped fine, two ounces of bacon or ham, two iounces of grated breadcrumbs soaked in boilingBREAKFAST DISHES. 4 milk two eggs, lemon peel, onion, pepper, a tea- spoonful of sauce, parsley, and any kind of herb, some chopped mushrooms, salt. Bake in a basin for an hour j turn out and serve with some gravy or without. Breakfast Rolls. Crumble down very small indeed, an ounce of butter into a couple of pounds of the best flour, and mix with them a large saltspoonful of salt. Put into a basin a dessertspoonful of solid, well-purified yeast, and half a teaspoonful of pounded sugar; mix these with half a pint of warm new milk; hollow the centre of the flour, pour in the yeast, gradually stir- ring to it sufficient of the surrounding flour to make a thick batter ; strew more flour on the top, cover a thick double cloth over the pan, and let it stand in a warm kitchen to rise. In winter it must be placed within a few feet of the fire. In about an hour, should the leaven have broken through the flour on the top and have risen considerably in height, mix one lightly whisked egg, or the yolks of two, with nearly half a pint more of quite warm new milk, and wet up the mass into a very smooth dough. Cover it as before, and in from half to three-quarters of an hour, turn it on to a paste-board, and divide it into twenty-four portions of equal size. Knead these up as lightly as possible into small round or olive- shaped rolls; make a slight incision round them, and cut them once or twice across the top, placing them as they are done on slightly floured baking-sheets an inch or two apart. Let them remain for fifteen or twenty minutes to prove, then wash the tops with yolk of egg mixed with a little uiilk, and bake thcinBREAKFAST DISHES. 5 in a rather brisk oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Turn them upside clown upon a dish to cool after ; they are taken from the tins. Broiled Mutton Kidneys. Split them open lengthwise without dividing them ; $ strip off the skin and fat, run a fine skewer through ' the points and across the back of the kidneys to keep them flat while broiling ; season them with pepper, or cayenne, lay them over a clear brisk fire, with the cut sides towards it; turn them in from four to five ■ minutes, and in as many more ; dish and serve them quickly with or without a cold maitre d’hotel butter on them. Season them with pepper and fine salt, : and brush a very small quantity of oil, or clarified butter, over them before they are broiled. Oysters on Toast. put some pieces of bread the size of half-a-crown, barely a quarter of an inch thick. After they are fried, cut out bacon the same size ; very thinly fry. Put on bread anchovy and cayenne, then bacon, then a roasted oyster, a few grains of cayenne, and a little oyster liquor. N.B. Boasted oysters are really only made hot through. Buttered Scones. Beat two eggs a little, put them in nearly a pint of milk (new) warmed, with two or three spoonfuls of yeast to rise; then put in a quart of flour, mix. it6 BREAKFAST DISHES. with, a spoon, and lay in eight cakes ; roll them the size of muffins, and put them before the tire to rise, with a cloth to cover them; then put them in the oven. Sausages in Mashed Potatoes. Mash smoothly with some milk and a little piece of butter or dripping, about one pound and a half of potatoes; have ready broiled one pound of sausages (sausages take about fifteen minutes to broil); mould round each sausage some of the mashed potatoes to give it the appearance of a roll, put a piece of drip- ping on each, and bake in the oven, or before the lire, till of a nice brown colour. These rolls can be fried, but require great care taking them out, or the potatoes will fall away from the sausages. Dried Haddock, Boil it in a frying-pan, with just enough water to cover it; put it on a drainer to drain, then put it before the fire, with a large piece of butter on it. Savoury French Omelette, Beat the yolks of four eggs slightly, and beat the whites also separately, then beat both together for a minute ; add a dessertspoonful of finely chopped mushroom, a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, white pepper and salt to taste. Heat two ounces of butter in an omelette pan, and put in it an onion cut in four pieces; let the fat boil up, then take out the I onion and pour ^n omelette mixture, which stir about with a spoon until it sets, then tilt the pan towards the handle and shape the omelette, turn out on a very hot dish and serve before it quite sets.BREAKFAST. DISHES. 7 Fleed Cakes. Fleecl is to be bought from any pork butcher. Two • pounds of hour, one and a quarter pounds of heed, six ounces of butter; baked ten to fifteen minutes. Potted Pheasant, Lobster, or Liver. Roast the birds as for table, but let them be thoroughly done, for if the gravy be left in, the meat ■will not keep half so well. Raise the flesh of the breast, wings, and merrythought quite clear from the bones; take off the skin; mince, and then pound it very smoothly with about one-third of its weight of fresh butter, or something less, if the meat should appear of a proper consistence without the full quan- tity ; season it with salt, mace, and cayenne only, and add these in small portions until the meat is rather highly flavoured with both the last. Proceed with it as with other potted meats. Kedgeree. Half a pound of dried haddock, quarter of a pound of rice, two eggs, two ounces of butter, white pepper, and anchovy sauce. Throw the well washed rice into boiling water, and allow to boil for twenty minutes, then put into a sieve and turn a tap of cold water on it for two minutes to separate the grains, drain and put in a saucepan before the fire (without a lid) to dry. Melt two ounces of butter in a sauce- pan, stir in one ounce of fine flour, add three quarters of a pint of milk, stir till smooth; add a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, the whites of two eggs chopped into large slices. Cut up tho fish, add it, also the rice, season with white pepper; stir over the fire till hot, pile on a dish, and garnish with the yolks of two eggs grated over the top of the pile, and tufts of green fried parsley round the base.BREAKFAST DISHES. 8 Anchovy Toast. Toast some thin dry bread, which must be cut in oblongs about the length and breadth of a sardine ; cut it before the toast becomes brittle, and again place in the oven to become brittle and thoroughly crisp; spread with anchovy butter made by just cleaning three anchovies, pound them in a mortar with one ounce of butter, cayenne pepper, a little nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce; rub through a hair sieve, and use as directed. Wash your anchovies, wipe with a cloth ; divide the fillets by splitting down the back with the finger and thumb of both hands. The fillets must then be placed on the toast like lattice-work. Garnish with hard- boiled egg chopped. To Poach Eggs. Take for this purpose a wide, delicately clean pan, about half filled with the clearest spring-water; throw in a small saltspoonful of salt, and place it over a fire quite free from smoke. Break some new- laid eggs into separate cups, and do this with care-, that the yolks may not be injured. When the water boils, draw back the pan, glide the eggs gently into it, and let them stand until the whites appear almost set, which will be in about a minute; then, without shaking them, move the pan over the fire, and just simmer them from two minutes and a half to three minutes. Lift them out sepa- rately with a slice, trim quickly off the ragged edges, and serve them upon toasted bread freed from crust and buttered.BREAKFAST DISHES. 9 Roman Pie. Well oil a plain tin mould, sprinkle well with ^Vermicelli broken small, then line it with a vcvy thin 1 paste. Have ready some boiled macaroni, which cut iin pieces half an inch long; take a sprinkling of ggrated cheese, cut your meat up into small dice, mix all together and season with pepper and salt, and add ufficient gravy to moisten the whole (if the meat is rhite, the sauce must also be white and made with lilk). Then put all into a lined mould, cover with bin paste, and bake in a moderate oven half an hour, 'hen turn it out, with a rich brown sauce round it in be dish. Take of cooked ham finely chopped two table- poonfuls, one of white breadcrumbs, two of veal ravy, two of cream, a little chopped parsley, a little epper and mustard; heat up all together, then make good buttered toast, and sprinkle the above upon ;. Try crumbs of bread and a little parsley on the )p of it; when sorved cut it into long square pieces. N.B. One anchovy chopped is considered a great nprovement. Hard boil and shell two eggs, cut them in two mgthwise, cut up the whites in strips, heat them in ■mato sauce; put this on a dish with fried bread )und it; chop the yolks fine, and put a layer on the mato and eggs, two or three layers of each; end ith the yolks. Serve very hot. Ham Toast. CEufs au Tomato.BREAKFAST DISHES. 10 Golden Eggs. Hard boil three or four eggs, shell and sprinkle them with hour. Beat up one or more raw eggs, and dip the hard ones in this ; roll them in breadcrumbs (to which add some salt), and fry a good golden brown colour. Serve in rich white sauce. Bombay Toast. One ounce of anchovies, wash, bone, and pound in a mortar with one ounce of fresh butter, till reduced to a smooth paste. Melt the anchovy butter in a saucepan, and as it melts add the beaten-up yolks of two eggs ; stir till of the consistency of cream, add cayenne to taste, and spread on some slices of fried bread. Winchester Cutlets. Take any cold cooked meat, mince and pound it; add an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, one ounce of butter, pepper, salt, cayenne, and a little ketchup. Make this into a stiff paste with a raw egg, and shape into small cutlets with a little hour; egg, bread- crumb, and fry in hot fat. Put a small piece of uncooked macaroni into the end of each to represent the bone. Tea-Cakes. Flour, sixteen ounces; butter, four to eight ounces; add sufficient milk, and roll the cakes thin. Bake in a pan or on tins in an oven.BREAKFAST DISHES. n Sausage-Meat Cake. •* -• * Season very highly from two to three pounds of good sausage-meat, both with spices and with sage, >r with thyme and parsley, if these be preferred; oress the mixture into a pan, and proceed exactly as I or veal cake. A few minced eschalots can be mixed [Iwith the meat for those who like their flavour. Make Lnto cakes and fry. Serve on hot fried toast. Scotch Woodcock. Four slices of bread toasted and buttered both sides; over one side thickly with anchovy paste, put the oasts one on the top of the other, and cut in four •ieces. Have ready the yolks of four eggs well teaten, with half a pint of good milk, which set over i he fire to thicken but not to boil; then pour it over File toast and send it to table as hot as possible, lalf the above is sufficient for three persons. Macaroni and Kidneys (Mutton or Ox). Cook two ounces of macaroni in boiling water; Ikin three mutton kidneys, and remove the fat, cut 1 hem into slices, season with salt, cayenne, and finely mixed herbs; fry them on both sides in butter ; then tir in half a pint of gravy well flavoured with toma- ooes. Dish with a layer of macaroni over them, ifie gravy poured over ; add pepper, salt, and chopped uard-boiled eggs and some grated Parmesan cheese.12 BREAKFAST DISHES. Fried Bacon a I’Armstrong. Take slices of raw bacon and place tbem between slices of thinly cut bread slightly soaked in milk, then fry all together in batter. Des CEufs sur le Plat. Well butter a tin or china baking dish, break four eggs into it; place a lump of butter, some salt, and a little cayenne on the top. Fry over a slow bright fire, and serve in the dish in which they are cooked as hot as possible. Broiled Mushrooms (forced). Allow three or four mushrooms for each person. Cleanse mushrooms by wiping them with a piece of flannel and a little salt. Peel the tops, broil them over a clear fire, turning them once, and arrange on very hot dish. Put a piece of butter on each, season with pepper and salt, and squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over each. Place dish before fire till the butter is quite melted and serve very hot. Stewed Mushrooms (bottled). Pive or six buttons for each person. Pare a pint of mushroom buttons neatly, put them in a basin of water with a little lemon-juice as they are done. Take them from the water, avoiding the sediment; put them in a stew-pan with fresh butter, salt, and juice of half a lemon; cover the pan closely, andBREAKFAST DISHES. 13 stew gently for twenty-five minutes, or longer if tliey are not tender. Thicken the butter with one tea- spoonful of flour, cream or milk, and a very little mace added for flavouring. Hot Buttered Toast, Bakers’ bread a day or two days old. Cut slices rather more than a quarter of an inch in thickness, toast before a very bright fire; when a light brown colour both sides, place it on a hot dish, put a good piece of butter on each piece, and set it before the fire. When the butter melts spread it over the toast, trim off the crust and ragged edges, and send the toast quickly to table. Pile the shoes one on the top of the other and cut them into quarters. Fried Patties, Brains, Chicken, or Oysters. Mince some calf’s brains previously boiled; add an egg boiled hard and chopped, and a little parsley, a tiny piece of pounded mace, salt, pepper, a little lemon-peel; moisten with a gravy and cream. Make a good puff-paste, roll rather thin, and cut it into round pieces, put the mixture into them, and fry a light brown (or bake in patty-pans, and brush them over with the yolk of an egg). Pry for fifteen minutes. Scotch Collops. Cut veal the same thickness as for cutlets ; flour it well, and fry a light brown in butter, sprinkle witiiBREAKFAST DISHES. 14 flour and add half a pint of water, pouring it in gradually; set it on the fire, and when it boils add an onion and a tiny piece of mace (pounded). Simmer gently for three quarters of an hour, flavour gravy with two tablespoonfuls of sherry, one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Give one boil up and serve. Veal Cake. Cut all the brown off some slices of cold veal, and cut two hard-boiled eggs into slices. Get a pretty mould, lay ham, veal, and eggs in layers, and some chopped parsley and a little pepper between each, and when the mould is full get some strong stock and fill up the shape. Bake half an hour, and when cold turn out. Curried Crab, Sardines, or Lobster. Take all the meat out of a boiled crab, mix it with a little curry-powder and cream, a few drops of lemon- juice, and a little sugar; stew gently until hot, and serve with an edging of boiled rice. The curry may be ornamented with capsicums on top. An onion and a large acid apple previously fried is an improve- ment. To Boil Rice for a Curry. Take a teacupfull of rice, wash it well; take another cup of the same size and measure it twice with boiling water, add a pinch of salt ; make the water boil quickly, throw in the rice, and after it boils reckon twenty minutes. There will be no waterBREAKFAST DISHES. *5 to draw off. Stir up rice with, a fork; then turn it into a dish, and let it dry before the fire a few minutes. Pheasant Rissoles, Chicken or Lobster. (Half a pound.) Mince the white meat of a pheasant, mix a few breadcrumbs, pepper and salt to taste, a few chopped herbs, half a teaspoonful of minced lemon-peel, and some chopped bottled mush- rooms or truffles; add a little milk and some white stock, and then put all together in a saucepan and stir over a bright fire (a wooden spoon) for ten minutes. Then turn out into a plate ; mix in one raw egg and leave it six hour's to cool, when the mixture will be quite hard. Make into balls, egg and breadcrumb, and fry in boiling fat sufficient to cover the rissoles. Garnish with fried parsley. After taking the ris- soles out of the frying-pan, place them on kitchen paper to drain off all grease. To Boil Eggs. Place a saucepan on a bright fire, half full of water, put in eggs, and allow them to remain in five and a half minutes, so that they are cooked gradually all through. Potted Shrimps. Pick shrimps, and then tightly fill earthenware pots with them; add cayenne pepper and salt to taste, then pour over them boiling butter till the pot is quite full. Set it to cool, and then pour over the • top, to exclude all air, a mixture of boiling lard and butter.BREAKFAST DISHES. i6 Honey. Either in jars or in the comb, ten pence to one shilling a pound. Curried Eggs. Make a curry sauce as on page 38 ; hard boil some eggs, shell them, cut a piece off one end and enable them to stand on end; place eggs in sauce, and sur- round with rice. Quince Marmalade. Pare, core, and quarter some inferior quinces, and boil them in as much water as will almost coyer them, until they begin to break ; strain the juice from them, and for the marmalade put half a pint of it to each pound of fresh quinces. In preparing these be careful to cut out the hard stony part round the cores. Simmer them gently until they are tender, and 4 then press them through a coarse sieve; put them into a clean pan and boil them till they form, a dry paste; add for each pound of quinces and half-pint of juice, three-quarters of a pound of finely-pow- dered sugar, boil the marmalade for half an hour, stirring it gently ail the time. It will be firm and bright in colour. Pour pounds of quinces, one quart juice, four pounds sugar, makes rather a richer marmalade. Boil fast from twenty to forty minutes. Partridge Pudding. Or Beef can be tjsed instead of the Birds. Skin a brace of partridges, and cut them into ' joints ; line a basin with suet crust, lay the birds on the crust, first highly seasoning them with cayenne17 BREAKFAST DISHES. pepper and some salt; pour in water for gravy, a little pounded mace for seasoning, layers of button mushrooms (bottled) between the layers of meat; fill up the pudding with crust, and boil three and a half hours. N.B. The crust not to be eaten unless particularly liked. If beefsteak be used, cut up two kidneys also. Deviled Pheasants’ or Chickens’ Legs. Cut off legs from cold pheasants, score them with a sharp knife, put pepper and mustard and a little salt into the cuts; broil them with a piece of cold butter on each. Serve very hot. Fried Soles or Fried Slices of Cod. Cleanse the fish, and, two hours beforo they are wanted, rub them inside and out with salt; wash and rub them very dry, dip them into egg, and sprinkle over with breadcrumbs; fry them in boiling lard, dish on a hot napkin, and garnish with crisped parsley. Fried Bacon, Ham, or Sausages. Cut the bacon into thin slices, trim away the rusty parts, and cut off the rind. Put it into a cold frying- pan, turn it two or three times, and dish it on a very hot dish. Fry sausages in the same way till dcue. ‘ rS 0BREAKFAST DISHES. i8 Sausages and Mashed Potatoes. Prick the sausages with a fork, and put them into a frying-pan with a small piece of butter. Keep moving the pan about and turn the sausages two or three times. In twelve minutes they will be cooked. Have ready some smoothly mashed potatoes, and place the sausages on it and serve very hot. Strawberry Jam or Apricot. Strip the stalks from some strawberries, weigh and boil them for thirty-jive minutes, keeping them very constantly stirred; throw in eight ounces of good sugar beaten small, to a pound of fruit; mix them well before putting on the fire again, and then boil quickly for twenty-five minutes. Scones. Mix into a smooth paste with half a pint of milk one pound of flour, half an ounce of cream of tartar, a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda, and one ounce of sugar. Pub three ounces of butter into the flour with the hands. Poll the mixture to insure the butter being well mixed with the flour. Poll the paste out to a sheet of one-third of an inch in thick- ness. Cut the paste into triangular pieces, each side about four inches long. Plour a tin and put the scones into it and bake them directly in an oven (240°) for forty minutes.19 BREAKFAST DISHES. Snipe on Toast, Bo not draw a snipe, but wipe it with a soft cloth, and truss it with the head under the wing. Suspend the bird with the feet downwards to a bird-spit, flour it well and baste it with butter, which should be ready dissolved in a pan. Lay a thick round of slightly toasted bread buttered on both sides in the pan for the trail to drop on. The birds will be done in twenty minutes. Lay the toasts in a very hot dish and dress the birds upon them (one piece of toast to each bird). Orange Marmalade. Three pounds oranges, six pounds sugar, three quarts water. Take some bitter oranges and double their weight in sugar, peel off the rind. Cut chips as thin as possible about an inch long. Put the chips and pulp in a dish of boiling water, let them thus remain for fourteen hour’s, then turn the whole into a preserving- pan and boil till the chips are perfectly tender. Then add pounded sugar and boil it until it jellies. Oysters or Shrimps Curried Dry. Heat some shrimps or flesh of a boiled lobster slowly through, and serve in the following curry sauce. Dissolve a good slice'of butter in a deep, well- lined saucepan, and shake it over a brisk fire till it begins to colour, then put in the lobster or shrimps, and brown them well and equally. The pan must be well shaken, and the shrimps turned in it fro-BREAKFAST DISHES. 20 quently. When this is done lift them out, and threw into the saucepan three large onions finely minced; add a morsel of butter, and fry until they begin to soften. Then add a quarter of a pint of soup and a large acid apple, or a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, with the hearts of two or three lettuces and a heart of a cabbage shred quite small, a few small pickled gherkins, and two tomatoes (freed from seeds). Stew the whole till it resembles a thick pulp, and add any liquid it may require should it become too dry; put in the lobster or shrimps with two teaspoonfuls of flour, one of salt, and three of curry-powder. Simmer softly till the whole is done, which will be in three quarters of an hour to an hour. Surround the curry with well-boiled and drained rice, and serve on a hot dish. If preferred, the shrimps might be simply warmed through and added to the curry sauce after it is entirely cooked, before surrounding it with the rice. Brain Cakes. Boil the brains in a little veal gravy very gently for ten minutes, drain them on a sieve, and when cold cut them into thick dice; dip them into beaten yolk of egg and very fine breadcrumbs mixed with 6alt and chopped herbs, pepper, &c. ; fry them a light brown and dry them well. Serve on a very hot dish with fried parsley to garnish them. Stewed Potatoes. Put in a saucepan on the fire a piece of butter the size of an egg, one chopped onion, two spoonfuls of parsley, half a teaspoonful of celery and common21 BREAKFAST DISHES. salt mixed. Cut half a pound of potatoes into pieces, put them in a saucepan with three tablespoonfuls of water, when soft add a quarter of a pint of milk, a tablespoonful of vinegar and flour; stir and boil up. Sausage Cakes of Tinned Meat. Pound up in a mortar one pound of Australian meat, with a tablespoonful of salt, ditto of pepper, a quarter ditto of ground cloves, and two ounces of butter. Make into cakes and fry. To Cook Rhubarb. Cut two pounds of rhubarb about an inch in length. To this is added one pound of «ugar and the rind of a lemon grated; mix the two together, and leave it until the rhubarb is cooked. Have a large tin sauce- pan full of boiling water, and put the rhubarb in and stir it with a wooden spoon; the cover is put on, and for five minutes it may be left. When the cover is taken off, the rhubarb must not be left till it is done. It must be quickly turned with the spoon so as not to break the rhubarb. The moment it boils it softens; in about three minutes this happens, accord- ing as to whether the rhubarb is old or young. Strain it off quickly, only leaving a little juice to serve with it. Put it into a glass dish and leave it to cool; gently scatter the sugar and lemon over it. Pheasant Broiled, or Partridge, or Chicken. Split a young and well-kept partridge, and wipe it with a clean cloth inside and out, but do not wash itBREAKFAST DISHES. 22 Broil it delicately over a very clear fire, sprinkling it with a little salt and plenty of cayenne; rub a good piece of butter over tbe bird tbe moment it leaves tlie fire, and send it quickly to table in a very hot disk. Devonshire Omelette. Beat tbe yolks of four eggs till almost white. Beat tbe whites of four eggs for same time. Beat the two together for five minutes after adding a tea- cup full of milk, and a dessertspoonful of flour, finely chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a few drops of lemon- juice, and an onion cut into four pieces. Beat well; boil enough fat in a frying-pan to cover the bottom, and when it is just on the boil, take out the pieces of onion, and pour the mixture into the pan and hold it over a good clear fire. Salmon or Lobster Cutlets. Pound the coral with half an ounce of butter, and rub through a hair sieve. Make a panada (one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, and a gill of milk, stir on the fire until it comes away from the sides of the saucepan), and add the coral butter, lobster, pepper, salt, cayenne, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Pry in boiling fat, having brushed them with egged breadcrumbs. Scalloped Oysters. Plump and beard oysters, after having rinsed them well in their own strained liquor; add to this an equal quantity of very rich white sauce, and thickenBREAKFAST DISHES. 23 it, if needful, with a teaspoonful of flour mixed with a slice of butter; put in the oysters, and keep them at the point of simmering for three or four minutes ; lay them into the shells and cover the tops thickly with crumbs fried a delicate brown aud well dried; or heap over them instead a layer of fine crumbs; pour clarified butter on them, and brown them with a salamander. Angels, or Oysters, on Horseback. Cut some pieces of bread the size of half a crown, barely a quarter of an inch thick; after they are fried cut out bacon the same size very thinly ; fry. Put on bread, anchovy and cayenne, and a little oyster liquor. N.B. Roasted oysters are really only made hot through. Grenadines of Veal. Remove all skin and fat, and cut veal into nice shapes ; then lard. Put a small quantity of dripping or butter in frying-pan ; then put in fillets round tho pan; in the centre chopped carrot, turnip and small onion, and a bouquet garni (sprig of marjoram, thyme, and parsley, tied in a bay-leaf), pepper, salt, and not quite enough stock to cover the fillets. Put a piece of buttered kitchen paper on the top to prevent browning, put in an oven for three-quarters of an hour; put round a dish in which are cut vegetables. Boil stock till glazy and pour over. Kromeskies. Three ounces of flour, pinch of salt, dessertspoon- ful of salad oil, about one gill of tepid water, whiteBREAKFAST DiSHES. 24 of one egg well beaten. Oystfrs to be soaked a short time in cream with a little cayenne and a few drops of lemon-juice. Take a piece oi cooked bacon, all fat (cold boiled), wrap each oyster in a slice of bacon, and fry in batter. Serve oyster in bacon. Sweetbread. Soak and scald, simmer gently in milk for half an hour; egg, crumb, and fry, and serve with a little good gravy and button mushrooms. Fish Pudding. Take any boiled fish, or fowl, or veal, pound it in a mortar, take an equal quantity of bread soaked in milk ; put these into a pan, and stir over a fire till it becomes thick as dough; then add one ounce of butter, two yolks of two whisked whites of eggs, a little chopped parsley, a small onion chopped fine, a tiny little nutmeg, cayenne, and salt. Put into a buttered mould, steam one hour. Serve with white sauce poured over. Cold Meat or Oyster Fritters. Make a light batter, dip each seasoned oyster one by one into the batter, and toss from a spoon into hot fat. It will immediately assume a grotesque shape. Serve on a hot d’oyley.BREAKFAST DISHES. 2S Potato Patties. Chop up six ounces of cold meat, mix it with two teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce, one teaspoonful of finely chopped onion, ditto parsley, and five table- spoonfuls of milk; make one pound of mashed pota- toes, grease six large patty-pans, line them with the potatoes, making them very much raised in the middle; put in a piece of butter on top of each, bake for three-quarters of an hour, turn out of the patty- pans, and serve very hot. Eggs and Anchovy Sauce. Boil four eggs hard, take oif the shells, mince the eggs; put a piece of butter into a saucepan the size of a walnut, melt it, and add one teaspoonful of flour, ditto of anchovy sauce, a quart of milk, a teaspoonful of vinegar, a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. Stir it over the fire till it boils, add the chopped eggs, stir well, and pour it over three rounds of buttered toast. Put into the oven till required. Russian Gallimaufry. Cut a pound of cold meat into moderate-sized pieces ; cut up any cold vegetables, ham, bacon, batter or suet pudding into small pieces, fry all together in a little dripping, add half a teaspoonful of pepper and salt to taste, a tablespoonful each of finely chopped onion, parsley, flour, and vinegar, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Stir it all up over the fire, and serve very hot.26 BREAKFAST DlSHES. Savoury Rice Pudding. Boil slowly four large tablespoonfuls of rice in a pint of water, with half a tablespoonful each of pepper, salt, mixed herbs, chopped parsley and onion, and a little celery seed; chop up four ounces of cold meat, beat up with a quarter of a pint of milk, two eggs; mix the minced meat with it, and a tablespoon- ful of ketchup; add to it the rice when it is well cooked; pour all into a well-greased pie dish, and bake for three-quarters of an hour. Strve hot or cold. Shrimp, Crab, or Bacon Omelette. Cut up half a pound of lean bacon into small dice, put them in a shallow baking-tin in the oven for a few minutes; beat up the yolks of four eggs with one tablespoonful of flour, one tablespoonful of very finely chopped onion, two ditto of parsley, quarter of a teaspoonful each of pepper and mixed herbs, and half a pint of milk; beat up into a stiff froth the whites of four eggs, and add quickly to the batter, which must be poured over the hot bacon and the whole put into the oven for twenty minutes. A frying-pan will cook this omelette just as well. To be served at once. German Dumplings and Gravy. Chop small three ounces of suet, three ounces of any cold meat, a small onion, five leaves of parsley; mix with these half a pound of flour, half a teaspoon- ful each of pepper, salt, herbs, and two eggs web27 BREAKFAS7 DISHES. 'beaten, with enough, milk to make a stiff dough. iDivide into dumplings and throw into boiling stock. ;Serve in a good brown gravy. Liver and Bacon in Paper Cases. Boil some calf’s or sheep’s liver tender, cut it into : thin slices. Cut some bacon into very thin slices; Take a sheet of common note-paper, lay on one half of it a slice of bacon, sprinkle it with a teaspoonful of the following mixture: to a tablespoonful of breadcrumbs add half a teaspoonful each of pepper, herbs, parsley, and onion. Lay the liver over the bacon, sprinkle the liver with another teaspoonful of the crumbs, put the other piece of bacon on, and :turn the other half of the paper over, and turn up the edges round the three open sides. Fry for fifteen : minutes, turning them once over. Curry Balls. Boil half a pound of rice with one pint of water and a large tablespoonful of curry-powder, half a tablespoonful of salt, and one of sugar, an acid apple chopped fine, a large onion chopped fine. Chop up six or eight ounces of cold meat, with some parsley; while the rice is hot mix the meat with it, add an egg, and form into balls (rolling them in flour every now and then), put them in a frying-pan with some grease, or bake them in a baking-tin well greased. Cold Sheep’s Head Shape. Take a sheep’s head, boil it with salt and some peppercorns till the meat falls from the bones. CutBREAKFAST DISHES. 28 the meat into small pieces and place them in an earthenware shape. Cut four hard-boiled eggs and place them in the shape before putting in the meat, which must be well seasoned with cayenne pepper and a few drops of lemon juice, and salt to taste, a chopped onion, and some chopped parsley, and some ham cut into small pieces. Bake in an oven for twenty minutes; then while hot pour in the liquor that the sheep’s head was boiled in (mixed with a little dissolved gelatine) over the shape, leave to get cold, and turn out of shape when perfectly firm, and send to table on dish. Italian Puffs. Mix up in a basin six ounces of finely chopped cold meat, two ounces of breadcrumbs, two teaspoonfuls of vinegar, ditto chopped parsley, half a teaspoonful each of chopped onion, mixed herbs, pepper, salt, and sugar, and a teacup of milk. Make a teaspoon- fid of baking-powder and a pound of flour into a dough, and three ounces of lard or dripping and a little water; roll it out thin, and cut out fourteen or sixteen round pieces, lay some of the mixture on each piece, wet it all round, and double the paste over, pressing it down well. Place them in a baking-tin with some lard or dripping, and place in the oven. While they are cooking, baste three or four times with the grease in the tin. When done, drain them and serve very hot. Calf’s Liver, Potted. Boil some calf’s liver quite tender, cut it into small pieces, and put through a mincing-machine; then addBREAKFAST DISHES. 29 butter, pepper, and powdered cloves. Pound in a mortar. One pound of liver requires two ounces of butter, balf ditto (ff salt, and a small pincb of pow- dered cloves. Put into a pot and pour melted butter on the top. Tomatoes and Maccaroni. Cook balf a pound of maccaroni in a pine and a balf of water and a quart of milk, boil until tender; dissolve gently ten ounces of ricb white cbeese in a pint of good cream, add a little salt, a good deal of cayenne, and two ounces of fresh butter. The cream should be boiled before the cheese is melted into it. The maccaroni is to ,be arranged round a hot-dish, and the cheese mixture to be poured lightly on it. In the centre of the dish should be four or five large baked tomatoes. The whole should be sent to table very hot. Stewed Kidney. A kidney cut into four pieces, well floured all over, and put into a pan with mushrooms and a rich gravy. Parsley and fine herbs, pepper and salt to taste must be added; the whole carefully browned. Maccaroni and Salmon. Cook half a pound of maccaroni by boiling it in a pint and a half of water and a quart of milk, adding the liquor out of the tin of American salmon; put the pieces of salmon in a well-greased pie-dish, pour the maccaroni over, sprinkle breadcrumbs over and a few pieces of butter; bake for twenty minutes.BREAKFAST DISHES. 3° Salmon en Papillote. Take a small salmon steak, sprinkle it with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Butter the inside of a large sheet of letter-paper and place the steak upon it, fold the paper over, cut it round, roll up the edges, lay in a greased baking-tin, and bake twenty minutes. When dished cut the paper open at the top. Shrimps and Boiled Rice, Shell a pint of shrimps, make a thick white sauce with a little cream, butter, some flour and milk, nicely flavoured with cayenne, salt, and a little mace. Heat together in a saucepan, and pour into the middle of a very hot dish. Have ready some boiled rice, arrange it nicely round the dish, and send to table. (Eeceipt for boiling rice on page 38.) Broiled Cod’s Sounds. Lay them a few minutes in hot water. If fresh, rub with some salt, clean, till they look white,. and give them a gentle boil. Take up, dry, flour, sprinkle with salt and pepper; broil them. Serve with melted butter and mustard. Fried Potatoes. Fry a good quantity of fat, and when boiling place chips of potatoes in a frying-basket and stand it in the boiling fat; shake it frequently. When done stand the chips on paper to drain.BREAKFAST DISHES. 3i Beef or Pork and Apple Pasties (hot). Roll out some good butter crust. Season with pepper very highly, and some salt, a tender beef- steak previously cut into pieces about half an inch square. Have ready the paste rolled out thin, about six inches long by three broad; place the meat on the crust and place another piece over it, pinching down the edges together. Brush over with egg, and bake. If pork is used, put a previously baked apple, minus core and skin, into each pasty with the cut-up meat. Salmon Outlets. Cut slices one inch thick and season very highly with pepper and salt (fresh ground pepper); butter a sheet of white paper, and lay each in a separate piece, with their ends twisted, and broil gently over a clear fire, and serve with caper sauce. Fried Smelts. Smelts should be very fresh. Do not wash them, but dry in a cloth, flour lightly, dip them in egg, sprinkle with very fine crumbs of bread, and put them in boiling lard for five minutes. Fry a pale brown. Dry them before the fire on a drainer. Crimped Skate. Clean, skin, and cut the fish into slices; have ready some highly salted water, in which boil the fish till it is done (about twenty minutes). TheBREAKFAST DISHES. 1* elices of fish, should be rolled and tied with string previously to being boiled. Drain well, remove the string, and serve with anchovy sauce poured over it. Kidney Balls. Chop a veal kidney and some of the fat, some leek or onion, black pepper and salt to taste; roll it up with an egg into balls and fry them. Potato aux Boulettes. Boil some large potatoes very dry, mash a pound very smooth; mix with them while yet warm, two ounces of fresh butter, three tablespoonfuls of fresh cream, a teaspoonful of salt, one and a half of black pepper, the beaten and strained yolks of four eggs, and last of all the white thoroughly whisked; add some finely minced ham and a little chopped parsley. Mould the mixture with a teaspoon and drop it into a small pan of boiling butter; fry the boulettes for five minutes over a moderate fire. Drain them well, and dish them on a hot napkin Salmi of Game. Half roast the birds, carve them very neatly, and strip every bit of skin from the leg3, wings, and breasts; bruise the bodies well, and put them, with the skin and other trimmings, into a very clean sauce- pan with the following mixture: cut down into dice four ounces of lean and unboiled ham, and put it, with two ounces of butter, into a thick, well-tinned sauce- pan; add four minced eschalots, two ounces of sliced33 BREAKFAST DISHES. carrot, and two dozen button mushrooms, four cloves, a dozen and a half peppercorns, a bay leaf, two sprigs of thyme, a good bit of parsley. Stew these over a gentle fire, stirring and shaking them often ; then mix well with them a dessertspoonful of flour and let it take a little colour. Next add by degrees three- quarters of a pint of veal stock, and half a pint of sherry or Madeira. When this is done put in the bodies of the birds and boil for an hour and a quarter. Strain and clear the sauce quite from fat, pour it on the joints of game, heat them in it slowly, and when they are on the point of boiling dish them immedi- ately, with delicately fried sippets round the dish. Bloaters in Batter. Cut the heads and tails off two bloaters, split them open, and remove the backbones. Make half a pint of French batter, pour half of it into a greased frying- pan, lay in the bloaters with a little mustard rubbed over them, pour in the rest of the batter, and fry. Broiled Mackerel, whole. Empty and cleanse a large fresh mackerol, opening it as little as possible; hang it in a cool air till stiff. Make an incision with a sharp knife the whole length of the fish on either side of the backbone, and with a feather put in some cayenne and fine salt mixed with a few drops of pure salad oil. Lay the fish, wrapped in thickly buttered writing-paper, over a moderate fire on a well-heated gridiron which has been rubbed with r/uet; loose it gently should it stick, and when done equally on both sides turn the back to the fire. Half an hour will broil it well. DBREAKFAST DISHES. 34 Beef Olives. Cut the beef into thin slices. Mix four table* spoonfuls of breadcrumbs with half^ a teaspoonful of pepper, half ditto of mixed herbs, a finely chopped onion, two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley; finely chop some fat bacon ; roll up the mixture in the slices of beef and tie securely, then make hot in the oven or in a frying-pan. Serve olives on fried toast. Calf’s Head. Scald the skin off a large head, clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove the bones; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, salt, and a good quantity of pepper; mix well, season it highly with these, lay the parsley in a thick layer, then some thick slices of fine ham, then the yolks of six nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Boll the head quite close, and tie it as close as possible; boil it, and lay a weight upon it. Stewed Eels. . Clean and skin the eels, season with salt, cloves, pepper, and mace; put into a small stew-pan with very strong beef gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira. It must be covered close; stew till quite tender, take out the eels and keep hot while you boil up the liquor with one or two chopped anchovies and some flour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve and add lemon juice. Serve with sippets of bread and horseradish if likedBREAKFAST DISHES. 35 Fried Herrings. Serve them a light brown with fried sliced onions. Hot Crab. Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from the head; then put the meat, with a tiny pinch of nutmeg, salt, a good bit of pepper, three spoonfuls of vinegar, some breadcrumbs, and a good bit of butter, into the shell again, set it before the fire, and brown with a salamander. Serve dry toast to eat it on. Scalloped Cod or Lobster. The remains of boiled cod must be cleared of bones and mixed with a cup of milk, one dessert- spoonful of flour, some anchovy sauce, one teaspoon- ful of vinegar, a very little mustard, a little cayenne, a little black pepper, and some pieces of butter. Grease some scallop-shells, put in the mixture, grate breadcrumbs over, and bake a nice brown for three- quarters of an hour. Bloaters and Crumbs. Cut off the head and tail of a bloater, split it open, and take out the backbone; sprinkle it with two spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, half a teaspoonful each of dry mustard and chopped parsley, a little onion, a few drops of Yorkshire relish. Put four pieces of butter on the top of bloater, and cook in an oven or before the fire.36 BREAKFAST DISHES. Egg Kromeskies. Boil hard four eggs, take off the shells, cut foui thin slices of lean bacon eight inches long and three wide. Take two tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs mixed with one ditto of chopped parsley, one of finely chopped onion, some pepper, and a teaspoonful of mixed herbs ; sprinkle this mixture on the four slices of bacon, place an egg in each, and roll up ; tie with a piece of string, or put a little skewer through each. Put in an oven for three-quarters of an hour. Sausages and Artichokes or Vegetable Marrow. Wash and boil two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes the same as potatoes, peel them; put one pound of sausages in boiling water and let them cook fifteen minutes. Lay the sausages in a very hot dish, and put the artichokes round them. Put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a saucepan; when it is melted add two tablespoonfuls of flour, stir well, and then pour in slowly a pint of milk, a finely chopped onion, and some salt. Pour oyer sausages and artichokes. Oatmeal Porridge and Hominy. Have the water boiling oyer a good fire with some salt in it, take a handful of meal and sprinkle it in boiling water, stirring well with a large spoon. Then let it boil, for oatmeal three hours, and for hominy twenty minutes to half an hour (if coarse, longer). It37 BREAKFAST DISHES. should be now thick enough to serve, that is, just so stiff as not to run. In two or three minutes it may be turned into a dish and served without a cover. It is best eaten with cold milk or cream poured on it by degrees, and a little salt. Muffins or Tea-Cakes. Half a teaspoonful of tartaric acid, half a tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda rubbed into a pound of flour, two ounces of butter worked into the flour, one egg well beaten, half a pint of cold new milk poured into a hole made in the flour j add salt, and bake in a tin for twenty minutes. Shrimp Pie. Pick a quart of shrimps; if they are very salt season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince three anchovies, mix these with the spice and some black pepper, and then season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish and over the shrimps, with a glass of sharp white wine and a few drops of lemon juice. The paste must be light and thin. Very little time serves to make this dish. Eggs en Caisse. Make some small paper boxes, butter the bottom, half fill with following mixture: stale breadcrumbs, butter, minced parsley, salt, and cayenne ; break an egg into each box, cover with breadcrumbs till the box is quite full. Put them on a gridiron for three minutes or in an oven. Serve very hot.BREAKFAST DISHES. 33 Indian Pillau. Boil nee in plenty of water for twenty minutes, so that the water drains off easily, leaving the grains whole and with some degree of hardness; then stir in some butter to make the grains separate easily add pepper and salt. Garnish the pillau with hard- boiled eggs cut in quarters, and with a fringe of onions fried very dry. Curried Macaroni. Cut up two onions, fry them in some fat, add a tablespoonful of curry-powder, ditto vinegar, ditto sugar, one chopped apple, a teaspoonful of salt; add one pint and three-quarters of water and boil in it slowly half a pound of macaroni till quite tender, and serve very hot. Corn-flour Cakes. Beat two ounces of butter into a cream, add a tea- spoonful of salt. Beat two eggs well, and stir into the mixture a quarter of a pound of corn-flour and a tablespoonful of flour. Pour the mixture into a well- greased cake-tin, or on a flat baking-tin divided into small cakes. Bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a hot oven. "When the cakes are taken out slant them against a plate to prevent them from getting heavy. Pigs’ Trotters. Take some pigs’ trotters, wash them well, and put them in a stew-pan with enough cold water to cover them, and when it boils take the stew-pan off, strain39 BREAKFAST DISHES. off the water, and put the trotters into a basin of cold water. Put the trotters into two quarts of water in the stew-pan, with a tablespoonful of vinegar and a tablespoonful of salt, and stir in some smoothly mixed flour and water (an ounce of flour and a tablespoonful of cold water). Put the stew-pan over the fire till it just boils, and then set it on one side to simmer once for four hours. Serve the trotters on a hot dish with a good white sauce. Cheese Trifles. Put some very thin puff-paste in patty-pans, mix one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, pepper, cay- enne, the yolk of an egg, and one tablespoonful of cream; whisk the white, stir in, place in the patty* pans, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Stuffed Tomatoes. Take four large tomatoes- wipe them, put them on a plate, and cut off a small roimd from the top with a sharp knife and as much of the inside as can be got at, leaving the sides of the tomato entire. Chop some ham, the inside of the tomato, some red and black pepper, a little salt, some vinegar, a teaspoonful of sugar, three onions chopped very fine, and a sprig of thyme. Put all these into a saute-pan over the fire and stir the contents with a spoon until they are reduced (about ten minutes). Pass it all through a hair sieve, and fill the tomato walls with the mix- ture. Put them into a hot oven on a dish in which they can be served, with a piece of butter on each tomato, and slightly cook. Serve very hot.BREAKFAST DISHES. 40 H^rd-boiled Eggs and White Sauce. Hard-boil six fresh eggs, quarter, and place them on a dish. Make a white sauce by putting half an ounce of butter into a stew-pan, and when it is melted put in one ounce of flour, stirring it well for ten minutes; then add one gill of cream and half a tea- cupful of milk. Take one dozen button mushrooms and peel them and wash them, put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter the size of a nut, squeeze over them a teaspoonful of lemon juice and a tablespoonful of cold water; put it on the fire and just bring it to a boil, first adding minced parsley and salt to taste. The sauce is then strained over the hard-boiled eggs, and the dish is served very hot. If more sauce is needed, use a little white stock to mix with the other. Sardines on Toast. Cut some toast into long pieces the length of a sardine and a trifle wider; butter, spread with anchovy paste; split a sardine and take out the backbone, lay a half on each piece of toast, and heat through. Oatmeal Cakes. Melt three ounces of lard in a saucepan. Take seven ounces of flour and three ounces of oatmeal, a tablespoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda; mix with a spoon, stir in the melted lard. Break an egg into a tablespoonful of water and beat together. Pour this into the flour mixture and stir well together. Turn the paste on a board. Poll out the paste as thin as required ; put on to a greased baking-tin. Bake for twenty minutes in a hot oven (240° at oven door), ■ .4i BREAKFAST DISHES Pork Cutlets and Anchovy Sauce. Grill six delicately cut pork cutlets and serve in a not disk, with, anckovy sauce in tke midst of them. Stewed Jack. Well wash tke jack in salt and water, cut it into tkick skces. Boil kalf a pint of stock, and when it boils put tke jack in, and tken let it boil for ten minutes; add a teacupful of claret, one large tablespoonful of anckovy sauce, a lump of butter tke size of an egg, two teaspoonfuls of ketckup, one of lemon juice, one small lump of sugar. Thicken witk a little flour, and keep tke stew-pan well ekaken for five or seven minutes. Hot Scones. One pound of flour, one saltspoon of carbonate of soda, one ounce of salt, and enough buttermilk or sour milk to make a dough. This makes eight scones. Cook tkem in a frying-pan or on a griddle over tke fire. Maftre d’H6tel Kidneys. Plunge some kidneys in boiling water, open tkem down tke middle without dividing them altogether, and peel. Pass a skewer through tkem to keep tkem open, pepper well, salt, and dip tkem in melted butter. Broil tkem over a clear fire, cooking tke cut side first; remove tke skewers, put a little piece of maitre d’ hotel butter into tke hollow of each kidney, and serve very hot.42 BREAKFAST DISHES. Maitre d’H6tel Butter. Chopped parsley beaten up in butter, a little lemon juice and salt, and plenty of black pepper. Breakfast Cake (Anchovy). One cup of rice boiled quite soft in water. When cold stir a tablespoonful of flour into rice, and a lump of butter, two eggs, and some anchovy sauce. Well mix, and bake a light brown in a tin plate. Spatchcock. Split a fowl in halves through the middle of the breast and back ; pepper and salt it, rub it over with butter; grease a gridiron, and broil it over a clear, \ bright Are. Put a lump of butter on a hot dish before the fire, let it dissolve; lay the fowl on a round of toasted bread, pepper and salt it, and serve very hot. Curried Mincemeat. Slice an onion and fry it in butter. Soak a slice of bread in milk, and grate eight sweet almonds; beat two eggs into half a cupful of milk, and mix the whole well together, with half a pound of minced meat, a small lump of butter, and a tablespoonful of curry-powder. Pub a pie-dish with butter and the juice of a lemon. Bake in a not too hot oven for half an hour.43 BREAKFAST DISHES. Stewed Ducks’ Giblets. Well -wash, the giblets, divide the pinions and the neck, bead and gizzard, put them into a stew-pan, with a bunch of savoury herbs, one onion, two cloves, fourteen peppercorns, some ketchup, a piece of butter as big as an egg, and half a pint of stock. Set the pan over a gentle fire to stew till the giblets are tender, then thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour; add a glassful of white wine just before serving, boil it up and pour over the giblets. Broiled Pheasant. Cut the legs off at the first joint, cut up the bird. Put the pieces into a frying-pan with a little lard ; when browned on both sides and half done through, take them up and drain them, brush them over with egg, dip them in breadcrumbs well seasoned with salt and cayenne, broil for ten minutes, and serve with mushroom sauce. Beef and Onion Fried in Slices. Cut some slices of cold roast beef and one large onion, fry them a nice brown in a quarter of a pound of butter ; turn the pan round frequently to prevent the meat from burning. Then boil up half a pint of beef broth, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little mustard. Pour over the meat and serve as hot as possible. Croquettes of Brains. Blanch a calf’s brains, and beat them well together with a spoonful of sage-leaves chopped very fine,44 BREAKFAST DISHES. seasoned with pepper and salt. Mix them with bread- crumbs soaked in a little milk and a well-beaten egg. Make into balls and fry for ten minutes in butter. Veal Rolls. Cut some thin slices off a fillet of veal, hack them with a knife, rub them over with the yolks of eggs, lay some veal forcemeat over them, roll each up tight, and tie it with a thread. Brush them over with tho beaten yolks of eggs and sprinkle with breadcrumbs ; lay them in a buttered dish, and bake in a quick oven half an hour. Boil up a pint of brown gravy with some pickled mushrooms in it, pour round the rolls, and serve very hot. Pig’s Cheek. Boil a pig’s cheek for three-quarters of an hour, cover it with breadcrumbs, and brown them or glaze it. Rice Bread. Boil half a pound of rice in three pints of water till the whole is quite thick; mix yeast as well as six pounds of flour to form the dough. Bake one and a half to two hours. American Breakfast Bread. Heat one third of a quart of milk, and scald it with half a pint of flour. When the batter thus made is cool, add the rest of the quart of milk, a teacupful of yeast, a dessertspoonful of salt, and flour enough to make a stiff paste. Knead it on a paste-board till45 BREAKFAST DISHES. it is very fine and smooth.. Let it rise all night. Bake in the morning half an hour. Potato Bread. Boil two and a half pounds of nice mealy potatoes till floury; rub and mash them smooth; then mix them with sufficient cold water to let them pass through a coarse sieve. Mix this paste with yeast and then add it to the flour. Set it to rise, well knead it, and make it into a stiff, tough dough. Breakfast Rolls. Take half a pound of flour and rub two ounces of butter into it, add one ounce of salt and mix it with one beaten egg. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. Water Cakes (Breakfast). Mix two ounces of butter with one pound of flour, a pinch of salt, and a pint of cold water. Bake for fifteen minutes. Birds’ Nests. Four eggs, boil for ten minutes ; warm half a pint of rich brown gravy. Take off the eggshells and brush the eggs over thickly with a forcemeat prepara- tion ; put a little butter in a stewpan and fry them, pour gravy over them, and serve very hot. Force- meat to be made of breadcrumbs, beef suet chopped very fine, parsley, grated lemon peel, pepper and salt, and bound with the beaten yolk of an egg.BREAKFAST DISHES. 46 Scalloped Mussels or Cockles. Clean tlie shells well with repeated washings, hut do not keep them long in water. Stew them in a small quantity of boiling water; when the shells open they are done. The saucepan should be covered and shaken continually. In boiling mussels put a silver spoon in with them, and if it turns black do not eat them. Pick them out of their shells and save the liquor that runs from them; pick out the haiiy appendage to be found at the root of the tongue. To the pint of mussels put half a pint of the saved liquor; put in a blade of mace, thicken with butter rolled in flour, let them stew gently a few minutes. Serve in scallop-shells very hot, with browned crumbs on the top. Bread and Milk. Cut the bread into dice, put them into a basin; boil the milk, and when boiling pour it over the bread. Cover the cup up for five minutes, and then stand it before the fire for five more. Sugar to taste. Egg Toast. Put the yolks and whites of four eggs with four ounces of clarified butter ; beat them well together, then stir it over the fire in ‘ the same direction till mixed. Make a round of thin, delicate toast, well butter it, and salt and pepper it. Put the mixture on it and serve very hot. Turbot Loaves (or American Oyster Loaves). Take four round breakfast rolls, four ounces of butter; take a circular piece out of the top of eachBREAKFAST DISHES. 47 roll and extract the crumb. Then put half a dozen oysters and some cold turbot (with the oysters’ liquor) into a stew-pan with twTo ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of pepper, salt to taste, a teaspoonful of anchovy paste, and half the crumb from the loaves. Let them simmer for six minutes, and stir in a table- spoonful of cream. Fill directly the holes in the loaves. Fit the tops on again, and put them in an oven to crisp. Serve on a napkin. Fried Beef Kidney and Onion. Take a beef kidney, cut it in slices, not too thick, and let them soak in warm water for two hours and a half, changing the water twice to thoroughly cleanse them. Dredge a very little flour over these slices, and fry a nice brown in three ounces of butter ; add some slices of onion or not, as preferred, seasoning them well with pepper, salt, and mustard. Arrange them in a circle round a dish, and stir a teaspoonful of tomato sauce into a quarter of a pint of good gravy with a lump of sugar in it. Fillets de Boeuf aux Truffles. Cut out the inside of a sirloin of beef, beat it well to make it tender, cut it in slices, trimming them neatly; lay them in oil and let them soak for ten minutes, then fry in butter. Chop up some parsley, lemon thyme, half a shallot, and slice some truffles (that have been previously cleaned and brushed, boiled for twenty minutes in some good stock, quarter of a pint and half a pint of white wine, pepper and salt), and add fifteen drops of vinegar. Lay the herbs in the middle of the dish and the fillets round, and the truffles round the fillets.48 BREAKFAST DISHES. Broiled Beef Palates. They take one hour to simmer (wliicli can he done overnight); five minutes to broil. Wash and soak three palates and boil them until tender, removing the skin; then put them in a stewpan with a pint and a half of new milk, pepper, salt, clove, shallot, a bunch of thyme and parsley, and a lump of butter rolled in dour. Let the whole simmer slowly for ono hour ; then take them out, brush the palates over with the yolk of a beaten egg, dip them into bread- crumbs and boil them lightly. Place them on a very hot dish, and serve with a piquant sauce. Bombay Ducks, or Mummalon Fish. To be bought in tins at two shillings and three pence a tin, imported by Dickinson Brothers & Co., London. The fish are toasted very crisp and served on pieces of hot buttered toast about two and a half inches wide and one and a half square. Served very hot. Fried Trout. Thoroughly clean and remove the gills, brush them over with the yolk of a well-beaten egg, dip them into breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat till a fine brown. Garnish with sliced lemon. Lamb’s Fry. Take one pound of lamb’s fry, boil it for about a quarter of an hour, then drain it dry. Brush it over with the yolk of a beaten egg, then cover with bread- crumbs, seasoned with minced parsley, pepper, and salt. Pry it till it is a nice colour, i.e. five minutes, and serve with fried parsley on a folded napkin.49 BREAKFAST DISHES. Grilled Kidneys and Lemon Juice. Cut four kidneys nearly in halves, grill them on a well-greased gridiron. When done, put on each some chopped onion, parsley, butter, and lemon juice, pepper and salt. Apple Fool, Put your apples into a stew-pan with half the measure of water. When they are quite soft drain the water from them and press them with the back of a spoon through a colander ; sweeten, and flavour with a little lemon juce. Put a quart of milk over the fire beaten up with the yolks of four eggs, stir it over the fire till it begins to simmer ; then let it cool a little, and add half a pint of cream ; stir it gradually into the cold apples. Let it stand till cold, and serve it. Strawberry or Apricot Fool. Press the fruit (whether tinned or jam) through a hair sieve, simmer some milk with the yolk of one egg beaten up in it; add the cream when cooling, and stir it all gradually into the cold fruit. Salsify. Scrape the satisfy quite white, and throw it into a pan of boiling water, with a good lump of salt and some lemon juice. When it is tender put it to drain ; then cut it into pieces and dip it in batter and fry a light brown. Serve fried parsley with it. Make the batter of one egg, a little flour, pepper, salt, mace, end nutmeg.50 BREAKFAST DISHES. Reindeer’s Tongues, Soak tliem for three hours in cold water, and then expose them to the air. This must be done three times. Then scrape them very clean and put them into a stew-pan of cold water and bring them gradually to a boil. Let them simmer slowly, skimming them carefully all the time. Serve on a table napkin. Red Mullet Baked. Fold each mullet in well-oiled paper, tie the ends, pass the string over them, and bake in a small dish in a moderate oven twenty-five minutes. Make a sauce of the gravy that comes from the fish, a piece of butter, a little flour, a glass of port or sherry, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it and serve separately from the fish, which are to be served in their paper cases. Broiled Trout. When the fish is thoroughly cleaned, wipe it dry in a cloth and tie it round with thread (to preserve its shape). Melt a quarter of a pound of butter with a tablespoonful of salt, and pour it over the trout till quite covered; let’ it remain in it for five minutes, then take it out and place on a gridiron over a clear fire, and let it cook gradually for fifteen minutes-. Sheep’s Tongues Stewed. Put the tongues into cold water and let them boil till tender enough to remove the skins. Then split them and lay them in a stew-pan with enough good gravy to cover them. Chop some parsley, some5i BREAKFAST DISHES. mushrooms, and onion finely, work a lump of butter with it, and season with pepper and salt to taste; add it to the gravy and stew till tender, then lay them in a dish, strain the gravy, pour it very hot over the tongues, and serve. Veal and Potato Rissoles. A few mashed potatoes, some cold veal or chicken, hard-boiled eggs. Chop as much meat as you require and mix it with three-quarters of a pound of mashed potatoes, two hard-boiled eggs minced fine. Add chopped parsley, a little lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Mix with the yolk and white of an egg beaten separately, the white to a stiff froth. Make into balls, roll in the yolk of an egg, and brown in a Dutch oven before the fire. Cow’s Heel Fried. Cow’s heel to be thoroughly washed, cleaned, and scalded; cut it into pieces about two inches long and one wide; dip them into the yolk of a beaten egg, cover them with fine breadcrumbs mixed with chopped parsley, cayenne pepper, and salt. Fry in boiling butter, and arrange prettily on a hot dish. Beef Fritters. Mix to a smooth batter ten ounces of flour with a teacupful of water; warm two ounces of butter and stir into the flour, with the whites of two eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Shred the well-seasoned beef as thin and small as possible, and add it to the batter. Mix all well together, and drop it into a pan of boiling lard. Fry on both sides.52 BREAKFAST DISHES. Ox Tails. The upper half of two ox tails. Cut the tails in pieces about three inches long ; stew them for a long time till they are very tender. Skim the gravy well, stand the pieces of tail upon a dish, and pour the gravy over them. (For a breakfast dish the tails must be stewed overnight and warmed up in the morning.) Time, three hours and a half. Potted Hare. Hang up a hare for about a week, then case it and cut it in quarters. Put it into a stone jar, season it with cloves, mace, pepper, and salt, put a pound of butter over it, and bake it four hours in a slow oven. When done, pick meat from the bones, pound it in a mortar with the butter it was baked in (skimmed clean from the gravy). Pound it till it becomes a smooth paste ; season it to taste. Press it down in the pot and pour clarified butter over it. Grilled Kippered Salmon. Cut some dried salmon into narrow pieces about two inches wide and four long, broil them over a clear fire; then rub them over with fresh butter, seasoned with lemon juice and cayenne. Serve very hot. Deviled Oysters. Open enough oysters for the dish required, leaving them in their deep shells and their liquor ; add a little lemon juice, pepper, salt, and cayenne; put a small piece of butter in each, and place the shell on a grid- iron over a clear fire and broil for three minutes, gerye op a, napkin with bread au<l butter.S3 BREAKFAST DISHES. Deviled Hot Meat. Cut some cold meat in slices and tlien rub it with the following mixture : a tablespoonful of ketchup, one of vinegar, two of made mustard, one of salt, and two of butter, four table spoonfuls of cold gravy, one of currypaste; mix all as smooth as possible. "When rubbed with the mixture put it to the grill before a good fire. Take what is left of the sauce and make it warm, and pour over the grill before sending it to table. Filleted Soles. One pair of large soles filleted. Put them to boil in a little salt and water for a few minutes; keep them quite straight. Make a sauce consisting of melted butter, twelve oysters, a few shrimps, one large spoonful of anchovy sauce, and two of capers chopped. Stew them in the sauce for five minutes, and serve with the sauce over them. Breakfast Cakes. Take three ounces of butter and rub it into one pound of flour; take a small cupful of new milk, one teaspoonful of brewers’ yeast, a small piece of butter. Bake in a hot oven. Mushrooms in Cream. Put some cream in a white-lined saucepan, season it with salt and pepper, and let it just boil. Prepare some mushrooms, and when the cream boils rub salt over them and some pepper, and put them into the saucepan with the cream. Boil all together for four minutes. Serve very hot.BREAKFAST DISHES. 54 Deviled Biscuits, Take some milk biscuits, soak them in clarified butter or oil. Then rub them with a little curry- powder, ketcliup, some salt and pepper. Toast them on a gridiron over a clear fire. Serve very liot. Tomatoes Scalloped. Put six tomatoes through a sieve, add one cup of breadcrumbs, one teaspoonful of sugar, one of salt, one of pepper, a piece of butter the size of an egg. Butter a scallop-dish and bake in a quick oven. American Waffles. Boil one cup of rice quite soft. Take two table- spoonfuls of flour, two eggs, two tablespoonfuls of milk ; beat to a smooth \iaste ; keep till cold. Well grease the waffle-irons, pour in some of the mixture, and when done on both sides put on a warm plate and butter. Serve them very hot. A Potato Souffle. Mix into a smooth paste four dessertspoonfuls of well-boiled potato and one of flour with milk; then pour in the rest of the pint, salt and pepper it, and then put it into a very clean stew-pan with an ounce and a half of fresh butter. Stir it over a clear fire until it is of the consistency of cream, then add the yolks of six well-beaten eggs, and then stir in the whites. When whisked stiff enough to bear the weight of an egg, pour it into the souffle-dish, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, hold a salamander over it for a few minutes, and serve with a napkin pinned round the mould.55 BREAKFAST DISHES. Broiled Lobster. After the lobster is boiled split it from bead to tail. Take out tbe uneatable part, lay it open, put pieces of butter over tbe meat, sprinkle it with pepper, salt, and cayenne, and a spoonful of tbin melted butter to moisten it. Set tbe shells on a gridiron over bright coals until nicely heated through. Serve in the shells on a napkin. Fried Skate. Brush some pieces of skate over with the yolk of an egg, season it with salt, cover it with breadcrumbs, and fry a nice brown. Serve on a hot table napkin with shrimp sauce. . Mackerel Stewed. Take two mackerels, raise each fillet from the mackerel in two, and lay them in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter previously melted with a little flour, cayenne, salt, black pepper, and the rind of half a lemon. Shake the stew-pan over the fire for a few minutes, turning the fillets. Then pour in slowly nearly half a pint of port wine, with a tablespoonful of Worcester sauce and a little mace; boil up and pour over the fish. Lobster Scallops. The flesh of a boiled lobster must be cut in neat pieces. A white sauce made of milk, butter, and flour, with a dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce stirred in, some nepaul and black pepper, a teaspoonful of vinegar. Put this sauce on the fire till it boils, then off the fire add the beaten yolk of an egg and half a pint of cream. Pat in the pieces of lobster. Heat56 BREAKFAST DISHES. altogether over trie fire, hut do not allow the mixture to boil, stirring gently all the time. Put in some scallop shells or the empty lobster shells of the tail and head: cover with breadcrumbs and place a minute or two in an oven, or brown the crumbs with a sala- mander. Serve very hot, on a napkin, with fried parsley. Veal and Potato Rissoles. Chop your cold veal very fine, and mix about two- thirds of the quantity of mashed potatoes and one or two hard-boiled eggs minced fine; season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Mix together with the yolk and the white of an egg beaten separately, the white to a stiff froth; make into balls, and brown them in a Dutch oven before the fire for eight minutes. Madras Anchovy Toast. Put a piece of butter upon a very hot plate ; add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, cayenne pepper to taste, a teaspoonful of sherry or champagne, a teaspoonful of anchovy paste; mix well, soak hot toast in it, and serve very hot. Toast ought to be rather thick. Cold Duck Stewed with Peas. Cut the duck into neat pieces and season with cayenne pepper and salt, with the peel of half a lemon minced very fine. Put it in a stewpan, pour over it three-quarters of a pint of good gravy, and place it over a clear fire to become very hot but not boil. Boil a tinful of green peas in boiling water, drain them on a sieve, stir in a large piece of butter mixed with flour; just warm the stew-pan over the fire, pile the peas in the centre of a dish, and arrange the pieces of duck round.BREAKFAST DISHES. 57 Lamb Chops. Cut chops from a loin of lamb, let them be three- quarters of an inch thick. Broil over a clear fire; when done season with pepper and salt. Serve in a dish garnished with fried parsley. Apple Jelly. Take a peck of apples, quarter them, and take out the cores; put them into a preserving-pan with one gallon of water, and let them boil moderately till the pulp will run. Then run the pulp through a jelly- bag or cloth; weigh the juice, and boil it rapidly for fifteen minutes. Draw it from the fire and stir into it until entirely dissolved an equal weight of finely sifted sugar. Then boil for twenty minutes longer, until it jellies strongly in the spoon. It must be perfectly clear from scum. Then pour it into glass jars. It ought to be pale and transparent. Suet Pudding. Put one pound of flour and half a pound of beef.suet into a basin, a teaspoonful of salt, and one dessert- spoonful of Goodall’s baking-powder, and sufficient milk or water to make the materials into a thick paste. Mix all well together, tie up the paste in a floured cloth, and put into boiling water, and keep boiling for two hours. When the pudding is cold, cut it in slices and brown in a frying-pan. Serve in a hot dish for breakfast. Normandy Pippins. Take eight Normandy pippins, strew a half-pound of moist sugar over them, and pour enough cider (orBREAKFAST DISHES. 58 water) to cover them completely. Set them in the oven the last thing at night. Add a little more water and sugar, and hake for half an hour. Baked Pears. Take twelve pears, peel them, and cut them in halves; cut a lemon in thin slices, and lay the pears and lemon in layers in a bright block tin, with a cover to it, putting a clove here and there, and strewing the sugar over each layer. Pour enough water to cover the pears completely, set the cake tin in a slow oven, and bake about five hours. Tea-Cakes. Mix two and a half pounds of very fine dry bread- crumbs, with four ounces of melted butter, and the beaten yolks of five or six eggs, two teaspoonfuls of sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt. Chop a few blanched almonds, and add. Lastly stir in the beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in patty-pans. If less quantity is required, use everything in like proportion. Anchovy Paste. That made by C. Osborne of London, “ Patum Piperium, or Anchovy Paste,” recommended by author as the very best made, and sold in earthenware pots. To be got of J. A. Bovill & Co. Pate de foie Gras. In china pots, “ Pate de foie Gras ” made by J. G. Hummel, Strasbourg, to be bought in London of J. A Bovill & Co., 29a, Upper Gloucester Place, N.W.BREAKFAST DISHES. 59 Fresh Herrings Stuffed. Take six fresh herrings and open them down the back ; take out the hone and take off the head. Put a little piece of veal stuffing in each, and roll them up. Lay small pieces of butter over them, and hake in a quick oven fifteen minutes, Pheasant or Chicken Souffle. Mince the meat hy putting it through a sausage- machine twice. Take a cupful of breadcrumbs, half a pint of good strong stock, put into a stew-pan, and boil until it leaves the pan clean; then stir in the yolks of three eggs, . pepper and salt six finely chopped mushrooms, two finely chopped truffles, and a large spoonful of chopped parsley. Whip up the whites to a stiff froth, and when the mixture is cold stir them lightly into it. Line the mould with buttered paper before you put the mixture into it. Potted Eggs and Anchovy. Boil five eggs hard, run the yolks through a sieve, mix anchovy sauce to taste, and pound it in a mortar. Put it in a shape and decorate with parsley. Toasted or Grilled Kippered Salmon. Toast or grill the salmon; place it in a basin with the outside downwards, pour boiling water over it; repeat the process if very salt. Place it on a dish the right side uppermost, and spread butter on it. Put the dish in front of the fire and serve very hot. Altogether it takes ten minutes to cook.BREAKFAST DISHES. 6o Curried Sweetbreads (excellent). Have ready some good white stock, add one fried onion, a tablespoonful of vinegar, salt and sugar to taste, and a tablespoonful of curry powder. Rub two ounces of butter into this gravy (about three- quarters of a pint) rolled in flour sufficient to make it nice and thick; cut up your sweetbreads into pieces two inches square, and stew in the gravy for about thirty-five minutes. Baked Tomatoes. Take eight tomatoes, scald them in boiling water, cut them in thick slices without removing the stem ; rub the sides of a pie-dish with butter and lay in the slices of tomato ; season well with pepper and salt, add two teaspoonfuls of Groodall’s Yorkshire Relish, cover with breadcrumbs and scatter some lumps of butter over the top, and bake for thirty minutes. Perriwinkle Patties. Mince some perriwinkles previously simmered, not boiled, and taken out of their shells, add a little lemon juice, some pepper and salt to taste, moisten with a little stock, and a tablespoonful of cream. Make a good puff-paste, roll thin and cut into round pieces, put the paste in patty-pans, the mixture on it, and cover again with paste. Brush with the yolk of an egg. Hot Cross Buns. Mix with two pounds of fine flour half an ounce of allspice and half a pound of fine moist sugar. Make61 BREAKFAST DISHES. a hole in the centre and stir in half a gill of yeast and half a pint of lukewarm milk. Cover the pan and let it rise two hours. Then dissolve half a pound of butter, stir it into the other ingredients, and add some more warm milk if necessary to make a soft paste. Set to rise for an hour more. Then shape the buns and place on a buttered tin, and put in a warm place till they have risen double their original size. Make a cross on each with a knife, bake in a hot oven, and when done brush them over with milk when taken out. Brawn. Clean and wash a pig’s head of six or seven pounds, and put it into a stew-pan with two pounds of lean beef; cover with cold water and boil until the bones are easily removed, skimming often. Mince the beef and head as fine as possible, but don’t let it get cold, season with five cloves, a lot of pepper, salt, and cayenne. Stir briskly together, and put into a cake-mould, with a heavy weight on the top. Let it stand for six hours. Dip the mould in boiling water when required, and turn the brawn out on a dish. Decorate with green parsley, and serve cold. Graham Cakes. One pint of sour milk, one beaten egg, one tea- spoonful of soda, one of salt, and enough Graham flour to make a batter. Bake in gem tins or patty- pans. Rice and Meat Balls. One cupful of cooked rice, one cupful of finely chopped pork, one apple finely chopped, a little sagoBREAKFAST DISHES. 62 chopped, some salt and pepper, half a cupful of milk, one egg, and two tablespoonfuls of butter. Boil milk before adding meat, rice, and seasoning; add the egg last of all when almost cold. Shape into balls and fry. Aspic Jelly. Stew two pounds of knuckle veal or mutton, put the meat into a stew-pan that shuts very closely, with two slices of ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, one onion, the peel of half a lemon, a tea- spoonful of bruised Jamaica pepper, the same of whole pepper, salt to taste, and three pints of water. As soon as it boils skim it clean and let it simmer till quite strong and rich; dissolve one ounce of isin- glass in it when boiling. Strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon. Then lay over it a clean piece of blotting-paper, and remove all parti- cles of grease. When cold boil it a few minutes with the whites 'of two well-beaten eggs and their shells. Take it off the fire, let it stand to settle, and pour it through a jelly-bag into a plain mould or basin that has first been dipped in water. Let it stand all night, and next morning turn it out of the mould by dipping the bottom in cold water. Orna- ment with green parsley and serve on a dish. Cold Mutton Sliced and Fried with Bacon, Cut some cold mutton in slices, dredge a little flour over each slice, seasoning each slice with mush- room ketchup, pepper, and salt. Fry some bacon, and the slices of mutton in the bacon fat. Arrange alternately round a dish.63 BREAKFAST DISHES, Baked Haddock. Thoroughly dry and clean the haddock, fill the inside with veal stuffing, sew it up, and curl the tail into its mouth. Brush it over with egg, and strew breadcrumbs over it. Set it in a warm oven to hake for about half an hour; hut a Dublin Bay haddock will require double that time. Shortbread. Add four ounces of sugar to one pound of flour, and into it rub one pound of butter. Boll out thick and bake thirty minutes. Baked Mackerel. Clean the fish well, stuff it with breadcrumbs, oysters or shrimps, chopped onions, and parsley ; mix well together with butter, stuff the fish, putting some stuffiing over the outside. Bake in a warm oven. Stewed Macaroni, Put half a pound of macaroni into a stew-pan with some salt, and well cover it with water; simmer till quite tender, taking care to preserve the form, and when done strain it through a sieve. Mince the white meat of a cold fowl and some slices of ham very fine, season with pepper and salt and finely grated Parmesan cheese. Well beat the yolks of five and the whites of two eggs ; add them to minced fowl. Mix with half a pint of cream. Mix all to*BREAKFAST DISHES. 64 gether, and put into a buttered mould. Steam for an hour, and serve with some good gravy. Norfolk Dumplings. Take some bread dough after it has risen, and throw into boiling water; boil till done. Serve at once, very hot, or they will get heavy. Eat them with butter or brown gravy. Fowl or Fish Quenelles. Soak a cupful of bread crumbs in cream. Mix half a cupful of pounded fish or fowl, mix well with the foregoing, and also an ounce of fresh butter. Mix a well-beaten egg with this (the white and yolk beaten separately), add pepper and salt, and convert the whole into a paste. Eoll the quenelles into the shape of an egg, and poach them in a stewpan of white stock for fourteen minutes. The same mixture is good put into a buttered mould. Cauliflower in Batter. Boil a cauliflower till not quite soft. Divide it into pieces, dip in a well-seasoned batter, and fry in butter. Batter should be served dry without gravy.Receipt on Page 15. 41. 1. 15. 42. 16. 2. 26. 30. 1. 4. 16. 5. 6. 17. 3. 5. 18. AKFAST DISHES THREE MONTHS FOR SIX PERSONS. January 1st, Sunday. Pheasant rissoles. Kidneys k la maitre d’hdtel. Buttered eggs. Potted shrimps. Hot breakfast cakes (anchovy). Quince marmalade. January 2nd, Monday. Duck olives. Shrimp omelette. Fried potato chips. Cold boiled ham. Milk rolls. Honey. January 3rd, Tuesday. Oysters on toast. Sausages in mashed potatoes. Deviled pheasants’ legs. Cold French meat pudding. Buttered scones. Strawberry jam. F66 BREAKFAST DISHES. Receipt JANUARY 4TH, WEDNESDAY, on Page 6. Savoury omelette. 7. Kedgeree. 7. Potted pheasant. 1. Cold ham. 18. Scones. 19. Marmalade (orange). January 5th, Thursday. 10. Golden eggs. 10. Bombay toast. 9. Roman pie. 5. Breakfast scones. 16. Honey. January 6th, Friday. 41. Stewed jack (pike). 9. Ham toast. 9. CEufs au tomato. Cold ox tongue bought in tins. 41. Hot scones. 57. Apple jelly. January 7th, Saturday. 41. Pork cutlets grilled, with anchovy sauce. 15. Rissoles of chicken. 7. Potted lobster. 40. Oatmeal cakes. Sardines and watercress. 58. Stewed prunes or baked pears.BREAKFAST DISHES. 6? Receipt January 8th, Sunday. on Page 35. Scalloped cod. 29. Tomatoes and maccaroni, 1. Buttered eggs. 3. Breakfast cakes. 7. Potted tongue. 16. Quince marmalade. 36. January 9th, Monday. Oatmeal porridge. 21. Broiled partridge. 10. Winchester cutlets. 8. Poached eggs and bacon. 1. Grated ham on toast. 18. Strawberry jam. 6. January 10th, Tuesday. Dried haddocks. 6. Savoury omelette. 3. Sausages boiled with chestnuts. 7. Potted pheasant. 19. Scones. 17. Stewed fruit (or bottled gooseberries), January 11th, Wednesday. Fried slices of cod. 15. Boiled eggs. 38. Curried maccaroni. 4. Breakfast rolls. 8. Anchovy toast. 19. Orange marmalade.BREAKFAST DISHES. 68 19. Orange marmalade. Receipt January 12th, Thursday. on Page 24. Cooked meat fritters. 34. Calf’s head rolled and stuffed (< 38. Corn-flour cakes. 12. Mushrooms (broiled). 48. Bombay ducks. 16. Honey. January 13tii, Friday. Basher of ham and fried eggs. 54. Potato souffle. 35. Hot crab. 36. Oatmeal porridge. 40. Sardines on toast. 16. Quince marmalade. January 14th, Saturday. 38. Indian pillau. 37. Shrimp pie. 38. Pigs’ trotters. 37. Muffins or tea-cakes. 57. Stewed apples (pippins). January 15th, Sunday. 37. Eggs en caisse. 36. Boiled hominy. 36. Sausages and artichokes (or vegetable marrow). 35. Bloaters and crumbs.BREAKFAST DISHES. 69 Receipt on Page 19. 19. 20. 21. 21. 13. 21. 22. 22. 17. 18. 64. 20. 22. 26. 18. 18. 26. 28. 28. 30. 3. January 16th, Monday. Snipe on toast. Oysters curried dry. Stewed potatoes. Sausage-cakes of meat {tinned will do). Stewed rhubarb. Hot buttered toast. January 17th, Tuesday. Spatchcock of partridge or chicken. Devonshire omelette. Scalloped oysters. Fried bacon. Strawberry jam. January 18th, Wednesday. Fowl or fish quenelles. Brain cakes. Lobster cutlets. German dumplings and gravy. Apricot jam. Scones. January 19th, Thursday. Bacon omelette. Italian puffs. Potted calf’s liver. Boiled cods’ sounds. Breakfast cakes. .•BREAKFAST DISHES. 70 Receipt JANUARY 20TH, FRIDAY, on Page 31. Beef pasties (hot). 10. Winchester cutlets. 32. Salmi of game. 15. Boiled eggs. 13. Hot buttered toast. 21. Stewed rhubarb. January 21st, Saturday. 33. Broiled mackerel. 34. Beef olives. 40. Hard-boiled eggs and white sauce. 40. Oatmeal cakes. Stewed or bottled fruit. January 22nd, Sunday. 23. Angels on horseback (oysters). 23. Grenadines of veal. 24. Fish puddings. 3. Breakfast cakes. 18. Strawberry jam. January 23rd, Monday. 24. Oyster fritters. 24. Sweetbreads and mushrooms. 26. Savoury rice pudding. 26. Calf’s liver potted. 18. Scones.7i BREAKFAST DISHES. Receipt on Page 36. 22. 31. 39. 42. 30. 29. 25. 7. 36. 17. 22. 25. 52. 18. 17. 16. 14. 12. 13, 58. January 24th, Tuesday. Oatmeal porridge. Lobster cutlets. Crimped skate. Stuffed tomatoes. Preserved apricots, bought in tins. Breakfast cake (anchovy;. January 25th, Wednesday. Shrimps and boiled rice. Stewed kidney. Potato patties. Potted pheasant. Boiled hominy. January 26 th, Thursday. Fried bacon. Scalloped oysters. Eggs and anchovy sauce. Potted hare. Scones. Baked apples. January 27th, Friday. Fried pork sausages. Partridge pudding. Curried sardines. Stewed mushrooms (forced or tinned). Hot buttered toast or tea-cakes.BREAKFAST DISHES. 72 Receipt JANUARY 28TH, SATURDAY, on Page 12. Baked eggs. 11. Maccaroni and kidneys. 12. Fried bacon & 1’Armstrong. 11. Scotch woodcock. 10. Tea-cakes (hot). 19. Orange marmalade. January 29th, Sunday. 11. Sausage-meat cakes. 10. Bombay toast. 8. Poached eggs. 7. Kedgeree. 18. Scones. 58. Stewed pears. January 30th, Monday. 6. Dried haddock. 7. Fleed cakes. 13. Fried patties (calf’s brains). 7. Potted lobster. 13. Scotch collops. January 31st, Tuesday. 17. Fried bacon. 14. Yeal cake. 16. Curried eggs. 18. Apricot jam. 5. Scones (buttered).73 BREAKFAST DISHES. Receipt FEBRUARY 1ST, WEDNESDAY, on Page 22. Devonshire omelette. 22. Lobster cutlets. 20. Stewed potatoes. 36. Oatmeal porridge. 4. Milk rolls. Stewed gooseberries (bottled fruit). February 2nd, Thursday. 25. Bussian gallimaufray. 32. Salmi of game. 29. Salmon and maccaroni. 4. Hot milk rolls. Tinned apricots. February 3rd, Friday. 34. Beef olives. 33. Bloaters in butter. 34. Boiled calf’s head. 42. Anchovy breakfast cakes. 19. Orange marmalade. February 4th, Saturday. 23. Grenadines of veal. 20. Stewed potatoes. 24. Cold meat fritters (hot). 36. Boiled hominy. Boiled bacon (cold). 18. Strawberry jam.74 BREAKFAST DISHES. Receipt FfBRUARY 5TH, SUNDAY, on Page 23. Kromeskies. 24. Sweetbreads. 24. Fish puddings. 25. Potato patties. 21. Stewed rhubarb. February 6th, Monday. 26. Shrimp omelette. 41. Kidneys & la maitre d’hotel. 27. Liver and bacon in paper cases. 40. Oatmeal cakes. 57. Normandy pippins. February 7th, Tuesday. 36. Egg kromeskies. 35. Fried herrings. 35. Scalloped lobster. 32. Potato aux boulettes. Stewed gooseberries (bottled). February 8th, Wednesday. 13. Fried patties. 14. Scotch woodcock. 12. Fried bacon ii 1’Armstrong. 12. Stewed mushrooms. 13. Hot buttered toast. 16. Quince marmalade.BREAKFAST DISHES. 75 Receipt FEBRUARY 9TH, THURSDAY, on Page 3. Sausages ancl chestnuts. 5. Broiled mutton kidneys. 7. Potted pheasant. 7. Fleed cakes. 6. Dried haddock. Jam. February 10th, Friday. 12. Baked eggs. 9. Roman pie. 7. Potted liver. 7. Scotch collops. 7. Hot buttered toast. 58. Baked pears. February 11th, Saturday. 41. Stewed jack. 51. Rice and veal rissoles. 59. Pheasant souffle. 59. Potted eggs with anchovy. 45. Potato bread. February 12th, Sunday. 17. Fried soles. 39. Cheese trifles. 15. Chicken rissoles au truffles. 48. Bombay ducks. 58. Anchovy paste.BREAKFAST DISHES. 76 Receipt FEBRUARY 13TH, MONDAY, on Page 17. Pork sausages. 15. Eggs plain boiled. 57. Suet pudding cut in slices and fried. Stewed apricots (bottled or tinned). 54. Tomatoes scalloped. 15. Potted shrimps. ' February 14th, Tuesday. 31. Salmon cutlets. 53. Hot deviled meat. 53. Mushrooms in cream. 54. American waffles. 21. Stewed rhubarb and Devonshire cream. February 15th, Wednesday. 59. Fresh herrings rolled and stuffed. 54. Tomatoes scalloped. 11. Scotch woodcock. 53. Breakfast cakes. 19. Orange marmalade. February 16th, Thursday. 53. Filleted soles. 59. Grilled kippered salmon. 52. Deviled oysters. 50. Sheeps’ tongues stewed. 18. Scones. Bottled or tinned apricots.77 BREAKFAST DISHES. Receipt FEBRUARY 17th, FRIDAY, on Page 15. Boiled eggs. 51. Yealand potato rissoles. 52. Potted hare. 54. Deviled biscuits. 52. Ox tails stewed. 13. Hot buttered toast. February 18th, Saturday. ' 49. Fried salsify in batter. 50. Reindeers’ tongues. 51. Cow heel fried. 8. Poached eggs and bacon. 42. Breakfast cakes with anchovy. 18. Strawberry jam. February 19th, Sunday. 51. Beef fritters. 49. Sheep’s fry. 24. Fish pudding. 36. Oatmeal porridge. Stewed bottled gooseberries. February 20th, Monday. 32. Kidney balls. 31. Fried smelts. 30. Shrimps and boiled rice. 30. Fried potatoes. 53. Breakfast cakes. Jam.78 BREAKFAST DISHES. Receipt FEBRUARY 21 ST, TUESDAY, on Page 26. Shrimp omelette. 24. Sweetbreads. 24. Fish pudding. 52. Grilled kippered salmon. Stewed fruit (apple). February 22nd, Wednesday. 30. Salmon en papillote. 30. Broiled cods' sounds. 31. Hot beef pasties. 36. Boiled hominy. 37. Muffins. 58. Stewed pears. February 23rd, Thursday. 37. Eggs en caisse. 37. Shrimp pie. 38. Corn-flour cakes. 38. Pigs’ trotters. 16. Honey. February 24th, Friday. 8. Sardines on anchovy toast. 11. Fried pork sausages on toast. Broiled slices of cod. 40. Oatmeal cakes. 19. Orange marmalade. Dry toast.BREAKFAST DISHES. 79 Receipt FEBRUARY 25TH, SATURDAY, on Page 47. Fillets cle boeuf aux truffles. 15. Boiled eggs. 7. Potted lobster. 4. Milk rolls. Bottled fruit (apricot). February 26th, Sunday. 48. Boiled beef palates. 48. Bombay ducks or mummalon fish. 47. Kidney and onion. 17. Fried bacon and eggs. 4. Breakfast rolls. 57. Stewed apple (Normandy pippins). February 27th, Monday. 46. American oyster loaves. 52. Kippered salmon. 12. Broiled mushrooms. 51. Beef fritters. 53. Breakfast cakes. 21. Stewed rhubarb. February 28th, Tuesday. 43. Broiled pheasant. 46. Scalloped mussels. 11. Pork sausage-meat cakes. 58. Pat6 de foie gras. 53. Breakfast cakes. 49. Apple fool.8o BREAKFAST DISHES. Receipt FEBRUARY 2 9 Til, WEDNESDAY, on Page 45. Birds’ nests. 42. Spatchcock. 43. Stewed ducks’ giblets. 36. Oatmeal porridge. 44. American breakfast bread. 18. Strawberry jam. March 1st, Thursday. 44. Veal rolls. 44. Big’s cheek. 45. Potato bread. 15. Boiled eggs. 16. Honey. March 2nd, Friday. 43. Beef and onion fried in slices. 43. Croquettes of brains. 42. Curried mincemeat. 44. Bice bread. 57. Stewed apples (pippins). March 3rd, Saturday. 46. Bread and milk. 46. Egg toast. 46. Turbot and oyster loaves. 2. Cold ham (baked). 40. Oatmeal cakes. 19. Marmalade.8i BREAKFAST DISHES’✓ Receipt March 4th, Sunday. on Page 47. Fried beef kidney. 13. Patties. 37. Egg en caisse. 18. Strawberry jam. 18. Scones. / March 5th, Monday. 40. Hard-boiled eggs, sliced, with white sauce. 12. Mushrooms on toast. 60. Curried bullock’s sweetbreads. 36. Oatmeal porridge. 16. Quince marmalade. March 6th, Tuesday. 50. Red mullet. 11. Chopped ox kidney, eggs, and maccaroni. 17. Grilled chickens’ legs. 49. Apple fool. 27. Cold sheep’s head shape. March 7th, Wednesday, 11. Stewed kidney. 29. Salmon and maccaroni, 30. Fried potatoes. 49. Apricot fool. 58. Pate de foie gras.82 BREAKFAST DISHES. Receipt on Page 50. 23. 45. 18. 36. 31. 12. 31. 49. 13. 55. 16. 53. 55. 38. 4. 59. 53. 13. 18. March 8th, Thursday. Broiled trout. Split and grilled pork sausages. Grenadines of veal. Breakfast rolls. Strawberry jam. March 9th, Friday. Oatmeal porridge. Hot beef pasties. Fried bacon k 1’Armstrong. Salmon cutlets. Strawberry fool. March 10th, Saturday. Scotch collops. Broiled lobsters. Curried eggs. Breakfast cakes. Stewed (bottled) gooseberries. March 11th, Sunday. Fried skate and shrimp sauce. Curried pigs’ feet. Breakfast cakes. Potted anchovy. Deviled hot meat. Hot buttered toast. Jam.BREAKFAST DISHES. 83 Receipt MARCH 12TH, MONDAY, on Page 55. Mackerel, stewed. 3. Fowl pudding. 24. Oyster fritters. 44. Little hot loaves (American bread). 19. Marmalade. March 13th, Tuesday. 55. Lobster scallops. 12. Broiled mushrooms. 12. Fried bacon a 1’Armstrong. 14. Veal cake. 21. Stewed rhubarb. March 14th, Wednesday. 40. Hard-boiled eggs, white sauce, and parsley. 60. Tomatoes baked. 9. Ham toast. 60. Periwinkle patties. 18. Scones. 16. Honey. March 15th, Thursday. 12. Baked eggs. 14. Curried sardines. 48. Fried trout. 45. Breakfast rolls. 57. Stewed apples (pippins).84 BREAKFAST DISHES. Receipt MARCH 16TH, FRIDAY, on Page 34. Stewed eels. 45. Potato cakes. 58. Pat6 de foie gras. 16. Beefsteak pudding. 41. Breakfast scones. March 17th, Saturday. 26. Crab omelette. 16. Curried eggs. 29. Stewed kidney. 58. Anchovy paste. 36. Hominy boiled. March 18th, Sunday. 18. Scones. 1. Buttered eggs. 35. Scallops of cod and oysters. 30. Shrimps and boiled rice. 64. Cauliflower in batter. March 19th, Monday. 60. Hot cross buns. 11. Scotch woodcock. 31. Salmon cutlets. 12. Broiled mushrooms. 13. ' Oyster patties.85 BREAKFAST DISHES. Receipt March 20th, Tuesday. on Page 27. Liver and bacon in paper cases. 26. Savoury rice pudding. 25. Hard-boiled eggs and anchovy sauce. 20. Stewed potatoes. 49. Apple fool. March 21st, Wednesday. 1. Boiled rasher of ham. 14. Curried tinned lobster. 15. Plain boiled eggs. 28. Italian puffs. 53. Breakfast cakes. 16. Quince marmalade. March 22nd, Thursday. 54. Omelette souffle. 64. Norfolk dumplings. 62. Cold mutton sliced and fried with bacon, 63. Stewed maccaroni. 27. Sheep’s head shape. 18. Jam. March 23rd, Friday. 31. Pork and apple pasty. 63. Baked stuffed haddock. 7. Kedgeree. 63. Shortbread. Stewed apricots (tinned).BREAKFAST DISHES. 86 Receipt MARCH 24TH, SATURDAY, on Page 15. Fried rissoles. 13. Chicken patties. 38. Corn-flour cake. 62. Aspic jelly (very savoury). 49. Strawberry fool. 61. Brawn (cold). March 2oth, Sunday. 63. Pressed calf’s head and eggs. 63. Baked mackerel. 16. Boiled meat pudding (beefsteak). 10. Golden eggs. 40. Oatmeal cakes. March 26th, Monday. 27. Curry balls. 20. Brain patties. 35. Bloaters and crumbs. 18. Scones. 49. Apple fool. March 27th, Tuesday. 8. Sardines on anchovy toast. 39. Stuffed tomatoes. 15. Lobster rissoles and fried parsley. 53. Breakfast cakes. 58. Pate de foie gras Bottled gooseberries.breakfast dishes. 87 Receipt MARCH 28TH, WEDNESDAY, on Page , 8. Poached eggs on buttered toast. 35. Fried herrings and onions. 61. Rice and meat balls (pork). 15. Potted shrimps. 58. Tea-cakes. March 29th, Thursday. 56. Cold duck stewed with peas. 48. Lamb’s fry. 36. Oatmeal porridge. 61. Graham cakes. 56. Yeal rissoles. 7. Potted pheasant. March 30th, Friday. 57. Lamb chops. _ 36. Egg kromeskies. 49. Grilled kidneys and lemon juice. 41. Scones. 49. Strawberry jam fool. 17. Fried bacon. 59. Fresh herrings stuffed. March 31st,. Saturday. 56. Yeal and potato rissoles. 23. Angels on horseback (oysters). 56. Madras anchovy toast. 51. Cows’heel fried. 4. Breakfast cakes. 49. Apple fool. 33. Bloaters in batter.„ Olives, 34 ,, Mushrooms (forced), 12 INDEX. jl.'American Breakfast Bread, 41 ,, Oyster Loaves, 46 ,, Waffles, 54 il.'Anchovy Paste, 58 ,, Toast, 8 ,, Toast, Madras, 56 iL'1 Angels on Horseback, 23 iAApricot Fool, 49 ,, Jam, 18 A^pple Fool, 49 ,, Jelly, 57 .^Artichokes and Sausages, 36 AYspic Jelly, 62 [Bacon, Fried, 17 ,, ,, a 1’Armstrong, 12 ,, and Liver, in Paper Cases, 27 ,, Omelette, 26 [Baked Haddock, 63 „ Ham, 2 „ Mackerel, 63 ,, Pears, 58 ,, Tomatoes, 60 [3alls, Curry, 27 ,, Kidney, 32 ,, Rice and Meat, 61 13eef Fritters, 51 „ Kidneys and Onions Fried, 47 Beef and Onions Fried in Slices, 43 „ Palates Broiled, 48 ,, Pasties (hot), 31 Birds’ Nests, 45 Biscuits Deviled, 54 Bloaters in Batter, 33 ,, and Crumbs, 35 Boiled Ham, 1 ,, Rice and Shrimps, 30 Bombay Ducks, 48 ,, Toast, 10 Brain Cakes, 20 Brains, Croquettes of, 43 Brawn, 61 Bread, American Breakfast, 44 ,, and Milk, 46 • ,, Potato, 45 ,, Rice, 44 Breakfast Bread, American, 44 ,, Cakes, 3, 53 ,, Cake (Anchovy), 42 ,, Dishes for 3 Months, 65 ,, Rolls, 4, 45 ,, Water Cakes, 45 Broiled Beef Palates, 48 ,, Chicken, 21 „ Lobster 55 ,, Mackerel (whole), 33INDEX. 90 Broiled Mutton Kidneys, 5 „ Partridge, 21 ,, Pheasant, 21, 43 ,, Trout 50 Butter, Maitre d’Hotel, 42 Buttered Eggs, 1 ,, Scones, 5 ,, Toast, (hot)', 13 Cake, Breakfast (anchovy), 42 ,, Veal, 14 Cakes, Brain, 20 ,, Breakfast, 3, 53 ,, Corn-flour, 38 „ Pleed, 7 ,, Graham, 61 ,, Oatmeal, 40 ,, Sausage Meat, 11 ,, Sausage, of Tinned Meat, 21 ,, Tea, 10, 58 Calf’s Liver, Potted, 28 Cauliflower in Batter, 64 Cheese Trifles, 39 Chestnuts and Sausages, 3 Chicken Broiled, 21 ,, Rissoles, 15 ,, Souffle, 59 Chickens’ Legs, Deviled, 17 Chops, Lamb, 57 Cockles, Scalloped, 46 Cod, Fried, 17 ,, Scalloped, 35 Cold Duck Stewed with Peas, 56 ,, Meat Flitters, 24 ,, ,, Pudding, French, 3 ,, Mutton Fried with Bacon, 64 ,, Oyster Fritters, 24 ,, Sheep’s Head Shape, 27 Collops, Scotch, 13 Corn-flour Cakes, 38 Cow’s Heel Fried, 51 Crab, Hot, 35 ,, Omelette, 26 Crimped Skate, 31 Croquettes of Brains, 43 Curried Crab, 14 j > Eggs, 16 ,, Lobster, 14 ,, Macaroni, 38 ,, Mincemeat, 42 ,, Sardines, 14 Curry, to Boil Rice for a, 14 ,, Balls, 27 Cutlets, Lobster, 22 ,, Pork, and Anchovy Sauce, 41 ,, Salmon, 22, 31 Deviled Biscuits, 54 ,, Chickens’ Legs, 17 ,, Hot Meat, 53 ,, Oysters, 52 ,, Pheasants’ Legs, 17 Devonshire Omelette, 22 Dried Pladdock, 6 Duck, Bombay, 48 ,, Cold, Stewed with Peas, 56 ,, Giblets, Stewed, 43 ,, Olives, 2 Dumplings, German, and Gravy, 26 ,, Norfolk, 64 Eels, Stewed, 34 Egg Kromeskies, 36 ,, Toast, 46 Eggs, to Boil, 15 ,, and Anchovy Sauce, 25 ,, Buttered, 1 ,, en Caisse, 37 „ Curried, 16 ,, Golden, 10 ,, Hard-boiled, and White Sauce, 40 ,, Poached, 8 ,, Potted, and Anchovy, 59INDEX. 91 Filleted Soles, 53 Fillets de Boeuf and Truffles, 47 Fish Pudding, 24 ,, Quenelles, 64 Fleed Cakes, 7 Fool, Apple, 49 ,, Apricot, 49 ,, Strawberry, 49 Fowl Pudding, 3 ,, Quenelles, 64 French Cold Meat Pudding, 3 ,, Savoury Omelette, with Mushrooms, 6 Fresh Herrings, Stuffed, 59 Fried Bacon, 17 ,, ,, a 1’ Armstrong, 12 ,, Beef Kidney & Onion, 47 ,, Cow’s Heel, 51 ,, Ham, 17 ,, Herrings, 35 ,, Patties, Brain, Chicken, or Oyster, 13 „ Potatoes, 30 ,, Sausages, 17 „ Skate, 55 ,, Slices of Cod, 17 ,, Smelts, 31 ,, Soles, 17 ,, Trout, 48 Fritters, Beef, 51 Gallimaufry, Russian, 25 German Dumplings & Gravy, 25 Golden Eggs, 10 Graham Cakes, 61 Grenadines of Yeal, 23 Grilled Kidneys and Lemon Juice, 49 ,, Kippered Salmon ,52,59 Haddock, Baked, 63 ,, Dried, 6 Ham, Baked, 2 ,, Boiled, 1 Ham, Fried, 17 ,, Toast, 9 Hard-boiled Eggs and White Sauce, 40 Hare, Potted, 52 Herrings, Fried, 35 Hominy and Oatmeal Porridge, 36 Honey, 16 Hot Buttered Toast, 13 ,, Crab, 35 ,, Cross Buns, 60 ,, Meat, Deviled, 53 Indian Pillaw, 38 Italian Puffs, 28 Jam, Apricot, 18 ,, Strawberry, 18 Jack, Stewed, 41 Jelly, Apple, 57 ,, Aspic, 62 Kedgeree, 7 Kidney Balls, 32 ,, Stewed, 29 Kidneys, Broiled Mutton, 5 ,, Grilled, and Lemon Juice, 49 ,, and Macaroni, 11 ,, Maitre d'Hotel, 41 Kippered Salmon, Grilled, 52, 59 Kromeskies, 23 ,, Egg, 36 Lamb Chops, 57 Lamb’s Fry, 48 Liver and Bacon in Paper Cases, 27 ,, Potted, 7 Loaves, American Oyster, 46 ,, Turbot, 46 Lobster, Broiled, 55 ,, Curried, 14INDEX. 92 Lobster Cutlets, 22 „ Rissoles, 15 „ Scalloped, 35, 55 Macaroni, Curried, 38 ,, and Kidneys, 11 ,, and Salmon, 29 ,, and Tomatoes, 29 Mackerel, Stewed, 55, 63 ,, Baked, 63 ,, Broiled, whole, 33 Madras Anchovy Toast, 56 Maitre d’Hotel Butter, 42 ,, Kidneys, 41 Marmalade, Orange, 19 ,, Quince, 16 Meat Flitters, Cold, 24 Milk and Bread, 46 Mincemeat, Curried, 42 Muffins, 37 Mullet, Red, Baked, 50 Mummalon Fish, 48 Mushrooms in Cream, 53 ,, Broiled (forced), 12 ,, Stewed (bottled), 12 Mussels, Scalloped, 46 Norfolk Dumplings, 64 Normandy Pippins, 57 Oatmeal Cakes, 40 ,, Porridge and Hominy, 36 CEufs and Tomato, 9 ,, sur le Plat, 12 Olives, Beef, 34 „ Duck, 2 Omelette, Bacon, 26 ,, Crab, 26 „ Devonshire, 22 ,, French Savoury, with Mushroom, 6 ,, Shrimp, 26 Orange Marmalade, 19 Oysters, Curried, Dry, 19 ,, Deviled, 52 „ Fritters, Cold, 24 ,, on Horseback, 23 ,, Scalloped, 22 ,, on Toast, 5 Ox Tails, 52 Partridge, Broiled, 21 ,, Pudding, 16 Paste, Anchovy, 58 Pasties, Beef, 31 ,, Pork and Apple, 31 Pate de Foie Gras, 58 Patties, Brains, Chickens or Oyster, Fried, 13 ,, Periwinkle, 60 ,, Potato, 25 Pears, Baked, 58 Periwinkle Patties, 60 Pheasant, Broiled, 21, 43 ,, Potted, 7 ,, Pudding, 3 ,, Rissoles, 15 ,, Souffle, 59 Pheasants’ Legs, Deviled, 17 Pie, Roman, 9 ,, Shrimp, 37 Pillaw, Indian, 38 Pig’s Cheek, 44 ,, Trotters, 38 Pippins, Normandy, 57 Poached Eggs, 8 Pork and Apple Pasties (hot), 31 ,, Cutlets and Anchovy Sauce, 41 Porridge, Oatmeal, and Hominy, 36 Potato aux Boulettes, 32 ,, Bread, 45 „ Patties, 25 ,, Souffle, 54 ,, and Veal Rissoles, 51, 56 Potatoes, Fried, 30INDEX. 93 Potatoes Mashed, -with Sau- * sages, IS ,, Stewed, 20 .Potted Calf’s Liver, 28 ,, Eggs and Anchovy, 59 „ 'Hare, 22 ,, Liver, 7 ,, Lobster, 7 ,, Pheasant, 7 ,, Shrimps, 15 i Pudding, Fish, 24 „ Fowl, 3 ,, French Cold Meat, 3 ,, Partridge, 16 ,, Pheasant, 3 ,, Savoury Pice, 26 „ Suet, 57 ,, Turkey, 3 Puffs, Italian, 28 1 Quenelles, Eish, 64 ,, Fowl, 64 i Quince, Marmalade, 16 ] Red Mullet, Baked, 50 j Reindeer’s Tongues, 50 IRice, to Boil for a Curry, 14 ,, Boiled, and Shrimps, 30 ,, Bread, 44 ,, and Meat Balls, 61 ,, Pudding, Savoury, 26 IRissoles, Chicken, 15 „ Lobster, 15 ,, Pheasant, 15 ,, Veal and Potato, 51,56 1 Rolls, Breakfast, 4, 45 ,, Veal, 44 Roman Pie, 9 'Russian Gallimaufry, 25 >Salmi of Game, 32 ^Salmon Cutlets, 22, 31 ,, Kippered, Grilled, 52 ,, and Macaroni, 29 „ en Papillote, 30 Salsify, 49 Sardines, Curried, 14 ,, on Toast, 40 Savoury French Omelette, with Mushroom, 6 ,, Rice Pudding, 26 Sauce, Eggs and Anchovy, 25 Sausage Meat Cakes, 11 ,, Cakes of Tinned Meat, 21 Sausages and Artichokes, 36 ,, and Chestnuts, 3 „ Fried, 17 ,, in Mashed Potatoes, 6, 18 ,, and Vegetable Mar- row, 36 Scallops, Lobster, 55 Scalloped Cockles, 46 „ Cod, 35 ,, Lobster, 35 ,, Mussels, 46. „ Oysters, 22 ,, Tomatoes, 54 Scones, 18 ,, Buttered, 5 ,, Hot, 41 Scotch Collops, 13 ,, Woodcock, 11 Sheep’s Head Shape, Cold, 27 ,, Tongues, Stewed, 50 Shortbread, 63 Shrimp Omelette, 26 „ Pie, 37 Shrimps and Boiled Rice, 30 ,, Curried, Dry, 19 ,, Potted, 15 Skate, Crimped, 31 ,, Fried, 55 Slices of Cod Fried, 17 Smelts, Fried, 31 Snipe on Toast, 19 Soles, Filleted, 53 „ Fried, 17 Souffle, Potato, 5494 INDEX. Souffle, CMckeu, 59 ,, Pheasant, 59 Sounds, Broiled Cods, 30 Spatchcock, 42 Stewed Duck’s Giblets, 43 ,, Eels, 34 ,, Jack, 41 ,, Kidney, 29 ,, Macaroni, 63 ,, Mackerel, 55 „ Mushrooms (bottled), 12 ,, Potatoes, 20 ,, Sheep’s Tongue, 50 Strawberry Fool, 49 ,, Jam, 18 Stuffed Fresh Herrings, 59 ,, Tomatoes, 39 Suet Pudding, 57 Sweetbread, 24 ,, Curried, 60 Tea-Cakes, 10, 37, 58 Toast, Hot, Buttered, 13 ,, Madras Anchovy, 56 Toasted Kippered Salmon, 59 Tomatoes, Baked, 60 ,, and Macaroni, 29 ,, Scalloped 54 ,, Stuffed, 39 Tongues, Reindeer’s, 50 Trifles, Cheese, 39 Trotters, Pig’s, 38 Trout, Broiled. 50 ,, Fried, 48 Turbot Loaves, 46 Turkey Pudding, 3 Veal Cake, 14 Veal Grenadine, 23 Veal and Potato Rissoles, 51, 56 Veal Rolls, 44 Vegetable Marrow and Sau- sages, 36. Waffles. American, 54 Water Cakes (Breakfast), 45 Winchester Cutlets, 10 Woodcock, Scotch, 11 PRINTED BY J. S. VIRTUE AND CO., LIMITED, CITY ROAD, LOUDON.