332 THE COMPLETE COOK than just in the centre. Lay the shape of butter in the middle of this paste, fold one half over the butter (see Illustration), then the other half over that, so that the butter is completely wrapped up. Press the edges firmly together with the rolling pin, and flatten down the butter lightly by pressing it gently three or four times with the rolling pin, and let the pastry cool on the ice for fifteen minutes. Have a large smooth pastry board and light straight rolling pin. Turn the board length- ways in front of you so as to have room to roll out the paste to the required length. Brush or dredge the board and pin well with fine flour, put the pastry on the board so that the side without any pressed-together edges is on your right hand, and place it in this way each time it is necessary to move the pastry. For the first roll press out the pastry until fairly flat with the rolling pin, then roll it out very lightly until it is about a quarter of an inch thick, or less if possible. Keep the pastry, board, and pin dry by lightly brushing them with flour every now and then. Fold the pastry in three (see Illustration), press the rough edges together, arrange the pastry in the position already directed, and roll it out again as before. -Fold it in three and again lay it, folded in paper, on a baking tin on the ice to cool. Continue t@ roll out and fold the pastry until it has been rolled out seven times, putting it aside on the ice to cool for about fifteen minutes, between each two rolls. It is then ready to use. Aim at keeping the strip of pastry a neat shape with square corners and straight sides, so that the edges will meet evenly, thus forming an equal number of layers in all parts; keep the butter from breaking through the film of pastry which covers it, and endeavour to use the rolling pin with a light, even pressure, always pushing the pastry out from you, never giving it a backward roll. If the pastry does not seem to be getting longer and thinner with each roll, it indicates either that the pressure is too light, or that the pastry is stick- ing to the board. If the paste is not made sticky at first, the butter properly cooled and the rolling light, it should not stick, and but little flour should be needed. Each time the pastry is folded over, a small amount of air is enclosed and retained if the edges are evenly folded and pressed together. These bubbles of air may be plainly seen when the dough is rolled out, and care must be taken not to break the blisters thus formed. The more air retained the lighter and more puffy the pastry will be, as the air expands with the heat and lifts up the layers. No streaks of butter should be seen when the rolling out is completed.