21 MUTTON AND LAMB salad on an entree dish, arrange the cutlets in a semicircle on it, with a heap of salad mixed with the Mayonnaise sauce in the centre of it. Put round the dish a border of very cold coarsely chopped aspic jelly. Note.—For a more elaborate dish, coat some cutlets with a white chaudfroid sauce; others with the same tinted a delicate green, and the remainder with a tablespoonful of tomato pur^e added to the white chaudfroid sauce. The effect of this is excellent, or white and brown chaudfroid mixed is very effective. If there is no Mayonnaise sauce use any good salad dressing. Mutton or Lamb Cutlets en Papillotes Ingredients— One pound of mutton cutlets. Two slices of cooked ham for each cutlet. Two chopped shallots. Six chopped mushrooms. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Method.—Wash the meat, dry it well, and trim it into neat cutlets with short bones. The ham should be the shape of, but a little larger than, the round lean portion of each cutlet. Melt the butter, put in the shallot, and fry it a light brown; add the mushrooms, parsley, and lemon rind, and cook them for a few minutes longer. Season the mixture carefully and turn it on to a plate to cool. Cut out as many heart-shaped pieces of thick white, or foolscap, paper as there are cutlets and large enough to easily fold them in. Brush these with oil or butter. Lay a slice of the ham on one half of each paper, spread the ham with a little of the savoury mixture and lay a cutlet on it, spread this with more of the mixture and cover with the second slice of ham. Fold the edges of the papers together and roll the edge well over so that no juice can escape. Lay the prepared cutlets on a greased baking tin and bake them in a moderately hot oven for about ten to twelve minutes, according to their thickness. Do not remove the papers, but serve the cutlets in them neatly on a hot dish, with a lace paper under them. A hot sauce may be served with them, or not, as wished. For lamb, mint sauce is appropriate. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Half a level teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. Salt; pepper.