BEEF 207 the spice, season the gravy, lay the steak on a hot dish, strain the gravy over and round it and put heaps of the vegetables round. Note.—Stewing steak may be bought, if a cheaper piece is needed. This dish is really better if stewed in a casserole or stew- ing jar in a slow oven, Vienna Steaks Ingredients— One pound of raw trimmings of fillet of beef. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Half a level teaspoonful of powdered herbs. One egg. Four tablespoonfuls of butter clarified. One Spanish onion. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a pint of brown sauce. Salt: pepper ; nutmeg. Method.—Remove all fat, skin, and hard pieces from the beef and put it through a mincing machine. Mix it with the parsley, herbs, seasoning, and yolk of egg. Knead all well together and divide the mixture into nine or ten portions. Slightly flour the hands and form each into the shape of round beef fillets. Peel the onion, cut it into thin rings. Put aside about a dozen of the largest and fry them a golden brown in half the butter. Lift them out and add the rest of the onion, chopped finely, to the butter. Fry this a light brown, then add two tablespoonfuls of the sauce and let the chopped onion simmer till tender. Dip the dozen rings in flour, then in the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, then into the flour a second time. Lay these rings in a frying basket and fry them in smoking hot fat until a golden brown. Drain them on paper and keep them hot. Dust the shaped steaks with a little flour and melt the rest of the butter in a frying pan. Lay in and fry the steaks for about ten to twelve minutes according to their thickness. Turn them carefully over several times. Arrange in a straight double row down a hot dish, using a strip of mashed potato to hold them in place if necessary. Put the stewed chopped onion in a line up the centre, and the rings of fried onion over them, each ring overlapping the last. Strain the hot brown sauce round. Tripe in Ingredients— One pound of dressed tripe. One tablespoonful of salad oil. One teaspoonful each of malt and tarragon vinegar. Batter One teaspoonful of chopped parsley and onion. Salt and pepper. Batter No. 3. Fried parsley.