THE COMPLETE COOK 504 with pencil. The remainder of the Royal Icing is put into a forcing bag, with a pipe screwed into it, the end of the bag is tightly twisted up and the icing firmly and evenly pressed out with the left hand, the right guiding the bag. ICINGS Almond Icing Ingredients— Six lightly filled level teacupfuls of ground almonds. One level breakfastcupful of castor sugar. Three level teacupfuls of sieved icing sugar. Two whole eggs. One tablespoonful of lemon juice. Vanilla, ratafia essence, and orange flower water to taste. Method.—Rub the icing sugar through a hair sieve, and the almonds and castor sugar through a wire sieve. Beat the eggs slightly together, add them and the strained lemon juice and a sufficient quantity of the essences to flavour the paste. Mix it stiffly, knead well and pound it in a mortar, or with the flat end of a rolling-pin in an enamel basin, and it is ready to use. Note.—If the icing is wanted very rich in colour, use three or four yolks only; if a very pale tint, about three whites of eggs whisked to a light froth, and no yolks. Sometimes more egg, lemon juice, or a little water is needed, if the almonds seem too dry. American Frosting Ingredients— Two loosely packed breakfast- Two whites of eggs. cupfuls of loaf sugar. One saltspoonful of cream of tartar. One teacupful of boiling water. Method.—Let the sugar dissolve in the water. Boil them until when a little of the syrup is dropped into cold water and immediately taken out and rolled between the fingers and thumb, it will form a small, very soft ball. Do not stir it. Have the lightly whisked whites in a basin. When the sugar is nearly ready add the cream of tartar. Test again, and if ready, pour a fine stream of the syrup on the whites of egg, whisking them well all the time. Continue stirring until the icing is thick and quite smooth. It hardens quickly, so must be poured over the cake while still liquid enough to coat it smoothly. Note.—This icing can be coloured and flavoured as desired.