220 THE COMPLETE COOK cold milk, strain on to it the milk in which the sweetbread was cooked. Pour the cornflour back into a saucepan, stir it over the fire till it boils, and let it cook slowly for five minutes. Add the parsley, lemon juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour some of this sauce carefully over the sweetbread and garnish it with sippets of toast. Note.—Calf’s heart sweetbreads are expensive, though the prices vary considerably, but lamb’s throat sweetbreads are far less expensive and would answer the purpose excellently. Sweetbreads h. la St. James Ingredients— Four lamb’s sweetbreads. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of milk. One gill of white stock. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. About half a pint of aspic jelly. Two tablespoonfuls of cooked chopped ham. One truffle. About a tablespoonful of Mayon- naise sauce. Seasoning. Method.—Prepare the sweetbreads in the usual way. Cook them in the stock and milk for ten minutes. Save the two latter ingredients, taking out the sweetbreads. Have some small round pastry cutters, just a little larger than the sweet- breads. Stand these on a dish and squeeze a sweetbread into each. Make a sauce of the butter, flour, stock, milk, and cream, and season it well. Mix it with a teacupful of slightly warmed aspic jelly. When this sauce is just beginning to set, pour it over and quite cover each sweetbread set in the rings. Leave until quite cold. Have ready a china, plated, or paper ramekin case for each sweetbread. Put a thin layer of chopped ham, mixed with a little Mayonnaise sauce, into each case. Slip a knife round inside the tin rings. Lift out the sweetbread set in the sauce and press it well into the ramekin case. Decorate the tops prettily with truffle, and fill each up to the brim with aspic jellys, which is just on the point of setting, but will .still flow smoothly. Leave till quite cold. Chop a little aspic very finely, put it into a forcing bag, with a large rose pipe in it, and force a ring round just on the edge of the top layer of jelly. Serve this cold entree on a pretty bed of fresh salad. Note.—Calf’s sweetbread can be used. If there is any rich white sauce already made, use it instead of making fresh. Neat rounds of carefully stewed or braised chicken, pheasant, or even veal, could be substituted for the sweetbreads if more convenient.