THE COMPLETE COOK 122 Uses of Glaze A small piece added to soups, sauces, and gravies gives great additional flavour and strength, and is thus invaluable to the cook; or it can be warmed gently in a jar placed in a pan half full of boiling water and brushed over galantines, game pies, tongues, pressed beef, cutlets, fillets, etc., to give a rich shiny surface. It may be bought, but is very expensive, being about two shillings a pound, and its flavour is not to be compared with that made at home. Special Stocks For the very best soups, especial’y consommds, a stock should be made from fresh bones and meat. Brown stock for clear brown or thick soups. White stock for all white or light- coloured soups. Brown Stock Ingredients for four quarts— Four pounds of shin or neck of beef. Four quarts of cold water. One medium-sized carrot, turnip, and onion. One tomato. Any bones of poultry or lean scraps of ham. Method.—Wash the meat quickly and dry it well. Cut it into blocks about one inch square and chop the bones small, remove any marrow and save it for a breakfast dish or savoury. Place the water, salt, meat, and bones in the saucepan and let them soak for half an hour or till the water is well reddened. Next bring the water very slowly to boiling point. Do not skim the soup till it has been cooking for some time, otherwise the albumen which coagulates with heat (and being lighter than the water) rises to the surface and is removed. Add the prepared vegetables, cut in large pieces, the spices tied in a piece of muslin, and all the other ingredients. Let the stock boil gently with the lid half on for about five hours. Remove the vegetables when quite soft, for when once they are thoroughly cooked they absorb the flavour instead of adding to it. They can be lifted out carefully and served for some meal. When boiled sufficiently, strain the stock off carefully into Two sticks of celery. A bunch of a sprig or two of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Five allspice. Eight white peppercorns. A level teaspoonful of salt.