154 THE COMPLETE COOK Two onions. Salt : pepper. Method.—Cut the bacon and vegetables in large dice. Lay these and the herbs in a thickly buttered saucepan. Cut the chicken in joints, wash these in cold water and lay them on the top of the vegetables. Add half the stock, cover the pan, and let the contents simmer for half an hour. Add the rest of the stock and simmer it again till the meat is perfectly tender, probably for about half an hour. Remove all bones and skin, and pound the chicken meat thoroughly with the crumbs, yolks of eggs, and ground almonds. Season this mixture well and moisten it with a little of the stock. Rub this all through a fine sieve. Melt the rest of the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and mix it in smoothly; mix in the stock gradually and stir it over the fire till it boils. Add the sieved chicken, etc. Let it simmer by the side of the fire for about ten minutes and skim off all grease as it rises. Add the cream and enough milk to make it as thick as rich cream. Season the soup and re-heat it without boiling it again. Serve croutons with it. Note.—This soup can also be prepared without the cream, using more milk. An economical variation may be made by substituting rabbit for chicken. Asmallibunchof thyme: marjoram: one bay leaf. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, and tie it with tape into a good shape. Put it in a saucepan, add the water and bring it to boiling point. Remove any scum, add a little salt and simmer it for two hours. Add the vegetables. Cut the carrot and turnip into four, if they are large; leave the onions and leeks whole, only trim off most of the green from the latter. Trim and wash the cabbage, cut it in four and tie it up together again with tape. Add also the herbs, peppercorns, and cloves stuck in the onion. Simmer all gently for about one hour or till the meat is tender. When any of the vegetables are suffi- ciently cooked, lift them out of the pan and keep them hot. When everything is cooked, lift out the meat on to a hot dish Pot-au-Feu Ingredients— Three pounds of topside of beef. Two quarts of cold water. One cabbage. Two leeks. One carrot and turnip. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One tablespoonful of small sago. Ten peppercorns : two cloves. A French roll.