155 MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS and remove the tape. Untie the cabbage and serve it in a hot vegetable dish. Arrange some of the other vegetables neatly round the joint, save the rest for the broth. Pour a little of the broth round the meat and it is ready to serve. Pour the rest of the broth into a basin ; when cold remove the fat and reboil it. Sprinkle in the sago and boil the broth till the sago is quite clear. Season it carefully, add the chopped parsley, and vege- tables cut in dice. Cut the roll into thin slices, crisp them in the oven and lay them in a hot tureen. Pour the broth on to them and serve it at once. Note.—This is quite a national dish in France and in other parts of the Continent. Meat, soup, and vegetables are prepared in one pot. The soup and meat need not be served for the same meal, unless it is desired. The meat, instead of being served whole, may be cut into somewhat thick slices, a thick brown piquant sauce poured over them and small heaps of the vegetables arranged round. Scotch Ingredients— Two pounds of middle neck of mutton. Two quarts of cold water. One teacupful of carrot in dice. One teacupful of turnip in dice. One leek. One onion. Half a small white heart of a cabbage. Broth One small cauliflower. One teacupful of shelled green peas. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water, dry it, remove as much fat as possible and cut it up into one-inch dice. Put these and the bones into a saucepan, with the cold water and a little salt. Bring it to boiling point, add the barley after washing it, and let it boil gently while the vegetables are being prepared. Well wash the leek and cabbage and cut them into fine shreds. Chop the onion finely. Wash and break the cauliflower into large sprigs, use the flower only. Melt the butter in a frying pan, put in the onion, leek, and cabbage ; cook these slowly over the fire till the butter is absorbed by them, but do not brown them. Then add the fried onion, etc., and the remaining vegetables to the broth and continue to boil it gently for two hours. Skim the broth now and then. When sufficiently cooked remove the bones, scraping off any meat on them ; season the broth carefully and add the parsley. Should