413 BREAKFAST DISHES Method.—Cut each kidney in half lengthways. Remove the skin and core from each. Cut the bacon into small squares. Stalk, peel, and cut the mushrooms in the same fashion. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bacon, kidneys, onion, and mushrooms. Fry these a good brown, lift them on to a dish, then fry the flour brown also. Add the stock and stir until the sauce boils and thickens. Season carefully, adding, if liked, a little grated orange rind. Put in the kidneys, bacon, etc., and let them stew very gently for about an hour. Serve on a hot dish, garnish them with neat sippets of toast or fried bread. Note.—Ox kidney may be served in the same way, but is less popular and needs longer stewing. Kidney Ingredients— Three sheep’s kidneys. One small shallot or onion. One tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of flour. Half a gill of stock. One small egg. Toast One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Two teaspoonfuls of ketchup. Salt and pepper. Hot buttered toast. Method.—Skin, core, and quarter each kidney. Melt the butter in a small pan, put in the parsley and shallot and then the kidney, cook these slowly in the butter until the kidney is tender. Mix the flour smoothly with the stock, add the ketchup, and add these to the kidneys ; stir over the fire until the mixture reaches boiling point, then let it cool slightly. Beat up the egg, add it to the kidneys, and stir all over the fire for a few minutes to cook the egg. Season the mixture carefully and serve on neat squares of hot buttered toast. Marrow on Toast Ingredients— A small fresh beef marrow bone. Salt and pepper. .A neat round of hot toast. Method.—Remove the marrow from the bone in one piece, if possible. Put it in a small pan with enough cold water to cover it and let it boil for five minutes. Take out the marrow and let it get cold. Dust the toast with a little salt and pepper, spread on the marrow, put it in the oven until it is hot through, then serve it immediately. Unless it is really hot it is not agreeable.