SHORT MARKETING HINTS 51 should adhere together, not lose its shape when the pressure is relaxed. The colour should be a creamy white for ordinary household purposes, if very white and fine it contains but little nutriment. “ Households ” or “ Seconds ” is best for family use, as it contains more of the nitrogenous portion of the wheat grain. “Vienna,” “Hungarian,” “Pastry Whites,” “Supers,” etc., are all very fine, white varieties, well suited for very light bread, cakes, and pastry. Yeast should not be in the form of dark crumbs, but in a firm, compact, moist mass free from any sour smell. It should be of a delicate pinkish fawn tint, and when worked with a little sugar it should become liquid, and after a space of some few minutes begin to bubble. If it does not, it is useless, the yeast plant being dead. Eggs should be heavy and have rough dull shells, when stale these become quite shiny as if polished. When held in front of a strong light they should have a transparent look and no dark spots should be visible. Stale eggs float and fresh ones sink if placed in a strong brine. Butter should be firm in texture, not crumbly, free from moisture or any rank or rancid smell. It should be rich, but not too deep in colour, for then it is probable that some colouring has been added ; this, though probably harmless, is not desirable, as butter cannot be too pure. The flavour should be mild and “ nutty ” as it is often described. Lard.—The best is very white, close, and has little or no odour. If it splutters greatly when heated it indicates the presence of water, due either to careless “ rendering ” of the raw fat, or to its having been added to the melted fat, to give increased weight. Milk.—Note the depth of cream which rises after it has stood for some hours: if it be very slight, the milk has been previously skimmed, or is of a poor quality; if it is very thin and slightly bluish looking, change the dairy at once. Candied Peel.—The rinds should be thick, supple, and well drained of sugar; if not, there is a large lump of sugar inside which is almost useless. Rice.—The grains should be unbroken, free from dust or tiny black insects called “ weevils.” Patna rice should have long very pointed grains, Carolina large thick rounded grains. Currants., Sultanas, and Raisins.—The fruit must be dry and separate, not clogged together, and fairly free from stalks.