499 CAKES AND BISCUITS American Short Cake Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of flour. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. Half a level teaspoonful of sieved carbonate of soda. Two level teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. One teacupful of butter. One breakfastcupful of sweet or sour milk. Method.—Mix the flour, salt, cream of tartar, and carbonate of soda together. Sieve them twice. Rub in the butter with the tips of the Angers, lightly but thoroughly. Stir in the milk with a knife, using just enough to make the flour into a light, soft, but not sticky dough. Turn the dough on to a thickly floured board. Pat it out into a flat cake and roll it gently till it is half an inch thick. Then make the dough into large cakes, or stamp it out in rounds the size of the top of a tumbler. Place them close together on a baking tin, and bake in a quick oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. Tear them open,—never cut them, as it makes them heavy,—and serve immediately. Note.—The cakes may be spread inside with either butter, or jam, or with fresh fruits, mashed or sliced, sweetened to taste and mixed with cream. The cake is then named according to the fruit used, such as Strawberry Shortcake, Peach Shortcake, etc. If liked, four level teaspoonfuls of baking powder can be used instead of the cream of tartar and soda. Soda Cake Ingredients— Three and a half level breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Eight rounded tablespoonfuls of Demerara sugar. Half a breakfastcupful of currants. Half a breakfastcupful of stoned raisins. Two eggs. One lemon. One breakfastcupful of milk. One level teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Method.—Sieve' the flour and soda into a basin. Rub in the butter finely. Add the sugar. Mix the clean currants, stoned and halved raisins and grated lemon rind, then add these to the flour. Beat the eggs until frothy and then add the milk. Mix well, pour the mixture into a tin lined with greased paper, and bake it in a moderate oven for about one and three-quarters to two hours.