INVALID COOKERY 451 and season it carefully. Place the chop on a hot plate with a little of the rice and gravy poured round. Note.—Loin chops may be used and pearl barley instead of rice, but it must be par-boiled for five minutes first to remove all bitter flavour. Cutlets, Egg and Crumbed Ingredients— One or two lamb or mutton Two rounded tablespoonfuls of cutlets. butter. One egg. A little strong gravy. White breadcrumbs. Method.—Wash and dry the cutlets, trim off all but a narrow rim of fat from each, and scrape the end of the bones quite clean. Beat up the egg, season it with a little salt and pepper. Brush each cutlet over with it, then cover them with crumbs, flattening the crumbs down well with a knife. Make the butter very hot, lay in the cutlets and fry them slowly for three or four minutes on each side, turning them several times with a knife, not by sticking a fork into them. Lay them on a hot plate and pour the gravy round. If permitted, a little mashed potato or puree of spinach is an excellent accompaniment. Note.—Good beef dripping may be used instead of butter. Raw Beef Balls Ingredien ts— Three ounces of fresh lean steak. Half a saltspoonful of salt or One teaspoonful of cream, or sugar. One teaspoonful of cherry brandy. A piece of butter the size of a small nut. Method.—Wash quickly, dry, and scrape the beef very finely with a sharp knife. Rub it through a coarse wire sieve. Mix the meat with either the cream or brandy and the sugar or salt. These conceal the raw flavour of the meat. Roll the mixture into balls the size of a very small marble. Rub a small frying pan over with the butter, heat it, lay in the balls and roll them about in the pan over a quick fire till the extreme outside alters in colour. Serve them at once with a little good soup or wine. On no account are the balls to be cooked; some medical men forbid even this slight heating which is done to render the colour less noticeable. Note.—This food is very valuable in cases of great weakness and debility.