134 THE COMPLETE COOK the stock or milk gradually, and stir it till it boils and thickens. It is wisest not to add all the liquid, as sometimes it is too much, and it can be easily added later. Stir this thickened mixture to the sieved beans, adding more liquid if required. Reboil it, add the cream, and season the soup carefully. Strain into a hot tureen and serve with it croutons of bread. Brussels Sprout Puree Ingredients— One pound of Brussels sprouts. About one quart of boiling white stock. Two level teaspoonfuls of corn- flour. Half a gill of cream if liked. A piece of soda the size of a pea. Salt; pepper. Method.—Trim off any faded leaves and well wash the sprouts in cold salted water. Boil them in a pan of fast boiling water to which the soda and a little salt have been added. Boil them quickly with the lid off the pan till they are tender, skim them well. Probably they will take about ten to fifteen minutes. Then drain off and throw away this water and toss the cooked sprouts in a cloth to drain them thoroughly. Rub them through a very fine wire or hair sieve. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Pour it into the boiling stock, and let it boil well. Add this stock to the sieved sprouts, stirring it in smoothly. Add the cream and seasoning and re-heat the soup without letting it boil, as in this case the colour would be spoilt. Serve in a hot tureen with croutons. Scotch Cabbage Soup Ingredients— One firm white cabbage. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping. Two level tablespoonfuls of medium oatmeal. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One and a half pints of boiling water. One pint of hot milk. One small onion. Salt and pepper. Method.—Trim and well wash the cabbage. Cut it into thin shreds. Throw it into fast boiling water and blanch it for five minutes. Then drain off and throw away this water. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the cabbage and chopped onion. Cook these for five minutes in the butter. Then add the water, and when it reboils sprinkle in the oatmeal. Add a little salt and