THE COMPLETE COOK 128 Clear Soup with Nouilles Paste (Consomm/ mix Nouilles) Ingredients— One quart of boiling clear soup. One egg. Four slightly rounded tablespoon- Salt. 1 fuls of flour. Cold water. 1 Method.—Mix the flour and salt in a basin; make a well ' in the middle and put the broken egg into it. Add a tea- spoonful of water and mix these ingredients thoroughly together. Turn the paste on to the board and knead it for about fifteen minutes till it is stiff, smooth, and elastic. It must be stiff, so add more flour if necessary. If possible make this Nouilles i Paste an hour or two before it is wanted. Roll it out on a ; floured board till it is like a sheet of paper. Flour it and fold ■ it in three lengthways. Cut it across into very narrow strips. Shake them apart lightly, spread them on a tin, cover them with a clean dry cloth and leave the paste for an hour. Then drop them into plenty of fast boiling salted water and boil the strips for about ten minutes. Strain off the water, drain the Nouilles on a clean dry cloth and add them to the boiling consommd. Consomme aux CEufs Files Ingredients— One quart of boiling clear soup. Barely a tablespoonful of milk or One egg. cream. Two level teaspoonfuls of flour. Salt: pepper. Method.—Put the flour in a basin, break the egg on to it, and stir both smoothly together. Add the milk and a little | seasoning. Have the clear soup boiling on the fire. Hold a j fine pointed gravy strainer over the pan, pour in all the batter and stir it through with a small spoon. Move the strainer about ‘ over the soup as this is done. Boil for about two minutes and it is ready to serve. The cooked batter should resemble fine threads all through the soup. with Ravioli Clear Soup Ingredien ts— One quart of boiling clear soup. Four ounces of Nouilles Paste. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked poultry or game. One level tablespoonful of chopped cooked ham. One level tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. One level tablespoonful of cooked spinach. One raw yolk of egg. Two teaspoonfuls of cream. Half a teaspoonful of grated onion. Salt: cayenne : nutmeg.