THE COMPLETE COOK 484 I Buns Ingredients— For first basin— Three and a half level teacupfuls of flour. Three-quarters of a pint of milk. For second basin— Four slightly heaped breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three heaped tablespoonfuls of chopped peel. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. One ounce of compressed yeast. One level breakfastcupful of sul- tanas or currants. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One level teaspoonful of mixed spice. Method.— To prepare the first basin.—Put the flour into a large basin. Heat the milk until tepid. Mix the yeast and sugar in a small basin until liquid. Stir the tepid milk into the liquid yeast. Make a well in the flour, strain in the yeast and milk gradually, as if making a batter. Cover the basin with paper or cloth, and put it in a warm place by the fire, or over it in the plate rack, for about half an hour, or until the surface is well bubbled. Meantime Prepare the second basin. Mix the flour and spice. Rub in the butter. Add the sugar, peel, and cleaned fruit. When the contents of the first basin are ready—that is, the surface covered with bubbles—beat some of the mixed ingredients from the second basin into it. Use the hand for this. Continue this mixing and beating until all the dry ingredients are mixed with the “ sponge ” in the first basin, add the beaten eggs gradually as the mixture seems getting dry. Beat vigorously, and continue to do so until the dough can be pulled right out of the basin in a thick ropy mass. If it crumbles, a little more tepid milk is needed. Cover the basin, put it in a warm place, and let the dough rise for one and a half hours, or until it is twice its original size and the surface covered with fine cracks. Flour the hands, take small pieces of the dough and make them up into small balls. Put these well apart on a greased ^ flat tin. Put them in a warm place to rise for about twenty i minutes, or until the buns are about half as large again. Bake them in a quick oven for about twenty to twervty-five minutes. When cooked, brush them over with a tablespoonful of milk, mixed and warmed with one tablespoonful of castor sugar. This gives a good glaze. This quantity makes about two dozen medium-sized buns.