BREAKFAST DISHES 411 into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it. Bring it to boiling point and skim it well. Let the head simmer gently for about two hours or until the meat will easily leave the bones. Lift it out of the pan, save the liquor, and take all the meat off the bones. Remove any coarse or skinny pieces and skin the tongue and ear. Cut these and all the remaining meat into small dice. Put the bones and a little over a quart of liquor into the saucepan, tie the herbs and spice up in a piece of muslin and add them, also the peeled onion cut in quarters and the piece of scraped carrot. Let all these boil for about three-quarters of an hour, or until only a pint of stock is left. Keep the liquor well skimmed during the boiling, and if it seems to get at all dark in colour remove the vegetables and bag of spice and herbs, as the liquid which is to form the jelly is wanted to be clear and light. When reduced sufficiently, strain off this gelatinous stock into a clean saucepan, put in the dice of meat and bring all once more to boiling point, and taste it and .see if any more seasoning is needed. Rinse out a suitably shaped mould or basin with cold water, put in spoonfuls of the meat, pressing it down lightly but not so as to pack it too solidly unless preferred, when it can be pressed in very firmly. Strain the liquor through a fine strainer and pour in as much of it as the mould will hold. Leave until cold. Wipe off any grease from the surface, dip the mould into warm water, shake it out gently, and serve. Note,—A few shreds of shelled pistachio nuts mixed with the meat improve the appearance. If much lean is liked a little extra lean pickled pork may be added when the head is boiled. This quantity makes a good-sized mould of brawn. Pickle for Pig’s Head and Meat Ingredients— Two quarts of water. Half an ounce of saltpetre. Half a pound of salt. Four ounces of brown sugar. Method.—Place all these ingredients in a saucepan. Boil them for ten minutes and remove all scum carefully. Strain the brine into a basin and leave it until cold, it is then ready to receive the meat. This can be used several times if strained, reboiled after each time it is used, and kept corked down. After pickling a pig’s head, however, it is never fit to use for other meat, and fresh must be made.