PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 329 and makes a softer and lighter crust. Butter is more whole- some and is preferable if you wish to make a brown crust. A mixture of half lard and half butter answers very well for common pastry, but for puff pastry butter alone should be used. How to cut Patty Cases, Tarts, Vol-au-vents, and other forms of Puff Paste There are two ways of shaping the paste for patties and tarts. First, roll puff paste one-eighth of an inch thick, and stamp out circular pieces with a cutter, two and a half inches in diameter. With a small cutter stamp out the centres from half of these pieces, leaving rings half an inch wide. Dip the cutters in hot water and cut quickly, so that the edges are not pressed together or cut unevenly. Rub a little white of egg on the top of the large rounds near the edge, put on the rings, and press them lightly to make them adhere, but be careful not to get any egg on the edges, as that will prevent them from rising. Put round pieces of stale bread, cut half an inch thick, in the centre, to keep the paste from rising and filling the cavity. Bake on shallow tins lined with paper, and when done remove the bread and soft paste underneath. Bake the small pieces cut from the centres on a tin by themselves, as they take less time for baking. In serving, place them on the top of the cases for a cover. Another way is to roll the paste a quarter of an inch thick, cut with a round cutter, and then with the smaller cutter cut nearly through the centre of each round, making a rim half an inch wide. After baking, remove the centre crust and soft part underneath, without breaking through, as then the case will not hold any liquid mixture. Some persons prefer this method ; but there is less waste when cut in the first way, as the parts cut out may be baked for covers, and usually prove to be the most delicate part of the paste. Or, if covers are not wanted, these centres may be rolled out thinner, and used as bottom pieces. The paste for patties is usually rolled a quarter of an inch thick and cut with a plain cutter. Two or three rims may be put on when a deeper case is desired. Any kind of delicate cooked meat or fish, chicken, sweetbreads, oysters, lobster, etc., may be cut into small pieces, and warmed in a thick cream sauce, and served in hot patty cases with a cover of the paste. Tarts are made thinner, and cut with a fluted cutter. They