THE COMPLETE COOK 486 A Rich Christmas Cake {Illustrated) Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls packed solidly of butter. Two level breakfastcupfuls of castor sugar. Five breakfastcupfuls slightly heaped of flour. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of currants. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of sultanas. About ten pieces of mixed peel. Ten eggs. Two lemons. One teacupful pressed down of glace cherries. One and a half level breakfast- cupfuls of almonds. One level teaspoonful of salt. One slightly rounded tablespoon- ful of ground allspice. Half a pint of brandy. {About two and a half pounds of almond paste. About four pounds of royal icing. About one pound of boiled icing. Method.—Line a large cake tin with four layers of greased kitchen paper. Beat the slightly warmed butter and sugar to a soft cream with the hand—this is. easiest for such large quantities. Beat in the eggs one by one. Sieve the flour, all- spice, and salt: a little of this may be added as each egg is beaten in if the mixture seems inclined to curdle. Clean and stalk the currants and sultanas, cut the cherries in halves, chop the peel, shell and chop the almonds finely, grate the lemon rinds. Mix all these thoroughly. Add the flour to the butter and eggs, then the mixed fruit. Mix thoroughly, and add the brandy. Care is needed to see all the ingredients are well mixed. Put the mixture into the tin, smooth the top with a knife dipped in hot water, and stand the cake on a baking sheet on which is spread a thick layer of rough salt or sand—this is to prevent the cake from burning underneath. Bake the cake in a moderate oven for about five to six hours; the heat must gradually be lowered so that it is cooked thoroughly, without getting burnt. When cooked, a skewer pushed through the centre will be perfectly bright when withdrawn. This cake should be kept for six or eight weeks before it is used, so when cold wrap it in well-greased or grease-proof paper, then in several layers of soft paper, and pack it away in a dry tin with closely fitting lid; store it in a dry, cool, but not cold place. When it is time to ice the cake, follow the detailed directions given in How to Ice Cakes. This particular cake is decorated with a wreath of holly made of almond paste. Take great pains in tinting the paste correctly for the leaves and berries, A wonderfully natural effect is gained by those possessing artistic eyes and fingers. Tie round a handsome band and bow of white satin ribbon.