i8i FISH plump up. Pour off any liquid from them, add the butter, chutney, and sauce and heat the mixture thoroughly. ^ Have the toast hot and ready and serve the oyster mixture in neat heaps on it. Fried Oysters, Egged and Crumbed Ingredients— Oysters. Lard for frying. One egg. Lemon : seasoning. Breadcrumbs. Parsley. Method.—Beard the oysters, carefully remove any bits of shell. Dust them with a little salt and pepper and let them stand for twenty minutes. Mix the crumbs with a little salt and pepper, roll the oysters in them till well covered with crumbs. Then dip them in beaten egg and again roll in the crumbs. Very lightly shake off any loose crumbs and fry the oysters for about one minute in lard heated till a bluish smoke can be seen rising from it. Drain the oysters on paper. Serve heaped up on a hot dish with a paper doyley under them. Garnish with fried parsley. Hand with them cut lemon, cayenne, and thin rolled brown bread and butter. Variations.—To make a more elaborate dish, roll large oysters in crumbs, then dip them in thick Mayonnaise dressing. Next roll in crumbs and fry at once. Fried Scollops.—These must first be stewed, till they can be easily pierced with a fine skewer, in either milk or fish stock. Then drain them well on a soft cloth and fry as directed for oysters. Oyster higredients— One dozen oysters. Six very thin slices of streaky bacon. Fritter Batter No. 2. Method.—Beard the oysters and see they are free from shell. Sprinkle each with a grain or two of cayenne and a few drops of lemon juice. Flatten out the slices of bacon very thinly with a knife and cut each across in halves. Roll each oyster neatly up in one of these pieces. Have ready a deep pan of clean fat, so hot that a very faint smoke is rising from it. Dip each oyster separately into the fritter batter and lay it gently in the hot fat, frying only a few at a time. Fry them a light brown colour, lift them out of the fat, drain them on soft paper. Fritters Frying fat. Parsley : cayenne. Half a lemon.