425 EGOS AND OMELETS bubbling pour in the eggs and stir them with a fork over a quick fire, shaking the pan gently at the same time. When the eggs are soft and creamy, draw them toward the handle of the pan, tilt it well up and shape the omelet like an oval cushion. Press down a little hollow with the spoon in the middle of it, put in the fish, cover this over with some of the soft egg mixture, and when the under side is slightly browned slip the omelet, turning the upper side downwards, on to a hot dish. Note.—Any fish mixture is suitable, such as oyster, salmon, lobster, etc. Kidney Omelet Prepare and cook an egg mixture as directed for Fish Omelet, but instead of fish, put in the centre one sheep’s kidney, skinned, cored, cut into thin small pieces, and fried for a few minutes in a small bit of butter. Moisten the kidney with about a table- spoonful of brown sauce or stock. Season it and substitute it for the fish mixture. A tureen of any hot brown or tomato sauce should accompany this dish. Note.—Other savoury mixtures of game, poultry, ham, mushrooms, tomato, etc., may be used in the same way. Omelet Ligredients— Three eggs. Two level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One level tablespoonful of butter. One level teaspoonful of cornflour. Souffle About two tablespoonfuls of stone- less jam. A few drops of vanilla. Salt. Method.—Thickly butter a round or oval fireproof china baking dish. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Put the sugar and yolks into a basin, add the cornflour, and work all these smoothly together until they have a frothy appearance. Add the vanilla and beat the whites very stiffly. Mix these thoroughly, but very lightly, with the yolks, etc. Pour half the mixture evenly into the dish, put a little jam in the centre, and cover this with the remaining mixture. Smooth the surface, mark it prettily with a knife, and dredge the surface well with castor sugar. Bake the omelet in a quick oven for about ten minutes, or until it is a delicate brown and feels spongy when gently pressed in the middle. Serve it immediately in the dish in which it was cooked.