THE COMPLETE COOK 378 Note.—Cooked spaghetti may be used in place of macaroni. If wanted for an after dinner savoury, put small heaps of the mixture on to small croutons, or into ramekin cases. Nouilles or “Noodles” Prepare the Nouille Paste as directed for Ravioli. After standing for an hour, roll it very thinly and cut it into strips about seven inches wide. Roll each of these up tightly and cut them with a sharp knife crosswise into narrow strips about an eighth of an inch thick. Shake out and loosen these strips until long and straight, dredging them with a very little flour. Put them into fast boiling salted water, stir them for a few minutes to keep them apart, and boil them for about ten minutes. Lift them out with a fish slice, drain them on a clean cloth and put them in layers in a buttered au gratin dish with grated cheese. Put cheese, mixed with an equal amount of white breadcrumbs, for the last layer. Sprinkle the surface well with oiled butter and bake in a quick oven until browned. Olives a la Newport {Illustrated) Ingredients— Eight Spanish olives. Eight fillets of anchovy. Eight croutes of bread. Two hard-boiled eggs. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of grated cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of fresh butter. Two teaspoonfuls of tomato catsup. Two teaspoonfuls of cream. Cayenne, salt, a few leaves of tarragon. Method.—Wipe the olives free from oil and stone them. Re- move the yolks from the eggs and mix them with the butter, tomato catsup, cheese, cream, and seasoning. When cold rub the paste through a sieve. Spread a little of the mixture on each croute of bread, put an olive in the centre, curl an anchovy fillet, free from oil, round the base of the olive and fill the cavity with the prepared mixture; this is most easily done with a forcing bag and pipe. Chop the whites of the eggs finely and decorate the croutes of bread with a little of it. Put a few spikes of the shredded tarragon in the centre of the egg mixture with which each olive is filled. Arrange neatly on a lace paper and serve. Note.—Sprigs of chervil or a little parsley can be used instead of tarragon. Milk instead of cream, or more tomato catsup. Rounds of buttered toast can be substituted for the fried bread or tiny crisp biscuits.