THE COMPLETE COOK 206 Grilled Steak Ingredients— One pound of rump or fillet steak One level tablespoonful of butter. an inch thick. Salt; pepper. Method.—See that the fire is quick and clear. Dip the steak quickly into tepid water and wipe it quite dry. Brush it over with a little oiled butter. Heat the gridiron and grease the bars. Fasten the steak in between them with the rim of fat uppermost, so that as it melts in the cooking it flows over and bastes the steak. Either hang the gridiron close in front of, or put it over the fire, and grill the steak for about ten to fifteen minutes according to its thickness, the heat of the fire, and whether it is wished well or under cooked. Turn the gridiron round two or three times, or turn the steak over, if it is cooked over the fire: in this case either stick a fork into the fat, or use two knives to turn it; do not stick a fork into the lean, as it allows the juices to escape. When cooked it should be a dark brown on each side, and red and full of gravy when cut. This does not mean it is to be flabby and of a purplish tint. Lay the steak on a hot dish, dust it with salt and pepper, and either rub it over with a piece of butter, or lay on it small pats of Maitre d’Hdtel butter, and put Potato Ribbons or Straws round it. Note.—Rump steak is thought by many to have the most flavour, but fillet steak is more generally tender. Stewed Steak Ingredients— One pound of rump steak. One large carrot, turnip, and onion. One rounded tablespoonful of dripping or butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Three-quarters of a pint of stock or water. Three allspice, one clove, half a bay leaf. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash and dry the meat. Remove any hard skin or superfluous fat, a thin rim of the latter must be left on. Melt the dripping in a frying pan, fry the steak quickly until well browned on each side. Lift it on to a plate, put the vegetables cut into small dice and the flour into the fat, and brown these also. Should there not be enough dripping to do this, add more. Add the stock and stir until the gravy boils. Add a little salt, lay in the steak and the spice and bay leaf tied in muslin. Cover the pan tightly and stew the steak very gently for about an hour and a half. Skim it now and then. Remove