190 THE COMPLETE COOK Drain it on paper and serve it piled on a lace paper on a hot dish, garnished with fried parsley. Hand the sauce separately. Note.—Any other kind of filleted white fish can be used. It is sometimes served with quarters of lemon and no sauce. Trout or Smelts k la Meuniere Ingredients— Four small trout, or salmon trout, or about a dozen smelts. Two tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper. MetJiod.—Clean and trim the fish carefully, then wash and dry them. Mix together the flour, salt, and pepper, dip each fish into this, shaking off all that will not stick. Melt the butter in a stewpan, lay in the fish, sprinkle it with the chopped parsley and strained lemon juice. Cook gently until one side of the fish is nicely browned, then turn and cook the other side. Arrange the trout on a hot dish and pour over the liquid from the pan. Serve them very hot with brown bread and butter and cayenne. Note.—Good dripping may be used in the place of butter. If liked, a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, or a tablespoonful of any white wine, may be sprinkled over the fish with the lemon juice. Broiled Turbot Ingredients— About two pounds of turbot. A bunch of watercress. Two tablespoonfuls of oiled butter. Cucumber sauce. Pepper : salt: vinegar ; salad oil. Method.—Wash, dry, and fillet the fish. Cut the fillets into large neat pieces. Brush these over well with the oiled butter and a little salt and pepper. Heat and grease the gridiron, lay on the fish and grill it before, or over, a clear sharp fire, for about ten to twelve minutes, or until it is delicately browned. Serve on a hot dish with a little piece of butter rubbed over each piece and a dust of pepper. Garnish the dish of fish with carefully washed sprigs of watercress ; these should be seasoned with a few drops of salad oil and vinegar. Hand the cucumber sauce separately. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. The juice of one lemon.