432 THE COMPLETE COOK Soups and Broths, if well made, possess valuable restorative qualities, and in a very digestible form. Strong clear soup, mutton or chicken broths, are the most useful. Also those containing cream, milk, or eggs. Beef Teas are very valuable if correctly made. They have strong restorative powers, and, if the fine particles of lightly cooked albumen can be digested, contain much nutriment. Coffee and Tea contain no nutriment, except that added by the milk and sugar. They have, however, a stimulating effect on the respiratory and nervous system. Cocoa is more of a food than a beverage, containing con- siderable nutriment. It is of a less stimulating character than tea or coffee. Potatoes may be allowed if dry and floury. They are best mashed, with a little butter and milk. New or waxy potatoes must never be given to invalids. Onions.—These, if well boiled, have a soothing effect to the mucous membrane, and are sometimes ordered for internal inflammation. Green Vegetables are wholesome if well boiled and drained ; spinach and asparagus are by far the most suitable. Avoid mushrooms and cucumbers. Fruit is wholesome and most refreshing. Care should be taken to see that it is in perfect condition ; skins and pips should be removed. Grapes and lemons are the two most valuable varieties. Never give pineapple unless it is a spoonful of juice, and stone fruit should be used with discretion. Arrowroot and Cornflour.—These being almost entirely composed of starch are lacking in nutriment, except for the milk with which they are usually combined. But they are so light and digestible and can be so easily converted into tempting puddings, etc., that they become really valuable foods. Semolina and Macaroni in its various forms contain much gluten, and when added to milk are most digestible and nourishing preparations. Rice, Tapioca, Sago, etc., require the addition of milk and eggs to render them of great food value, as they are composed of too large a proportion of starch. Oatmeal, except in the form of gruel, when the particles are strained out, is liable to give rise to digestive trouble, as it irritates the digestive canal. It is also somewhat heating to those leading an inactive life. Isinglass and Gelatine contain little or no nutriment, but