THE COMPLETE COOK 400 Potato Salad Ingredients— One pound of firm, cold, cooked potatoes. One small lettuce. A plain dressing of oil and vinegar. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. or Mayonnaise sauce. Method.—Cut the potatoes into slices a quarter of an inch thick. Wash and separate the lettuce leaves. Stir half the parsley into the dressing. Pile the potatoes neatly up in a salad bowl, pour over the dressing and arrange the lettuce in a border round. Sprinkle the rest of the parsley over. Note.—If preferred, chopped tarragon may be used instead of the parsley. Shredded celery combines well with the potato. A few drops of onion juice are also thought an improve- ment by some. Potato and Tomato Salad {Illustrated') Ingredmits— One pound of cold, firm, boiled Two teaspoonfuls of chopped One lettuce. Method.—Cut one tomato across in four, the rest in thick slices. Peel and slice the cucumber thinly. Wash the lettuce very thoroughly but gently, so as not to bruise the delicate leaves. Shake it lightly in a clean cloth to dry it. Pull out the centre tuft, then tear, not cut, the leaves in convenient sized pieces. Cut the potatoes in neat round slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Arrange potato, lettuce, cucumber, and slices of tomato in the salad bowl, put the quartered tomato and centre of the lettuce in the middle, and a few good leaves of lettuce as a border. Pour over the dressing, sprinkle with the chopped parsley, and keep in a cool place till needed. Note.—Any other dressing can be used. If liked, the bowl may be rubbed over inside with a cut clove of garlic if a sug- gestion of onion flavouring is desired. potatoes. Two or three ripe tomatoes. About two inches of cucumber. parsley. Three - quarters of a teacup of Mayonnaise dressing. Russian Salad (Ilmstrated) Ingredients— About a pint of aspic jelly. One gill of Mayonnaise sauce. About a pint of cold, cooked, mixed A few capers. A few strips of gherkin and chilli. One hard-boiled egg. Three or four anchovies. vegetables cut in pretty shapes.