Cochineal. 307 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Ten lumps of sugar. the sugar. Bake them slowly till they are tender, but not broken, basting them now and then with the syrup. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, shake into it three parts of the remaining sugar. Put the whipped whites into a forcing bag with a plain pipe and force it round and round the apples until the apple is entirely encased in meringue ; make it slightly higher in the centre. Shake the rest of the sugar over them. Put them in a very slow oven until the meringue is crisp and of a pale biscuit tint. Serve them either hot or cold. Note,—If a forcing bag is not obtainable, the meringue may be put on roughly with a fork. This is an attractive- looking and wholesome sweet. Apple Ingredients— Four medium-sized apples. Half a pint of water. Half a lemon. Method.—Wash the apples, do not core or peel them, but cut each in eight. Put the pieces in a stewpan with the water, sugar, clove, and the thinly pared rind of the lemon. Let these cook gently until the apples are soft, then rub them through a fine sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in two tablespoonfuls of warm water, and strain it into the sieved apple. Mix it well in and add a few drops of cochineal to make the mixture a delicate pink. Pour it into a mould which has first been rinsed out with cold water. Leave until the mixture is set, then dip the mould into tepid water and turn the contents on to a glass dish. Note.—If more convenient set the mixture in small moulds. Custard or cream, plain or whipped, is a great improvement to this dish. Gooseberries or rhubarb may be used in the place of apples. New York Apples Ingredien ts— Six or eight apples. Two or three tablespoonfuls of One small pot of red currant jelly. lemon sponge. Castor sugar. Method.—Wash the apples and core them, either with a corer or pointed knife. Peel them thinly and roll each apple in castor sugar. Place the apples in a slightly buttered fireproof dish, and bake them very slowly until they are soft but not broken. Sprinkle them with “hundreds and thousands” or Mould Five sheets of gelatine. One clove.