8 THE COMPLETE COOK this to give minute directions for all cleaning, but merely some rules which are often passed over or not known. Silver sand is as necessary as soda in the scullery, but neither is any use without “ elbow grease.” An old knife is most useful for scraping tins, etc.; unless it is kept handy, a best table-knife is usually selected. Bowls in which flour has been mixed or eggs used, are more easily cleaned if put into cold water at once. Hot water hardens the mixture. Wash and scour all saucepans and lids inside and out, also the handles. This is often thought unnecessary. Remove all black and grease from the outside of pans, as well as wash the inside; otherwise there is much loose soot to come off on the cook’s hands and aprons; also, as the heat cannot penetrate so easily, time and fuel are wasted. Remove all scraps from plates and dishes before placing them in the water, it is a most slovenly habit to do otherwise. Rub the worst of the grease off pans and dishes with some soft paper (this does excellently afterwards for lighting fires), and the water used for washing does not become so hopelessly greasy or need changing so often. Wash all silver first of all. Stand the knives upright in a jug of warm soda water, so that the handles are not in the water, as this discolours and loosens them. Do not put the blades in very hot water, as the expansion of the steel will cause the handles to crack. Never wash saucepans in the same bath that is used for dishes, etc. Stand a burnt pan on the stove with cold water and soda in it for some hours, then scour it well. Enamel and aluminium pans must never be washed with soda. A little salt or fine ash is better than sand to scour these with, as the grains of the latter are so sharp that they scratch the surface. All pans should be kept turned downwards, never placed upright with the lids on, this position often indicates that they are dirty. Unless tin utensils are placed in a very warm place, or on a cool stove after washing, they are certain to rust at the seams. A mincing machine needs the same care. Omelet and frying- pans should not be washed, but merely scraped and rubbed with pieces of paper till they are clean. Water will often cause the food to stick the next time of frying. It is useless to attempt to polish tins with whiting till they