533 JAMS AND PICKLES can be given. The berries must not be raw or they will not keep, neither must they be allowed to shrivel. Try some of the preserve now and then on a plate, drawing the pan aside while testing it. When it sets when cold, pour it into glass jars, and when cold tie them down. This preserve is not intended to mould stiffly like fruit jellies; it is apt to fall in luscious masses, showing the imprisoned berries in clear red jelly. Tutti Frutti for Tarts Ingredients— Equal parts of stoned cherries, One pound of loaf sugar to each raspberries, red and black cur- pound of mixed fruit, rants, and large gooseberries. Method.—Mash the currants, strain off all the juice, and dissolve the necessary amount of sugar in it over the fire in a big bright pan. Add the other fruits after preparing them in the usual manner. Boil quickly until some will jelly when cooled on a plate. This can be bottled and is delicious for all kinds of tarts. PICKLES Pickled Ingredients— About four medium - sized beet- root. Allow to each quart of vinegar Two tablespoonfuls of black peppercorns. Beetroot Two teaspoonfuls of allspice. Two level teaspoonfuls of salt. Three bay leaves. Two shallots. One small stick of horseradish. Method.—Peel the shallots and carefully scrape the horse- radish. Put the vinegar into a pan with the shallots, horse- radish, salt, bay leaves, and spice, and let it boil until it is well flavoured with them. Then let it get cold. Wash the beetroot, taking care not to break the skin or any of the little rootlets, otherwise the colour will be spoilt. If there is plenty of time cook them in the oven, or if more convenient, put them into fast boiling water and boil them one and a half hours, or until they are nearly tender, but not quite. Then drain off the water, let them cool slightly and peel them. Cut them in slices about half an inch thick, or, if preferred, into large dice. Put these in dry jars, add a few peppercorns and allspice to each jar, and fill up with vinegar. Cork or tie the bottles down and store them in a cool place.