Method.—Rub the potatoes through a sieve. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, add the potatoes, a tablespoonful of the milk, and salt and pepper to taste, mix all well together. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, chop it coarsely and put it in a pie dish. Melt the rest of the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, and add the stock or milk ; the latter should have been boiled for ten minutes with the fish bones and trimmings. Stir this sauce over the fire till it boils and thickens, then add the egg chopped in large pieces and salt and pepper. Add enough sauce to the fish to well moisten it, cover the dish with the potato, smooth it evenly over the top, then mark it prettily with a fork. Put a few small bits of butter here and there on it, and bake in a moderate oven till a light brown. Note.—Dripping may be used instead of butter. Should there be any kind of fish sauce over from a meal, it must be used instead of making fresh. If instead of potato, this pie is covered with cooked macaroni and slices of tomato on the top of this, and baked till the tomato is cooked, it will be found excellent. Potted Fish Ingredients— Six fresh herrings. One bay leaf. Three thin slices of Spanish onion. Four allspice. Half a pint of vinegar. One tablespoonful of seasoned One gill of water. flour. Ten peppercorns. Method.—Wash the herrings, remove the heads and tails; split them open down the backs and take out the large bones. Roll up each fillet with the skin side turned inwards, and roll each in seasoned flour. Pack these rolls tightly in a stone jar or dish; unless they can be tightly packed, each coil must be tied with a piece of thread, as they will unroll. Add the spices, bay leaf, rings of onion, and pour over the vinegar and water. Tie a thick piece of brown paper over the dish and then put on a cover, as it is necessary, as much as possible, to prevent evaporation of the vinegar. There must be enough vinegar to cover the fish. Bake it in a very moderate oven for four or five hours. Then arrange the fish in a clean dish and strain over the vinegar. The slow cooking in the acid will quite dissolve the bones. Note.—Mackerel are excellent cooked in this fashion. If required to keep some considerable time, leave out the flour.