3i8 THE COMPLETE COOK all the time. Add the sugar and salt, and pour the custard into the pie dish; grate a little nutmeg over the top. Stand it in a deep baking tin with hot water to come half-way up the dish. Bake the pudding very slowly until it is set; probably it will take about an hour if the oven is cool. Serve it hot or cold. If it cooks too quickly it will be full of holes, with a sweet watery liquid under the custard. Note.—Two eggs only, need be used, but the custard will be less rich. For a richer pudding use two whole eggs and three extra yolks. A strip of lemon rind may be boiled with the milk and then removed, instead of grating on the nutmeg. If there are any scraps of pastry left on hand, roll it out rather thinly, brush the sides down to the bottom of the dish with white of egg, and line the edges and sides of the dish with a broad strip of pastry. Cut out fancy rounds of pastry and fasten them on to the edge of the pastry with white of egg. Let each round overlap the pre- ceding one. A variety is made by baking this custard in buttered deep custard tins or cups. Method.—Bring the milk to nearly boiling point. Beat the egg and yolks. When the milk has cooled a little, pour it slowly on to the eggs, mix them well, strain the mixture either into a milk boiler or a jug. Place the jug in a pan with boiling water to come half-way up it; place it over the fire and stir the custard until it thickens, it must not actually boil or it will curdle. When nearly thick enough, the froth on the top disappears and the custard begins to coat the spoon, and the sense of feeling makes the operator conscious that it is thicker, by the way the spoon goes through it. As soon as it is thick enough, lift the jug out of the pan and dip it at once into cold water. This will stop further cooking, for eggs continue cooking for a few seconds after they are removed from heat. Then strain it, and when cold add the sugar and flavouring to taste. Note.—If the custard is to be served as a sauce, it should be thin enough to pour out easily. If as an accompaniment to fruit, etc., it should be made a little thicker. A thicker. Boiled Custard Ingredients— One pint of milk. One whole egg and two extra yolks. Three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Vanilla or other flavouring.