347 SOUFFLES eggs, then the whites very lightly, and, lastly, strain in the gelatine. Keep stirring ‘it very gently till it is just beginning to set, then pour it quickly into the souffle case. Leave it till quite cold, then remove the paper band, either damping it with hot water on the outside, or drawing it back gently with a knife from the mixture clinging to it. Make two wide crossway bands on the top with pistachio nuts, and fill the spaces between with powdered and sieved macaroons. Stand the case on a lace paper and serve as cold as possible. Note.—The top may be piped with sweetened and whipped cream to make a novelty, and candied violets, rose petals, etc., or chopped and browned almonds used instead of pistachio nuts. Cold Orange Souffle Use two small oranges instead of lemons and proceed as for Milanaise Souffle. Pineapple Souffle Ingredieii ts— Three tablespoonfuls of small dice of pineapple. Six level tablespoonfuls of flour. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two slightly rounded tablespoon- fuls of butter. Half a pint of milk. Four eggs. Method.—Prepare a souffle tin (see Vanilla SouffliandIllustra- tion'). Melt the butter in a pan, stir in the flour smoothly and add the milk. Stir this over the fire until it thickens and leaves the pan without sticking to it. Add the sugar and pineapple dice. Beat in the yolks of three of the eggs, each one separately. Whip the whites to a very stiff froth and stir them very lightly into the mixture. Pour the mixture into the mould and steam it for about one hour, or until the centre feels spongy when pressed. Turn it out carefully and serve with it the following sauce, poured round:— One gill of pineapple syrup. One tablespoonful of small dice of Five lumps of sugar. pineapple. One glass of sherry. A few drops of cochineal. Put the pineapple syrup, sugar, and sherry into a small pan, dissolve the sugar and boil the syrup for a few minutes to reduce it. Add the pineapple dice and enough cochineal to colour it prettily. Pour it round the pudding. Note.—This souffle may be prepared with preserved ginger instead of pineapple.