THE COMPLETE COOK i88 Grilled Slips, Flounders, etc. Ingredients— One slip, or other small flat fish, Three teaspoonfuls of chopped for each person. parsley. About one rounded tablespoonful Salt and pepper : flour, of butter for four fish. Method.—Wash, dry, and cut the tails and fins off, so that the fish may look short and neat. Dip each side of the fish in a little flour, next brush them all over lightly with the oiled butter. Heat and grease a double gridiron, fasten the fish securely into it between the bars, and grill them over, or before, a clear sharp fire for about four to eight minutes according to their thickness. Turn them once or twice, in order to brown both sides. When cooked, serve them on a hot dish, brush them over with a little warmed butter, add a light dust of salt and pepper, sprinkle over the parsley and serve immediately. Note.—Chopped watercress, or the same in sprigs, can be used instead of parsley. Maitre d’Hotel butter is also excellent, or such sauces as tomato, tartare, etc. Stuffed Ingredients— One dozen smelts. Six sauce oysters and their liquor. One teacupful of fresh bread- crumbs. One tablespoonful of oiled butter. Smelts One raw egg. About four tablespoonfuls of browned crumbs. Salt: pepper : lemon. Any fish sauce : fried parsley. Method.—Wash, wipe, and trim the smelts neatly. Beard and chop the oysters, mix them with the fresh crumbs, oiled butter, strained oyster liquor, seasoning, and a spoonful of milk if it is very crumbly. Open and clean the smelts and fill them with the oyster mixture. Fasten the edges together over the stuffing, either sewing them or using little skewers made of pointed matches. Brush each fish over with beaten egg and roll them in the browned crumbs. Bake the fish on a greased tin in a moderately hot oven for about ten minutes. Then remove the skewers or sticks carefully and serve the fish neatly arranged on a hot dish, with the fish sauce handed separately. Garnish the fish with fried parsley and quarters of lemon. Note.—The stuffing may be varied by using shrimps coarsely chopped, or a plain forcemeat, such as is used for roast veal.