13 COOKING STOVES 3. They furnish a cheerful warmth and glow, and are con- venient for the airing of clothes. Their Disadvantages are serious: 1. They are dirty and cause much dust. 2. They blacken and very quickly wear out utensils, as they come into actual contact with the fire. 3. They are very liable to smoke and are irregular in action. 4. They are extravagant, as much heat is radiated into and wasted in the kitchen, and thus causes great discomfort to the individual who is doing the cooking. 5. They distribute the heat unevenly. The Advantages of a Closed Range are: 1. Cleanliness: and the utensils are easily kept clean and last three times as long as with the open range. 2. A greater amount of heat is obtained, and more cooking is possible with the same amount of fuel. 3. Refuse is easily and pleasantly burnt. 4. The ovens are quickly heated and easily regulated. 5. Economy of fuel if dampers are understood and carefully regulated. 6. The hot plate may well be adapted for an ironing stove, when not required for cooking purposes. The Disadvantages of a Closed Range are: 1. It dries the air and does not assist to ventilate the kitchen. 2. It does not furnish a cheerful heat and appearance when not needed for cooking purposes. 3. It is very expensive if the dampers are not understood and properly managed. The most desirable type of stove is a Convertible Stove, which can, by a simple adjustment, be made open or shut as desired. If you intend to buy a new range, choose one simple in construction, so that its parts and their uses efre quickly learnf, plainly enough finished to be easily cleaned, and give careful consideration to its probable durability, efficiency, and power of economising fuel. Take as much of it as possible to pieces; learn how to clean it inside; examine the dampers and how to regulate them according to the variations of temperature required and the wind. A Flue is a passage at the back of the stove, behind the iron plates; through it the heat, flame, and products of combus- tion pass from the Are into the main chimney shaft.