VEAL 217 Fillets of Veal with Voting Carrots Ingredients— One pound of fillet of veal. One bunch of new carrots. Four tablespoonfuls of Marsala. Two rounded] tablespoonfuls of butter. Three-quarters of a pint of brown stock. Method.—Wash and dry the meat. Cut it into neat fillets about half an inch thick. Beat each lightly with a knife and trim them into neat rounds the size of the top of a claret glass. Melt the butter in a stewpan, lay in the fillets, sprinkle over them the lemon juice, chopped shallot, and salt and pepper. Turn them about in the butter over a quick fire until they are a pale brown. Add the brown sauce and Marsala, lay a piece of greased paper over them and place the pan in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Scrape and trim the carrots, and cook them in boiling stock or water to which has been added a lump of sugar and a little salt. When they are tender drain off the water. Add the glaze and toss them gently about until it melts and coats them. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish and place the carrots in the centre. Season the sauce carefully and strain it over and round the fillets. Note.—If new carrots are out of season, cut old ones into large marbles with a round vegetable scoop and treat as directed for the new carrots. Half a pint of brown sauce. A piece of glaze the size of a small walnut. Half a lemon. Salt and pepper. One shallot. Quenelles of Veal {Illustrated) Ingredients— One pound of lean raw veal. Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. One slightly rounded tablespoonful of butter. One teacupful of white stock, milk, or water. Two eggs. One tablespoonful of cream. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Half a pint of white sauce. A few cooked peas, or other vegetable garnish. Truffle or parsley. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly. Add the stock and stir this “ panada ” over a slow fire till it thickens and will leave the sides of the pan without sticking. Chop the veal or put it through a mincing machine; then put it in a mortar with the panada and pound it well. Add one raw egg and pound again, then the second egg, cream, and some seasoning. Pound till smooth and creamy and rub