THE COMPLETE COOK 104 Cream, Butter, and Sugar This process of mixing together the sugar and butter is so termed because, when correctly performed, the result resembles whipped cream. If very cold weather the butter should be first warmed to soften it, but on no account is it to be melted, merely thawed gently. Put it in a clean dry basin and press and work it well against the sides of the basin with a wooden spoon, till the warmth set up by the friction has softened it somewhat. Then add the sugar, and continue working both ingredients together against the basin till the mixture will drop heavily out of the spoon. Then beat it well till quite light and creamy. Unless this is sufficiently done, the cakes, etc., will be close and heavy. Chop Candied Peel Remove the lump of hard sugar from the centre of each piece. Turn the hollowed side of the peel downwards on the board and slice it through thickly or thinly as desired. It is then ready to chop coarsely or finely. Should the peel be stale and hard it must be soaked for a short while in warm water. Line Cake Tins with Greased Paper Take a sheet of kitchen paper and fold it so that there will be three thicknesses of it. Stand the tin which is to be lined, on this paper, and with a pencil mark the size it is round on the paper. Put the tin aside and cut round this line so that three rounds, the exact size of the tin, are obtained. Brush these with melted dripping or clarified butter, and put them aside. Take another piece of paper and fold it into a band long enough to wrap right round the tin and with the ends to well lap over each other. The band must be about three inches deeper than the tin, so that it will stand up above it, and folded so as to give three thicknesses. Lay this band flat and turn back the uncut edge of it, to the depth of half an inch. Crease it down and notch the flap thus formed at intervals, so that it lies better in the tin. Then grease it thoroughly. Fit the band round inside the tin with the notched flap laid out flat on the bottom of it, then fix in the rounds for the bottom and it is ready to receive the mixture.