THE COMPLETE COOK 532 least. Measure it back into the pan and add sugar in the above proportion. Boil the jelly quickly until some of it sets quickly on a plate when cold. Skim it well. Pour it into small pots and tie down tightly. Note.—This is an excellent accompaniment to grouse, veni- son, and saddle of mutton. Strawberry Jam Ingredients— Allow to each pound of fruit Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar. Method.—Break up the sugar slightly. Put about half a gill of water in the pan just to start the sugar melting, add the sugar, let it dissolve slowly, then bring it to boiling point and add the stalked fruit. Boil the jam gently, skim it well and take care when stirring it not to break up the fruit. When some of it sets when it is allowed to cool on a plate, pour it into dry, heated jars and cover down. Preserved Strawberries Ingredients— Three pounds of perfectly sound Loaf sugar. strawberries. Water. One pound of sharp apples. Method.—Cut the apples in pieces, but do not remove the peel, core, or pips. Put these pieces in a pan with just enough cold water to cover them. Boil the apples until soft and mash them with, a spoon. Strain off the juice through a fine hair sieve. If it is not clear strain it again through fine muslin. Pick over the strawberries, select the choicest berries, that is to say those that are perfect, firm, and of even size, and lay them aside. Press the remainder of the fruit to make juice, using a sieve and not mashing the fruit through. When the juice has dripped off, the rest of the pulped fruit can be used for common jam. Measure this juice and fruit and allow one gill of apple juice to each pint of strawberry juice. Then add one pound of loaf sugar to every pint of apple and strawberry juice to be used. Boil the juice and syrup sharply for about twenty min- utes, or until it jellies well when a little is cooled on a plate. Keep the syrup carefully skimmed. Meanwhile weigh the selected berries and add to them an equal amount of crushed loaf sugar. When the syrup jellies, add these berries and the sugar. Boil all carefully for a few minutes more. No exact time