243 GAME five minutes. Baste them frequently with butter pr good beef dripping. About ten minutes before the roasting is completed remove the bacon, dredge the breasts of the birds with a little flour, and baste them with butter. At the same time put the slices of neatly trimmed toast under the birds in the dripping tin. When cooked, remove any string or skewers, lay the topt on a hot dish, place a grouse on each slice, and garnish the dish with heaps of fried crumbs and sprigs of washed watercress sprinkled with a few drops of salad oil and salt and pepper. Serve with them strong well-flavoured gravy and bread sauce. Roast Grouse k la Rob Roy Ingredients— A brace of grouse. Some sprigs of fresh heather. Two slices of raw fat bacon. Method.—Prepare the birds in the usual way for roasting. Wrap them in slices of fat bacon and sprigs of heather, and roast them according to the instructions given for Roast Grouse. Roast Ingredients— One young hare. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of fresh crumbs. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. Two teaspoonfuls each of chopped and powdered parsley, mar- joram, lemon thyme, and grated lemon rind. Method.—Prepare the hare for roasting; save the liver, having carefully removed from it the gall bladder. Prepare the forcemeat by mixing the crumbs, suet, herbs, finely chopped liver, shallot, seasoning, and enough beaten egg to mix them all stiffly. Fill the hare with this forcemeat, saving about two tablespoonfuls out of it for forcemeat balls. Sew up the skin over the forcemeat with a needle and strong cotton. Truss it into shape and tie slices of slitted bacon all over the back. Roast the hare before a clear bright fire, not putting it too close at first. Begin at once to baste it with the milk, to which two large tablespoonfuls of dripping should be added ; frequent basting is needed. The time required is usually about one and a half to two hours. When the hare is about three parts Hare One teaspoonful of chopped shallot. Two eggs. Pepper and salt. Slices of fat bacon. Half a pint of milk. Butter or beef dripping.