PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 319 richer custard is made by adding more eggs, yolks preferably, as these make it richer and smoother. Varieties of Boiled Custard Many combinations may be made by adding the whites of the eggs after the custard is cold. Beat the whites stiffly, put them on a sieve, and cook over steam, or pour boiling water through them. The water will cook and stiffen the egg, and when well drained it may be piled in rocky form on the custard. Or the white may be poached by dipping it by the spoonful into boiling milk. Serve the custard in a large glass dish, and pile the white in a mass, or put spoonfuls of it here and there on the custard with bright coloured jelly on the white. Or serve in small glass custard cups with the white and jelly on the top. Or pour the custard over slices of sponge cake (soaked in wine, if you prefer), and cover with a meringue of the whites sweetened and flavoured. Floating Island, Flummery, Tipsy Pudding, and hosts of other dishes are only fancy names given to the different combinations of cake, boiled custard, and meringue. Any of the following ingredients may be used as flavouring to custard, this will give a variety of dishes, which want of space prevents me from giving as separate recipes: half a square of chocolate melted; sugar melted to a caramel before mixing with the yolks; one teacupful of grated cocoanut, or cocoanut cakes crumbled; six macaroons soaked in wine; one cup of chopped almonds, or any varieties of candied fruits. Custard Caramel Pudding Ingredients— For the Caramel— One loosely packed teacupful of One gill of water. lump sugar. For the Pudding— Four yolks and two whites of eggs. Half a pint of milk. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. A few drops of vanilla. Method.—Boil the sugar and water together until the syrup is a light brown. Pour it quickly into a plain dry mould and coat the inside of it all over. Let the mould cool. Beat the eggs in a basin, but froth them as little as possible; bring the milk to boiling point. When it has cooled slightly, pour