153 MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS to cover and blanch them for about five minutes. Then lift them out and dry them. Melt half the dripping in a saucepan, add the prepared and sliced vegetables, spice, the bunch of herbs, parsley, and the pieces of oxtail. Fry these until they are lightly browned. Pour in the cold stock, add a littlefsalt, and simmer the soup for three hours or till the meat and gristly portions are quite tender but not falling to pieces. Keep the soup well skimmed. Select some of the nicest joints to serve in it, trimming them a little if necessary. Strain the soup into a basin and rinse out the pan. Put in and melt the rest of the dripping, add the flour and fry it a good brown colour. Add the soup and stir it over the fire till it boils. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently in order that any grease may rise and be skimmed off. Add the wine, the pieces of oxtail and seasoning and about a teacupful of cooked carrot and turnip cut in thin rounds the size of a sixpence, these should be boiled separately. Serve the soup in a hot tureen. Polish Ingredients— Two quarts of white stock. One and a half tablespoonfuls of coarse oatmeal. Eight tablespoonfuls of very finely chopped cooked poultry. Soup One gill of cream or milk. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped onion. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Method.—Put the oatmeal in a fine strainer and wash it by letting cold water run over it. Boil the stock in a saucepan; when it boils sprinkle in the oatmeal, stirring it all the time. Add the butter and onion. Let the soup boil gently till the oatmeal is cooked, probably it will take about half an hour. Then rub the soup through a hair sieve. Add the chopped poultry and reboil it for a second or two. Add the cream and seasoning and serve the soup in a hot tureen with crohtons or toast dice. Potage k Ingredients— One raw chicken. Two quarts of white stock. One gill of hot milk. One gill of cream. Four tablespoonfuls of fresh white crumbs. One rounded tablespoonful of ground sweet almonds. Three hard-boiled yolks of eggs. la Reine Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Two slices of raw ham or bacon. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Half a small carrot. One small onion. Salt: pepper : nutmeg.