THE COMPLETE COOK 322 Italian Fritters Ingredients— One egg. A breakfastcupful of milk. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. The grated rind of one lemon. Four or six slices of stale bread. Half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Castor sugar : a few grains of salt. Method.—The bread should be about a quarter of an inch thick, not less. Stamp it out into round or oval shapes with a cutter. Beat the egg, mix it with the milk, lemon rind, salt, and about a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Lay the slices of bread in this custard until they are soft, but not crumbly ; the time will depend upon how stale the bread is. Heat half the butter in a frying pan, lift a few pieces of bread up carefully and lay them in the hot butter. Brown one side, then turn them over and brown the other also. Add some pieces of butter as required. Mix the cinnamon with two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar and sprinkle some of these over each fritter. Serve them at once with hard or wine sauce. Note.—Stale cake may be used instead of bredd. Method.—Cut the oranges round in halves, and with a spo(?p scoop out all the pulp and juice. Scrape out the white pith, but take care not to pull out the little stalk portion, or a hol& will be made; should this happen, fill it with a little lump of butter. Put the cups on ice. Put the best pieces of orange pulp. fice from pith and pips into a basin. Strain and save all the orange juice. Halve the grapes, remove the pips, and the skin also if tough. Stalk and halve the strawberries. Peel and slice the bananas. Mix all the fruits, add to them the strained lemon and orange juice, the sugar, salt, and wine. Mix them well and fill in the orange cups with the mixture, put a spoon- ful of the juice in also, and a spoonful of whipped cream on the top. Serve as cold as possible with vine or strawberry leaves under each cup. Note.—Other fruits may be used as in season. Fruit Cups Ingredients— Four sweet oranges. One teacupful of black and white One lemon. '' Castor sugar to taste. A few grains of salt. Half a glass of sherry or liquet^f- One gill of cream. grapes. One teacupful of strawberries. Three bananas.