324 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Put the milk on to boil. Mix the flour and salt smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Pour it into the milk, stirring it all the time. Let it boil well for about ten minutes, keeping it well stirred. Pour it into a pie dish, shake a very little Demerara sugar over it and a few small lumps of butter. Serve it at once, or instead of the sugar serve separ- ately with it jam or treacle. Note.—If this pudding is liked with little balls of flour in it in the old-fashioned style, merely shake in the flour with one hand, and do not mix it with liquid first. Coffee Junket with Cream Ingredients— One pint of milk. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. A few grains of salt. About one teaspoonful of coffee extract, or one tablespoonful of very strong black coffee. Rennet powder or tablets, accord- ing to the directions issued with them. One gill of cream. Method.—Warm the milk with the sugar and salt until it feels quite warm, but not hot to the finger. Add the coffee. Dissolve the rennet powder smoothly in a little cold milk. Add it and pour the junket into a junket bowl or glass dish. Place it on ice, or in a cool place until needed. Just before serving, heap the whipped and sweetened cream over the top. Thin unsweetened biscuits should accompany this sweet. Lemon Castles Ingredients— Two eggs. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. One teaspoonful of baking powder. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. One lemon. Method.—Well grease some small cups or moulds. Cream together the butter and sugar. Mix the flour, grated lemon rind, and baking powder. Beat the eggs with the butter, etc. Add the flour lightly, also the milk and lemon juice. Half fill the cups with the mixture. Cover them with a piece of buttered paper and steam them for three-quarters of an hour. Turn them out on to a hot dish and serve with jam sauce. Note.—If liked, oranges may be used in the place of lemon. The mixture can be baked instead of steamed, or made into one large pudding instead of the small ones.