199 BEEF same way ; the addition of a ham bone or a few ounces of ham to the veal will be found an improvement. Beef Collops Ingredients— One pound of topside of beef. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One tablespoonful of grated onion. Half a pint of stock. One level tablespoonful of flour. Salt and pepper. A slice of dry toast. Method.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water, dry it well, and cut it into small dice, removing all skin and gristle and leaving on very little fat. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the beef and onion and fry them a light brown, then shake in the flour and add the stock and seasoning. Cover the pan and let the contents simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Arrange it on a hot dish with a border round of sippets of toast or croutons. American Corned Beef Ingredients— Four pounds of brisket of beef Six allspice and cloves. salted. Ten peppercorns. Two carrots, turnips, and onions. A bunch of parsley, herbs, and Half a head of celery. bay leaf. Method.—Wash the meat well and soak it fora few hours, or overnight, if likely to be very salt, in cold water. Lay it in a pan with tepid water to cover it. Bring it slowly to boiling point and remove all scum. Then add the prepared vegetables cut in quarters, the bunch of herbs and the spice tied up in muslin. Simmer the beef very slowly for about three hours, or until it is so tender that it could be pulled in shreds with a fork. Let it remain till half cold in the water. Lift it out of the pan, remove any bones, pull it apart a little and pack it into a large square bread tin, or any tin of a suitable size and shape. Let the long fibres run the length of the tin, mixing in the fat so that it will be well marbled. Put on a board, or some lid, that is a little smaller than the tin, so that it will rest on the meat. On this lid put heavy weights so as to press the meat well down. Leave it till cold. Then turn it out and cut it as required in thin slices. Save the liquor it was cooked in for broths, etc., diluting it if too salt.