THE COMPLETE COOK 338 add a little more milk. Keep the pan covered and the rice very carefully stirred. Then add the sugar, lemon rind, butter, cherries, and one whole well-beaten egg. Cook the mixture for a minute or so to bind the egg, without, however, boiling it. Turn all out on to a plate, smooth it over evenly, divide it into even portions, and leave it until cold. Then shape it into balls or cork or pear shapes, brush each over with beaten egg, and roll in the crumbs. Fry the croquettes a golden brown in smoking hot fat, drain them on paper, and sprinkle them with sugar. Serve quickly with any good sweet sauce. Note.—Leave out the cherries, if liked, or other preserved fruit, such as chopped raisins, ginger, etc., can be used instead. Sefton Puddings Proceed as directed for Lemon Castles, but add two table- spoonfuls of chopped glacd cherries and the same of chopped peel instead of the lemon. Semolina, Sago, or Tapioca Pudding Ingredients— One pint of milk. One level tablespoonful of Three level tablespoonfuls of either Demerara sugar. semolina or sago or tapioca. A teaspoonful of butter or dripping. One egg. Nutmeg : a few grains of salt. Method.—Rub the pie dish thickly over with the butter, using it all. Rinse out a saucepan with cold water, pour in the milk, and when it boils sprinkle in the semolina gradually with one hand, and stir all the time with a spoon in the other. Boil it gently until the semolina has thickened the milk and does not sink. Add the sugar and salt. Let the pudding cool a little, then add the beaten egg. Pour the mixture into the pie dish. Grate a light dust of nutmeg over the top and bake it in a moderately hot oven until the top is lightly browned. Note.—The egg can be left out if wished. For a lighter pudding separate the white and yolk of the egg; stir in the yolk, and add the white, stiffly whipped, at the last. Condensed milk can be used, but if sweetened, leave out the sugar. Skimmed milk makes a cheaper pudding, then add a little more butter or dripping or finely scraped suet. Use other flavourings in- stead of nutmeg, if preferred.