STOCKS 123 i clean basin, through a hair or fine wire sieve, till needed, ^fter all the nutriment is extracted from the meat, etc., do lot attempt to make further use of the worthless residue of muscular fibre. It is dry, tasteless, and utterly useless as rood, rieeding much additional material to even make it palatable. Should the stock not be sufficiently dark, a little caramel ^burnt sugar) can be added; this is quite as effective and less trouble than browning the onions, which is sometimes done. Keep the cake of fat on the stock till it is needed, as the air is thus excluded and it will keep better. To Clear Stock for Consomme Remove all fat from the stock, and if it is in a jelly wipe the top of it over with a cloth wrung out in very hot water; this will absorb all grease, and unless this is done carefully the soup will not be clear. Should the stock be in a very stiff jelly, it is best to add a small amount of water, as so much gelatinous matter is likely to make it troublesome to clarify. If the stock has been boiled slowly, the fat carefully removed, and the straining done through 1 fine strainer, the stock will often be quite clear. Without clarifying, it must be reheated, then ladled, not poured out, very gently through a perfectly clean fine cloth, an Did table napkin answers the purpose admirably. The cloth should be laid in a colander, or sieve, over the basin. Do not squeeze the cloth, or stir its contents. Should the stock be :loudy, or if it is wanted particularly sparkling, it must be clarified in the following manner:— Ingredients to clarify two quarts of stock— Half a pound of raw lean beef. One small carrot, turnip, and onion. One shell and raw white of egg. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Method.—Remove all fat from the beef, wash the lean quickly and pass it through a mincing machine or chop it finely. Put it into a saucepan with the stock, which should be cold, or only warmed enough to melt the jelly. Whisk the beef into the stock and let it soak for ten minutes. Wash the egg shells, crush, and add them, also the white whipped to a light froth, the prepared vegetables left whole and the herbs. Whisk all over a slow fire till the stock boils. Let it boil well up, then draw the pan aside and let it settle for ten minutes. It is then ready to strain gently through a clean, fine cloth in the same way as described above ; or the cloth may be tied over the legs of an