168 THE COMPLETE COOK pieces. If it is likely to be very salt, do this in water, that will remove enough of it without soaking it. Peel and quarter the potatoes. Put the fish and potatoes into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them. Boil the two gently till the potatoes are soft. Drain off the water, stand the pan un- covered by the side of the fire for a few minutes to dry the potatoes. Then mash and beat the fish and potatoes till they are very light. Add the butter and seasoning. Beat and mix the egg well in. Shape the mixture in a tablespoon without smoothing the rounded top too much, scoop it out with a second spoon (see Illustration of Quenelles'), and lay about five at a time in a frying basket. Place the latter in a pan of smoking hot fat and fry them a light brown. Or, the shapes may be scooped out and slipped at once into the fat without using a basket. Drain the balls on paper and serve as quickly as possible. Fish Cakes Ingredients— Half a pound of cooked fish. Four well rounded tablespoonfuls of cooked potatoes. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One hard-boiled egg. Two raw eggs. Salt: pepper. Breadcrumbs and frying fat. Method.—Remove all bone and skin from the fish, do this if possible while it is still warm, as it will take far less time. Break it up with a fork into small pieces. Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve, or potato masher. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the potato, heat it, and beat it well to lighten it. Add the fish, the egg cut in small dice, seasoning, and the yolk of one raw egg. Heat the mixture thoroughly to bind it with the egg. If it seems crumbly, add a little milk. When hot spread it evenly on a plate and mark it out in equal divisions. Leave the mixture till cold. Shape each division into round balls, then flatten them lightly into round cakes about half an inch thick. Beat up the remaining raw egg on a plate. Brush the cakes over with it, then cover them with the crumbs. Flatten these in order to make the surface even, and fry a few cakes at a time in smoking fat, until a golden brown. Drain them on paper. Arrange them neatly on a lace paper on a hot dish. Garnish if possible with fried parsley. Note.—Any kind of fresh or salted fish can be used for this dish, or a mixture of fish scraps. Should there be any fish sauce left over, it should be used instead of the butter and raw yolk. A little chopped parsley is often used instead of the hard-boiled