THE COMPLETE COOK 340 Fruit Tapioca Ingredients— One teacupful of tapioca. Three breakfastcupfuls of water. Four tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two breakfastcupfuls of any ripe fruit, such as raspberries, cherries, or tinned peaches, apricots, etc. Method.—Crush the tapioca as finely as possible. Wash it well and soak it overnight in half of the cold water. Next turn the soaked tapioca into a double saucepan, if possible, with the rest of the water, and boil it gently until quite soft and trans- parent; keep it well stirred. Add the sugar, salt, strained lemon juice, and the prepared fruit. Pour the mixture into a glass dish and serve as icy cold as possible with sugar and cream or custard. Note.—The mixture must flow smoothly into the dish, not be rocky. If liked, make it a little stiffer and mould it, turning it out when cold. If liked, about six tablespoonfuls of jam or jelly can be stirred well in, instead of fresh fruit, or small sago may be used instead of tapioca. A few grains of salt. The juice of one lemon. Cream or custard. Treacle Ingredients— One and a quarter heaped break- fastcupfuls of flour. Six small tablespoonfuls of treacle. One and a half breakfastcupfuls of chopped suet. Sponge One egg. One level teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. About four tablespoonfuls of milk. Two teaspoonfuls of ground ginger. Metiiod.—Mix together the flour, ginger, and suet. Stir in the treacle. Beat up the egg, add it with enough milk to mix the whole into a stiff batter. Lastly, add the carbonate of soda dissolved in a little milk; mix it well. Put the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin and cover the top with a piece of greased paper. Put the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to come half-way up it and steam it steadily for two hours. Turn it on to a hot dish and serve with it sweet melted butter sauce or some treacle heated with the addition of a little lemon juice. A Simple Trifle Ingredien ts— One Swiss roll or a round of jam One gill of cream, sandwich. Vanilla. Half a pint of boiled custard. Castor sugar. One white of egg. A dozen glac^ cherries.