460 THE COMPLETE COOK A Steamed Batter Pudding Ingredients— Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. One gill of milk. Two eggs. A little salt. Method.—Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Make a well in the middle, put in the eggs and stir the flour gradually into them, taking great care the batter does not get lumpy. Next add to it gradually half the milk, and beat it well until the surface is covered with bubbles. Add the rest of the milk and let the batter stand for one hour. Thickly butter a pudding basin, pour in the batter and twist a piece of buttered paper over the top of the basin. Steam it gently for two hours. Turn it carefully on to a hot dish and serve it immediately, as it spoils when it begins to cool. Hand with it any nice sweet sauce. Cream and Rice higredients— One level tablespoonful of Caro- Half a gill of cream. lina rice. Two teaspoonfuls of sherry. Half a pint of milk. Castor sugar to taste. Method.—Wash the rice, put it into boiling milk and let it simmer very slowly till the rice is quite soft and has absorbed all the milk. Keep the lid on the pan, but stir the rice often. It should be quite thick when it is cooked enough. Whip the cream till it will just hang on the whisk. Stir it lightly into the rice, add the sherry and sugar to taste. Serve it heaped up in custard glasses or on fancy plates. Note.—If permitted, stewed fruit is an excellent accompani- ment to this dish. Custard Shape Ingredie7its— Two eggs and two extra yolks. Two and a half sheets of gelatine. Half a pint of milk. Vanilla or brandy to taste. Two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Beat up the eggs and the two extra yolks. Put the sugar and milk in a saucepan, bring it to boiling point, let it cool slightly, then pour it gradually on to the eggs, whisking them all the time. Strain the mixture into a jug, place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir the custard in the jug till it thickens but on no account boils. Keep the water round the jug gently boiling. Dissolve the