THE COMPLETE COOK 132 leaves with the short pieces of asparagus. As usual serve this soup in a hot tureen. Beetroot Ingredien ts— One large cooked beetroot. One quart of stock. Half a gill of cream or milk. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Soup Three sticks of celery. One shallot. One clove. Half a small lettuce. A bunch of parsley and herbs. A few drops of cochineal (if needed). Method.—Peel the beetroot, slice it thinly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and chopped shallot. Stir these over a slow fire for five minutes without browning them. Add the stock and stir these over the fire till the soup boils. Add the bunch of herbs, clove, shredded celery, and beetroot. Boil the soup gently for about twenty-five minutes, if cooked for too long the colour is spoilt. Pour the soup on to a hair sieve and rub through enough of the beetroot to make the soup a good colour and consistency. Add the cream, and season it. The colour should be a fairly deep pink, so, if the beetroot is a bad colour, add cautiously a drop or two of cochineal. Wash, dry, and shred the lettuce finely. Put it into the hot tureen and pour the soup on to it. Serve with rounds of fried bread cut the size and thickness of a shilling. Bonne Femme Soup Ingyedieyits— One quart of boiling white stock. One gill of milk or cream. Three raw yolks of eggs. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Four leaves of sorrel. Four sprigs of chervil. Six leaves of tarragon. Two small lettuces. About four inches of cucumber. Salt: pepper : castor sugar. Method.—Carefully wash the tarragon, sorrel, lettuces, and chervil. Cut them all into fine shreds. Peel the cucumber and cut it also into thin strips. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Add all the vegetables and toss them in the butter over a gentle heat for five minutes; they must not colour. Add the stock and half a level teaspoonful of castor sugar and a dust of salt. Boil the soup gently about half an hour, or till the vegetables are tender. Then draw the pan off the fire for a minute or so. Beat the yolks of eggs with