SOUFFLES 345 Method.—Before measuring the flour dry it in a cool oven, but it must not colour in the least. Rub it through a sieve. Put the butter and water into a stewpan ; when they boil add the flour; take the pan off the fire, and beat it in smoothly. Cook this mixture over a very gentle heat until it will leave the sides of the pan without sticking to them. Cool the mixture slightly, and well beat in the eggs one by one. Add the castor sugar, vanilla, and salt. Have ready a deep pan half full of clean fat, so hot that a very faint smoke is rising from it. Have two dessertspoons, dip each in the fat, and fill one nearly full of the mixture and scoop it out with the other into the fat. When the pan is full enough, fry them slowly for about eight to ten minutes. If the fat gets too hot they will be too dark a brown before the inside is hollow and light. At first the shapes sink, but then rise, and will need turning. When a golden brown, drain the beignets on paper, dust them with icing sugar which has been rubbed through a hair sieve, and serve them very quickly, piled up on a hot dish. Jam or wine sauce may be served with them. Brown Bread Souffle Ingredients— One gill of milk. One gill of cream. Two level breakfastcupfuls of brown breadcrumbs. Four eggs. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Grated rind of one lemon. One level teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. One teaspoonful of vanilla. Method—Prepare a souffle tin as directed for Vanilla SoufiflA Melt the butter, add the milk, cream, and lemon rind, bring these to boiling point and shake in the crumbs. Let these boil gently for about two minutes, stirring them well. Take the pan off the fire, add the sugar, cinnamon, and, when these are slightly cooled, the beaten yolks of eggs. Add vanilla to taste. Beat the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth and add them lightly. Pour the mixture into the prepared tin, cover the top with a round of greased paper, and steam the souffle very gently for about one hour, or until it_feels spongy in the centre. Let it stand a minute, then turn it out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve with some good sauce. Note.—All milk and no cream can be used if wished, and sherry instead of cinnamon and vanilla flavouring.