CLEAR SOUPS 129 Method.—Pound the poultry, spinach, ham, cheese, onion, ream, and yolk together, then rub them through a fine wire ieve and season the mixture carefully. Roll out the Nouilles ’aste very thinly. Cut it into strips about an inch and a half dde. Put about half a teaspoonful of the sieved mixture in ittle heaps at regular intervals down one strip. Moisten round :ach heap with beaten egg or water. Lay another strip gently )ver this first one, pressing it down gently but firmly round ;ach heap so as to join the strips where they were moistened, stamp out each heap from the strip, with a round cutter the lize of a two-shilling piece. See that the edges of each round ire closed. Boil the ravioli for nearly ten minutes in plenty of soiling salted water. Lift them out, drain them on a clean cloth ind add them to the boiling consommd. Clear Soup with Rice {Consomme au Riz) Ingredients— One quart of clear soup. Two tablespoonfuls of Carolina rice. Method.—Wash the grains and cook them till tender, but lot broken, in plenty of boiling stock or water. When cooked itrain off the water, rinse the rice well in fresh boiling water to leparate the grains, and add it to the boiling clear soup, season carefully and serve in a hot tureen. Croutes of bread he size and thickness of a shilling should be handed with the ;oup. Note.—Cooked pearl barley, sago, or tapioca can be used nstead of rice. Clear Soup k la Royale Ingredients— One quart of clear soup. r ^^^ole egg and two extra yolks. For the savoury custard . . -! One gill of stock. [Seasoning. Method.—To make the savoury custard for the garnish. Beat the egg and extra yolks till mixed, but not frothy, idd the gill of stock and season the mixture to taste. Thickly butter a small clean jam jar, strain in the custard and twist a piece of greased paper over the top. Stand this jar in a sauce- pan with enough boiling water to come barely half-way up the jar. Put on the lid and let the water round the jar bubble very slightly for about twenty minutes or till the custard is solid. If the water boils or even bubbles a little too much, the custard will resemble a honeycomb; it should be solid all 9