THE COMPLETE COOK 390 it inside the case. Bake it for about ten minutes in a quick oven and serve at once, standing the case on a lace paper. Note.—A fireproof dish might be used, instead of the case of bread, if wished. Cheese Puffs Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of grated Cheddar cheese. Four level tablespoonfuls of dried white crumbs. Four raw whites of eggs. Salt : cayenne. Frying fat. Method.—Put the pan of fat on to heat. Put aside two teaspoonfuls of the Parmesan cheese, and mix all the remaining cheese with the crumbs and season them carefully. Whip the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth. Stir these lightly into the cheese and crumbs. When a faint smoke is rising from the fat, put in small balls of the mixture!; they should be about the size of a medium-sized marble. Or, the mixture can be forced out into the fat by means of a forcing bag and pipe. Fry them a light golden brown, drain them on kitchen paper, sprinkle a little Parmesan cheese over each and serve immediately, heaped up on a hot dish on a lace dish paper. Baked Cheese Souffles higredients— One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Two whole eggs and one extra white. One teacupful of milk. Salt : cayenne : nutmeg. Method.—Lightly brush over with oiled butter the insides of some small paper, or fireproof china ramekin cases. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk and stir all over the fire until the “panada” thickens. Take the pan off the fire, add the cheese, keeping back about two teaspoonfuls of it. When the mixture has cooled slightly, beat in the yolks of egg one at a time, season the mixture carefully and stir in lightly the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Half fill the cases with it, and bake the souffles in a quick oven for about ten to twelve minutes. When well puffed up and browned, sprinkle the surface of each with a little of the cheese put aside, and serve immediately.