48 THE COMPLETE COOK Red Mullet should be a bright rose colour. Eels are best bought alive to ensure absolute freshness. Silvery eels about one and a half pounds in weight are usually preferred. Trout.—The spots on the skin should be very clear, and the skin bright. Sprats and Herrings.—The scales must be very silvery and not much knocked off; the eyes clear, if greatly suffused with blood the fish is stale. Plaice.—The body thick ; the orange spots clear and bright; the skin tight, unwrinkled, and of a pinkish, not bluish tint, on the white side. Soles.—Thick in body; creamy, not bluish white under- neath; the skin tight and unwrinkled. Turbot, Brill, and Halibut.—The same as soles. Smelts.—When perfectly fresh, have a faint odour, sug- gestive of a cucumber newly cut. Lobster, Crabs, Prawns, and Shrimps should be heavy for their size. The tails should clip tightly against the bodies, and spring back sharply into position when pulled out straight and then loosened. Lobsters with white shell-like incrustations over the shells are probably aged and stringy. Hen lobsters, with large eggs under the body, will be watery, light, and in poor condition. Lobsters having broad tails, thick shells, with some black markings, are usually the best. Oysters. — Small varieties, with fairly smooth shells, are usually preferred. The shell should close sharply on the knife when it is inserted. If the shell is even a little open, the fish is not in its primary freshness, and if it remains open, it is dead and is not fit to eat. Poultry Rules applicable to all Varieties The weight should be great in proportion to size, but an overfat bird is not economical, and owing to the flesh being greasy, it is less digestible and delicate in flavour. The feet should be large in comparison to the size, the spurs very small and round, the legs and feet smooth and supple, with the scales hardly overlapping one another. Also the toes should break easily, if bent backwards. The skin should be thin and smooth, if coarse and hairy the bird is of inferior quality or old.