50 THE COMPLETE COOK Partridges, when young, have dark bills, and the quill feathers in the wings are pointed at the end like a V, but in old birds they become rounded. The legs should be of a yellowish colour. Old birds have a mark almost like a horse- shoe on the breast feathers. Cock birds have a reddish brown plumage, hens a light brown. French and Russian birds, though a little larger and cheaper, are of inferior flavour. Hares should have smooth, sharp claws, the cleft in the lip should be narrow, and the ears soft and easily torn across. A leveret is best for roasting purposes. Grouse.—The birds with very handsome plumage are usually too old for anything but the stockpot or stewing, and age will also stiffen the bones of the legs and thighs considerably. Vegetables All vegetables must be as fresh as possible, many varieties cannot indeed be cooked too soon after picking them, and they become positively unwholesome when stale. Pods, leaves, and stalks begin to lose bulk and flavour as soon as cut. The freshness of nearly all vegetables may be judged by noting if they are crisp and the colour bright. Should they show signs of being flabby, or withered, they are stale. Pods and stalks should snap across easily when they are bent in the fingers. Caulijlower.—The flower must be firm, close, and a creamy white, the leaves round the flower being green and crisp. Cucumbers.—These must be very stiff and thick. Peas.—The pods should be crisp and bright green with no sign of yellow. They should be full, but if very large they are apt to be old. If the peas be heard to rattle in the pods, they are worthless. Potatoes.—Those with rough skins are usually the most floury when boiled. Select those free from “eyes,” and remember large ones will be the most economical, as there is less waste in peeling them. New Potatoes must have rough, ragged-looking skins, easily scraped off with the finger nail. Celery should be very wide, thick, stiff, and snap across easily. Miscellaneous Flour.—This must have no musty or unpleasant smell, or acid taste. To the touch it must feel smooth, not gritty or greasy, and when a little is squeezed together in the hand, it