311 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Bilberry Cakes Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of flour. One breakfastcupful of milk. One teacupful of castor sugar. Three level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of Half a teaspoonful of salt. One egg. One heaped breakfastcupful of bilberries. butter. Method.—Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar until soft. Add the yolk of egg and beat it well. Stir in the milk gradually, add this mixture slowly and smoothly to the flour, beat it thoroughly and add the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Have the berries picked over, washed, lightly dried, and dredged with a little flour; be careful not to break them ; stir them lightly into the flour, etc. Bake the cake mixture in greased shallow pans, deep patty tins, or buttered saucers, for about half an hour. Note.—Sour milk may be used instead of fresh, then leave out the baking powder and use half a level teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Sliced apples, or red or black currants may take the place of the bilberries, or whinberries, or huckleberries, as they are also called. One tablespoonful of marmalade. Method.—Butter a pie dish. Spread just a little marmalade on each slice of bread and butter. Beat the eggs, mix them with the sugar, salt, and half the milk. Lay the slices in the dish, pour in the custard, add and mix in as much more of the milk as the dish will hold. Let the pudding soak for half an hour, or much longer if the bread is very hard. Stand the dish in a deep tin with water round the dish and bake the pudding very slowly until lightly browned. Note.—Usually the slices of bread and butter left from some meal are used, but it makes really a lighter pudding if the bread is quite half an inch thick. This enables any wedges of bread left from dinner to be buttered and used. Jam may be used instead of marmalade, but is hardly as nice, or currants, or sultanas instead of either. Bread and Butter Pudding Ingredients— One pint of milk. Two eggs. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Slices of bread and butter to barely half fill the dish. A few grains of salt.