4/1 DIET FOR INFANTS AND CHILDREN Method.—Cut the white by slightly beating it with a fork. Put it into a clean medicine bottle with the water and shake it until thoroughly well mixed. Give one or more spoonfuls at a time. There is no taste to this, and the egg being albumen in its purest and most digestible form makes it most valuable. DIET FOR INFANTS AND CHILDREN Infants Infant mortality, and how it may be decreased from its present high rate, is a subject of national importance. The ignorance of mothers is the main cause of such loss of life, so every authority agrees; and though there are doubtless other issues responsible, still the majority of women certainly do not realise that a child’s constitution all through life is made or marred by its diet during infancy or childhood. If mothers are able to nurse the babies for some months, and the children thrive, all is simplicity itself. The trouble begins when children, for any reason, have to be reared by hand; that is, when bottles have to be resorted to. It is impossible to lay down hard-and-fast rules for feeding infants. One child will need more or less food, shorter or longer intervals between each meal, the proportions varied, etc. Mothers and nurses must use their eyes and common sense; see if the child thrives and is increasing in weight-, if not, something is wrong in the diet, and it will be wise to consult their medical adviser. The following rules will, however, be a slight guidance to those who lack experience and who are not able to obtain a good experienced nurse. How often to Feed Infants First month.—Every two hours in the day and three hours at night. Average amount, 1-2 ounces in each bottle. Second month.—Same intervals as above. Average amount, 3-4 ounces. Third and fourth months.—Same intervals as for first month. Average amount, 4-5 ounces. The next six months.—Every three hours during the day and four hours during the night, gradually giving longer intervals. Average amount, 6 ounces. At twelve months.—A little broth, custard, or milk pudding may be allowed. Mashed potato in gravy is enjoyed, but the