348 THE COMPLETE COOK Pistachio Ingi’edients— One gill of cream. Three tablespoonfuls of pistachio nuts. One and a half tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. The whites of two eggs. Souffles Two and a half sheets of gelatine. Brandy or vanilla and orange flower water to taste. Green colouring. A little wine jelly. Method.—Prepare some small paper souffle cases by pinning a band of foolscap paper round outside each to stand an inch above the case. Shell and pound the nuts, then rub them through a hair sieve. Mix them with the sugar and orange flower water and other flavourings. Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, stir it lightly into the pounded nuts. Dissolve the gelatine in a tablespoonful of hot water and strain it when cooled slightly into the cream and nuts. Whisk the whites of the eggs very stiffly and add them with a drop or two of colouring very lightly to the mixture. Pour the mixture into the cases, it should come about half-way up the paper. Leave them until set. Lastly, pour on the top of each warmed wine jelly to the depth of a third of an inch, and leave it until .set. Damp the paper bands and draw them gently off. Sprinkle a little finely chopped pistachio nut on the top, and serve in the cases. Praline Ingredients— Three eggs. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two and a half sheets of French gelatine. Four and a half level tablespoon- fuls of grated chocolate. Souffle Two ounces of almond rock. Two tablespoonfuls of boiling water. One gill of cream. Two or three tablespoonfuls of milk. Two dozen preserved violets. Method.—Prepare a china souffle case by pinning a band of foolscap paper round outside it to come about three or four inches above the case. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Put the former into a basin with the sugar. Put the basin over a pan of boiling water, and whisk until the mixture looks “ ropy.” Dissolve the gelatine in the boiling water, and melt the chocolate gently in the milk. Pound the almond rock in a mortar. Add the strained gelatine, chocolate, and almond rock to the eggs and sugar. Whisk the whites of the eggs stiffly and the cream until it hangs on the whisk, stir these lightly into the mixture. Put the mixture into the case and