542 THE COMPLETE COOK Oyster Cocktail Ingredients— About six small oysters. One or two teaspoonfuls of Sauce No. I or No. 2. Method.—Keep the oysters on ice until wanted, and have the glass thoroughly chilled before filling it. When ready to serve, beard the oysters and put them in the glass. Add one or two teaspoonfuls, according 1 No. I Ingredients— One teaspoonful of grated horse- radish. One teaspoonful of tomato catsup. One level saltspoonful of salt. Half a saltspoonful of cayenne. Half a teaspoonful of tobasco. Two tablespoonfuls of lemon juice. Method.—Mix all thoroughly to- gether. This is enough for six “ cocktails.” taste, of Sauce No. i or No. 2. No. 2 Ingredie7i ts— One tablespoonful of lemon juice. One tablespoonful of Worcester sauce. One tablespoonful of tomato cat- sup. Half a saltspoonful of paprika. One level saltspoonful of salt. Five drops of tobasco. Method.—Mix all well together. Rhubarb Wine Ingredients— Eight pounds of rhubarb. Two lemons. Four quarts of cold water. Three pieces of whole ginger. Seven breakfastcupfuls of loaf Three dried red chillies. sugar. Method.—Wash the rhubarb, cut off the root part and leaves. Cut it into half-inch lengths and put these into a large earthen- ware pan with cold water. Cover it, and let it stand for five days, stirring it twice a day. Strain the liquid off into a clean pan, and throw away the rhubarb. Add the sugar to the liquid and leave it for a day or two until the sugar has dissolved ; stir it frequently and pour it into a clean cask or stone jar. Add the rinds and the strained juice of the lemons, the chillies, and the ginger, after bruising it slightly with a rolling-pin. Cork it down tightly, look at it about once a week, and if the liquid has decreased with fermentation, fill up with more water. When it has stopped working, that is, fizzing and bubbling, strain out the lemon, ginger, etc. Colour it the tint of pale sherry, with burnt sugar. Put it back in the cask or jar for three months, then bottle and cork it tightly. In three months’ time it may be used, but the longer it is kept the better.