209 MUTTON AND LAMB To Cure a Bullock’s Liver for Gravies, etc. Ingredients— One bullock’s liver. One pound of moist sugar. One pound or rather more of common salt. One ounce of saltpetre. Method.—Select a perfectly fresh liver. Wash it in tepid salted water. Put it in an earthenware vessel and rub it well all over with moist sugar. Let it lie for four hours with the sugar on it, then add the rest of the ingredients. Rub the liver well with them and turn it every day for three weeks. Then hang it up in a cool dry place to dry and harden. Cut off pieces as required for flavouring gravies and sauces. As soon as the liver is dry, hang it up in a muslin bag. This keeps for a long time and is most handy to store, especially in the country. One ounce of bay salt. One ounce of ground cloves. One ounce of allspice. Half an ounce of black pepper. MUTTON AND LAMB Fried Mutton Cutlets (Illustrated) Ingredients— Two pounds of best end neck of mutton. One egg. About a breakfastcupful of dried white crumbs. Half a pint of a good brown or tomato sauce. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter or beef dripping. Salt: pepper. Method.—Remove the spine or chine bone, as it is called, of the mutton : saw the ends of the rib bones, leaving the cutlet bones about three inches long. Divide the mutton into cutlets (see Illustration). Scrape half an inch of the ends of the cutlet bones free from meat, fat, and skin. Slightly flatten each cutlet with a cutlet bat dipped in cold water, to keep it from sticking, or a heavy knife. Then trim the meat of the cutlets neatly, avoid unnecessary waste, and leave a n-rrow rim of fat round each. Save all trimming and bones for some other dish. Beat up the egg, season it with a little salt and pepper. Dip the cutlets in the crumbs, holding them by the end of the bone, then in beaten egg, then again in the crumbs. Flatten the crumbs with a dry knife. Heat the butter in a saute or frying pan, till it nearly stops bubbling; lay in a few cutlets at a time and fry them a bright golden brown on each side. The time varies with the thickne.ss; if liked underdone they 14