382 THE COMPLETE COOK fashion in a hot dish, and serve as hot as possible. This makes an excellent and economical supper dish. Note.—Cooked rice left over from some meal may be used instead of boiling it purposely, but it will not be so well flavoured as if boiled in stock, so add more butter, seasoning, and, if liked, a little Worcester or other bottled sauce. Savoury Rice Croquettes Ingredients— A breakfastcupful of well-boiled rice. Two raw eggs. Four tablespoonfuls of milk. One level tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Half a teacupful of shelled shrimps. One teaspoonful of flour. Salt and cayenne. Breadcrumbs : frying fat. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk and stir until the mixture boils well. Add the rice and, when very hot, one of the eggs well beaten. Re-heat these without boiling, mix in the parsley, shrimps, and seasoning. Spread the mixture on a plate until cold. Shape it into small rolls barely as long and no thicker than the little finger of the average size adult. Brush these with the other beaten egg, cover them with crumbs. Fry the rolls in smoking hot fat until a golden brown, and drain them on paper. Serve very hot, garnished with fried parsley. Note.—Prawns cut in pieces, quartered oysters, pieces of lobster may be used instead of shrimps, or dice of chickens’ livers, ham, mushrooms, etc. Sardine Eclairs Ingredients— Six sardines. A little anchovy paste. One yolk of egg. Puff or rough puff pastry. Method.—Roll out the pastry thinly and cut it into pieces about two and a half inches wide. Remove the heads, tails, and skins from the sardines. Spread a little anchovy paste on each piece of pastry. Lay a sardine on one half, wet the edge of the pastry, and fold over the other half, pressing the edges together. Trim neatly and brush each over with beaten yolk of egg. Place them on a greased baking tin, and bake them in a quick oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Serve them either hot or cold. Note.—Strips of other varieties of cooked fish may be used instead of sardines.