PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 327 easily. Brush the board on one side very slightly with salad oil, cover it with foolscap paper. Put the whites in a basin with a pinch of salt and whisk them to a very stiff froth. Add the sugar lightly, if it is stirred in too much the mixture begins to get watery. Shape the mixture either with two dessertspoons, in the same way as Quenelles are formed (see Illustration of shaping Quenelles), or use a plain large forcer. Meringues are usually about the shape and size of half an egg, but may be made round and any size desired. Arrange them in rows about an inch apart on the foolscap and dust each well with more castor sugar. Bake them in a very slow oven for about an hour and a half; they must be barely tinted straw colour when they are taken out, so the cooler the oven the better. When done, loosen them carefully off the paper, gently crush in the soft part underneath so as to leave a hollow shell. They need very delicate handling. Place them on a tin, hollow side uppermost, either in a warm oven overnight, or in a warm dry place. If packed when quite cold in dry airtight tins, these meringue cases will keep for weeks, and are very useful to have at hand should unexpected guests turn up. To fill the cases, whip, sweeten, and flavour a little cream, put a spoonful of it into each case and press them gently together in pairs. They must be filled just at the last moment before serving, otherwise the meringues will crumble. Lemon Meringues Proceed as directed for Meringues, but add the grated rind of one lemon to the sugar before stirring it into the whites. The cream may be slightly flavoured with lemon also. Mincemeat Ingredients— Four breakfastcupfuls of chopped suet. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of chopped raisins. Two breakfastcupfuls of currants. Four medium-sized apples grated. Two level breakfastcupfuls of Demerara sugar. One piece of candied orange peel chopped. One piece of candied lemon peel chopped. A slice or two of citron chopped. The grated rind and juice of two lemons. One tablespoonful of chopped almonds. One heaped teaspoonful of pudding spice. Four powdered cloves. Quarter of a pint each of port wine and brandy, or Half a pint of cider, or home- made wine. Half a teaspoonful of salt.