183 FISH cutter. Mark a ring in the centre with a cutter three sizes smaller, and with the same cutter stamp out some extra rounds for lids. Bake the cases and lids in a very quick oven until they are a pale brown, then remove the marked round carefully, put them on one side and hollow out the cases carefully. Put the oysters with their liquor in a saucepan and bring them almost to boiling point, or until they puff up slightly. Strain off the liquor and save it. Beard the oysters and cut each in three. Put the beards in a pan with the milk and let them simmer gently for ten minutes. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the oyster liquor and enough of the milk or fish stock to make it three-quarters of a pint. Stir this till it boils, add the lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste. When it is slightly cooled, add the beaten yolk of egg and the oysters. Stir them over the fire for a minute or so to cook the egg. Fill in the cases with the mixture, heaping it up slightly, and place the little lids of pastry on the top. Serve these hot or cold. Note.—If liked two tablespoonfuls of cream may be used and the yolk of egg omitted. Prepare these as for Oyster Patties, using a lightly filled breakfastcup of coarsely chopped lobster meat instead of oysters, and also about two teaspoonfuls of anchovy essence. There is no other way of cooking the oyster in which the natural flavour is so fully developed. Wash and scrub the unopened shells. Place them on a baking tin with the rounded side of the shells downwards, this holds the juice. Place the tin in a hot oven, or on the top of a hot stove, or the shells may be fixed on a gridiron over a sharp fire for ten to twenty minutes. When the shells open wide, the oysters are cooked sufficiently. Remove the upper shell, season the oysters with a little salt, cayenne, vinegar, or lemon juice, and a scrap of butter, and serve at once in the lower shells. Lobster Patties Oysters Cooked in the Shells Smothered Oysters Ingredients— Two dozen oysters and their liquor. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. A few drops of lemon juice. A dust of white pepper.