THE COMPLETE COOK 420 bits of butter on the top. Bake in a quick oven for about four or five minutes, or till the egg is set, according to individual taste. Serve at once. Note.—Chopped game, or chicken, or cheese may be used instead of ham. Guinea-fowls’ eggs thus cooked make a delicious dish, and for those who like large and strong flavoured eggs, ducks’ or turkeys’ are excellent. An “ au gratin ” dish can replace the shells; the dish is then called “ Eggs au Gratin.” Egg Ingredien ts— Three hard-boiled eggs. One raw egg. One level tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of milk. Cutlets A level teaspoonful of curry powder. Half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. .Salt and pepper. Bread. Frying fat. Method.—Melt the butter in a small pan, add the flour and curry powder, and cook them over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Add the milk and stir over the fire until the mixture leaves the sides of the pan without sticking. Chop and add the hard-boiled eggs, salt, pepper, and lemon juice to taste. Turn the mixture on to a plate, spread it level and let it cool. Shape it into neat small cutlets, brush them over with beaten egg and coat them with crumbs. Fry them a golden brown in smoking hot fat, drain them on paper, and serve them on a lace paper garnished with fried parsley and slices of lemon. Egg Fritters Ingredients— Three hard-boiled eggs. Breadcrumbs. Two sardines. A little vinegar. Salt and pepper. Frying fat. One raw egg. Method.—the eggs for twenty minutes, then lay them in cold water and cut them in halves lengthways. Take out the yolks without breaking the whites. Skin and bone the sardines, mash them with a fork, then add the yolks, seasoning, and a little vinegar. Rub the mixture through a wire sieve, refill the cases of white, smoothing them evenly over. Brush each piece with beaten egg and cover it with crumbs. Fry them a golden brown in smoking hot fat and drain them on paper. Serve them on a hot dish garnished with slices of lemon and fried parsley. Note.—Sardine, or any other fish paste, may be used if liked.