429 INVALID COOKERY notice trifling neglects; such a notion should never be entertained, for it is taking an unfair advantage of the patient’s weakness. When the crisis of disease is past, the system needs gradual but complete nutrition, and the appetite is clamorous, fickle, or perhaps altogether wanting; this time is most critical for the patient and trying to the tact, skill, and patience of the nurse and cook. Then the test of skill comes in; to concoct little delicacies, vary the wearisome eggs and milk, give a novel touch of colour here or there, or use a new mould, or dish, even if the material must be the same, and thus tempt the capricious and fitful appetite. Give small quantities at short intervals is a rule that must be borne in mind. Should three tablespoonfuls of food every hour prove too much, try one and a half tablespoonfuls every half-hour, probably that will easily be assimilated; always give nourishment immediately after a long sleep. Try and anticipate the patients wants, so that he is spared the exertion of asking. For instance, recollect that thirst is always experienced when waking; or notice if some particular dish has been enjoyed, and suggest, or, better still, offer a second helping. Never,ask invalids what they woidd like to eat; let the food be a surprise as far as it is practicable, and avoid by all possible means the odours of cooking entering the sickroom. Serve less than the patient will probably reqtcire ; do not gauge his appetite by your own, or, by over-anxious zeal for his good, so overload the plate, or present such a generous cup of soup, that he is filled with a helpless loathing and, to solve the difficulty, refuses to partake at all. A whole jelly, pudding, custard, etc., made in a dish that holds the right amount for an invalid’s appetite, is far more appreciated than a small portion cut from a large mould. It is also more economical, as the latter soon becomes dry or dis- coloured when once turned out and cut. When the meal is over, remove immediately every trace of food from the room. Keep in the sickroom choice fruit or delicacies, which have been sent to the patient, only just long enough to gratify the eye, then remove them to a cool place, to be re-served when required as fresh and daintily as possible. Food will deteriorate in the atmosphere of the room, especially in the case of milk or foods with much milk in their preparation. Of course, exception must be made where, owing to circumstances, the patient has to be left alone for any con-