165 FISH half raw. If a pan of shallow fat is used, the steaks must be turned, so as to brown both sides. When cooked, drain the fish on paper, remove the thread or skewer if either was used, and serve the steaks neatly arranged on a fish paper on a hot dish. Garnish it with cut lemon and fried parsley. Hand with this dish any suitable fish sauce, such as oyster, shrimp, egg, etc. To Dress Ingredients— One good-sized heavy crab. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of fresh crumbs. About two or three tablespoonfuls of salad oil. a Crab About one or two tablespoonfuls of vinegar. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Two ounces of butter. Salt : pepper. Method.—If possible choose a crab with large claws. Break off the large and small claws. Lay the crab on its back, pull back the flap under its body, pull it right out and commence to remove the flesh from the shell. Take care that the little bag near the head, usually full of sand, etc., is taken out. Throw away all bone and finny pieces. The flesh is of two kinds, some firm and white, the rest soft and dark. Separate the former into little shreds with a fork or skewer, also the white meat from the claws, which must be cracked in order to obtain it. Mix the dark soft substance with the crumbs, add oil, vinegar, and seasoning to taste. Toss the shredded white meat also in a little seasoning, but keep the two kinds separate. When the shell is empty wash and dry it well. Chip off the under portion of the shell within about an eighth of an inch of the edge: there will be found a faint line round, which is a guide where to chip. Fill the shell with the two mixtures, arranging them alternately, so that they appear in dark and white stripes. Have it heaped a little higher in the centre. Decorate the meat with lines of finely chopped parsley, and force a little butter round the edge with a forcing bag and pipe. Place the crab on a lace paper, or on a bed of fresh salad. Arrange some of the small claws in a circle round the shell. Note.—For a more elaborate decoration, use coral and green butters, instead of parsley and plain butter. For a simpler garnish use parsley and chopped white of egg and powdered ^olk, instead of forced butter.