14 THE COMPLETE COOK There are usually three flues, one behind the oven, the second behind the fire space, the third behind the boiler, or second oven, if the boiler is fixed behind the fire, which is the best plan. The Dampers are flat metal plates, which are pushed from the front of the stove into and horizontally across the flue passages. They can be pushed in or drawn out as desired. When pushed right in they close right across the flue, prevent- ing all draught or escape of smoke, etc.; when pulled out the flue is open and there is a sharp draught, and consequently the fire burns fiercely. These dampers can be arranged in any intermediate position desired, according to whether a large fire or not is wanted. Probable Daily Use of Dampers To Light the FPe.—Pull all three dampers fully out. To Heat Bath- Water and Kettle for Early Tea.—Pull centre one fully out and push the two others in. To Heat Oven for One o'clock Roast and Pastry Making.—Pull out the dampers over both pastry and roasting oven: push in centre one. To Keep in Low Fire for Four o'clock Tea.—Push in oven dampers: leave middle damper half out: make up fire with cinders. To Boil Tea Kettle and make Toast.—Pull middle damper only right out. Seven o'clock Dinner.—Push in middle damper and pull out both or one oven damper as required. To Burn dry Kitchen Refuse when Cooking is done.—Pull out all three dampers and shut up door in front of fire. If a Roaring Noise is heard., or Ovens Burn Food, or Top of Stove is Red-hot.—Push the dampers nearly in. Remember unless one damper is about half-way out, the smoke cannot escape, and it will force its way through the various cracks and joints of the stove. The Boiler should be of iron and “self-feeding,” as cooks rarely remember to fill it in good time. It is best fixed behind the firebricks in the fire grate. The “ saddle-back ” or “ arch ” boiler is much used, the flame being drawn from the fire, under the arch of the boiler, into the centre flue, the boiler acting as a big kettle. The Ovens should have two ventilators, that is: An Outlet from the oven into the flue, this is to carry off