THE COMPLETE COOK 164 Cod’s Roe, Fried Ingredients— One cod’s roe. Frying fat. One egg. Parsley : lemon. Breadcrumbs : vinegar : salt. Method.—Well wash the roe without breaking the skin if possible. Should the skin break, wrap the roe up in a piece of fine muslin while cooking it. Then place it in a saucepan of slightly salted water, to which add half a tablespoonful of vinegar. Boil the roe gently for twenty-five minutes. Lift it out and lay it in cold water till a little cooled, then press it very lightly between two tins to flatten it slightly. Before the roe is quite cold, remove the plates and carefully peel off the outer skin ; the roe should be quite firm if nearly cold. With a sharp knife cut it into rounds about half an inch thick. Brush these over with beaten egg, cover them with the breadcrumbs, and fry until a golden brown in hot fat. Drain the rounds on paper and arrange them neatly on a hot dish garnished with parsley. Serve with fried parsley and cut lemon. Note.—Tomato sauce makes an excellent accompaniment to this dish. Cod’s Steaks, Fried Ingredients— Three cod’s steaks. Breadcrumbs. One egg. Frying fat. One tablespoonful of oiled butter. Salt : pepper. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped One lemon ; fried parsley. parsley. Method.—Wash and dry the steaks, which should be cut about three-quarters of an inch thick. If the skin of any of the steaks has been cut through for cleaning purposes, fold the flaps of skin over each other neatly and bind round a piece of thread, or skewer the edges together with a fine pointed match to prevent them opening. Sprinkle the steaks with a few drops of lemon juice, and a little salt and pepper. Beat up the egg on a plate, mix it with the parsley and oiled butter. Brush each steak over with this mixture. Cover them with the crumbs, flatten these down smoothly and fry the steaks in hot fat for about ten to twelve minutes. The fat must have a faint smoke rising from it when the fish is first put in; then lessen the heat till the cooking is done, otherwise the exterior will be far too dark, and inside the fish will be