267 VEGETABLES butter, hang them in a Dutch oven before a clear fire, and roast them fqr about ten to fifteen minutes, turning them frequently. Serve in the same way as Boiled Corn. Cassolettes of Cucumber higredients— One cucumber. Two or more tomatoes. One raw egg. Four tablespoonfuls of brown or A little chopped parsley or truffle. white sauce. Breadcrumbs. - Salt and pepper. Four tablespoonfuls of minced game, meat, or poultry. Method.—Peel the cucumber thinly and cut it in blocks two and a half inches long. Let these simmer until tender, in stock, or milk and water. Drain them well. Remove some of the centre from each, so as to leave a case of cucumber. Roll each piece in breadcrumbs, brush it with beaten egg, and cover it again with crumbs. Fry the pieces a golden brown in smoking hot fat. If the centre has become filled up, hollow it out again. Cut the tomatoes in thick slices and cook them until just tender in the oven. Place each case of cucumber on a slice of tomato. Have ready the minced game, poultry, or meat, moisten it with the sauce. Season it carefully. Pile the mixture rather high in the cases. Sprinkle the tops with chopped parsley or truffle and serve. Dandelion Leaves, Stewed Ingredien ts— About two pounds of young Three tablespoonfuls of cream, dandelion leaves. milk, or stock. A rounded tablespoonful of butter. Salt ; pepper. One rounded teaspoonful of flour. Method.—Wash the leaves well. Remove any coarse stalks. Leave them in cold water for two hours. Drain them well and put them in a saucepan with plenty of fast boiling water and a large teaspoonful of salt, and par-boil them for five minutes, then drain off and throw away this water. Put them in fresh boiling salted water and take off the lid when the water reboils. Remove any scum and boil them quickly for about fifteen to twenty-five minutes, or until quite tender. Drain off the water, press them well, and chop them finely. Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk, stock, or cream, and stir until it boils; beat the dandelion leaves in well, season them carefully, and stir until thoroughly hot. Serve neatly in a hot dish.