THE COMPLETE COOK 262 cold salted water for half an hour. To each quart of water add two tablespoonfuls of salt. When the water boils, add a piece of soda the size of a pea, put in the sprouts, take the lid off the pan when they reboil, and boil them quickly for about ten to fifteen minutes or until tender. Remove any scum. Drain off the water through a colander, drain them well. Add the butter, a little salt and pepper, and toss them lightly over the fire to mix in the butter. Heap the sprouts neatly in a hot vegetable dish and serve. Note.—For the sake of variety, a little lemon juice, or a dust of nutmeg and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley can be added to the sprouts. Brussels Sprout Fritters Ingredients— A heaped breakfastcupful of un- Salt and pepper. broken cooked sprouts. Batter No. 2 or 3. A few drops of vinegar. Method.—Trim off all loose leaves from the sprouts. Dust them lightly with salt, pepper, and vinegar. Have ready the batter, also the pan of frying fat. Lift a sprout on a skewer, dip it into the batter, and put it gently into the fat and fry it a golden brown. Drain it on kitchen paper. When all the sprouts are fried, arrange them on a fancy paper and serve them with fried parsley. Cabbage, Boiled Ingredients— A large firm white cabbage. Salt: pepper : soda. Boiling water. One tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Remove all discoloured leaves. Cut off the stalk close up to the leaves and halve the cabbage, or if very large quarter it. Remove a wedge-shaped piece from the middle of each piece of stalk. Wash the cabbage well in plenty of cold well-salted water; the cleansing needs to be carried out most thoroughly, so separate all the leaves if necessary. Drain the cabbage in a colander, put it into a pan with plenty of fast boiling salted water, allowing a large tablespoonful of salt to each two quarts of water. Add a piece of soda about the size of a pea. When the water reboils, remove the lid and any scum. Keep pressing the cabbage well down under the water. Boil it quickly for about fifteen to twenty-five minutes, accord- ing to its size and age. If a piece of the smaller stalks feels soft when a skewer is pushed in, the cabbage is cooked. But