THE COMPLETE COOK ISO Method.—Wash and scrape the white parts of the asparagus, and cut off the green tips. Cut the remainder of the heads into short pieces. Boil these for fifteen minutes in boiling, slightly salted water. Boil the tips separately till soft, but not broken, as they are required as a garnish. Boil the short pieces of asparagus in the stock till they are soft; then rub as much of it as possible through a fine wire sieve. Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, add the flour, and cook it over a slow fire for two or three minutes without browning it. Add the sieved asparagus and stock to the flour and butter and stir it till it boils. Add enough of the milk to make it the right consistency. Add the cream, seasoning of salt, pepper, and a dust of castor sugar, the cooked tips of asparagus, and the cooked ham cut in small squares. Re-heat it without it actually boiling, be careful it is not thicker than good cream, and ladle it into the small heated Marmite pots. Note.—This method of serving soup in the small French earthenware covered pots called “ Marmites,” is very popular. One is allowed to each guest and is handed in a hot soup plate. Thick Mock Ingredients— Half a small calf’s head. One pound of lean raw beef. A quarter of a pound of lean ham. Four quarts of stock or water. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a gill of Marsala. Turtle Soup One carrot. One turnip. Two medium-sized onions. Four sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Four cloves : ten peppercorns. Half a lemon. Forcemeat balls. Salt: cayenne. Method.—Soak the head in cold water for an hour, then wash, dry, and bone it. Remove the brains and tongue ; these should be laid aside in cold water and saved to make some entree. Chop the bones of the head and tie the meat up in a piece of coarse muslin. Put the bones, meat, cold stock, ham, and lean beef cut in dice into a saucepan. Add a little salt, bring it slowly to boiling point, and skim it well. Simmer the head for about three hours, oi ‘ill the meat is quite tender. Then lift out the meat of the head, put it between two dishes with a weight on the top to press it till it is cold. Add to the stock the vegetables cut in large pieces, herbs, and spices. Continue to boil the stock gently till it is reduced to about two- thirds, after which strain it into a basin and leave till cold, then remove all fat from the surface. Melt the butter in a stewpan.