THE COMPLETE COOK 356 tablespoonful of maraschino, using more or less of it, according to taste. Other liqueurs may be used instead of maraschino. Newport Ingredients— One pound of prunes. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Seven or eight sheets of French gelatine. A little cochineal. One lemon. Jelly Four tablespoonfuls of Marsala or sherry. One pint of clear wine jelly. One pint of water. Half a pint of whipped and flavoured cream. Method.— Soak the prunes overnight. Put them into a pan with the water and sugar and cook them until soft. Take out the stones, break them, and take out the kernels. Put into a saucepan the prunes, kernels, grated rind, and juice of the lemon, the Marsala, and a little cochineal, and let them boil from fifteen to twenty minutes. Strain in the gelatine dissolved in about four tablespoonfuls of water. If possible, use a four-tier mould; rinse it out in cold water. Fill up the first step with jelly and let it set, fill up the next with the prune mixture, let that set, and so on until the mould is full. When set, dip the mould into warm water and turn the jelly on to a pretty dish. Pipe the whipped cream as a border round the edge of each step. Orange Baskets Ingredients— Orange jelly. Whipped cream. Orange peels. Method.—Cut the oranges round in halves. Make the orange jelly according to the recipe given for it, but do not chip off the rinds, and when squeezing the juice from the oranges take care not to damage the peel. Scoop out all the fruit with a tea- spoon, without breaking through the pith lining of the peel, or removing the little knot in the centre of each; if it does come out, stop the little hole with a scrap of butter. With a small sharp knife notch round the edge of the peel. Place the cups of peel on ice and pour in the orange jelly, leave it until set. Put a teaspoonful of whipped cream on the top of each basket. Arrange them on a bed of laurel leaves and serve. Note.—If liked, handles of orange peel or angelica may be fixed across the top of each basket. Also the cream may be omitted.