1/6 THE COMPLETE COOK bay leaf. On the top of these lay the fish. Warm the butter, mix it with the flour and a little seasoning. Spread this on the top of the fish, then scatter over it a light dust of browned crumbs. Cut the rest of the bacon into thin shreds and place them about on the top of the crumbs. Bake the fish in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, or till a knife can be easily pushed in along the bone of the fish. Lift it lout carefully on to a hot dish, leaving the onion and under slices of bacon behind. Garnish the fish with cut lemon round the dish and crossway lines of chopped parsley on the fish. Note.—Cod, hake, etc., can also be cooked in this fashion. Halibut k la Joinville Ingredients— Two pounds of halibut. Two tablespoonfuls of grated One pint of white sauce. Parmesan cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of One glass of sherry. butter. Salt: pepper. One tablespoonful of browned breadcrumbs. Method.—Wash, dry, and fillet the halibut; cut each fillet in pieces sufficient for one portion. Be careful to remove all skin and bones. Thickly butter a saute pan or baking tin, lay in the fillets and sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and pour the wine over them. Cover the fish with a piece of buttered paper and cook it for about ten to twelve minutes in a quick oven. Vary the time with the thickness of the fish. When cooked, lift the pieces of fish on to a deep fireproof dish. Heat the white sauce with half the cheese, season it, and pour it over the fish. Mix the browned crumbs with the rest of the cheese and sprinkle it over the top of the sauce. Brown the cheese by placing the dish in a hot oven, or with a salamander. Note.—Any filleted fish could be used for this recipe. The wine may be replaced by a little stock if liked. Kedgeree htgredients— Onebreakfastcupful of cooked fish. Four level tablespoonfuls of rice. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two hard-boiled eggs. One breakfastcupful of stock or milk. Salt: cayenne. Method.—Boil the rice in plenty of fast boiling salted water for ten minutes. Then drain off" the water and finish cooking