377 SAVOURIES Lax Toast higredmtts— One tin of lax. One hard-boiled yolk of egg. One tablespoonful of butter. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped Half a small brov/n loaf (stale). parsley. One saltspoonful of curry powder. A few scraps of truffle trimmings. Method.—Toast the bread, trim off the crusts, and cut’it into neat fingers. Mix the butter, yolk of egg, and curry powder to a smooth paste, season it and spread on the toast sippets. Open the tin, take out some of the lax and drain it on a cloth. Lay enough of it on the toast to cover it. Lay the toasts on a baking tin and cover them with a buttered paper. Heat them for about five minutes. Decorate each prettily with the parsley and chopped truffle. Serve as hot as possible. Sprigs of seasoned watercress are a suitable garnish for this dish. Devilled Ingredients— Half a lobster. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of bread- crumbs. Lobster One tablespoonful of vinegar. Mustard, cayenne, and grated nutmeg. Small rounds of fried bread. Half a lemon. Method.—Put all the meat from the lobster in a mortar and pound it to a paste with the butter, vinegar, crumbs, and rind and juice of the lemon. Season the mixture highly with cayenne, made mustard, and nutmeg. Put a small heap of the mixture on each crouton. Sprinkle over a little chopped truffle, if possible, and serve at once. Macaroni a 1’Americaine Ingredien ts— One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. About eight long sticks or coils of macaroni. Half a pint of tomato puree. Salt, pepper, and castor sugar to taste. Method.—Cook the macaroni in plenty of fast boiling salted water until tender. Drain off the water and wash the macaroni under the cold water tap and cut it into short pieces. Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, add the tomato puree, stir it over the fire till it boils, season it carefully, and add the macaroni. When the mixture is hot, turn it on to a hot dish and garnish it with sippets of fried bread.