477 BREAD AND SCONES Method.—Mix the two flours and salt. Cream the yeast and sugar until liquid and stir into it the tepid milk and water. Make a well in the centre of the flour. Strain the yeast into it and stir a little flour into the liquid. Cover and place this “ sponge ” in a warm place for about twenty minutes, or until the yeast is covered with bubbles. Then knead in the rest of the flour, adding more tepid water if required. Knead the dough quickly and for a shorter time than white bread. Shape it at once without proving it a second time, and put it into a greased bread tin. Let the dough rise to the top of the tin, and bake it as directed for White Bread. Any other shaped loaf can be made. Vienna or Fancy Bread higredients— Three and a half breakfastcupfuls of flour. Half an ounce of compressed yeast. One breakfastcupful of tepid milk. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One egg. Two teaspoonfuls of salt. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Sieve the flour and salt. Cream the yeast and sugar. Melt the butter, add the milk, and make it lukewarm. Add the beaten egg to the milk, etc., and stir it into the yeast. Make a well in the flour, gradually strain in the mixed yeast, etc., mixing in the flour smoothly. Knead the dough well, put it into a basin, cover it, and put it in a warm place to rise for about an hour and a half, or until twice its first size. Take it out of the basin, knead lightly for a minute or so, then divide into about six pieces and shape into rolls, crescents, twists, etc. Place them on a floured baking tin. Put them to rise until about half as large again, and bake in a quick oven for about fifteen minutes. When baked, brush them over with one table- spoonful of milk boiled with two teaspoonfuls of butter; this glazes the rolls. Baking Powder Bread Ingredients— Three level teacupfuls of flour. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of bak- One teaspoonful of salt. ing powder. About one and a half teacupfuls of milk. Method.—Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder. Mix them with the milk to as soft a dough as possible, without being