227 COLD MEAT COOKERY Timbale of Cold Meat, Game, Poultry, etc. {Illustrated) Ingt'edients— Two level breakfastcupfuls of cold meat chopped. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of fresh white crumbs. One rounded tablespoonful of dripping or butter. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped onion. One egg and one extra yolk. Half a teacupful of stock. Salt: pepper. About six sticks of macaroni. Half a pint ofbrown sauce. Method.—Thickly butter either a souffle tin, deep cake tin, or basin. Boil the macaroni in salted water till it is tender, but not broken. Drain off the water, rinse the macaroni in cold water, and cut it into thin rings. Arrange these closely and evenly together all over the greased tin, pressing them into the butter. Next melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion, and fry it a light brown, and strain it out. Mix the meat with the crumbs, parsley, and onion. Beat up the eggs with the stock, stir these in and season, and mix all the ingredients carefully. Put the mixture, a little at a time, gently into the lined tin, so as not to move the rings of macaroni, press each layer down firmly. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top and steam the timbale for half an hour. Takeoff the paper, gently slip the shape on to a hot dish; remove any grease from the top with soft paper and strain round some of the hot brown sauce. Note.—Any mixture of meat, game, or poultry is suitable. Fish can also be substituted. Cooked peas, rings of carrot, etc., give an excellent effect instead of macaroni. Small dariole moulds can be used instead of a large one; if these are done alternately with macaroni and peas they look well. If time is an object, only decorate the top of the tin and about half an inch down the sides; it will look very well. Melton Ingredients— One lightly filled breakfastcup of cooked chopped veal. One teacupful of cooked chopped ham. Six tablespoonfuls of fresh bread- crumbs. One teaspoonful of grated onion. Veal One teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. One teaspoonful of made mustard. Half a teacupful of gravy or sauce. One raw e!gg. Three hard-boiled eggs. Salt : pepper ; nutmeg. Method.—Shell and slice the eggs in rings. Thickly butter a plain round mould and line it with slices of egg, pressing