THE COMPLETE COOK 414 Oatmeal Porridge Ingredients— One teacupful of coarse Scotch Two breakfastcupfuls of boiling oatmeal. water. A saltspoonful of salt. Method.—Put the water and salt on to boil. When boiling point is reached dredge in the oatmeal with the left hand, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon or Scotch porridge stick; the latter resembles a thin short rolling-pin. Allow the porridge to simmer very slowly for thirty to forty minutes, stirring it fre- quently. After the preliminary boiling, it may be turned into a double milk boiler; this saves stirring, and it is impossible for it to burn, but it will require at least an hour longer cooking. When sufficiently cooked the oatmeal should be soft and swollen, the whole being a thick mass which will just pour smoothly into the heated pretty porridge platters. It is too thick if in rough rocky heaps. Serve it very hot with cream or milk, salt or the best Demerara sugar, according to taste. Note.—Some meals are more floury than others and the water is absorbed too quickly; in this case add more boiling water; the same if it seems too thick at the last. The porridge may be sent to table in a chafing dish or small porcelain sauce- pan to fit over a spirit lamp; a little milk added and heated, and it is ready to ladle out for immediate consumption. Dry Toast Bread is toasted, that is, dried and browned before the fire, to extract the moisture and make it more palatable and digestible; unfortunately these results are not always obtained. Bread a day old is best; cut it into uniformly thin slices, not quite a quarter of an inch thick. The fire should be clear, red, not blazing, so that the bread is not cooked slowly. A toasting fork may be used, or the slices fastened into a double griller, if pre- ferred. Hold the toast at a little distance from the fire at first, to draw out the moisture, then hold it nearer to the coals and colour it a delicate golden brown. Trim off the crusts and place the slices upright in the toast rack; if laid flat the steam con- denses in the bread and makes it sodden. If toast is liked soft inside, cut the slices a little thicker and toast them more quickly. Buttered Toast Have the bread cut nearly half an inch thick and toast it rather more rapidly than for dry toast. Trim off the crusts