MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS 149 Method.—Wash the kidney and beef quickly, dry them, and cut them up quite small. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the bacon, onion, and kidney, and fry them until brown. Add the stock and a little salt, and simmer the soup for about two and a half hours. Strain out the solid parts, pound them to a paste, and rub this through a fine wire or hair sieve. Rinse out the pan, mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little of the strained soup. Reboil the rest of the liquid, pour in the flour, and stir it till it boils. Cook it for ten minutes and carefully skim it. Then mix in smoothly the sieved meat, add seasoning, re-heat the soup without boiling it after adding the meat, and it is ready to serve. Note.—Water can replace stock ; if so, add a piece of carrot and turnip and a bunch of herbs to the soup, but do not pound or sieve these. A more delicate soup is made with four or five sheep’s kidneys instead of ox kidney. Add a little caramel colouring if needed. A Lancashire Soup htgredien ts— Half a pound of calf’s livei'. Three slices of raw lean ham. Three pints of brown stock. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. A penny French roll. One small onion. One lemon. Salt: pepper : cayenne. Method.—Wash and wipe the liver quite dry, cut it in thin slices. Chop the ham and onion. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, add the ham, liver, and onion, and fry them all a good brown. Then add the flour and slightly brown that. Pound all these till smooth, and mix the paste smoothly with the stock. Put the stock, etc., in a saucepan, add the French roll cut in thin slices, and let all these simmer for twenty minutes. Then rub the soup through a wire sieve. Season it carefully and re-heat it. Serve with cut lemon, cayenne, and toast dice. Note.—Sheep’s liver and bacon trimmings instead of ham, and a slice of bread instead of the roll, would lessen the expense of this soup. Marmites a 1’Allemande Ingredients— A bundle of fifty heads of aspara- gus or sprue. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. • Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. One quart of white stock. One pint of milk. One gill of cream. Three tablespoonfuls of cooked lean ham in dice. .Salt : pepper ; castor sugar ; nut- meg.