126 THE COMPLETE COOK Clear Soups.—These are prepared from clarified stocks, to which various garnishes are added : the name of the consommd indicating the garnish to be supplied, e.g. Consomme a la Royale, clear soup with a savoury custard garnish. Thickened Soups.—These are thickened with “liaisons” of {a) flour, cornflour, rice flour, crushed tapioca, small sago, semolina, etc.; {b) a mixture of yolks of eggs and cream or milk. Purhs.—The consistency in these is obtained by rubbing the material from which the soup is made through a sieve. The pur^e or pulp thus obtained is mixed smoothly into the stock. Broth is the unclarified stock made from beef, mutton, veal, chicken, etc., generally garnished with neat dice of the best parts of the meat and vegetables used in its preparation, and with a little cooked pearl barley or rice. CLEAR SOUPS Clear Soup k la Jardiniere Ingredients— One quart of boiling clear soup. The heart of a fresh lettuce. A dozen points of cooked asparagus. Six very small button onions. Half a teacupful each of cooked peas, small balls of carrot, turnip, and cucumber. Four leaves of tarragon. Two or three sprigs of chervil. Salt: pepper : castor sugar. Method.—Wash the lettuce and shred it finely, also the tarragon and chervil, blanch these for five minutes in boiling water. Peel the tiny onions, and boil them till tender in boil- ing salted water. Boil the various balls of vegetable separately, as they each require a different length of time. Add the vegetables to the boiling consommd, add seasoning and a dust of castor sugar; boil for five minutes and serve with thin sippets of crisp toast. Note.—Vary the vegetables according to what varieties are in season. Julienne Soup Ingredients— One quart of clear soup. One pint of stock. One carrot. One turnip. One inner stick of celery. One leek. One tablespoonful of shelled peas. {Consomme Julienne) Six French beans. Half a small lettuce. Half a dozen leaves of tarragon. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. A saltspoonful of castor sugar. Salt; pepper.