219 VEAL Fried Sweetbread Ingredients— One large sweetbread. One teaspoonful of chopped One egg. parsley. Breadcrumbs. One tablespoonful of oiled butter. Half a pint of stock : frying fat. Method.—Prepare the sweetbread as already directed, then cook it gently in stock for about forty minutes. Press it until cold between two plates. Then cut it into slices half an inch thick. Beat up the egg, mix it with the warm butter and parsley. Brush each slice of sweetbread over with it, then cover them with crumbs. Fry them a golden brown in hot fat. Drain them on paper and arrange them neatly on a hot dish, garnished with fried parsley. A tureen of some hot piquant sauce is usually served with this entree. Note.—If required to look more elaborate the sweetbread may be arranged on a circle of mashed potato on the dish, the sauce is then poured round, and the centre filled with cooked peas, French beans, or spinach. If served plain, cut lemon and brown bread and butter are popular and suitable accom- paniments to this dish. Lamb’s throat sweetbreads could be used, but will only need a few minutes’ cooking, and will not require to be sliced after the preliminary preparation. The result will not, of course, be so good. Stewed Sweetbread Ingredients— One calfs heart sweetbread. One pint of milk, or white stock and milk in equal proportions. Half a small carrot and onion. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Three teaspoonfuls of cornflour. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. A little lemon juice. Salt and pepper. Method.—Put the sweetbread in a saucepan with cold water to cover it, add a little salt. Bring it to boiling point and let it simmer for five minutes. Then lift it out and lay it in a basin of cold water. This renders it firm and white. Next trim off all the gristly parts. Put the sweetbread in a stewpan with the milk, or stock and milk. Add the cleaned vegetables and herbs, and simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Then place, it on a hot dish and keep it hot while the gravy is being thickened. For this—Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little