363 CREAMS tin. Fit these biscuits neatly round inside the tin to line it; they should be packed in so well that they do not fall out of place; turn the outside of the biscuit against the tin, then prepare the cream. Dissolve the gelatine in the water or fruit syrup, and add the sugar. Whip the cream till it hangs on the whisk ; when the gelatine has cooled a little, strain it into the cream, stir it in and flavour it with vanilla. When this cream is just on the point of setting, pour it into the prepared tin, and put it on ice, or in a cool place to set. If the cream is poured into the tin before it is just setting it oozes through and soaks into and softens the biscuits. When it is ready to turn out, dip just the bottom of the tin, in which the jelly is set, into warm water, and slip the charlotte carefully out on to a dish. Put a border of chopped wine jelly round. Note.—Any variety of cream, such as strawberry, apricot, coffee, etc., can be poured into the centre. Chocolate Cream Use the same ingredients and method as for Vanilla Cream, but add to the custard three sticks of good sweetened chocolate melted in two tablespoonfuls of water. Coffee Cream Ingredients— Half a pint of cream. Half a pint of milk. The yolks of four eggs or two whole ones. Ten sheets of leaf gelatine. One level teacupful of loaf sugar. {Illustrated) Half a teacupful of very strong coffee or coffee essence to taste. Si.x glace cherries, A teaspoonful of desiccated cocoanut. A teacupful of clear wine jelly. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water and decorate it prettily with the jelly, the cherries, and cocoanut. Warm the milk in a saucepan, pour it on to the beaten eggs, and cook this custard in a jug placed in a pan of boiling water till it thickens but does not reach boiling point, as it will curdle. Strain it into a basin and let it cool slightly. Melt the sugar in about three or four tablespoonfuls of boiling water, then put in and dissolve the gelatine. Strain them into the warm custard and add the coffee, flavouring it to taste. Whip the cream, stir it lightly into the custard, etc., and pour all into the prepared mould. Leave till quite set, then turn the cream out on to a dish and put round a border of coarsely chopped wine jelly.