251 GAME Dredge in the flour and fry it carefully. Add the stock and stir until it boils. Add the pieces of game, jelly, glaze, and lemon juice. Put the lid on the pan and simmer its contents very gently for half an hour. Arrange the joints on a hot dish, strain the sauce over and garnish with fried crescents of bread. Note.—Although partly cooked birds are best for this dish, cold cooked remains of game may be used. Jugged Ingredients— One hare. One pound of steak or lean beef. One carrot, one turnip, one onion. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Eight cloves. Six peppercorns. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Hare Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. Four tablespoonfuls of port wine, if liked. A strip of lemon rind. Salt and pepper. Stock or water. Method.—Use either a brown stewing-jar or a casserole. Wash, prepare the carrot and turnip, and cut each in four. Peel the onion and stick the cloves into it. Skin and paunch the hare, keeping some, or all of the blood to add to the stew. Cut it up into small neat joints and dip them into a little of the flour. Cut the beef into large dice. Put the hare and beef in layers in the jar, add the vegetables, herbs, cloves, peppercorns, and lemon rind, the three latter tied up in muslin. Pour over the blood and enough stock or water to cover the meat. Put on the lid and let it cook very gently in the oven or at the side of the fire from three to four hours, or longer if the hare is an old one. About fifteen minutes before serving it take out the vegetables, herbs, spice, and peel. Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, then add very gradually some of the boiling stock. Add this thickening to the stew, stirring it all the time until the gravy thickens. Lastly add the port wine and salt and pepper to taste. Serve it in the casserole with a folded napkin pinned round it. Serve it with red or black currant jelly. Note.—Some object to saving and using the blood ; if so, it can be left out, but the dish will be less rich in flavour and colour. A saucepan can be used if the utensils named are not obtainable.