140 THE COMPLETE COOK tomatoes. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, add the bacon, fry it for a minute or so, then put in the onion and leek and brown them well. Add to these the stock, beans, and the rest of the vegetables. Boil gently for about three hours, or till the beans are soft. Then rub the soup through a fine wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, pour back and reboil the soup. Add the seasoning and chopped parsley and it is ready to serve in a hot tureen. Puree of Leeks Proceed as for Puree of Onions, using in their place a bunch of leeks. Do not use the green tops, and remember leeks need to be thoroughly washed to rerpove the gritty particles always found in them. Lentil Soup Ingredients— Half a pint of red Egyptian lentils. A ham bone, or a few scraps of One quart of cold pot-liquor, stock, ham or bacon. or water. One rounded tablespoonful of One onion. butter or dripping. Half a small carrot. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Two sticks of celery. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash the lentils, picking out any blackened ones. Put them to soak overnight in enough cold water to cover them. Chop the carrot, onion, and celery finely, chop the ham or ham bone into several pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the strained lentils, herbs, and vegetables, and stir them over the fire for five minutes. Add the stock and let the soup boil gently till the vegetables are soft. The pieces of carrot will take longer than the lentils. Remove the herbs and bones. Rub the soup through a hair or wire sieve. Rinse out the pan, pour back the soup and let it reboil. Season it carefully and serve it in a hot tureen with toast or croutons handed separately. Note.—If sieving the soup is inconvenient, a capital family preparation is made by merely removing bones and herbs and crushing the soup a little against the sides of the pan. Normandy Ingredients— Two large carrots. One pint of boiling white stock. Half a pint of hot milk. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Soup One rounded tablespoonful of flour. One shallot. One bay leaf. Salt and pepper and castor sugar.