VEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 137 Cream of Rice Soup Ingredien ts— One quart of white stock. Two raw yolks of eggs. One gill of cream. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Two level tablespoonfuls of ground rice or rice flour. Method.—Free the stock from fat and put it on to boil. Mix the ground rice thinly and smoothly with a little cold milk. When the soup boils, pour in the rice, stirring it all the time. Allow the soup to simmer gently for about eight minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream, let the soup cool slightly, then strain in this liaison and let it re-heat but not re- boil. Season it carefully, using the nutmeg with great discretion, and pour the soup into a hot tureen. Serve with it toast cut in dice or croutons. Note.—If wanted quite white, leave out the yolks of eggs. Milk can be used in the place of cream for ordinary occasions. Rice flour is finer than ground rice. Cucumber Cream Soup Ingredients— Three good-sized cucumbers. One quart of white stock. Half a pint of hot milk. One gill of cream. Two yolks of eggs. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Half a dozen washed spinach leaves or a little green vegetable colouring. Method.—Peel the cucumbers. With a small round vegetable cutter scoop out a sufficient number of balls of cucumber to fill a teacup. Boil these till tender in boiling salted water for a garnish. Cut up the rest of the cucumber into thick slices. Boil for five minutes in boiling water, then drain out the slices and throw away the water. Melt one tablespoonful of the butter in a stewpan, add the spinach, slices of cucumber, and a little salt and sugar, and let them cook in the butter slowly without browning for twenty minutes or till tender. Keep the pan covered, but shake it well now and then. Melt the rest of the butter in another pan, stir in the flour smoothly, cook it in the butter for five minutes, but do not let it colour. Add the stock and stir it till it boils and thickens. Add the cooked cucumber, spinach leaves, and half the milk. Simmer the soup for about fifteen minutes, then rub it through a fine wire or hair sieve. Rinse out the pan, pour back the soup and reboil it.