434 THE COMPLETE COOK for five minutes, then drain off and throw away the water. This blanches the barley and removes all bitter flavour from it. Wash and wipe the veal, then scrape it finely. Lay it to soak in the cold water with a little salt for half an hour. Then turn it into a saucepan with the barley and onion. Let it boil gently till the barley is quite tender; it will probably take one and a half hours. Next strain off the liquid and put it aside. Pound the barley, onion, and meat well and rub them through a fine wire sieve, adding a little of the liquid to thin it. Mix the rest of the liquid smoothly into this mixture, re-heat it, add the cream, seasoning, and parsley. Serve it very hot. Beef Tea Ingredients— One pound of lean raw beef. A quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. One pint of cold water. MetJiod.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water and dry it. Next cut it in slices, and scrape these finely with a sharp knife. As each piece is scraped lay it at once in the water with the salt and let it stand for half an hour. Put the meat and water in an earthenware jar. Tie a piece of thick paper over the top. Place the jar in a pan of boiling water on the fire and let it simmer gently for three and a half hours, stirring it occasionally. When cooked strain out the meat, but do not use too fine a strainer unless it is imperative that not a particle of solid matter is given. Carefully remove every vestige of grease with pieces of kitchen paper. Season it carefully with salt and pepper if the latter is permitted. Serve it in small quantities as required. Note.— If more convenient the jar may be placed in a slow oven, instead of in the pan of water. Beef Tea {thick) Ingredients— One pound of lean beef. One sheep’s kidney. One pint of cold water. Quarter of a saltspoonful of salt. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, and trim off all fat, then scrape it into fine shreds. Skin the kidney, remove the core or white part in the centre, then chop it. Let the meat and kidney soak in the salt and water for half an hour. Turn all into a saucepan, heat it slowly, stirring and pressing the meat constantly until the colour becomes a deep reddish