192 THE COMPLETE COOK Whitebait Ingredients— One pint of whitebait. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Frying fat. Salt: pepper. One lemon. Thin brown bread and butter. Cayenne. Method.—Leave the fish on ice till the last possible moment. Heat the pan of deep fat before starting to prepare the fish. It must be clean fat. Pick any pieces of weed, etc., from the fish, then lay them on a cloth. Sieve the flour on to a large sheet of paper. Put a few fish at a time into the flour, toss them lightly in it, in order to separate each one. Handle them as little as possible. Put a few at a time into the frying basket, shake it gently over the paper to sift out any loose flour, and when a very thick smoke rises from the fat, lower the basket gently into it and fry them for about two minutes, gently shaking the basket all the time. Turn them to drain on paper, and fry more until all are cooked. Then put enough back into the basket to fill it to the depth of the fat in the pan. Re-heat the fat until the smoke is quite thick again, put in the basket of fish and refry them for about half a minute. Drain them on paper. Dust them with salt and pepper and serve immediately on a hot folded fish-napkin with quarters of cut lemon, cayenne, and brown bread and butter. Note.—The fat, after being allowed to reach such a great heat, is spoilt for anything but very ordinary frying purposes afterwards. Devilled Whitebait Proceed as for Whitebait, but after the second frying dust them with salt, pepper, and cayenne, turning them over lightly as these are added. Be cautious with the cayenne. Fried Whiting {Illustrated') Ingredients— Two whitings. One raw egg. About a breakfastcupful of white breadcrumbs. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One teaspoonful of salt. Half a teaspoonful of pepper. Half a lemon. Fried parsley. Frying fat. Method.—Wash and dry the fish. Fasten the tails in the mouths by means of a small wooden skewer or pointed match. Mix the flour, salt, and pepper. Dust the fish all over with this