COLD MEAT COOKERY 225 Method.—Melt the butter and fry the onion a light brown in it. Mix the flour in smoothly ; add the stock and stir this sauce till it boils. Add the parsley, meat, and seasoning, and spread the mixture on a plate to cool. Meantime, roll out the pastry very thinly on a floured board. Stamp it out in rounds the size of the top of a teacup. Place a little heap of the mixture on one half of each round, damp the edges, fold over the other half like a fruit turnover. Press the edges together and trim them with the cutter if they are uneven. Beat up the egg, brush the rissoles over with it and cover them with vermicelli broken up into fairly short lengths. Fry them in smoking hot fat till a golden brown. Drain them on paper. Serve them hot piled up on a lace paper on a hot dish; garnish with fried parsley. A tureen of brown or tomato sauce may be handed with these. Note.—For this dish any scraps or mixture of scraps of cooked meat, game, or poultry can be used. Should there be any made savoury sauce in the larder, use it instead of making fresh. If there are no oddments of pastry to utilise, make half a pound of short pastry. Breadcrumbs are as often used as vermicelli with which to coat the rissoles. Savoury Rolls Ingredients— Twelve finger-shaped rolls. Four tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked veal. Three tablespoonfuls of chopped cooked ham. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Ef?MONDSRr \ One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of milk. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk and stir over the fire until the sauce boils , and thickens. Mix into it the veal, ham, parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Leave the mixture until cold. Split the rolls in half lengthways. Spread a good layer of the prepared mixture on one half, lay the other half on the top, pressing them well together. Arrange them on a lace paper and serve. Note.—If there is any white sauce left over from a meal, use it instead of making fresh. Any kind of meat, fish, poultry, or game may be used. T5