BEEF 205 Roll out the pastry, putting a third of it on one side, this is for the lid. Grease a pudding basin, line it with the pastry, and put in the rolls of steak. When the basin is full, pour in enough water or stock to half fill the basin. Wet the edge of the pastry, put on the lid and press the edges together. Scald and flour a pudding cloth, tie it over the pudding, taking care to make a pleat in the middle of the cloth to allow the crust to swell. Put the basin in a pan of fast boiling water and boil it from two to three hours. Serve it in the basin with a clean table napkin pinned round it. Note.—Mushrooms may be used instead of kidney, or one pound of steak and two pigeons cut in joints are an excellent combination. Steak and Mushroom Pie Ingredients— Two pounds of steak. About three-quarters of a pound of mushrooms. One tablespoonful of flour. One teaspoonful of salt. Haifa teaspoonful of pepper. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful of chopped onion. Stock or water. Three-quarters of a pound of any good pastry. One raw egg. Method.—Wash and dry the meat, cut it into slices about two inches square. Look over the mushrooms carefully, stalk and peel them. Mix together on a plate the flour, parsley, onion, and seasoning. Roll the pieces of steak in this mixture. Put a layer of meat in a pie dish, then one of mushrooms, and so on until the dish is full. Next fill the dish two-thirds full of cold stock or water. Roll out the pastry to about a third of an inch thick. Cut off a strip for the edge of the pie dish. Brush the edge of the dish with a little cold water, lay on the strip of pastry, brush this with water and cover the meat with the lid of pastry. Trim the edges neatly and flake them up in horizontal lines with the back of a knife, and crimp them. Decorate the top of the pie with leaves and a tassel cut out of pastry. Brush over the top, but not the edges, with the beaten yolk of egg. Bake it in a moderate oven for about two and a half hours. Carefully remove the centre ornament and fill up the dish with some well-flavoured stock. Serve hot or cold. Note.—Half a pound of ox kidney can be used instead of the mushrooms.