THE COMPLETE COOK 430 siderable interval. Then care must be taken to place both liquid and solid refreshment conveniently within reach. Punctuality is an important point when preparing food for those who are ill. Minutes are very valuable in the sickroom ; as often as not they mean actually Life. It is not possible to be punctual unless the cook exercises forethought and method, so that she is always well ahead with her work. Cleanliness in every minute detail is needed. Not only in regard to the glass, silver, etc., but especially the saucepans and other cooking apparatus. Invalid foods are of a very delicate flavour, and this is easily destroyed by the use of Imperfectly clean utensils. Light cups and spoons as daintily fashioned as possible; miniature cruets ; a little vase, which will not roll over easily, of not too powerfully scented flowers; a spotless tray cloth, or better still in many illnesses, a pretty Japanese paper one, are all necessary adjuncts to the invalid’s tray. Endeavour to have it completely equipped, so that it is not necessary to run off to fetch the bread or spoon, etc. A light wooden bed-table with legs about six inches high, to stand on the bed, is very convenient for serving meals. Also a covered feeding cup, for use when the patient is in a recumbent position, prevents liquids being spilt, as is almost invariably the case if an ordinary cup is used. A glass tube is often used to draw liquid foods through, in the same way as American drinks are taken through straws. Hints on Foods for the Sick and Convalescent Mutton is more easily digested than beef, though slightly less nourishing. Sweetbreads are very suitable. Avoid all parts of a close texture such as kidneys, liver, etc. Salted Meats, Pork, and Veal are not permissible, as they are difficult to digest. Bacon, if lightly fried or toasted or well boiled, is a popular and wholesome form of fat. A dust of cayenne aids its digestion at times. Poultry and Game are tender, nourishing, and easily digested. The latter must not be in the least “ high.” Chicken,