THE COMPLETE COOK lOO an oyster knife (or a sharp tin-opener will do) between the edges of the two shells, with a see-saw action, till enough of the knife is inserted to wrench them apart. Be careful to remove all bits of shell. Keep Oysters Alive If not wanted for a few days, scrub the unopened shells, lay them in a deep pan, with the flat shells uppermost. Shake over them some fine oatmeal and cover with cold water, made about as salt as sea water. Change the water daily, leaving them out of the water for an hour or so, and resprinkling them with oatmeal. Keep the pan in a very cool place and the fish will not only keep alive but fatten. Tammy Sauces, Pur£es, Soups, etc. That is to rub, wring, or strain any of these through a specially strong fine woollen material, called “tammy cloth,” —the object being to make the sauce, etc., peculiarly smooth. Two persons are needed, each gathering up the two ends of the cloth in their left hand, a basin being placed under the cloth. The cloth is lowered into the basin, and the sauce poured into the cloth. Each person then raises the cloth from the basin, twists the ends lightly together, and then one twists her ends to the left and the other to the right; when as much as possible of the sauce or purde has been wrung through, each person takes a wooden spoon in the right hand, the bowls of the spoons are pressed against each other inside on the bottom of the cloth, and are kept moving backwards and forwards in the cloth, the two spoons touching all the time, till all the purde possible has been rubbed through. Peel Tomatoes Easily If not ripe enough to skin easily, lay them, or dip them for a second or two into boiling water, lift them out and the skin is easily taken off. The tint is not quite so brilliant as when unpeeled, but it renders them more convenient for eating. ,If wanted cold, perform this a little while before they are needed. Skin Plaice After the fish is filleted, take each piece that has the black skin on, lay it skin side downwards on the table, the tail towards