l8 THE COMPLETE COOK required for the two top burners would have been saved. (d) Neglecting to lower or turn out the gas burners at the first moment possible. (e) Using the gas stove, when perhaps the coal range is also alight, affording plenty of accommodation for all cooking to be done. 2. The fumes of cooking often escape into the house, owing to there being no flue pipe attached to the oven. This pipe should be carried out into the open air, or into some chimney. 3. An objectionable smell is often noticed in the house where gas cooking is performed, owing to the gas being allowed to “ light back,” as it is called, in the air chamber of the burner. This is caused when the oven door is banged, or there is a sudden draught, or if the match is applied at the very instant the tap is turned on. Just a second or two should be allowed to elapse before it is lit. This incorrect lighting can only be where the stove is fitted with atmospheric burners, not luminous burners, such as are used for lighting purposes. The former give a more powerful heat, while using a lesser amount of gas, so are generally adapted for heating purposes. The disadvantage of atmospheric burners is, that they burn a mixture of air and gas; the atmosphere of the room suffers; and very thorough ventilation is necessary. It is easily judged if a gas stove has lit incorrectly, for there will be a peculiar roaring sound, the light becomes yellowish, instead of blue, the burners in a short time become sooty, and there is always present a most disagreeable smell. All that is required is to turn out the taps, turn them on again very slowly, and let a little gas escape before applying the match. This may have to be done five or six times before it will light properly. Of course should the oven and stove be dirty and coated with grease, the fumes arising from it will be as objectionable as from a coal stove. Another drawback with gas is, that the hot water supply to the house is cut off. Geysers can be used and gas boilers are most convenient, but are more suited to small houses than large ones. The most modern stoves are now lined with movable fittings of white or grey enamel, with a tray of the same under the boiling rings. These render the cleaning of the stove and oven a very simple affair, while at the same time the bright surface reflects the heat and aids the cooking.