19 COOKING STOVES The excellent reversible grills now provided, are an immense boon for making toast, grilling chops, etc. Good stoves are double cased, the space between being packed with a non-heat-conducting substance. Very small or inferior stoves are only of a single thickness, and this is easily seen by examining the door, and with these much heat is simply wasted in overheating the kitchen. Oil Stoves These stoves are most valuable in districts where gas is not obtainable; in country places during the heat of summer, when the inmates of the house are desirous of avoiding lighting the large coal range, or again for yacht or camp cookery. In some sudden emergency such as the kitchen boiler bursting, or in a hilly district with the roads snow and ice bound and the coal- cellar empty, they are worth their weight in gold. Oil is the cheapest fuel that can be used, even if the best is bought, and note this point, cheap inferior oils are dangerous, and by their noxious fumes will render the house almost unbearable. Oil stoves are portable, very reasonable in price, no flue is needed, and if well constructed very nice cooking can be carried out on them. But, and here lies the whole keynote of success. Absolute Clemiliness is essential; if neglected and carelessly used explosions may occur with dangerous results. They should be used in a well-ventilated room, and the lamps of the oven lit about ten minutes before it is required. The cooking by them is, as may be supposed, somewhat slow, but steady, and the heat is very fairly easy to regulate. Sojne Special Points to remember when using oil stoves are: 1. Keep every part scrupulously dry and clean. 2. Renew the wicks about every two months. 3. Remove all charred portions from the wicks daily, and trim them quite evenly. 4. See that the wicks are put in straight and that they are dry. 5. Do not turn the flame up high for the first few moments. 6. Take care the oil lamps are pushed right back into position. 7. Wash all parts thoroughly in hot soda water, or with plenty of soap, every month.