CHEESE COOKERY 391 Note.—If wished, the mixture may be baked in one large greased soufifld tin with a paper band tied round outside to come about two inches above the edge. This band is removed for serving, and a clean table napkin pinned round outside the tin. A pie dish can also be used, though it is not correct. Any grated cheese may take the place of Parmesan, if more convenient. Cheese Straws Ingredients— Four level teaspoonfuls of flour. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—Mix the flour and cheese; add a few grains of cayenne and salt. Rub in the butter lightly. Mix the yolk of egg with the water; add enough of these to mix the flour, etc., to a stiff paste. Knead it till smooth on a floured board, then roll out the paste into a strip about four inches long and barely an eighth of an inch thick. Cut it into narrow strips to represent straws, stamp some of the paste into rings. Bake the rings and straws on a baking tin in a quick oven for about eight to ten minutes, or until they are a delicate biscuit colour. They require to be carefully watched, as they burn easily. When cooked, very carefully place three or four straws through each ring and serve them on a hot dish standing up like bundles of faggots. Note.—Parmesan cheese is best, but other dry kinds can be used. The straws are very brittle, so always prepare more than are actually required. They re-warm well with care. Cheese Biscuits Make the pastry as for Cheese Straws, but stamp it out into rounds the size of a two-shilling piece, then bake as directed above. Cottage Cheese Ingredients— One quart of thick sour milk. One rounded teaspoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of fresh cream. Salt: pepper. Method.—Put the milk into a pan on the side of the stove and scald it until the curd separates from the whey. Place a fine strainingcloth over a basin, so that it hangs down inside it. {Illustrated) One raw yolk of egg. Two teaspoonfuls of cold water. Salt: cayenne.