144 THE COMPLETE COOK Salt: pepper. One stick of celery. in half-inch length and boiled till soft. Add this at the last instead of the semolina. Spinach Puree Ingredients— Two pounds of spinach. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. One and a half pints of white stock. One teaspoonful of chopped Half a pint of hot milk. shallot. One rounded tablespoonful of Salt : pepper: nutmeg. butter. Method.—Pick over, stalk, and wash the spinach well in several waters. Put it wet into a saucepan with a dust of salt and cover the pan. Let it boil gently till tender, stir it now and then ; no water should be necessary, but if it seems too dry, add just a spoonful or two. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the stock and stir it till it boils and thickens. Add the spinach, after draining off any water and the shallot. Let all these boil gently for ten minutes. Then rub it through a hair sieve. Add enough of the milk to make it the consistency of good cream. Season, reboil it, and serve with croutons or toast. Note.—Half a gill of cream may be added if liked: also if more convenient use milk and water flavoured by having some pot vegetables boiled in it, instead of white stock. Tomato Soup {Purh de Tomates) Ligredients— One quart of stock. Two pound tin of tomatoes, or Two pounds of fresh tomatoes. Two tablespoonfuls of lean raw bacon or ham in dice. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Half a small carrot. Method.—Cut the prepared vegetables, except the tomatoes, in dice or slices. Melt the butter in a saute pan, add the bacon or ham, sliced vegetables and herbs. Turn them about in the butter over the fire for ten minutes. Slice the tomatoes, put them in a saucepan with the stock, ingredients from the saute pan, and the sugar. Let the soup boil gently till the vegetables are soft. Then rub all through a hair sieve, first removing the herbs. Pour the purde back into a clean saucepan, let it reboil. Half a small turnip. One shallot. A small bunch of parsley and herbs. Two lumps of sugar. One rounded tablespoonful of cornflour.