THE COMPLETE COOK 98 them all over. Then raise the food in the hands, turning it gently from one to the other, in order to shake off loose crumbs. Lay it on the board and with a dry knife gently press down the crumbs in order to obtain a flat surface; on no account stroke down the crumbs, this merely rubs off the coating. All foods of every description are egged and crumbed in this manner. Turn out Jellies, Creams, or any Dish stiffened WITH A Gelatinous Substance Dip the mould into a basin of warm, but not hot, water, move it‘about in the water for a second or so; lift it out, dab it quickly with a cloth, turn it over on the left hand, grasping the top of the mould securely with the right; give it a sharp down- ward shake, when it should slip down on to the left hand. Place the left hand on the dish, and withdraw it gently from under- neath, then lift off the mould. Avoid shaking the mould up and down, always shake it downwards. Hitting the mould on the top is also useless. If an earthenware mould is used, the water must be hotter, and the immersion longer, than for a tin mould. Scald Meat, Legs of Poultry, etc. Place or hold the parts to be scalded in fast boiling water for a few seconds, or minutes, according to the nature of the food to be so treated. Par-boil Foods This is done to partly cook foods for various reasons. Place the food in hot or cold water as directed and partly boil it until it feels slightly softened, but not in the least cooked. The time depends on the article to be par-boiled. Coat Moulds with Jelly, Cream, Chaudfroid Sauces, etc. Have the mould perfectly dry and imbed it on chipped ice till cold. Then pour in a little warmed jelly or cream or chaud- froid sauce and move the mould round on the ice, so that the liquid flows evenly all over the top and sides of the mould, setting as it cools. Add more jelly if needed, and pour out any if there seems too much. This operation must be repeated if a thick coating is required. Skill is needed to turn the mould in such a manner that it is evenly masked all over, not bare in parts and thickly coated in others.