233 POULTRY all the flesh off the bones with a sharp knife until only the carcase is left. Take care not to slit the skin. Draw the flesh of the wings and legs outside, turning them inside out like a stocking. Draw out all sinews possible. Skin the sausages and season the meat with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Place the boned fowl on the table, spread a layer of sausage meat all over the flesh, on this lay alternate strips of tongue and hard-boiled egg from the head to tail of the fowl. Cover these with more sausage meat and roll the bird up from side to side like a roly-poly. Next roll it in a clean pudding cloth, tie the ends securely with string and cook it gently in the stockpot for about one and a half hours or more according to its size. Re-roll it tightly in the cloth. Place it between two baking tins with weights on the upper one, and leave it till cold. Next trim a slice off each end, brush it all over except the ends with melted glaze, and decorate it with diamond shapes of aspic jelly and piped butter. Note.—Pheasant and turkey may be treated in the same way. If preferred the galantine may be masked with chaudfroid sauce instead of glaze. Chicken a la Ingredients— One good-sized chicken. One gill of salad oil. Half a pint of brown sauce. Two tomatoes. Two shallots. Marengo Two tablespoonfuls of Marsala. Eight button mushrooms. A few slices of lemon. Salt and pepper. Method.—Cut the chicken into neat joints. Heat the oil in a stewpan, put in the pieces of chicken and fry them quickly till they are lightly browned, then add the finely chopped shallots. Pour the oil off into another pan and add the sauce to the chicken, also the pulp of the tomatoes and the mushrooms and a sprinkling of salt and pepper. Put on the lid and let these simmer gently for about one hour. Arrange the chicken neatly on a silver dish, put the mushroom in little heaps round with the slices of lemon between. Season the sauce carefully, add the wine, and pour it over. Note.—Fleurons, that is small crescent-shaped pieces of puff pastry baked a delicate fawn colour, are a pretty garnish for this dish. Bottled or tinned mushrooms may be used in place of fresh. Rabbits may be served in the same way.