SHORT MARKETING HINTS 45 The lean should be a deep, bright, red colour, well marbled with creamy white fat, and with a thick outside layer of fat. The grain should be firm and elastic. The suet hard, easily crumbled, and of a pinkish tinge; if the fat is a deep yellow the animal has been largely fattened on oil cake and the flavour will be less fine. Hard, skinny fat, and a horny strip along the rib portion, denotes old age and often inferiority. Ox beef is best; no good butcher offers cow or bull beef for sale. Sirloin and ribs are the prime roasting pieces, but are ex- pensive, on account of the amount of bone they contain. Topside or round is about the most economical roast for a family, as it contains no bone or superfluous fat. Scotch beef is usually reckoned as the best. Mutton stands next to beef in nutritive qualities, and for some people it is of more value as food, because it is more easily digested, its fibres being shorter and more tender. It has, however, a strong flavour. The cheaper joints, being very bony, are not economical: the legs are the most so for family use. Welsh and Southdown mutton are considered the best varieties. Joints off small animals should be selected, as large meat is coarse and wasteful. The lean should be finely grained and a clear, dark red, with the bones small. The fat clear, white, and veiy hard. Mutton should be well hung, without being in the least tainted. To ascertain if it is freshly killed, look at the cut surfaces. If well hung they will be dry looking and almost a blackish, purple colour; but if freshly killed a bright red. Butchers will often let a joint be selected, and hang it themselves for their customers. Legs may be hung for a longer period than the loins or shoulders. The flesh of sheep fed on the marshy grounds near the sea coast is considered a great delicacy, as the flesh gains firmness and flavour from the saline particles conveyed with the food. Veal.—This meat is not considered to be very digestible, and if it is very young it contains little nourishment. It stands lowest among heat-producing meats, and for that reason requires to be eaten with bacon, rice, potatoes, etc.; these also help to redeem its lack of flavour.