THE COMPLETE COOK 526 Method.—Wash the crab apples, remove their stalks, and halve them with a silver knife, but do not core or peel them. Put them into a pan with enough cold water to float them. They will probably take about three pints. Pare, the lemon thinly and add the peel to the apples. Boil the fruit gently until it is quite tender, but not in a mash. Strain off all juice through a fine hair sieve, tammy cloth, or jelly bag. Press the fruit very gently, but on no account squeeze the fruit, or the jelly will be cloudy. Rinse out the pan, measure the juice back into it, and add sugar in the given proportion. Boil the jelly quickly until some, when allowed to get cold, sets firmly on’'a plate. While it is boiling keep it well skimmed. Peel some of the pips and stir them into the jelly. Pour it into dry pots, tie them down securely, and keep in a cool place. Note.—If liked, the juice of the lemon may be added as well as the peel. Bottled Cranberries Ingredients— Cranberries. Cold water. Method.—Stalk and examine the berries, then wash them. Have ready some clean bottles. Fill them three-parts full with cranberries, then fill them up to the top with cold water. Cork tightly, and resin, or sealing-wax, the corks. Store in a cool, dry place. When using the fruit for tarts, the water should be used for juice, as it will be nicely flavoured with the cranberries. Bottled thus they keep for years. Cranberry Jelly Ingredients— Three pounds of the small British Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf sugar cranberries. to each pint of juice. Three pints of water. Method.—Wash and remove the hair-like stalks from the berries. Put them in a pan with the cold water. Boil them quickly until they are soft and broken. Strain off the juice through a fine hair sieve, press the fruit, but do not rub it through, or the clearness of the jelly will be spoilt. Rinse out the pan, measure the juice into it, and add the sugar in the given proportion. Boil until it jellies when allowed to cool. Pour into small jars, cover, and keep in a cool place.