VEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 143 melt the butter in it. Stir in the flour smoothly, add the sieved soup and milk gradually, and stir it till it reboils thoroughly. Season the soup carefully, add the peas that were cooked separately, and serve the soup in a hot tureen with croutons of bread. Note.—A plainer soup can be made by using half a pint of shelled peas and half a pint of the pods, stripped of their horny inner lining. About two tablespoonfuls of cream is an improve- ment to this soup. A handful of well-washed spinach leaves can be used instead of the parsley. Potato Soup {Maigre) Ingredients— Four medium-sized raw potatoes. Two sticks of celery. One small onion. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One and a half pints of boiling water. One pint of hot milk. One level tablespoonful of semo- lina. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash, peel, and thinly slice the potatoes; lay them in cold water directly they are cut. Wash and chop the celery; peel and slice the onion. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the vegetables and turn them about in the hot butter over the fire for about eight minutes, but do not let them colour in the least. Add the water and a little salt and boil the soup gently till the potatoes are soft. Then rub the soup through a wire or hair sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, put back the sieved soup, add the milk and let it reboil. When it boils sprinkle in the semolina and let the soup boil gently till the semolina is quite transparent and is suspended through the soup, not sinking. It will probably take about eight minutes. Season the soup carefully and be careful the consistency is that of good cream. Pour it into a hot tureen and hand with it toast dice or croutons. Note.—Crushed tapioca, small sago, or flour may be used instead of semolina for thickening purposes. If the soup may be made with meat, white stock can be used instead of water. A little cream is a great improvement if it can be afforded. This soup is not easily made when potatoes are new and waxy; it is more suitable for the autumn and winter months. Potato and Macaroni Soup {Maigre) Proceed as for Potato Soup, but use only a pint and a quarter of milk and water and eight sticks of macaroni cut