THE COMPLETE COOK 334 pressure is being used. When the butter is finely rubbed in, make a well in the centre of the flour, pour in a little cold water and with a knife mix the flour into a stiff but not crumbly paste. Mix from the middle, and when one lump seems the right consistency, push it aside and mix up another part. Then cut and mix all together and knead lightly on the board with the hand to ascertain if it is right, that is, not sticky, nor yet dry and powdery. If the butter is very soft, less water can be used. When the mass has been lightly worked together it is ready to roll and cut out as desired. Note.—Other fats can be used; if made with a more liberal allowance of dripping, etc., baking powder will not be needed. In hot weather it is better to have the butter only very coarsely rubbed in, otherwise it becomes so oily that it binds the flour itself, allowing no water or very little to be added, and the pastry becomes so short it is almost i.;„possible to roll it out. Short Crust Pastry. No. Ingredients— One and three-quarter breakfast- cupfuls of pastry flour. Si-x rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. 2 {I'ich ; for sweet dishes) One level tablespoonful of castor sugar. One yolk of egg : half a teaspoon- ful of salt. Cold water. Method.—Sieve the flour, salt, and sugar. Rub in the butter finely. Make a well in the centre of the flour, put in the yolk of egg and two tablespoonfuls of water. Mix these in and add more cold water as required, until the flour is mixed into a stiff paste. Knead lightly together and it is ready to use for fruit tarts, etc. Suet Pastry Ingredients— Three and a half level teacupfuls of flour. Four heaped tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. Half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. Cold water. Method.—Sieve the flour, baking powder, and salt. Remove all skin from the suet, shred it finely, and chop it until it resembles coarse oatmeal. Use a little of the flour to mix with it while chopping, to prevent it clogging together. Mix the suet with the flour, add enough cold water to mix the dry