103 HOW TO and wipe the bird carefully. Remove the tendons from the legs and loosen the skin round the end of the “ drumstick.” Make an incision through the skin from the neck to the middle of the back, or near the junction of the side bone. Scrape the flesh with the skin away from the backbone, until the end of the shoulder blade is felt; loosen the flesh from this and then follow the bone to the wing joint and down to the middle joint in the wing. The skin lies very near the bone underneath the joint, and care must be taken to avoid cutting through the skin at these places. Leave the first bone in the wing to aid in keeping the shape, it may be removed before serving. In small birds there is so little meat on the wings that it is just as well to cut them off at the middle joint. Remove the bone from the other wing in the same way, then follow the collar bone from the wing down to the breast bone, loosening the crop from the flesh. In removing the flesh from the breast bone, be careful not to cut through the skin on the ridge. The flesh may be pushed away with the fingers, and the fillets or pieces that are detached from the other flesh can be laid aside and put in place afterwards. When the breast bone is bare, separate the flesh from the ribs and be careful not to break through the membrane into the inside. Remove the flesh from the second joint, then the “drumsticks,” turning the flesh wrong side out as in pulling a glove off a finger. Repeat this process on the other side. Then scrape down to the end of the backbone and cut through the bone, leaving a part of it in the tail. Separate the membrane under the body without breaking it. Thus you have the flesh in the skin and the skeleton left entire with the contents undisturbed in the inside. Lay the stuffing in, filling out the legs and wings, then sew the skin along the back and skewer or tie into the original shape. An easier way of boning a fowl where it is to be rolled like a galantine, is to cut off the wings at the second joint, break the “drumstick” half-way from the joint, cut the skin down the entire length of the back, remove the flesh off like a glove; then do the same on the other wing and leg, leaving the breast until the last. The wings and legs are turned inside, the stuffing is laid in the flesh, and the whole rolled over and over and sewed on the edge of the skin and at the ends of the roll.