234 THE COMPLETE COOK Medallions of Chicken Ingredients—■ Slices of cooked chicken and A little foie-gras. tongue. Chaudfroid sauce. Two truffles. Aspic jelly. Two large chillies. Method.—^With a plain round cutter about two and a half inches in diameter, stamp out rounds of chicken and tongue; they should be barely a quarter of an inch thick. It may be necessary to patch up the rounds of chicken to obtain a circle; if so, do it very neatly. Chop up the trimmings of chicken and ham, then pound them in a mortar, adding the foie-gras, a little chopped truffle and salt and pepper. When these are all well pounded, rub the mixture through a sieve. Next spread some of it on one side of each round of chicken. Place each round of chicken on one of tongue, then coat both carefully with some of the chaudfroid sauce. Let this set, then pour over a second coat. Cut the truffle and chillies into small crescents or stars, and arrange them in any pretty design on the top of each medallion, keeping them in place with a few drops of aspic. Pour a little melted aspic over each, leave [till set, then arrange them on a bed of salad and serve. Chicken Ingredients— One pound of puff pastry. Half a cold chicken. Two breakfastcupfuls of dice oi ham. Patties Half a pint of white sauce. Salt, pepper, and grated nut- meg. One tablespoonful of cream. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Method.—Cut the pastry into rounds about half an inch thick and two and a half inches in diameter; then with a cutter an inch in diameter, stamp half-way through the rounds of pastry. Bake them in a quick oven a delicate biscuit colour. Remove the tops carefully and keep them, and scoop out all the soft part from inside the cases. Cut the chicken and ham into small dice; mix them with the white sauce and the cream and lemon juice, season carefully. Make the mdxture hot, fill in each case, replace the little tops of pastry and serve them hot or cold. Note.—A mixture of cooked veal and ham or tongue can be substituted for the chicken if wished.