THE COMPLETE COOK Salt: pepper. Method.—Have the hare cleaned and cut up; the blood should be saved unless this is objected to. Cut the hare into small joints. Put the butter into a stewpan, add the ham cut in dice, the hare and onion, fry these a light brown. Add the flour and colour this also. Next add the stock, carrot, herbs, spice, and thinly peeled lemon rind. Simmer the soup steadily for two hours. Then strain off the soup and reboil it by itself in order that all grease may rise and be removed. Take the meat off the bones, pound it well in a mortar and rub it through a hair sieve, adding some of the soup; this is done to render it easier. Mix this puree with the soup, add the jelly and any blood to be used. Re-heat the soup without letting it boil again. Season it carefully, add the wine and serve in a hot tureen with toast or croutons. Note.—The wine can be left out and water used if for a plainer soup: in that case a little raw beef cooked with it is an improvement. If liked some of the best pieces can be cut in squares and added with the jelly. A Good Household Soup Required— Bones and trimmings from any joint of roast meat, i Bones of game or poultry. Two cold mutton chops. Any pieces of uncooked meat, trimmings, or bones. Two baked apples. Two stalks of celery. From Left-Over Scraps A breakfastcupful of cooked onion or one large raw one. Four quarts of cold water. Two teaspoonfuls of salt. Four cloves. Four allspice. Four peppercorns. A bunch of parsley, thyme, marjoram, and a bay leaf. MetJiod.—Chop the bones and cut the meat small. Put them in the saucepan with the water, salt, and other ingredients. Let the soup simmer until the water is reduced to about half Strain it into a clean basin. Leave it till next day, then remove all the fat. Re-heat and season it. Serve in it either some cooked macaroni, vermicelli, rice, or any other garnish liked. Or it may be thickened with flour, semolina, crushed tapioca, etc. Kidney Soup Ingredients— Half a pound of ox kidney. Half a pound of lean beef. Three pints of brown stock. Three tablespoonfuls of coarsely chopped fat bacon. One tablespoonful of chopped onion. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. One rounded tablespoonful of butter.