3o6 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Put the sugar, water, and cinnamon into a pan. Boil them without the lid steadily for ten minutes. Skim this syrup well and take out the cinnamon. Colour it a fairly deep pink with cochineal. Core and pare the apples, lay them in the syrup, and cover them with the cores and peel. Simmer the fruit until it is tender, but not broken ;"The time will depend on the variety of apple, probably half an hour will be sufficient. Lift out the apples carefully on to a tin and cook them for a few minutes in the oven. Strain the syrup and boil it quickly until it is very thick ; if the apples are good it will almost jelly when some is cooled on a plate. Arrange the apples on a dish, pour the syrup when half cold over them. Just before serving fill the centre of each with jelly, and put the whipped and flavoured cream round them or heaped in the middle. Apple Dumplings Ingredients— Four large baking apples. Demerara sugar. Four cloves. For the Short Crust Pastry— One and three-quarter breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Five rounded tablespoonfuls of butter, lard, or dripping. Half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Cold water. Method.—Remove the cores from the apples without breaking them, using a corer or sharp-pointed knife. Then peel them. Next prepare the pastry as directed for Short Crust Pastry. Divide the pastry into four, roll each piece out large enough to cover the apples. Place an apple on each round, fill in the centre with sugar and one clove. Wet the edges of the pastry, close them neatly together under each apple. Place the apples on a greased tin and bake them in a moderate oven for half an hour, or until the apples are tender ; this is best ascertained by sticking a clean skewer into them. Brush the dumplings over with a little water and dust them with sugar. Note.—A spoonful of jam or marmalade placed in the centre of the apples, instead of the sugar and clove, makes a pleasing change. Meringued Apples higredients— Two large sharp cooking apples. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor Two whites of eggs. sugar. Method.—Peel and core the apples, put them in a baking tin with water to come half-way up them, and one tablespoonful of