FISH i6i they smell at all muddy, soak them for a short while in cold salted water. They must also be cooked immediately. All fish must be perfectly fresh and thoroughly cooked, or it is most indigestible and sometimes very unwholesome. Oily fish is best grilled, baked, or boiled, not fried, as this method makes it even richer. Salting draws out the nutritive parts of fish in the same way as it does with meat, and so salt fish should be used as a relish and not depended upon for nourishment. Oily fish are less injured than white fish by salting. All varieties of fish need an accompaniment of starchy foods, like bread and potatoes; and white fish requires also to be served with a sauce, enriched with butter and milk, or to be cooked with butter, to supply the fat it lacks. To Clean Fish It is well to know how to set about this, even though it is usually done by the fishmonger. Wash the fish first of all in cold salted water to remove slime. If it has scales, remove them next by scraping with a small sharp knife from the tail to the head ; hold the knife flat and slanting as it rests on the fish. Scrape slowly, or the scales will fly over everything, and rinse the knife frequently. Then rewash the fish. Salmon and trout are usually not scaled. Flat fish, such as soles, flounders, etc., are cleaned by slitting open the bag-like cavity just under the gills and scraping it well out, carefully removing all dark skin from inside. Fish, such as haddock, cod, trout, etc., that swim with the dorsal fins uppermost, are slit open underneath, from close under the head, nearly to the tail, and all soft parts scraped out. The liver may be left in. Many leave the sound in also, that is the white, rather leathery part adhering to the backbone, but it is better removed. Be careful to remove all blood from the backbone, and if necessary remove dark skin by rubbing it with a little salt. Mullet, called “ the woodcock of the sea,” is not drawn ; the gills are pulled out, and this removes all that is necessary. Smelts, sprats, and other small fish, served whole, are often treated in a similar manner. Large roes are better removed from the fish and cooked separately, as they require to be so thoroughly cooked that the fish would be overcooked. Small roes can be left in.