6 THE COMPLETE COOK be poured down in order that clean water is left in the syphon- bend in the pipe. A little disinfectant may be advantageously used in hot weather. The value of absolute cleanliness cannot be too strongly impressed ; a dirty spoon or pan, with a fragment of burnt food from a former dish, will spoil both colour and flavour of other foods, so will saucepans with badly worn linings, and pans once burnt will invariably “ catch ” again. Copper pans, if allowed to become dirty and the linings defective, will cause actual poisoning, so they need most careful attention. The Kitchen Utensils It is not wise to have too many saucepans in use, for some will rarely be used and will only become rusty and neglected ; at the same time the operations of the cook must not be hampered by a scarcity of utensils. Provide a chopping board, and a specially marked knife and fork for onions; there is then no excuse for the pastry board being used for chopping purposes, and the unbearable flavour of onion being imparted to bread and butter, etc. If much fish is fried it is wise to have a separate pan of frying fat for it; if only needed occasionally one pan of fat will suffice. Cast-Iron Saucepans are largely used for ordinary kitcheners, lined either with tin or enamel. The latter are preferable for milk, fruit, etc., but, unlike the former, once the enamel chips they are useless, for they cannot be repaired. A few good Enamel Pans are most useful, but beware of the showy cheap ones. Pretty as they are, the enamel soon chips, especially in the case of frying pans ; and many cases of ap- pendicitis have been traced to fragments of it being swallowed with the food. Seamless Steel Pans are most durable, light, easily repaired, and the initial outlay is not very heavy. They are perhaps the best of all for ordinary use. Copper Pans wear splendidly, are good even conductors of heat, but they are expensive and troublesome to keep clean, though they greatly add to the appearance of the kitchen. Also, with a careless cook, they present a source of danger. Aluminium Pans are excellent, especially for portable cookery utensils, as the metal is so light and strong. There is no lining to wear off, and no polishing is required. The