THE COMPLETE COOK 282 bottom of the dish. Wash, wipe, and slice the tomatoes. Put a layer in the dish, then one of crumbs and cheese, and so on until the dish is full—the last layer must be crumbs and cheese —dusting each layer with salt and pepper. Put a few small bits of butter on the top and bake in a moderate oven until the tomatoes are soft and the top nicely browned. Serve as hot as possible. Stuffed Tomatoes {Illustrated') Ingredients— Six firm, even-sized tomatoes. Two tablespoonfuls of cooked chopped ham. One rounded tablespoonful of fresh breadcrumbs. Two level teaspoonfuls of chopped shallot. Two level teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of thick gravy or brown sauce. Three teaspoonfuls of grated cheese. One tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. A few browned crumbs. Six croutons of bread. Method.—Wash, wipe, and stalk the tomatoes. Melt the butter in a sautd or frying pan. When hot put in all the finely chopped ingredients and fry them until the shallot is a light gold colour. Then add the white crumbs, brown sauce, and half the cheese. Season the mixture carefully and keep it hot. With a sharp knife remove a round piece from the stalk end of each tomato. Scoop out some of the soft interior so as to leave a cavity for the stuffing; take great care not to crack the tomatoes. Fill each with the prepared mixture, heaping it slightly on the top. Mix the rest of the cheese with the browned crumbs and sprinkle a little on the top of each heap of stuffing. Wipe any crumbs off the tomatoes. Cook them in a moderately hot oven for about five to eight minutes, or till tender, but not broken. Spread any mixture left over on the hot croutons, which should be cut to fit the tomatoes. Place a tomato on each crouton, arrange them on a lace paper on a hot dish, and they are ready for serving. Note.—If there is no brown sauce, or gravy, use some of the scooped out tomato. Omit mushrooms, if more convenient, and use a little more ham. Tongue, chopped game, or poultry can be used in place of the ham. Also excellent if made with lobster, oysters, or crab.