THE COMPLETE COOK 494 Henriettes Ingredients— One egg. One heaped saltspoonful of baking Half a teacupful of cream. powder. About one and three-quarter tea- Half a saltspoonful of powdered cupfuls of flour. cinnamon. One saltspoonful of salt. One teaspoonful of wine or brandy. Lard for frying. Method.—Put the yolk in a basin with the salt and cinnamon, stir the cream and brandy into it. Mix the baking powder with one tablespoonful of the flour. Add this smoothly to the yolk of egg. Add the white of egg beaten stiffly, and stir gently in enough flour to make the mixture into a light but not sticky dough. Roll this out as thin as a wafer, and cut it with a pastry jagger into squares or diamonds. Have the lard so hot that a very faint smoke is rising from it, and fry the shapes about four minutes or so. Drain them on paper and dust with castor sugar. Serve at once. Note.—Use less flour and make a thick batter instead of a dough, and force it out into the hot lard through a forcing bag fitted with a medium-sized pipe, making rings as it falls into the fat, or any other shape preferred. Use other flavour- ings in place of cinnamon, and if liked less rich, milk instead of cream. American Layer Cake Ingredients— Eight rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Five eggs. Two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Filling and icing as desired. Method.—Break the eggs into a basin, whisk them until well frothed. Add the sugar, and whisk for about five minutes. Put the basin over a saucepan filled with boiling water over a low fire, and continue to whisk the eggs until the mixture is quite a light colour, thick and ropy. It depends on the skill of the cook how long it will take. If the mixture seems getting too hot, take it off the saucepan, or the eggs will set. Warm the butter gently; it must not be hot. Sieve the flour and baking powder. Add half the flour and half the butter at a time, mix them in lightly, and add the remaining flour and butter. Divide the mixture into two lined round shallow sandwich tins, about seven and a half inches across, and bake them in a moderately