142 THE COMPLETE COOK Pea Soup Ingredients— Half a pint of split peas. Any scraps of cooked or raw bones Two quarts of cold water, or stock, of ham or fresh meat. or pot-liquor. One rounded tablespoonful of One large onion. dripping or butter. One small carrot. One level tablespoonful of flour. Four sticks of celery. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash and pick over the peas and leave them in sufficient cold water to cover them to soak all night. Prepare the vegetables and chop them finely. Chop any bones used. Melt the dripping in a saucepan ; put in the strained peas and vegetables. Stir them over the fire for five minutes. Add the stock and bones and let the soup boil gently for about two to three hours, according to the age of the peas. Then remove the bones and rub the soup through a wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, pour back the soup and let it reboil. Mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little cold water; add it to the boiling soup and stir it till it thickens. When thus thickened with flour the soup will not separate after standing for some time. Season the soup carefully and serve it in a hot tureen. Hand separately with it croutons of bread and some dried, powdered, and sieved mint. Note.—Whole dried peas can be used but they will take a very much longer time to boil. A few tomatoes added to this recipe give a pleasant variety. Do not sieve the soup if incon- venient, though a more digestible and delicate preparation is gained by doing so. Green Pea higredients— One pint of shelled green peas. One and a half pints of boiling white stock or water. Half a pint of hot milk. A small bunch of stalked parsley sprigs. Eight leaves of fresh mint. Soup One spring onion, or a small piece of shallot. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. Half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Salt: pepper. Method.—Put about a gill of the best peas aside and boil them separately to add whole later on. Put the boiling stock into a saucepan, add the rest of the peas, the parsley, sugar, mint, and onion. Boil all these till the vegetables are soft. Strain the peas, saving the liquid in which they were boiled. Rub the peas through a hair sieve, gradually mix into this puree the liquid which was strained off. Rinse out the saucepan, and