THE COMPLETE COOK 362 the pulp. Whip the cream till it will just hang on the whisk, add it and the sugar to the pulp. Put the gelatine with a gill of the apricot syrup in a small pan, and when it has dissolved strain in the lemon juice. Cool the mixture slightly, strain it into the cream, etc., and mix quickly. Pour the cream into the mould and leave it until quite cold. Then turn it out and put a little chopped jelly round it. Note.—This cream should be of a very delicate pink tint, so, if necessary, add a drop of cochineal. The mould need not be decorated with jelly, etc., but the effect is plainer. About a pound and a half of fresh apricots cooked until tender in half a pint of water and then sieved may be used. Bavaroise Ingredietits— Four yolks of eggs. Half a pint of milk. Half a pint of good cream. One level tablespoonful of castor sugar. Cream Ten sheets of gelatine. Four tablespoonfuls of brandy or sherry, or any liqueur. Two tablespoonfuls of water. Method.—Make a custard with the eggs and milk. Strain into it the sugar, the gelatine dissolved in water, and the wine or liqueur. Whip the cream stiffly, when the custard has cooled slightly mix it in lightly. Rinse a mould in cold water, pour in the cream, and leave it until set. Turn it out carefully on to a dish. Charlotte Russe Ingredients— About eighteen Savoy finger biscuits. Half a pint of cream. Six sheets of leaf gelatine. One gill of water or fruit syrup. {Illustrated ) One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Vanilla to taste. Half a gill of clear wine jelly. A few glace cherries. Angelica, about an inch. Method.—Take a plain round souffle tin which holds about a pint, pour in enough warmed jelly to cover the top of it to the depth of half an inch, and let this set. Make a pretty design on the top with a ring of cherries cut in halves placed round the edge, and cut angelica. Pour in a little more jelly to cover this decoration and let it set. Trim the biscuits carefully in order to make the sides quite straight, and cut enough off one end of each to make them stand level on the jelly and just the right length to reach from the jelly to the top of the