3 THE STOREROOM Management of the Larder.—The housekeeper must inspect it daily to note if everything is clean ; what scraps are left over and want using; what requires ordering, and that nothing is in the least tainted or sour. On no account must hot foods be placed in the larder, or food on dirty dishes and plates just as they have been removed from the table. Cover everything possible with thin muslin, wire covers, or perforated kitchen paper. This is specially needful during the hot months. Never permit meat, fish, poultry, or game to lie on the shelves, hang them up with hooks or string. Foods not suitable to Keep in the Larder.—Herrings, smoked fish, apples, onions, strong cheese, and game that is high, should always be kept separate, as they speedily impart their flavours to other foods. Should the milk and butter have to be kept in the larder special attention must be paid to this point. To Keep the Larder Clean.—Wipe the floor and shelves daily with a damp cloth, so that no crumbs or pieces of food are left about, but never use a brush, too much dust is thereby raised. Thoroughly wash and scrub it once a week, also the window gauze, leaving door and windows wide open to dry it; damp being most detrimental to any food. A weak solution of carbolic acid, sanitas, or vinegar and water, may be used with advantage in the water used for washing. Have the ceiling and walls whitewashed at least once a year, and all holes filled up to prevent mice or beetles entering. In the early spring, wash all cracks and scrub the wire gauze across the windows with carbolic acid and water; this will diminish the number of flies later on. Keep all basins, etc., scrupulously clean, and every now and then scald and dry the meat hooks. Bags of powdered charcoal or bowls of Condy’s fluid and water will help to keep sweet or disinfect the larder. The Storeroom The Sto7'erooin.—This department is of the utmost con- venience to the housekeeper, assisting greatly in her efforts to be economical and orderly. In a large establishment it is imperative, and even in small houses, unless, at least, one large cupboard is devoted to stores; otherwise they are obliged to be kept in various places, often most unsuitable, about the house. The room should be conveniently near the kitchen quarters and must be perfectly dry, cool, and well ventilated.