435 INVALID COOKERY brown. Strain out the solid part; pound it in a mortar, then rub it through a fine wire sieve. Stir into this paste gradually and smoothly the liquid beef tea and season it carefully. Note,—Nourishing and digestible as this is, it must never be given to a patient when solid food is not allowed, but it makes an excellent variety. Raw Beef Tea Ingredients— Three ounces of raw, very fresh Three large tablespoonfuls of cold topside of beef. water. Half a saltspoonful of salt. Method.—Wash and wipe the meat and trim off all fat Scrape the meat as finely as possible with a sharp knife. As it is scraped, lay it in a shallow dish, or soup plate, with.the water and salt. Cover it over and let it stand until the meat is almost white and the water a deep red. Keep pressing the meat well. It will take an hour or more to soak sufficiently, unless there is need of greater speed in its preparation. When ready, pour it into a very fine strainer or piece of muslin and squeeze out all the juice. It may be served in a coloured glass or a feeding cup, as sometimes the patient objects to the colour. Note.—This will only keep for a short time, so it is of no use to make much at a time. Usually one or two teaspoonfuls are giveri at a time, as it is very strong. This preparation is literally invaluable in cases of extreme exhaustion, or for weakly infants. Beef Tea and Claret Jelly Ingredients— Three-quarters of a pint of claret. Half an inch of cinnamon. One gill of strong beef tea. One tablespoonful of red currant Ten lumps of sugar. jelly- Nine sheets of gelatine. Cochineal. One clove. Method.—Put all the ingredients except the beef tea in a bright saucepan. Stir carefully till the gelatine is dissolved, then let it stand by the side of the fire for five minutes so as to obtain the flavour of the spices. Put it aside to cool a little, then strain it on to the beef tea, which should be unsalted; add a few drops of cochineal to make it a pretty colour. Pour it into small cups or fancy moulds and let it set. Note.—If liked, leave out the red currant jelly and the