268 THE COMPLETE COOK Endive, Stewed Ingredieiits— Six heads of endive. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. A breakfastcupful and a half of Two teaspoonfuls of lemon juice, stock. Salt: pepper : croutons. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Cut off the stalks, outer leaves, and green portions of the leaves, as only the white part is needed. Pull off the white leaves, wash them well in several quantities of salted water, and examine them well, as being curly they are difficult to free from insects. Rinse them in clean water and put them into plenty of boiling salted water, and boil them for ten minutes. Pour off and throw away this water. Drain and chop the endive finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and stir these until they boil. Put in the endive, lemon juice, and seasoning. Simmer these for about twenty minutes or until the endive is tender. Lift it on to a hot dish, heaping it up. Do not add all the sauce if it seems too much. Garnish the endive with croutons. Boiled Flageolets with Butter Ingredients— One pint of flageolets. One onion. A bunch of parsley, herbs, and a bay leaf. T wo or three slices of ham orbacon. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Method.—Soak the flageolets in cold water for twelve hours. Put them in a saucepan of boiling very slightly salted water, add the onion, herbs, bacon, and cook them steadily for three to four hours, or until the beans are tender. Then drain off the water, remove the herbs and onion, put the beans back in the pan with the butter and a dust of pepper. Shake the pan over the fire until the beans are hot. Put them in a hot dish and sprinkle the parsley over. Haricot Beans k la Maitre d’Hotel Ingredients— One pint of haricot beans. Stock or water to cover them. One onion. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. A slice of ham or bacon, or trim- mings of either.