323 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Boiled Fruit Pudding Ingredients— Half a pound of suet pastry. Four cloves. Six or more cooking apples. Cold water. Two tablespoonfuls of brown sugar. Method.—Cut off one-third of the pastry and put it on one side for the lid. Roll out the remainder until it is about twice the size of the top of the basin. Well grease the basin and line it with the pastry, pressing it gently and evenly to the sides. Peel, core, and quarter the apples, half fill the basin with fruit, put in the sugar and cloves and then the rest of the apples and water to fill the basin. Roll out the piece of pastry, wet the edges, put it over the basin, pressing the edges together. Tie over the top a scalded and floured pudding cloth. Put the basin into a pan with plenty of fast boiling water, and let it boil steadily for two hours; as the water boils away, replenish it with more that is boiling. Let the pudding stand for a minute or two after taking it off the fire and removing the cloth, then turn it on to a hot dish. Note.—Rhubarb, gooseberries, plums, in fact any fresh fruit can be used, varying the quantity of sugar and water according to the kind of fruit. Gooseberry Fool Ingredients— One pint of gooseberries. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor Half a pint of boiled custard. sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. One gill of water. Method.—Wash, top, and tail the gooseberries, and put them into a stewpan with the water and sugar; stew them until they are soft. Rub them through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon. When the custard is cold, stir it into the gooseberry pur^e, add the cream and, if necessary, more castor sugar. Serve it either in one large glass dish or in custard glasses; let it be as cold as possible. Note.—Wafers or sponge fingers are a nice addition to this dish. If more convenient the cream may be omitted, or, if wished, only cream used, and no custard. Hasty Pudding Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of milk. A few grains of salt. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of Demerara sugar. flour. Fresh butter, or jam, or treacle.