203 BEEF the tape, strain the sauce over it, and garnish the dish with the spring onions left whole and the carrot cut in neat pieces. Note.—For a less expensive dish, use topside of beef or rump, or beef steak: these will require longer stewing probably. Omit spring onions when out of season and substitute turnips cut in dice. Beef Olives Ingredients— One and a half pounds of rump steak. Two heaped tablespoonfuls of chopped beef suet. Six tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Method.—Wash and dry the beef. Cut it into pieces about a third of an inch thick and three inches long. Flatten them slightly with a wet knife. Chop the trimmings from the beef with the suet, lemon rind, parsley, and herbs. Mix these with the crumbs and beaten egg, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Spread a layer of this mixture on each piece of beef, roll it up and tie it round with a piece of string. Put the rolls in a stewpan with the sauce and let them stew gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Remove the string. Arrange the rolls on a bed of mashed potato or spinach, and strain the sauce round. Note.—Veal may be used in the place of beef, and bacon instead of the suet. If there is any of the forcemeat over, make it into small balls; egg, crumb, and fry these, and use them to garnish the dish. Quarter of a teaspoonful of mixed powdered herbs. One egg. The grated rind of a lemon. One pint of brown sauce. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Smothered Beef or Pot Roast Ingredients— About four pounds of topside of One breakfastcupful of boiling beef. water or stock. Method.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water, wipe it well, trim, and, if necessary, tie it in shape. Harden the outside by quickly browning both sides in a frying pan, or by grilling it for a minute or so. Put the meat in a saucepan, pour in the stock. Cover the meat with a piece of thickly greased paper. Put on the lid of the pan, for it must be kept tightly covered to retain the steam, and stand it where it will keep