THE COMPLETE COOK 4 P'irm, wide shelves, at varying distances apart, should be fixed, and small brass hooks screwed into their edges. Drawers are needed for cloths, kitchen and fancy papers, cotton wool, etc., and either rods or hooks fixed in the ceiling are convenient. The shelves are most easily kept clean if covered with white oil baize, or American cloth; if these are too expensive, clean white paper must be used, only this will need changing frequently. A table, chair, small pair of steps, scales, and a weighing machine will be needed, the latter only if very large amounts are purchased at a time. Plenty of air-tight tins, glass and earthenware jars and bottles, all with well-fitting lids, will be wanted: boxes, scissors, scoops, measures, tin-opener, hammer, screwdriver, corkscrew, a knife or two, slate and pencil, a file for invoices, gum, labels, pen and ink, and a dust-pan and brush, are all accessories of a well-appointed storeroom. The Arrangement.—“ Have a place for everything, and keep everything in its place,” so that anything wanted can be found even in the dark ; let every bottle and canister be clearly labelled. All materials for cleaning purposes, such as soda, etc., must be kept apart; also anything that is poisonous must bear a large red label with the word Poison written largely on it. Medicinal stores must have a corner to themselves ; they are often invaluable, especially in the country, and by their quick application will often prevent or alleviate many sudden attacks of illness. Store jam, pickles, sauces, and syrups in the driest and coolest corner, for they will ferment with warmth or damp. Have a box, or bag, for pieces of string, and a drawer for wrapping-paper off parcels, etc. These if unknotted or smoothed out will save many shillings in a year, and will render the send- ing off of a parcel a less tiresome affair than it frequently is. The Management.—It is wisest to have a regular time for ordering fresh supplies, either monthly or quarterly, or even weekly. It is a sign of bad management if petty orders of sugar, coffee, etc., have to be sent for daily. It is a bad habit sprung from always living near too convenient shops. Again, some stores are cheaper if bought in larger quantities, then time and money are saved. The goods on arrival should be weighed, inspected, and the amounts and date entered in the storebook. Give stores out at a set time, either at a certain hour each morning or weekly; thus by a little forethought many irritating interruptions are saved, and fewer things forgotten. In large establishments the