METHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS 67 but if a double griller is used, in which the food can be securely fastened, the meat need not be moved, merely the griller twisted round. Arrange the food so that the thickest part of it will be just in the centre of the fire, thus it will obtain the greatest heat; also should there be any fat on the meat, it should be placed at the top, so that, as it melts, the dripping trickles down and bastes the meat. Avoid, however, fat dropping on to the coal, as it causes a smoky flare from the fire, which is apt to spoil the flavour of the food. Charcoal is an excellent fuel for grilling purposes, as it throws out a powerful heat, free from flame or smoke. Should the fire be smoky, a little salt thrown on it will help to clear it. Braising This is a combination of two methods, stewing and roasting. Stewing, because the food is cooked very slowly in a small quantity of liquid, in a closely covered pan ; roasting, because the braising pan proper has the top of the lid deeply sunken, in order that live coals or charcoal may be placed in it, so that there is a fire over as well as under the food; the top heat slightly scorching the surface of it and imparting the character- istic flavour. It is an excellently economical method, deservedly popular with the French, who fully appreciate the specially rich flavour and aroma it develops, due to the bed of mixed vegetables or mirepoix, as it is termed, on which the meat rests. The liquid is slowly reduced, forming a rich gravy to serve with it. This method is peculiarly suited for meat, etc., which are apt to be dry and lack flavour, notably veal; and in the case of delicate foods, a buttered paper is frequently placed over them, under the lid, to prevent the top heat from the lid drying the surface overmuch. The operation of braising can be carried out very successfully with an ordinary saucepan, although when such is used the hot coal in the lid must be omitted. The pan used for braising is best placed in the oven, not on the top of the stove; it then is surrounded by a slow uniform heat, and will need very little attention.