2 THE COMPLETE COOK effective and is easily washed. Thick plain linoleum is better for the floor than any form of carpet or rug, and is warm and comfortable to the feet. Cupboards, roomy drawers, and a large, steady, wooden table are essential, also well-arranged shelves, dresser, etc. One of the graduated iron saucepan stands is far more handy and cleanly than the old-fashioned pot board; and do not grudge a good kitchen clock with a clear face, placed where the cook can easily consult it, otherwise do not expect punctuality and economy of time. Consider the maid’s comfort. An easy-chair or two, a cheap screen if the room is draughty, a corner for their books and writing materials, etc., gives a homelike air and fosters good feeling between mistress and servant. If they have no time to benefit by them, either they are muddlers and do not know how to plan their day, or else the duties are badly apportioned and they are overworked. The Larder The Larder should face north, so that the sun does not penetrate; should this be impossible the window must be shaded with a blind, or in very hot weather wet matting, such as gardeners use, is effective. The larder must be perfectly dry and thoroughly ventilated, not by windows only, but by venti- lators and perforated bricks. There must be no communication with the drains by means of an untrapped sink in the floor, such as is sometimes put for carrying off water used for washing purposes. The windows should be covered with perforated zinc, or wire gauze, sufficiently fine to keep out flies. The walls, if possible, must be tiled,—if not, whitewashed; crevices in the bricks being first filled with mortar or putty. The shelves are best of marble, slate, or stone, as wood is absorbent, but unfortunately for the sake of economy it has often to be used. The floor for the same reason should be of stone, concrete, or brick. Let the fittings be as simple as possible, so that they can be easily cleaned. Iron rods with hooks attached should be fixed across the ceiling in a good draught. If, however, there is an outside safe for raw meat, game, etc., these are not so essential. The Temperature should be kept down to 50° Fahr. in summer, and not below 38° Fahr. in winter. This is not always easy to contrive, but, with a little common sense and ingenuity, the temperature may be kept sufficiently near to these degrees.