PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 335 ingredients to a stiff but not crumbling paste. Roll out and use as required. For the Pears— About eight stewing pears. One inch of cinnamon. Two loosely packed breakfastcup- One and a half gills of cream. fuls of loaf sugar. Cochineal. One pint of water. Method.—Rinse out a saucepan with cold water, then put in the milk and bring it to boiling point. Wash the rice thoroughly, and when the milk boils add the rice, the thinly pared rind of the lemon, and the sugar. Put the lid on the pan and let the rice boil very gently until it has absorbed all the milk and the whole has become a creamy mass. Stir it frequently. Take out the lemon rind. Rinse a border mould in cold water, pour in the rice and leave it until cold. To Stew the Pears: Put the water, sugar, cinnamon into a stewing jar or saucepan. Colour the water a very deep pink with cochineal. Peel and halve the pears, leave on the stalks, put the fruit into the jar, covering them with the peel. Cover the jar, put it in a moderate oven, or over the fire, and let the pears stew gently until they can be easily pierced with the head of a pin ; they will take probably from an hour to an hour and a half, but the time depends largely on the kind of pear. Lift out the pears, strain the syrup into a clean pan, and boil it until it is reduced to half, or appears syrupy. Turn the rice border carefully on to a glass dish. Arrange the pieces of pear round the top. Pour over the syrup. Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, sweeten and flavour it to taste, and heap it up in the centre of the pears. Note.—If liked, remove the stalks of the pears and replace them with strips of angelica. Cook these as directed for Baked Apples, but use a little more water and allow a longer time for baking. Eaten hot with butter, cream, or custard and sugar they are excellent. Stewed Pears with Rice Border Ingredients— One quart of milk. Four level tablespoonfuls of rice. Fifteen lumps of sugar. One lemon. Baked Quinces