448 THE COMPLETE COOK from ten to twelve minutes. Next cut the fish into shreds, put these in a stewpan with any juice that may be on the plate, adding the sauce and a seasoning of salt and pepper and lemon juice. When the mixture is hot, spread some of it on each slice of bread and butter, free from crusts, and roll them up lengthways. Serve them at once. Note.—Any light fish will do in the place of sole. Great care must be taken that no bones are left in. If it is incon- venient to prepare sauce a tablespoonful of cream would do. Stewed Sole Ingredients— One small sole. Half a gill of good stock. One egg. One teaspoonful of red currant Four tablespoonfuls of crumbs. jelly. Half a gill of brown sauce. Salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Method.—Wash, dry, and fillet the fish. Brush each fillet over with beaten egg, then cover them with crumbs. Fry the fillets a golden brown in hot fat. Drain them well on paper. Put the stock, sauce, and jelly in a saucepan, heat them and season to taste with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Lay in the fillets and stew them very gently for eight to ten minutes. Lay them on a hot dish with neat sippets of toast round. Note.—For a change, the fillets may be left unfried and laid at once in the stewpan; a few minutes, longer cooking may be required. Plaice or whiting can also be used. Ingredients— Whiting Souffles Four ounces of raw whiting. Two eggs. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of Half a gill of cream or milk, butter. Salt and pepper. One level tablespoonful of flour. A little lemon juice. Method.—Remove all skin and bones from the fish. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the cream and stir it over the fire till the “ panada,” as it is called, thickens and leaves the sides of the pan without sticking to it. Then put the fish, panada, and yolks of eggs into the mortar, pound them well and rub through a fine wire or hair sieve. Season carefully. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture. Well butter some small china souffle cases. Tie a band of buttered paper round the top of each and half fill the cases with the mixture. Put them