METHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS 6i to simmering point. The cold water will have drawn out enough of the juices to enrich the liquid, which is later to form the accompanying gravy, then as it reaches boiling point the albumen hardens and thus retains the remainder in the meat. Actual Boiling is required for: 1. All green vegetables and most other varieties. 2. Bone and meat soups. 3. The first few minutes, as the preliminary step when boiling meat, fish, etc. 4. All boiled puddings. 5. In cases where evaporation is required, or reduction of stock, sauces, etc. 6. The thorough cooking of starch grains,—example, boiled rice, thickened sauces, macaroni, etc. Simmering, except in the above cases, is far more effective, satisfactory, and economical. It should be noted that after the liquid has reached boiling point (that is, the application of heat has been sufficient to cause ebullition or agitation of its surface, forming bubbles) all the fire in the world cannot make the water any hotter, unless the escape of the steam is prevented, which is impossible in ordinary vessels. Thus it is only a waste of fuel and ingredients to permit the furious boiling often to be ob- served in many kitchens; besides which it renders the walls, ceilings, etc., damp and unhealthy by the condensation of the steam. The great disadvantage of the process of boiling is, that even with great care a certain proportion of the nutritious elements in the foods will be lost in the liquid. This is of less con- sequence if the water is to be served as broth or gravy, but is more serious when it is poured down the sink, as is usually done with water in which vegetables or fish are boiled, instead of utilising it for vegetable stock in the former, or for fish soup and sauces in the latter case. Steaming is to cook foods by moist heat in the vapour arising from boiling water. It is the most gradual of all the methods of cooking, and though this necessitates the use of more fuel, yet, as many different articles of food can be steamed over one vessel containing boiling water, it is really economical, and is largely adopted in large establishments, hotels, hospitals, etc. The Advantages of Steaming over Boiling Food are: 1. The gradual heat renders the food more digestible, hence its special value for invalid cookery. 2. Puddings are lighter and richer, none of the suet, etc., having boiled out into the water.