THE COMPLETE COOK 138 Beat the yolks of eggs with the cream, cool the soup slightly, and strain in these ingredients. Re-heat the soup without boiling it. Season it carefully, add the balls of cucumber, and if too thick add more of the boiling milk and serve it in a hot tureen with croutons handed separately. Note.—For a more economical soup use a little more flour instead of the thickening of eggs and cream. Essex Soup Ingredients— Five tablespoonfiils of pearl barley. One and a half quarts of white stock. One level tablespoonful of butter. One gill of cream. One raw yolk of egg. Four tablespoonfuls of cooked peas. Fourtablespoonfulsof cooked balls of carrot. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Method.—Wash the barley. Put it in a little saucepan with cold water to cover it, then boil it for five minutes to blanch it. Strain off and throw away this water and put the barley in a saucepan with a quart of boiling slightly salted water and the butter. Boil these gently for about an hour and a half or until the barley is soft. Then strain off the water; it could be used as the foundation for some plain broth or other, as it is not wanted for this soup. Rub the barley through a hair sieve and mix the puree thus made with the white stock. Reboil the soup in a clean pan, add the balls of carrot and the peas and simmer the soup for ten minutes. Beat up the yolk of egg with the cream. Let the soup cool a little and strain in the egg. Re-heat the soup without boiling it. Season it carefully, add the parsley and serve with croutons. Puree k la St. Ingredients— Half a pint of dried green peas. One teaciipful of cooked fresh peas. One quart of white stock or pot- liquor. One pint of hot milk. Half a Spanish onion. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Germain A small bunch of parsley. Six leaves of fresh mint. One teacupful of washed spinach leaves. Salt; pepper ; half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Soak the dried peas for twenty-four hours in cold water, then drain off any water not absorbed. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the sliced onion, spinach leaves, and