189 FISH Sole au Gratin Ingredie^its— One sole. Two teaspoonfuls of grated Par- mesan cheese. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One level teaspoonful of chopped shallot. Half a lemon. Method.—Thickly butter a fireproof gratin dish. Mix the chopped shallot and parsley and sprinkle half of them down the centre of the dish. Wash well and dry the fish. Skin it and trim off the fins, tail, and head, and score it three times on each side with a sharp knife. Lay the sole in the dish. Put the rest of the parsley and shallot on the top of it; dust it with salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. Cover the top thinly with the crumbs and cheese mixed together. Put a few small bits of butter here and there on the top and bake it in a moderate oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. Boil the sauce, add the wine, and strain it round the sole when it is cooked. Send the fish to table in the dish in which it was cooked. Note.—If preferred, the sole may be filleted and folded in three before laying it in the dish. Filleted plaice and other fish are excellent cooked in the same way. One level tablespoonful of butter. Three tablespoonfuls of good brown sauce. Half a glass of sherry. Two tablespoonfuls of browned crumbs. Salt: pepper. Sole, Plaice, etc., k I’Orley Ingredients— One sole. One tablespoonful of salad oil. Two teaspoonfuls of chilli vinegar. Two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One level teaspoonful of chopped shallot. Frying Catter No. 3. Frying fat: seasoning. Fried parsley. A gill of tomato or anchovy sauce. Method.—After preparing the batter, wash, dry, and fillet the fish, and cut each fillet into two or more pieces, according to their size. Mix the oil, vinegars, shallot, parsley, and seasoning in a pie dish. Lay in the fillets and allow them to marinade, that is steep, in this mixture for about half an hour, turn them now and then. Have ready a pan of hot fat, from which a faint smoke is rising. Lift the fish out of the pie dish into the batter, then lower it gently into the fat and fry it a light golden brown.