METHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS 63 6. As stews can be easily re-heated, or kept hot, without spoiling them, they are most convenient for family use. It is well to remember that the tougher the meat, etc., is likely to be, the longer and slower must be the stewing process. There are two methods of stewing meat: I. Lightly fry it before stewing, in order to brown it, retain the juices and give additional flavour. For example, haricot mutton, stewed steak. For this method, however, tough stringy parts of meat are not suitable. The second way, when coarse meat containing much gristle is used, is either to soak it a few minutes first in vinegar, the action of which softens the fibres, or to place the meat in cold water and par-boil it,—this is done for Irish stew. Roasting This method is one of the oldest, most wholesome, and popular of all, indeed it may be described as our national method, “the roast beef of old England” having long ago become famous. It is, therefore, regrettable that it must also be described as the most expensive. It consists of cooking meat, etc., by radiant heat from an open fire. Meat thus cooked will retain more of the juices and develop more flavour than by any other process. The success, however, will largely depend on the manage- ment of the fire; it is essential that it is quick and clear the whole time. Should the heat be insufficient to harden the surface albumen rapidly, the watery juices evaporate and the meat becomes dry and tasteless. The heat must, however, not be so fierce that the albumen is hardened all through the meat; after the preliminary ten or fifteen minutes, it must be slackened, or the joint will be charred and tough. Thus with large joints the fire needs to be less sharp after the outside is sealed, than with small joints, birds, etc. Roasting may be performed in two ways ; 1. Before an open fire,—this is the favourite method. 2. In a properly ventilated oven. This is, however, con- sidered to give less excellent results than the first, the flavour being frequently less delicate, but this will depend largely on the perfect cleanliness of the oven and the system of its ventilation. It is, however, an exceedingly convenient method, and meat so cooked loses slightly less in weight, and the same rules are applicable to both methods.