226 THE COMPLETE COOK Scolloped Ingredients— One pound of cooked mutton with- out bone. One breakfastcupful of fresh bread- ^ crumbs. One breakfastcupful of cooked macaroni. Mutton One teacupful of thick tomato or brown sauce. Four tablespoonfuls of oiled butter. Three pickled gherkins. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Method.—Cut the meat into thin slices free from skin and gristle. Well grease a pie dish, shake it all over with crumbs, and leave a thin layer of the same in the bottom of the dish. Next put in a layer of meat and season it slightly, then some of the macaroni, sauce, and chopped gherkin, and continue these layers until the dish is full. End with a thick layer of crumbs. Sprinkle the surface over with the oiled butter and bake the pie in a quick oven until it is heated through and the crumbs browned. Put a pie dish frill round the dish and serve very hot. Note.—Any kind of meat, game, or poultry is suitable. Bearded oysters can be used instead of macaroni, or stalked and peeled mushrooms, or boiled rice. Baked Meat Souffle Ingredients— One and a halfbreakfastcupfuls of any cooked chopped meat. Two raw eggs. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of stock from meat trimmings. One gill of milk. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Two teaspoonfuls of grated onion. Salt : pepper ; nutmeg. Method.—Make stock from all bones and rough pieces of the joint. Mince the meat very finely and mix it with the onion and parsley. Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, and add the strained stock and milk gradually. Stir the sauce until it boils thoroughly. Add the meat, etc., and season the mixture carefully. Separate the yolks and whites of egg and add the former to the meat, beating them well in. Next add the whites whipped to a stiff froth. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered fireproof souffle case or a pie dish. Bake it for about twenty minutes in a quick oven. Serve immediately in the souffle case. Some good sauce, such as tomato, mushroom, etc., should be served with it. Note.—Any kind of cooked meat, poultry, game, or fish can be used. Do not make fresh sauce if there is any left over. This dish looks well if baked in small souffle cases.