64 THE COMPLETE COOK Baking A process of cooking by dry heat with hot air in a closed oven. It is one of the oldest methods recorded. Ovens may be heated in various ways, by gas, steam; the flame from the burning fuel in ordinary coal ranges passing round the oven previous to its escape into the flues ; or, by first being burnt in the oven itself and removed when the interior is sufficiently heated, this is done in bakers’ brick ovens. Too much import- ance cannot be attached to keeping the oven scrupulously clean, otherwise the fumes arising from burnt grease, syrup from tarts which have boiled over, etc., will spoil the flavour of other foods, particularly of milk puddings and meats. Frying This is cooking foods in smoking hot fat, or oil, and is the quickest of all cooking methods. Therefore it is not a wise one to choose for foods that require gentle cooking to soften tough fibres, etc., such as the cheaper parts of meat. The busy woman who frys everything because it will cook the food rapidly, is abusing the use of the frying pan, although for several reasons her partiality for this popular kitchen utensil will appeal to practical women. Fat has to be heated to a far higher degree before it is fit to fry food than water heated for boiling purposes; therefore it is incorrect to speak of boiling fat. For that reason, over-fried food becomes hard, dry, and ultimately a charred black mass, while food over-boiled merely breaks to pieces and in some cases almost dissolves in the water. Shallow or deep frying pans must be made of strong, heavy iron, as the intense heat melts the solder of tin utensils: enamel-lined pans are rarely of any use, the same reason causing the enamel to crack and chip off. There are two methods of frying : 1. Deep, Fre^ich, or Wet Frying being known by any of these three terms. A deep pan is used containing enough hot fat to cover the food to be fried. This method is used for fritters, filleted fish, rissoles, etc. Foods fried thus are usually, though not always, protected from the intense heat by a coating of egg and bread crumbs, batter, pastry, etc. 2. Shallow, English, or Dry Frying.—For this method only a very small amount of fat is used, just enough to prevent the food from sticking to the shallow frying pan. It is employed