213 MUTTON AND LAMB Kidneys and Tomatoes Ingredien ts— Four sheep’s kidneys. One rounded tablespoonful of One large tomato. dripping. Eight thin slices of bacon. Salt and pepper. Four small rounds of bread. Method.—Split each kidney open lengthways, without quite dividing it. Remove the skin and white core from the centre. Cut the tomato into four slices. Roll the slices of bacon and put them close together on a skewer. Cook them in the oven until they are slightly coloured. Stamp the bread into rounds the size of the top of a tumbler. Melt the dripping; when a faint smoke rises from it, fry the bread a golden brown. Drain it on paper and keep it hot. Fry the slices of tomato next, until they are just tender. Lay one on each crouton. Put the kidneys into the hot dripping, cut side down ; when one side is nicely browned, fry the other. They will take from five to eight minutes. Lay a kidney on each slice of tomato and two little rolls of bacon on each kidney. Sprinkle them with pepper and serve very hot. Note.—If preferred, mushrooms may be used in place of tomato and toast for fried bread. Lamb en Casserole Ingredients— Two pounds of best end neck of lamb. One rounded tablespoonful of beef dripping. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One large onion. Two tomatoes. Two sticks of celery. One pint of brown stock. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. Four tablespoonfuls of port wine. Two teaspoonfuls of red currant jelly. One teaspoonful of chilli vinegar. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash and dry the meat, divide the neck into neat chops. Peel and slice the onion, cut the celery into thin rings, and slice the tomatoes. Melt the dripping in a frying pan, fry the onion brown, then fry the chops. Put them on a plate. Sprinkle in the flour and brown it carefully, then add the stock and stir it in smoothly till it boils. Put the tomatoes, celery, onion, and parsley in a casserole. Lay the chops on these, with a little salt, pepper, and the vinegar. Pour over the thickened stock. Lay a piece of greased paper over the top of the casserole and put on the lid. Put the casserole in a slow