POULTRY Two teaspoonfuls of powdered 239 Salt and pepper. Rabbit en Casserole Proceed as for Chicken en Casserole, using rabbit cut in neat joints, and adding two or three slices of bacon cut in strips or dice. jsiote.—The wine can be omitted if preferred. Roast Rabbit {Illustrated) Ingredients— One rabbit. One level breakfastcupful of fresh breadcrumbs. Four tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. herbs. Method.—Wash the rabbit well in tepid water, dry it, and rub it over with flour. To make the Stuffifig: Mix the crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, lemon rind, and seasoning with one raw beaten egg. Should this forcemeat be crumbly, a spoonful of milk may be necessary. Fill the rabbit with half this mixture and sew the edges of the flesh over it. Truss the rabbit for roasting and wrap it up in a piece of greased paper to prevent it drying during the cooking. Place the rabbit on a deep baking tin in the oven with a few pieces of dripping. Bake it for about three- quarters to an hour, according to its size. Baste it frequently. Twenty minutes before it is cooked, remove the paper in order to let it brown. Make the rest of the forcemeat into balls the size of marbles. Egg, crumb, and fry these. When the rabbit is cooked, remove all skewers, string, etc., place it on a hot dish with some of the hot brown sauce poured round. Put the force- meat balls and rolls of bacon round. Serve the rest of the sauce in a hot tureen. To cook the bacon cut very thin slices, roll these up, thread them closely together on a skewer and bake them in the oven till they are lightly browned. Note.—If liked, all the forcemeat may be put into the body of the rabbit. Spatchcock Ingredients— One fowl. Half a teaspoonful of chopped One tablespoonful of butter. onion. One teaspoonful of chopped Salt and pepper, parsley. A few browned crumbs. One teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. Two raw eggs. Four ounces of bacon. Breadcrumbs and fat for frying. Three-quarters of a pint of brown sauce.