VEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 133 the cream or milk, then when the soup is cooked a little strain in this “ liaison,” that is the thickening of eggs, and re-heat the soup enough to cook the eggs, but do not boil it, or the soup is ruined. Add the seasoning and serve with croutons or toast. Brittany Soup Ingredients— Two pounds of potatoes. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of One pound of leeks. butter. A quarter of a pound of mush- One quart of white stock. rooms. One pint of hot milk. Salt: pepper ; castor sugar. Method.—Scrub, thinly peel, and cut the potatoes into thick slices. Cut the green parts of the leeks and thoroughly wash them, as frequently they are very gritty. Cut these into rounds. Melt the butter in a clean stewpan, add the potatoes and leeks, and stir them over the fire without letting them brown for ten minutes. Add the stock, a little salt, half a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and let the soup boil gently till the vegetables are soft. Rub it through a fine wire or hair sieve. Rinse out the pan, pour back the soup, and add enough of the milk to make it the consistency of good cream. The amount varies somewhat with the quality of the potatoes. Reboil the soup and season it. The mushrooms must be peeled, stalked, washed, cut in dice and stewed till tender in a little extra milk or stock. Then strain out the dice and add them to the soup. Note.—If leeks cannot be procured substitute Spanish onions. Puree of Broad Beans Ingredients— One quart of shelled beans. Half a gill of cream. About a pint of boiling white stock One tablespoonful of butter. or milk. One tablespoonful of flour. One small onion. Salt : pepper : nutmeg. Method.—Put the beans and sliced onion into plenty of fast boiling water slightly salted, and boil them quickly till soft; the time depends on the age of the beans. Then drain off and throw away this water, rinse the beans in cold water to cool them, and remove the tough outer covering, so that just the bright green interior is left. Rub these green husked beans and onion through a hair or wire sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add about three parts of