THE COMPLETE COOK i6 The pith of oranges and lemons is very bitter, and must never be used for cooking purposes. Sour milk makes very light cakes and scones. Mutton dripping is excellent for frying, but having a stronger flavour, and being harder, it is less good than beef dripping for cakes and pastry. Steam issuing from the spout of the kettle does not indicate that the water boils, wait till the surface bubbles. Never wash pudding cloths with soap, nor send them to the laundry. Semolina is the most nutritious of all farinaceous prepara- tions. Perfectly new-laid eggs will not shell easily when hard boiled, as the whites are in curdlike flakes. Broiled or toasted bacon is infinitely superior to fried. Fried eggs are savoury, but difficult to digest. Open tartlets are much lighter if baked on tin, not earthen- ware plates. A little chopped apple, rhubarb, or green gooseberries if added to curries will greatly improve their flavour. When boiling milk, if the pan is first rinsed out with cold waiter, there is less risk of the milk sticking and burning. It is wisest to add pepper at the last, after the food is cooked, as it loses its aroma after being cooked. The rinds of oranges and lemons may be dried, grated, and bottled. Always sieve cream of tartar and carbonate of soda, as they readily form into lumps when kept. Bones boiled for stock purposes will appear full of tiny holes and have a dry appearance when all the goodness has been extracted. Stock, etc., will be a richer brown if the skins are left on the onions. Old damask table linen will often cut into excellent fish napkins. Dishes containing cooked potatoes will be lighter if the latter are warmed and well beaten before they are added. Dripping added to the water in which pulse in any form is being cooked, will help to soften the peas, lentils, etc. Damp flour will make heavy cakes, bread, etc.; it may be dried before use in a slow oven or over the range on the plate rack. A musty pudding cloth will spoil the flavour of any pudding it covers.