84 THE COxMPLETE COOK It is more economical to have fish filleted at home, then the trimmings and bones are available for delicate fish soups and to make stock for fish sauces. If the cook has time to draw and truss the fowls, etc., she gains the giblets without buying “ sets ” for various purposes. The ordinary kitchen refuse, if dried and burnt when the fire only needs to be just kept in, will make a considerable differ- ence in the coal bill. Also egg and nut shells, dried orange peel from the dining-room, all make excellent fuel. If only the gas jets were turned out, or lowered as soon as possible, the dampers of the range properly adjusted, so that a large fire is not kept up needlessly, and old wooden boxes chopped for firewood, instead of using nothing but the halfpenny bundles, what pounds might be saved in a year! A good cook—and the best are always the most economical—• will save her mistress looking after all these details, but if the latter is ignorant of the rudimentary elements of household management, it throws needless temptation in the way of the servant, and improvidence is absolutely encouraged. HOW TO ADAPT AND WHAT TO SUBSTITUTE A cook blessed with the virtues of resource and adaptability, is often of really more value in the average middle-class family than a very superior, well-trained woman who lacks these good points. How frequently is heard “ Oh, it’s easy enough to turn out things nicely if there is every convenience to hand,” or again, “It’s no use trying recipes; we never have half the necessary ingredients.” Granted, it is more difficult and the result somewhat less satisfactory, still, if you can adapt yourself to circumstances cleverly, many would never be the wiser. The following hints are specially intended for those who cannot afford the proper apparatus, etc., or who are so situated in colonies or elsewhere that much is unobtainable. ApparaUis needed Pestle and mortar . Assorted pastry cutters Egg whisk Substitute An enamel tin, or wooden bowl, and the flat end of a rolling pin. The tops of wine glasses, tumblers, tin lids, and suchlike. For cream, a basin and fork; for whites of eggs, a plate and broad-bladed knife.