26o THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Boil the aubergines whole until tender. Peel and halve them lengthways, and scoop out the seeds and enough pulp to leave space for the stuffing. Remove the seeds, chop the pulp and mix it with the crumbs, ham, parsley, seasoning, and enough tomato pulp or stock to bind it stiffly. Put some of the stuffing into the cavities, heaping it up slightly. Lay the halves, cut side uppermost, on a greased baking tin, pour over the warmed butter and sprinkle the surface over with crumbs. Bake them until thoroughly hot and serve with any brown or tomato sauce. Broad or Windsor Ingredients— Half a peck of broad beans. Boiling water. Salt. Method.—The beans should be small, young, and freshly gathered. Shell them, rinse in cold water and put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover, and two teaspoonfuls of salt to each two quarts of water. Keep the lid off the pan and boil them quickly for about fifteen to thirty minutes according to their age and size. When the skins are wrinkled and the inner portion soft, drain off all water through a colander, and serve them in a hot vegetable dish with parsley sauce either poured over them or handed separately. If the outer skins are very white and tough, which signs indicate that the beans are somewhat old, they should be peeled off after the beans are cooked. Then re-heat the green portions in a little butter. These beans served with boiled bacon furnish the popular homely dish. Beans and Bacon. Beans, Boiled Half a pint of parsley and butter sauce. Beans, French, Boiled Ingredients— French beans. Salt: pepper: soda. Boiling water. Butter. Method.—The beans must be as young as possible or they will be stringy. Cut off the stalks, the tips at the opposite end, and a thin strip from down each side, to remove the strings. Cut them into thin strips lengthways, in a slanting direction, placing them as they are cut in a basin of cold water. Have a large pan of fast boiling water ready, adding a large teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water, and a tiny piece of soda the size