i6 THE COMPLETE COOK Often a stove is simply choked up in every passage wii soot. It wraps up the ovens and boiler in a soft black blanket, and, as soot is a most effective non-heat conductor, the heat cannot penetrate; no air can be drawn into the flue passages, and fires cannot burn without air. So if the kitchen range will not work, before buying a new one or sending for the plumber, put on an apron and a pair of old gloves, take off every movable piece of the stove, and with the soot-rake scratch and poke upwards and downwards and note the result. It generally leaves mistress and maid sadder and wiser women. T/ie Fuel.—The best coal for closed ranges is hard steam coal,, as it is low in price, makes little smoke, or deposit of soot, consumes slowly and gives out a powerful steady heat. This coal, however, kindles slowly, so, unless the usual soft, more gaseous coal can also be stored for use in the open grates of the sitting-rooms, it is tiresome to use the first named. Then, coke should be mixed with ordinary coal; this effects a considerable saving. When to Clean the Stove.—Have the chimney swept every six months at least. Brush out the flues at least once a week, or oftener if much cooking is done or a soft sooty coal used. Brush under the boiler and under the hot plate, over the top of the ovens every morning, and rake out the soot. Wash the shelves, door, sides, and bottom of the oven at least weekly with a stiff brush and hot soda water. Scrape off any burnt matter with an old knife. The fumes from a dirty oven are most unpleasant in a house, and ruin the foods cooked in them. To Clean a Coal Range.—l. Put on a coarse apron and a pair of housemaid’s gloves. 2. Close the windows and door to prevent the soot being blown about. 3. Remove the fender, fire-irons, lay down the hearth cloth, and over that some sheets of old newspaper. 4. Lift off all movable parts of the stove one by one, and brush off any soot underneath them on to paper, or into a pail. 5. Remove the bars in front of the grate, rake out all cinders and ashes into the ash box, clearing well under the boiler. 6. Lift out all small doors into the flues and brush them. 7. Push the flexible flue-brush up and down into each flue, as far as it will reach, pulling it up and down.