478 THE COMPLETE COOK actually sticky. Do this very quickly, and knead it lightly together. Divide it and shape into about four little fancy loaves, put them on a floured tin, and bake at once in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. Brush over with a little milk to give a shiny appearance. This bread is spoiling every minute it is kept out of the oven after adding the milk, so it must be made quickly. Note.—This is best made in small batches, so as to be more quickly finished off, and also it soon gets stale. It is convenient in places where yeast is hard to obtain. Dough Cake Ingredients— Half a quartern of bread dough. (For this proceed as for White Bread.) Six rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Eight rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One breakfastcupful of currants. Method.—Prepare the dough as directed. After it has risen for the second time, beat the butter to a cream, add it to the dough, beating it well in—with the hand is easiest. Add the beaten eggs, the cleaned fruit, chopped peel, sugar, spice, and mix them evenly through the dough. Put it into the prepared tin to rise, until it fills it,then bake in the same way as ordinary bread. One breakfastcupful of sultanas, or raisins. Four heaped tablespoonfuls of chopped peel. One level tablespoonful of mixed spice. Three eggs. London Ingredients— Seven and a half level teacupfuls of flour. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Scones One white of egg. Half a pint of milk. Five level teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Two and a half level teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda. Method.—Sieve the flour, sugar, cream of tartar, and soda. Rub in the butter finely, add the unbeaten white of egg and the milk gradually. Mix the whole into a smooth soft dough. Turn it on to a floured board, roll it out in rounds half an inch thick. Place them on a slightly greased tin, and bake in a quick oven for about half an hour. Note.—These are often cut into rounds the size of the top of a claret glass and then baked.