253 GAME Method.—Put the bacon in the bottom of a stewpan, lay on the pheasant; add the onion with the cloves stuck into it, the carrot and turnip cut in slices, the herbs tied together, and the sliced lemon. Lay a piece of buttered paper over the bird, pour in enough boiling stock or water to come half-way up it, and let it simmer very gently from three-quarters of an hour to an hour, until it is tender. Place the bird on a hot dish and pour over it some carefully made celery sauce. Note.—If more convenient, wrap and tie the bird up in a well-greased paper and cook it in the stockpot. Compote Ingredients— Four plovers. Three ounces of lean ham. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Four mushrooms. Two shallots. of Plovers Half a small carrot and turnip. One tablespoonful of flour. One pint of brown stock. Salt and pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of sherry. Method.—Cut the ham into small dice and fry it in the butter, lift it out and fry the chopped mushroom and shallot and the carrot and turnip cut into small dice. Put in the trussed plovers and fry them also. Take them out, shake in the flour, and when that is well browned pour in the stock and stir until it boils. Add salt and pepper to taste, put back the birds and let all simmer gently until they are tender; they will probably take about three-quarters of an hour to an hour. Arrange a neat bed of spinach, or potato, on a hot dish, arrange the plovers on this. Strain the gravy, reduce it by boiling it without the lid, add the sherry and seasoning to taste, and strain it round the plovers. Broiled Quail Ingredien ts— One small quail. A slice of hot buttered toast. Method.—Cut the quail right down through the breast bone towards the back,—the backbone, however, must not be divided, —then flatten out the bird like a book. Thickly butter a piece of note or foolscap paper, fold the flattened quail in this, twist- ing up the ends. Broil it over a clear sharp fire for about five minutes on each side. Have ready a neatly trimmed slice of buttered toast; remove the paper and place the bird on the