BREAKFAST DISHES 415 before buttering it so as to avoid waste, spread the slices quickly with plenty of butter, or just oil the butter in a soup plate over some hot water, and spread or brush it on with a clean pastry brush. Do not put lumps of butter on the toast and set it in the oven to melt. Cut the slices in neat squares, pile these up in a covered hot water dish, or stand the dish over a small basin of hot water and serve at once. Note.—Brown bread toast is often liked and is prepared in the same way. The Chafing Dish Nowadays this handy appliance has become very popular and occupies a prominent position among the apparatus needed for the preparation of food. It is simply invaluable in the sickroom, for the solitary male and female bachelors residing in lonely flats, or for the much- tried wives of medical men and clergy whose unpunctuality is proverbial. Where late theatre suppers are required it is a real boon to the servants, as when once the dainty paraphernalia and tray of necessary ingredients is placed ready, the mistress of the house will quite enjoy concocting some savoury little dish before the admiring and hungry lookers-on. The apparatus consists of— 1. The stand to hold the lamp. 2. The spirit lamp, capable of easy regulation. 3. The hot water pan, fitted with non-heating side handles ; this pan rests on the rim of the stand. 4. The actual cooking pan or “ blazer ” as it is often called. If possible, procure besides these (i) a metal tray, as ornamental as desired, to prevent any danger of setting the tablecloth on fire. (2) A small spirit flagon, fitted with a cap on the spout, to replenish the lamp. (3) Plated or polished horn, or bone fork, spoon, and perforated ladle. For slow cooking, such as is needed for keeping foods hot, preparations of scrambled eggs or creamy rich sauces, or any foods liable to burn easily, place the cooking pan over the hot water pan. For quick cooking, such as frying, omelets, and so on, remove the water pan altogether and let the cooking pan come in direct contact with the flame of the lamp. Burn good methylated spirit in the lamp; that of a poor quality gives but a feeble heat. Avoid wasting it, by im- mediately covering the spirit lamp when it is extinguished and keeping the cap on the flagon. Also exercise care in regulating