FISH 167 the skin to break, the latter draws out the flavour. Let the fish simmer gently till cooked and keep it well skimmed. The time depends on the thickness and kind of fish,—if it is thin, about six minutes to the pound ; eight to ten minutes if it is a thick piece. When cooked the skin begins to crack and some of the larger bones can be easily detached from the flesh. Lift it carefully from the water, drain it well, keeping it covered with a hot clean cloth meantime, and serve it on a heated folded fish-napkin with some good fish sauce accompanying it in a hot sauce tureen. Note.—Unflavoured water with salt and a little lemon juice may be used, but the fish will be less well flavoured. Boiled Salt Fish Ingredien ts— Three pounds of salt fish, or a Milk and water to cover it. small codling. Method.—Well wash the fish. Soak it overnight in cold water with the skin side uppermost. Then rinse it and lay it in tepid milk and water mixed in equal parts. Bring it to boiling point, skim it well, and draw the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer very gently till cooked; allow about twenty-five minutes or till the flesh easily leaves the bones. If it boils, it will be tough and stringy. Lift it out, drain it well, serve it on a heated fish-napkin, and hand with it boiled parsnips, potatoes, and egg sauce, or it may be coated with the sauce, or flaked and mixed with the sauce and heaped in a hot dish. To Coat Fish, Cutlets, etc., for Frying without Eggs Mix about four level tablespoonfuls of flour, more or less according to the amount of food to be coated, with enough cold water to make a smooth batter as thick as fairly good cream. Brush the fish over with this instead of beaten egg, then cover it as usual with breadcrumbs and fry in the ordinary way. This is an excellent method when eggs cannot be obtained, as is often the case in some parts of the Colonies, or in the country during winter. American Salt Fish Balls Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of raw salt fish. One teaspoonful of butter. One pound of raw potatoes. Pepper : salt if needed. One raw egg. Frying fat. Method.—Wash the fish, pull it with two forks into half-inch