320 THE COMPLETE COOK it gradually on to the eggs, add the sugar and vanilla and strain this custard into the mould. Cover the top with buttered paper. Steam it very slowly for about an hour, or until it is quite set. The water in which the mould is placed must barely bubble, as unless the custard is cooked very slowly, it will be full of holes. If the pudding is to be served hot, let it stand for a minute after taking it out of the saucepan, and then turn it carefully on to a dish. If, however, it is to be served cold, let it stand for an hour or more before turn- ing it out. Denver Pudding Ingredients— One and three-quarter breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Two loosely filled breakfastcupfuls of chopped suet. One heaped breakfastcupful of cleaned currants. One level breakfastcupful Demerara sugar. One heaped breakfastcupful grated carrots. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. of of Method.—Mix all ingredients very thoroughly. Put the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin and steam it steadily from four to five hours. Turn it out and serve it dusted with castor sugar and any good sweet sauce. Note.—This pudding may be boiled for about three hours, if preferred. Fig Pudding Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of butter. Two breakfastcupfuls of castor sugar. Three breakfastcupfuls of fresh breadcrumbs. Three eggs. One pound of dried figs. One teacupful of milk. Half a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. One teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. A few grains of salt. Method.—Cream the butter and sugar together, slightly beat the eggs, then add them and beat well. Carefully look over the figs, chop them finely and add them with the crumbs, spice, and salt. Mix all together with the milk. Turn the mixture into a well-buttered mould or basin. Cover the top with greased paper and steam it for three hours. Serve with a thin sweet sauce poured round ; this should be flavoured with lemon or wine, or made of fruit syrup. This quantity makes a large pudding. Note.—Substitute dates, prunes, or dried apricots in place