SALADS 399 Lobster Salad or Mayonnaise Ingredients— One large hen lobster. About half a pint of Mayonnaise sauce. One lettuce. One endive. A bunch of watercress. Method.—Remove the lobster coral, wash all white pieces from it, dry it slowly in the oven, pound it, and rub it through a fine wire or coarse hair sieve. Save the red powder for garnishing. Split the lobster and remove all the flesh from the claws and body. Keep the tips of the claw meat and the long feelers aside with the coral. Cut the rest of the lobster into about half-inch dice. Prepare the cress, lettuce, and endive carefully, saving some of the prettiest pieces for the top, pull the remainder into convenient sized pieces. Shell and slice the eggs. Arrange'the. fish, salad, and a little seasoning and sauce in layers in the bowl, put the slices of egg over the top and cover smoothly with the rest of the sauce. Decorate the salad tastefully with the meat from the lobster claws, the capers, tufts of watercress, lettuce, endive, and strips of gherkin and anchovies. Put a few feelers upright in the centre. Place the bowl in a cool place, or on ice until required. Note.—A good brand of tinned lobster may be used, or the large crawfish when in season. It is convenient for balls, etc., to have small decorated portions arranged on plates. One teaspoonful of capers. Two pickled gherkins and anchovy fillets. Seasoning. Two hard-boiled eggs. Nut and Celery Salad Ingredients— One teacupful of peeled walnuts. One gill of Mayonnaise sauce. A head of celery. One small lettuce. One tablespoonful of cream. Salt and pepper. Method.—Carefully wash the celery and cut it into thin shreds, put it into cold salted water and let it stand for five minutes, then dry it on a clean cloth. Chop the nuts coarsely and mix them with the celery. Add the cream. Mayonnaise, and seasoning to taste. Heap the mixture up neatly in a shallow salad bowl, arrange a border of lettuce leaves round, and add a dust of red Hungarian pepper over the top. Note.—If preferred, the cream may be omitted. Other kinds of nuts may be used in the place of walnuts.