146 THE COMPLETE COOK MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS (THICKENED) Bone Soup Ingredients— Four pounds of raw bones. Two and a half quarts of cold water. Any scraps of cooked or raw meat. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of dripping. One large carrot, turnip, and onion. Two sticks of celery. A bunch of herbs and parsley. A dozen peppercorns. Four sticks of boiled macaroni. Four allspice. Salt ; pepper. Method.—Wash the bones quickly, dry them well and fry them and the sliced onion a good brown in the hot dripping. Add the meat scraps and water, it should just cover the bones, and a little salt. Bring these to boiling point and skim them. Add the prepared vegetables cut in large pieces, and the herbs, peppercorns, and allspice. Boil the soup steadily for four hours. Skim it now and then. Strain the soup into a clean basin, and when cold remove all grease. Save the vegetables. Reboil the soup, add the macaroni cut in half-inch lengths, and some of the vegetables cut in neat shapes. Season the soup carefully and serve. Note.—Cooked vermicelli, spaghetti, rice, Italian paste, etc., can be added instead of macaroni. Cock-a-Leekie Soup Ingredients— One small fowl. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Two pounds of shin of beef. One carrot and turnip. Two quarts of cold water. Two cloves. Bunch of leeks. Salt and pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of rice. Method.—Have the fowl trussed for boiling. Wash the meat quickly and wipe it well, cut it into large dice. Put the water, beef, fowl, prepared carrot and turnip left whole, the cloves stuck in the carrot, and the bunch of herbs into a saucepan. Bring these to boiling point, add the rice previously washed in boiling water, and the leeks carefully trimmed, washed, and cut up into one-inch lengths. Add a little salt and simmer the soup till the fowl is tender, probably it will take about an hour. Skim the soup during its cooking. When the fowl is tender take it out and keep it hot. If the leeks and rice are not cooked enough, let them simmer for a little longer. Cut the fowl iri half, save one half to use cold for any purpose, and cut the second half into neat dice. Take the beef, carrot.