INVALID COOKERY 455 Method.—Put the milk in a saucepan with any rough bits of chicken, bone, skin, and the onion. Let these simmer until the milk is nicely flavoured, then strain it off. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the chicken and stir it over the fire till it loses the pink tinge and becomes white, but do not fry it brown. Mix in the flour smoothly, add the stock gradually. Cover the pan and let it simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, or until the meat is quite tender. Beat up and stir in the yolk of the egg. Season the mince carefully and arrange it on a hot dish. Cut the toast into neat sippets and put them as a border round. Note.—Pheasant can be used and a border of spinach ; young peas or French beans used in the place of toast. Panada of Chicken Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls of A few drops of lemon juice. raw chicken free from skin, etc. Salt and pepper. Four tablespoonfuls of cream. Butter. Method.—Pass the chicken twice through a mincing machine. Well butter a clean jar, put in the chicken, cover the jar tightly and place it in a saucepan of boiling water. Let the water simmer steadily for one hour. Next turn the contents of the jar into a mortar, pound them well, then rub them through a fine wire sieve., \Vhip the cream lightly—it should not be stiff enough to hang on the whisk—and stir it lightly into the chicken. Season it carefully with salt and pepper and a few drops of lemon juice. Make the mixture very hot and serve it on finger- shaped pieces of dry toast. Or it may be served cold, in which case season it rather more highly, and spread it on thin biscuits, or arrange it in small fancy cases. Note.—Veal or pheasant could be used instead of chicken. This is a delicate and nutritious preparation. Chicken Sandwiches Ingredients— Two tablespoonfuls of cooked One teaspoonful of butter. chicken. Brown or white bread and butter. One tablespoonful of lean cooked Salt and pepper, ham. Method.—Chop the chicken and ham finely, then pound them in a mortar with the butter and seasoning. If the ham is very lean or the chicken very dry, it may be necessary to add