Two sour apples. Salt: pepper. MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS 151 add the flour, and fry it carefully a good brown colour. Pour in the cold stock and stir till the soup boils and thickens; let it boil gently and skim it well. Cut some of the best pieces of the meat off the head into even one-inch squares, enough to fill a breakfastcup. Add seasoning, wine, and a teaspoonful of strained lemon juice to the soup, and strain it. Re-heat it, add the pieces of meat and about a dozen forcemeat balls. Serve in a hot tureen. Note.—Worcester sauce can be used instead of wine. If good stock is used the beef can be left out. This soup is sometimes made with two calf’s feet and two pounds of knuckle of veal. Soak and scald the feet before using them. Thick Mulligatawny Soup Ingredients— Two quarts of cold water. One pound of lean beef, or trim- mings from fillets, etc. One pound, or more, of any bones. A quarter of a pound of lean ham or bacon, or a ham bone or trimmings. One carrot. One turnip. Two onions. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Method.—Wash the beef and bones quickly. Chop them in small pieces. Put the water in a saucepan, add the bones and beef and a little salt. Bring these slowly to boiling point and let them boil gently while the other ingredients are prepared. Chop the ham, vegetables, and apples finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add all the chopped vegetables and ham, but not the apples. Fry these a light brown in the butter. Then add the curry powder and paste, the flour and herbs, and continue to fry these for about five minutes longer. If the pan seems too dry, add a little more butter or dripping. Add gradually enough of the stock to make a sauce of all these ingredients, mixing it smoothly; add all this mixture to the rest of the stock which is cooking; also the apples, cloves, and pepper- corns. Mix them well in and let the soup boil gently for two hours. Skim it now and then. Pass the soup through a fine wire sieve, rubbing through some of the vegetables, etc. Lift out the spice, herbs, and bones before rubbing it through. Rinse out the saucepan, pour back the soup, add the seasoning carefully and a little lemon juice if it seems necessary. Serve One lemon. Two cloves. Four peppercorns. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One tablespoonful of curry powder. One tablespoonful of curry paste. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. A breakfastcupful of boiled curry rice.