124 THE COMPLETE COOK inverted chair, as is often done for straining jellies. In any case pour some boiling water through the cloth first to heat it. After straining, it is ready to be re-heated, seasoned, and the particular garnish required should now be added to it. White Stock Ingredients for four quarts- Four pounds of knuckle of veal. Four quarts of cold water. Any scrap of unbrowned bones and pieces of poultry. One medium sized carrot, turnip, and onion. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, cut the meat into blocks about an inch square and saw or chop the bones small, removing and saving the marrow. Put the water, salt, meat, and bones into a well-lined pan, let the meat soak about ten minutes, then heat the water slowly to boiling point. Add the prepared vegetables cut in halves, the herbs and pepper- corns, etc. Boil the stock gently for about five hours, remov- ing any greasy scum and keeping the lid half on. Take out the vegetables when quite cooked, as after then they absorb the flavour. When it is cooked, strain the stock off through a fine strainer into a basin and put it into a cool place till it is wanted. Remove all fat before using it. Second Stock is prepared by adding to the bones and meat left from the good brown stock about two-thirds of the amount of cold water as was first used, and a supply of fresh vegetables and herbs, and letting it reboil for four hours. It is, of course, of a much poorer quality than the first stock made from the fresh meat, but it is useful for the usual purposes of stock. Bone Stock is sometimes spoken of. It is prepared from all, or nearly all, bones and no meat, except the sm^ll particles found adhering to the bones. Unlike the meat stock it requires to be boiled quickly in order to dissolve and extract the gelatinous matter. Bone stock forms a useful, economical, and digestible stock, but contains far less nutriment and flavour than stock for which lean meat is used. Two sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. Ten white peppercorns. A teaspoonful of salt.