197 MEAT unsightly pieces or superfluous fat. This is particularly necessary when boiling a piece of neck or loin of mutton. Note if the joint requires to be jointed, such as is the case with loin, neck, and breast of mutton or lamb. Or whether there is any length of bone to be sawn off, e.g. the shank bone of a leg, or shoulder of mutton or pork. If necessary tie the joint in shape, but avoid skewers if possible, as they allow the juice of the meat to escape. Time for Cooking.—Weigh the joint and allow fifteen minutes to each pound the joint weighs, and an extra fifteen minutes on the whole joint, eg. for a leg of mutton weighing four pounds allow one and a quarter hours. For Fresh Pork., or very thick joints with little bone, allow twenty to twenty-five minutes for each pound the joint weighs and an extra twenty minutes on the whole joint. Reckon the time from when the water reaches boiling point, not when the joint is put into it. How to Boil the Meat.—Lay the joint in boiling water, with about a tablespoonful of salt in it. The water must just cover the joint. When it reboils, skim it carefully and let the water boil for five minutes, so as to seal the outside. Then add one or two carrots, turnips, and onions, cut in quarters. Parsnips and leeks can also be used and, if liked, little suet dumplings boiled with the meat for the last twenty minutes. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer very gently until the meat is cooked. If it actually boils it will be tough. To Serve Fresh Boiled Meat.—Fresh boiled meat is usually served with caper or parsley sauce poured over it, or, if liked, handed separately in a tureen and some of the meat liquor poured round the joint. In any case neat pieces^of the vegetables must be arranged round the dish, and some meat liquor sent to table. Save the remainder for broths, etc. Fresh Poi'k is served with boiled parsnips, meat liquor, onion sauce, and pease pudding. Salted Meat To Prepare the Jomt.—Well wash the joint, and if likely to be very salt, soak it overnight in cold water. It is usually best soaked for a few hours to extract some of the salt. Trim the joint neatly, saw off any unsightly bones, or bind it in shape with tape, as it seems desirable. Time for Cooking.—Allow twenty to twenty-five minutes for