PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 315 Christmas Pudding. No. i Ingredients— Four breakfastcupfuls barely full of chopped suet. Two level breakfastcupfuls of brown sugar. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of sultanas. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of raisins. Two well-heaped breakfastcupfuls of currants. -One and a half breakfastcupfuls of Two well-heaped breakfastcupfuls of breadcrumbs. About five pieces of mixed peel. Half a piece of citron. Two lemons. One nutmeg. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of sweet almonds. One rounded tablespoonful of bitter almonds. Six or eight eggs. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Quarter of a pint of milk. Quarter of a pint of brandy, or home-made wine. Method.—Mix the suet, sugar, flour, and breadcrumbs. Clean and stalk the sultanas and currants; stone and chop the raisins, also the peel. Skin and chop the almonds. Add all the fruit to the suet, etc., also the grated nutmeg, lemon rind, and salt. Mix all these dry ingredients together, strain in the lemon juice and add the beaten eggs, milk, and brandy. Put the'ipixture into well-greased moulds or basins. Tie over them scalded and floured pudding cloths, taking care to make a pleat®cross the top of the cloth to allow room for the pudding to s^ell. Put*them into a pan of fast boiling water and boil them steadily from eight to ten hours. g^ade.—If preferred, the puddings can be made in scalded and fldured pudding cloths. Stout can be used instead of the milk afc brandy with excellent results. Christmas Pudding. No. 2 Ingredients— Three breakfastcupfuls of fresh brown breadcrumbs. Two breakfastcupfuls of chopped suet. Three breakfastcupfuls of currants and stoned raisins mixed. Half a breakfastcupful of chopped citron peel. One breakfastcupful barely full of Demerara sugar. Method.—Mix all the ingredients together in a basin, in the order given above. Put the mixture either into well-greased Half a teaspoonful of salt. Half a teaspoonful of grated nut- meg. Five beaten eggs. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a glass of brandy. Four tablespoonfuls of milk.