166 THE COMPLETE COOK Stewed Ingredients— About two pounds of eels. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One onion. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. One bay leaf. A small blade of mace. Eels Four peppercorns. One pint of good stock. One glass of claret or port wine. One tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Salt: pepper. Method.—Cut ofif the heads of the eels and skin them. To do this, cut the skin all round the head, so as to have a piece to pull at. Dip the fingers in salt and pull off the skin in one long piece as if pulling a glove backwards off the hand. It is more convenient to hang the eel up by its head on a strong hook. Clean and wash the eels very carefully and cut them in pieces about two inches long. Put these in a pan with boiling water and boil from three to five minutes, then drain off the water and dry the pieces of eel slightly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the chopped onion, herbs, spice, and the pieces of eel and fry these for ten minutes, keeping them well turned. Shake in the flour, add the stock, and stir over the fire till it boils, add the ketchup and let it simmer from half to three-quarters of an hour or till the eel is quite tender. Keep it well skimmed. Arrange the pieces of eel on a hot dish, add the wine and seasoning to the sauce, and strain it over the fish. Sprinkle over the chopped parsley and garnish the dish with toast or fried bread. To Boil Fish Boiling is the most insipid and wasteful method of cooking fish. It is far superior if steamed. If boiled, the flavour of the fish is greatly improved if the water to be used is boiled for ten minutes previous to laying in the fish, with half an onion, a small bunch of parsley, tied with a sprig of thyme, marjoram, and one bay leak Add to it also six peppercorns, three cloves, half a teacup of vinegar, and a tablespoonful of salt. These quantities are sufficient for two quarts of water. Wash, trim, and tie the fish in shape. Place it on the strainer in the fish kettle ; or a small fish may be tied in a piece of muslin, or laid on a plate and the plate tied in a cloth. It is then easier to raise the fish from the water without breaking it. To boil nicely, a piece of fish should be of a uniform thickness. Put the fish into warm water, not into boiling or cold, the former causes