PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 341 Method.—Cut the cake into blocks about half an inch thick. Heap these up in a glass dish. Pour the custard over them and baste them with it until the cake is well soaked. Whisk the cream until it is slightly thickened and whisk the white to a stiff froth. Stir it lightly into the cream, adding vanilla and sugar to taste. Whisk the two together till the mixture just hangs on the whisk. Heap it over the sponge cake, decorate it with the cherries, and it is ready. Note.—Any kind of plain stale cake may be used, but it must then be spread with jam. If preferred, leave out the egg and use all cream. Tropical Snow higredients— Four sweet oranges. Half a fresh cocoanut grated. Four bananas. One glass of sherry. Three or four slices of fresh or The juice of one lemon. preserved pineapple. Castor sugar to taste. Method.—Peel and divide the oranges into sections and remove the pips and tough membranes between the pieces. Peel and slice the bananas, and remove the specks from the pineapple and cut it in dice. Put a layer of orange in a glass dish, pour over a little wine and lemon juice mixed, and sprinkle with castor sugar and add a little cocoanut, banana, and pine- apple. Repeat these layers until all the ingredients are used and heaped high in the dish. Sprinkle the top over thickly with cocoanut and sugar and put a ring of sliced bananas round the base. Let it soak for an hour before serving it, and keep it on ice, if possible. Note.—Other combinations of fruit may be used and a meringue of whipped and flavoured whites of eggs instead of cocoanut, if liked. Viennoise Pudding Ingredients— Four loosely filled breakfastcupfuls of bread cut in dice. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of sultanas. One piece of candied peel. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. The rind of one lemon. Two eggs. Half a pint of milk. One glass of Marsala. Four lumps of sugar. Method.—Put the lump sugar in a dry saucepan and heat it until it turns a dark brown. Add the milk and stir it over the fire until the sugar dissolves. Mix the bread, cleaned