238 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Split the pigeons in halves, cutting right down to the backbone. Take out the breast bones and flatten the birds by beating them slightly. Draw the skin neatly over the cut side. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the birds the cut side downwards, put a tin on the top with a weight on it to keep the halves flat. Cook them for about ten minutes, then press them between two plates till cold. Wash the liver and slice it finely. Chop the shallot, fry it and the bacon a light brown, then add the liver and salt and pepper. Fry these over the fire for four or five minutes. Then pound them well and rub them through a wire sieve. Spread a layer of this mixture on the cut side of each half of pigeon, smoothing it into a neat rounded shape with a knife dipped in hot water. Put a thin layer also on the uncut side. Brush each half with beaten egg and cover it with crumbs. Fry them in deep fat, so hot that a faint smoke is rising from it. Arrange them on a semi- circle of mashed potato on a hot dish, pour the hot brown sauce round and garnish with the mushrooms, carrots, and turnips cut in shreds. Stewed Pigeon and Spaghetti Ingredients— One small pigeon. One rounded tablespoonful of spaghetti. One level teaspoonful of flour. One rounded dessertspoonful of butter. Method.—Cut the pigeon into neat joints. Put the stock in a pan on the fire ; when it boils lay in the pigeon, the onion with the clove stuck into it, and the carrot. Let these simmer gently from an hour to an hour and a half, or till the bird is tender. Boil the .spaghetti in boiling salted water, until it is half cooked. Then drain off the water, put the spaghetti with the pigeon to finish cooking. Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour and brown it very carefully. Strain off the stock from the pigeon and add it gradually to the flour, stirring it all the time till it boils. Add enough stock to make the gravy of a good flowing consistency. Season it carefully and strain it over the pigeon and spaghetti. Make it thoroughly hot and arrange it on a hot dish. Note.—Macaroni may be used instead of spaghetti if more convenient. Half a pint of brown stock. One small onion. One clove. A small piece of carrot. Salt and pepper.