THE COMPLETE COOK 350 mixture into the mould. Lay a piece of buttered paper over the top and steam it gently for about twenty minutes, or until it is well puffed up and feels spongy when pressed in the centre. Remove the band carefully, and immediately serve the souffle in the case. Note.—This mixture is also excellent when baked. Swiss Souffle Ingredients— Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Three rounded teaspoonfuls of flour. Four eggs. One teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. One teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. One teaspoonful of vanilla. Method.—Beat the sugar and butter to a very soft cream. Stir in the yolks of the eggs one by one, and beat the mixture well for eight or ten minutes. Add the sieved flour, lemon rind, and vanilla. Beat the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth and stir them in very lightly. Well butter a fireproof souffle case or a pie dish. Pile the mixture up in it and bake it in a moderately hot oven for about half an hour, or until well browned and puffed up. Mix the cinnamon with three tea- spoonfuls of extra castor sugar and shake it all over the sur- face. Serve immediately in the dish, either plain, or with sauce or stewed fruit. Vanilla Souffle Ingredients— Four eggs. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One gill of milk. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Half a teaspoonful of vanilla essence. A few grains of salt. Method.—Thickly butter a souffle tin, tie a band of buttered paper round outside it, wide enough to come two or three inches above it (see Illustration). Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, then add the salt and milk, and stir these over the fire till the panada thickens and leaves the sides of the pan clean. Draw the pan off the fire and add the sugar and the yolks of the eggs, beating each one in separately. Add the vanilla. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth and stir them very lightly into the other ingredients. Pour the mixture into the prepared tin.