FISH 185 over the fillets and probably the lower bones will be on the flesh and should be removed. The bones and trimmings should be used for fish stock for sauces, etc. Cut each fillet in two or three pieces, according to their size ; make the cut in a slanting direction, as it gives a prettier shape. Mix the flour, salt, and pepper. Dip each piece of fish in this seasoned flour to dry and flavour it. Beat up the egg on a plate, lay in the pieces of fish separately, and brush them well over with it, then cover them with the crumbs. Flatten these down gently so as to give an even surface. Fry a few pieces of fish at a time in plenty of fat, so hot that a faint smoke is rising from it. The colour must be a light golden brown. Drain the fish on paper. Serve it neatly on a fish-paper, or heated fish-napkin on a hot dish. Garnish it with fried parsley and cut lemon. Note.—All flat fish such as brill, soles, etc., are filleted and fried in this manner. To Skin Plaice The skin of this fish is not removed by the fishmonger, as is the case with soles, on account of the time the operation requires. It has to be cut off inch by inch, but as the black skin is most objectionable to many, it is well worth while having it done at home. After filleting the plaice, and before cutting each fillet into pieces, take one of the black-skinned pieces, lay it on the board black skin downwards, dip the finger and thumb of the left hand into a little salt to prevent them slipping, take hold of the tip of the tail end of the fillet, hold the knife very flat, not on its edge, cut up a little piece of the white flesh of the fish, but do not cut through the skin, that is needed to hold on by. Continue to cut off the flesh, rolling it backwards, and hold the flap of black skin, gradually appearing, tightly down. The object is to cut the flesh off the black skin, without cutting through the latter. Plaice, Soles, Flounders, Haddock, etc. {Nezvhaven Style') Ingredients— One plaice or other fish. One egg. One tablespoonful of flour. One teaspoonful of salt. Half a teaspoonful of pepper. About a teacupful of coarse oat- meal. Frying fat. Fried parsley : lemon. Method.—Wash, dry, and trim the fish. Mix the flour, salt, and pepper. Dip the fish in this seasoned flour. Brush it well