THE COMPLETE COOK 136 the flour, and cook it in the butter for a few minutes without letting it brown. Add the sieved soup gradually and the milk. Stir it over the fire till it boils. Season the soup carefully, add the cream and the cooked branches of cauliflower. Re-heat the soup without letting it boil, and serve it in a hot tureen with croutons of bread and grated Parmesan cheese. White Celery Soup Ingredients— Two heads of celery. One small shallot. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One quart of white stock. One gill of milk. One gill of cream. Two raw yolks of eggs. Half a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash the celery, use the white sticks only, any discoloured parts will do for flavouring. Put it in a saucepan with cold salted water, bring it to boiling point, and blanch it for five minutes. Drain off and throw away this water and cut the celery into thin rings. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the chopped shallot and celery and stir them over the fire for five minutes without colouring them. Add the flour and mix this in smoothly and cook all for about ten minutes longer. Add the stock and boil the soup till the celery is soft; the time will depend on the age of the celery, probably about an hour will be required. Rub the soup through a hair or fine wire sieve. Rinse out the pan, pour back the soup, and add the milk. Reboil the soup. Beat the yolks of eggs with the cream. Cool the soup for a minute or so, then strain in the liaison of eggs. Re-heat sufficiently to cook the eggs without curdling them by boiling. Add the seasoning and sugar and serve with croutons or toast. Note.—Instead of stock, the same amount of milk and water may be used, but in that case add a little more onion and about two inches of uncut carrot and turnip to the soup while it is cooking. But on no account rub these through the sieve. Cream may be left out for ordinary family use. Brown Celery Soup Proceed as for white celery soup, using brown stock instead of white; one tablespoonful more flour instead of yolks; no milk or cream ; and allow the onion and flour to brown in the butter.