410 THE COMPLETE COOK frying, or “thin streaky” if narrow rashers are wanted. If sufficient is needed for several persons, it saves time and renders it more easily sliced if a large piece of rind and “rust,” as the brown under part is often called, is cut off all at once, and not each rasher trimmed separately. Cut the bacon thinly and evenly and remove all pieces of gristle and bone. To Fry.—Put the rashers in a dry, heated frying pan over the fire, which must not be so fierce that the fat burns before the lean is tender. Keep the slices well turned during the cooking. When done it should be slightly crisped, but not chippy, and lightly tinged with brown. Some prefer it only cooked until the fat is transparent, that is a matter of taste. Serve the bacon on a hot dish with a little of the dripping round and some neatly trimmed pieces of bread fried a golden brown in the remaining fat. Save all bacon fat for cooking purposes. To Toast.—This is really a far superior method to frying bacon. Prepare it in the same way, and either push the slices on to a toasting fork, or what is better, hang them on the hooks of a Dutch oven. In both cases the slices need to be turned. The lean part of the slice should be placed downwards in order that the melting fat above may baste it and keep it from drying. The same effect is gained if the bacon is cooked under a gas griller instead of before the fire. Rolled Bacon.—This makes a pretty garnish to a dish of veal, rabbit, or chicken. Cut the rashers very thinly and roll them up neatly; run a skewer through each, pushing them closely against each other to keep them curled. Then either toast the bacon or lay the skewer on a tin in the oven and bake the rolls. Remove the skewer when the cooking is completed. A small bunch of herbs. Method.—Well wash the pig’s head in tepid salted water, remove the brains, any veins, and broken pieces of bone. Put the head into the Pickle for Meat given opposite, for four days. Then take it out of the brine, rinse it thoroughly and put it Brawn Ingredients— Half a pig’s head (pickled). About two quarts of cold water. One small onion. Six allspice. Twenty white peppercorns. One small blade of mace. About two inches of carrot. Seasoning.