305 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY the milk, then strain these into the flour, stirring them in with a knife. Use enough milk to make a very soft dough. Slightly grease a deep round or square baking tin. Spread the soft dough to the depth of half an inch in the tin, rolling it back slightly to make a thicker edge. Have the apples ready peeled, cored, and cut in eight sippets. Arrange these in rows over the dough, the sharp edge pressed slightly down into the dough. Sprinkle the sugar over the apple. Bake the cakes in a quick oven for about twenty to thirty minutes. It is sometimes eaten hot with butter for tea, or served with lemon sauce as a pudding. Note.—Four level teaspoonfuls of baking powder can be used instead of the soda and cream of tartar. Powdered cinnamon, or cloves, or grated lemon rind can be sprinkled over with the sugar for flavouring. Apple Charlotte Ingredien ts— One pound of apples. Four tablespoonfuls of moist sugar. Four heaped tablespoonfuls of One grated lemon rind. chopped suet. One rounded tablespoonful of Three-quarters of a breakfast- butter. cupful of breadcrumbs. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples. Well butter a pie dish. Mix the crumbs, suet, and grated lemon rind. Fill the dish with alternate layers of the crumbs and apples and sugar. The first and last layers must be of crumbs and suet. Put any butter left, in pieces on the top, and for the first twenty minutes put a piece of greased paper over the top. Put the dish in a moderate oven and bake it for about an hour, or until the apple is soft and the charlotte nicely browned on the top. Serve in the dish or carefully turned out. Cream or custard may accompany it. Note.—If liked, half a saltspoonful of cinnamon may be added. Ripe berries, such as currants, blackberries, goose- berries, or rhubarb, may be used instead of apples, or oatmeal in the place of breadcrumbs. If the apples are not juicy, pour in a little water, and if not sharp cooking ones add the juice of the lemon as well as the rind. Compote of Apples Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of loaf sugar. One breakfastcupful of water. One inch of cinnamon stick. Eight sharp apples. 20 One or two tablespoonfuls of jelly or marmalade. Half a teacupful of cream. Cochineal.