EGGS AND OMELETS 419 a hot dish of some of these egg sippets. Chop the remainder coarsely, stir them into the curry sauce, and pour this into the circle of eggs. Arrange round this a border of hot boiled rice and it is ready to serve. Note.—Many prefer the eggs to be merely cut round in halves, served in the sauce, and the rice handed separately. If apple cannot be procured, substitute a small piece of chopped rhubarb, or two or three green gooseberries. Devilled Eggs with Anchovy Toast Ingredients— Four hard-boiled eggs. A heaped tablespoonfiil of butter. Two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce. One tablespoonful of Worcester sauce. One tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the mustard, tomato and Worcester sauces, ketchup and chutney. Heat these well ; shell and thickly slice the eggs. Heat them thoroughly in the prepared mixture. Trim the toast neatly, butter it, spread each piece thinly with anchovy paste. Heat these slices in the oven for a minute or two, then arrange the eggs on them and pour the sauce over. Serve immediately. Note.—Any fish paste may be used. Also mushrooms previously peeled and fried are excellent instead of eggs. One teaspoonful of chopped chutney. Half a level teaspoonful of dry mustard. Slices of buttered toast. Anchovy paste. Eggs en Coquilles higredients— One teacupful of breadcrumbs. One teacupful of finely chopped cooked ham, tongue, or lean bacon. Pepper: salt. One level teaspoonful of made mustard. One tablespoonful of butter. Two or three tablespoonfuls of hot milk or stock. Six or seven new-laid eggs. Method.—Mix the crumbs and ham with a dust of salt and pepper, put about four tablespoonfuls of it aside. Mix the rest with the mustard, one tablespoonful of butter oiled, and enough hot milk to make a smooth paste. Butter some scollop shells, spread them thickly inside with the prepared paste, hollowing it out in the centre. Break an egg carefully Into each shell, sprinkle the top of the egg with the dry mixture, putting a few