SWEETMEATS 511 Coating Fondant Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf One gill of water. sugar. A tiny pinch of cream of tartar Method.—Let the sugar dissolve in the water by the side of the fire. Add the cream of tartar, put the lid on the pan, and boil the syrup to 245°, that is, a few degrees below “large ball.” Be careful not to stir or disturb the syrup in any way, but wipe round the edge of the pan carefully with a brush dipped in cold water to prevent it graining at the edge. Place the pan in another pan containing boiling water, to keep the syrup hot while each fondant is coated. After dipping each sweet in the syrup, place it on a slightly oiled tin, put a thin coil of fondant on the top of each, with a fine forcer, or by dripping it from the wire ring, and leave them to set. When liked, a few drops of any colouring may be added to the syrup. Marzipan Ingredients— One andja half level breakfastcup- One gill of hot water. fuls of ground almonds. One egg. Two breakfastcupfuls of loaf Vanilla: lemon juice; orange sugar. flower water. Method.—Put the sugar and water into a pan by the fire and let the sugar dissolve slowly. Put the lid on the pan and bring the syrup to the boil. Uncover it, and boil to 240°, that is, “ soft ball.” Keep the syrup carefully skimmed, and occasion- ally brush round the sides of the pan with a brush dipped in cold water; this is to prevent the sugar granulating on the pan. As soon as the right degree is reached, draw the pan off the fire and stir in the almonds. Beat the egg slightly, and when the mixture has cooled a little, stir it in. Cook the marzipan over a slow heat until it leaves the sides of the pan quite clean. Turn the mixture on to a dry slab and knead it well, until it is nearly cold and quite smooth. When it is quite cold add the flavourings to taste, and, if desired, it may be coloured. Note.—When a particularly white mixture is desired use two whites in place of the whole egg. Marzipan Sandwiches Colour and flavour some marzipan in as many different ways as desired. Roll each piece out to exactly the same shape and