230 THE COMPLETE COOK Chicken en Casserole Ingredients— Cold chicken in neat joints. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One pint of stock from the chicken bones. Two shallots. The rind of one lemon. A sprig of thyme and parsley. One glass of port wine. Salt and pepper. Method.—Put the stock in a stewpan with all bones and trimmings from the chicken, peeled shallots, the thinly pared rind of the lemon and the herbs. Let these simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Melt the butter in a frying pan, stir in the flour and brown it carefully. Strain in the stock gradually, stirring it all the time. Let it boil, then add the wine and seasoning. Pour the gravy into the casserole, add the pieces of chicken and let the bird heat very gently, on no account must it be allowed to boil. It should cook at least for half an hour, so that the meat becomes well flavoured. Serve in the casserole. Note.—The wine may be left out if desired. Chaudfroid of Chicken Ingredients— One cold-boiled fowl. Three - quarters of a pint of Bechamel sauce. A pint of aspic jelly. Half a teacupful of Mayonnaise sauce. A small truffle. One lettuce. Two inches of cucumber. A few sprigs of endive. Method.—When the chicken is cold cut it into neat small joints and remove all skin. Trim off any rough edges and lay the joints on a wire pastry stand, or on a dish. Warm the sauce, strain it if it has been allowed to stand, and add to it a teacupful of warmed aspic jelly. Make sure that the sauce is well seasoned and stir it until it is cool, but not set. Pour a spoonful or so smoothly over each joint of chicken, so as to mask each piece completely and evenly. If they are not well covered, coat them a second time, warming the chaudfroid sauce if necessary. Have the truffle cut into pretty shapes such as crescents, diamonds, etc., and arrange a few pieces artistically on each joint. Gently pour over these decorations a small spoonful of slightly warmed aspic, taking care not to move the truffle. Let this set in a cool place for about an hour. Carefully wash and dry the lettuce,