CHEESE COOKERY 387 Cold Cheese Creams Ingredients— Four small tablespoonfuls each of One level teaspoonful of made grated Parmesan and Gruyere mustard, cheese. Salt ; cayenne. Half a pint of cream. A few strips of tarragon and One gill of Aspic Jelly. chervil. Method.—Prepare about ten small paper ramekin cases, by fastening round on the outside of each a band made of foolscap paper to come up one inch above the edge of the case. Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, stir the cheese and mustard into it. Warm the jelly and whisk it until frothy. Stir it lightly into the cream and season carefully. Pour the mixture into the prepared cases to about half-way up the paper band, and leave until set. Then decorate the top of each with a design in tarragon, chervil, or chilli, truffle, etc., and set it with a few drops of slightly warmed aspic jelly. When set, pour in enough extra melted aspic to make a depth of about an eighth of an inch. When this is set, damp the outside of the paper bands with hot water and gently peel them off. Serve the savoury in the cases as cold as possible. Note.—If liked, the tops need not be decorated, but just finished with two lines of the red Hungarian pepper or chopped truffle. If liked, decorate the tops of small dariole moulds with jelly, chervil, etc., then, when set, pour in the cheese mixture, leave until cold, then dip the tins in warm water, turn out the creams, and serve with chopped aspic round. Cheese Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls each of grated Cheddar and Parmesan cheese. Two tablespoonfuls of spaghetti in short lengths. Half a pint of milk and water. Cutlets Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Three eggs. One level teaspoonful of made mustard. Salt ; cayenne. Breadcrumbs : frying fat. Method.—Put the milk and water on to boil. When it boils sprinkle in the spaghetti and boil it for about ten minutes, or until quite tender. Then drain off all water and cut the spaghetti into about half-inch lengths. Stir the cheese, butter, and mustard into it over the fire, add the two beaten eggs and re-heat the mixture sufficiently to bind the eggs. Season and