MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 117 Place all bread, cakes, etc., on their side, or on a sieve, or tilted against a plate, when removed from the oven, to let the steam escape, otherwise it will condense in the food, making it heavy. Before turning out puddings, allow them to stand for a minute or so, they will then shrink away from the sides of the basin, etc., as the steam escapes. Apple puddings and tarts are improved if a little syrup is made from the peelings and cores and poured round or into them just before serving. The addition of too much salt will make batters heavy. Oversalted ham or bacon may be improved by soaking it in hot water for about ten minutes before cooking. Common faults in cooking are: 1. Too much fire: result, cooking too speedy. 2. Too much grease: result, it cannot be digested. 3. Too much water : result, the natural juices of the food are overmuch diluted. Salt added when liquids are to be brought to boiling point helps to raise the scum; used with cold liquids it assists in drawing out the juices. Eggs are used in cookery: 1. To give lightness, flavour, nutriment, and colour. 2. To increase the tenacity of dough, so that it will better retain the air. 3. To bind mixtures and to coat them for frying purposes. Sugar added to batter before it is cooked will cause it to be heavy. Use a rolling pin of even thickness from end to end, or too great pressure is given in the centre of the pastry. Pastry boards and pins should be smooth and free from knots and cracks in the wood. Never use the oil in which sardines, anchovies, etc., are preserved ; if some is needed, add fresh olive oil. Pounds of soap are wasted yearly by being left to dissolve in the water. Cooking is hot and thirsty work ; if lemonade, barley water, cider, or unlimited tea is provided for the cook, there would be less temptation to desire stimulants. “ The eye of an experienced mistress is worth two pairs of hands.” Cinders in the dust-bin show there is wasteful management below stairs. Strawberries, shellfish, and mackerel will produce nettlerash in some people.