THE COMPLETE COOK 372 Angels on Horseback Ingredients— One dozen large oysters. Twelve croutons or rounds of hot Twelve very thin slices of raw toast. streaky bacon. Salt: cayenne : lemon juice. Sprigs of watercress. Method.—Remove the beards from the oysters, sprinkle each with a few drops of lemon juice and grains of cayenne. Smooth the bacon out with rather a heavy knife, trim it, lay an oyster on one end of each slice and roll it up in the bacon. Twist a bit of thread round the bacon to keep it from uncurling, and cook the little rolls in the oven for about eight minutes, or until the bacon appears cooked. Have the croutons, or toast cut not more than one inch in diameter and freshly prepared and hot. Lay a roll on each, arrange them on a hot dish and garnish it with tufts of carefully washed watercress. Bouchees ^ I’Osborne higredients— Small puff pastry cases. Three sardines. One raw egg. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. One teaspoonful of anchovy sauce. Half a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Quarter of a teaspoonful of flour. Method.—Stamp out pastry cases the size of half a crown, with a small cutter mark a round in the centre of each. Bake them carefully and remove the centres. Skin and bone the sardines. Melt the butter in a small pan, stir in the flour, add the sardines, the sauces and, if necessary, a little salt. Stir the mixture over the fire until it is very hot, add the beaten egg and re-heat. Fill up the pastry cases, heaping the mixture slightly in the centre. Put the cases in the oven to heat through. Arrange on a lace paper and serve. Note.—Other pounded or finely chopped fish can be used; salmon, lobster, and crab are excellent. Cassolettes a la Cecil Ingredients— One breakfastcupful (packed solid) of butter. Half a gill of good brown sauce. One truffle. One small cooked carrot. Two gherkins. Two anchovies. One egg. Breadcrumbs. Salt and pepper Method.—Divide the butter into eight even-sized pieces. Work each into a round cake about an inch thick. Put them