GAME 249 yolks of eggs, and work the whole into a smooth paste. Well grease a raised pie mould. Roll the pastry out one-third of an inch thick, line the tin carefully with it, pressing it well into the mould. Chop the ham and veal finely, mix and season them with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Put a layer of this forcemeat all over the inside of the pastry. Remove all bones from the game and boil them with the stock. Fill in the centre of the pie with the game. Between each layer of the game, put in one of chopped mushroom, parsley, and truffle all mixed together. The last layer should be one of the veal and ham forcemeat. Egg the edges of the pastry, put on the lid of pastry, trim the edge and decorate the top with leaves of pastry, etc. Beat up the egg, brush the top of the pie over with it. Tie a greased band of paper round the mould about four inches deep, this is to protect the top of the pie. Bake it in a moderate oven from three to four hours. Take off the mould, let the pie get cold, then remove the centre ornament and strain in the stock in which the aspic jell}/ has been melted. Replace the ornament and brush the pie with a little glaze. Serve it cold. For a plain pie, such as pork, mould the paste up by hand. (See Illustration?) Scollops of Game, Poultry, etc. {Ilhistrated) Ingredients— Six rounded tablespoonfuls of chopped^ cooked game. About three-parts of a teacupful of any brown sauce. Half a tablespoonful of butter. Cayenne : salt. Three tablespoonfuls of browned crumbs. Method.—Chop the game coarsely. Use any bones and trimmings to flavour the sauce. Thickly butter three or four plated, fireproof-ware, or natural scollop shells. Sprinkle them over inside with some of the browned crumbs. Mix the game with enough sauce to well moisten it; season it well and arrange a good rounded heap in each shell. Sprinkle browned crumbs over the surface of each, dot a few small pieces of butter here and there on each, and bake them in a quick oven till very hot. Serve the shells with a lace paper under them. Note.—Pieces of poultry, meat, or fish are prepared in the same way. Use white sauce with white meats. With fish use any fish sauce that is left over. If there should be no sauce left in the larder, make a little with a tablespoonful of butter, half a tablespoonful of flour, and a teacupful of stock or milk.