500 THE COMPLETE COOK Sponge Cake Ing7'edients— Four eggs. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of Four rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. fine flour. One grated lemon rind. Method.—Brush a mould or tin over evenly with clarified butter. Sieve half a tablespoonful of extra flour and t wo tablespoonfuls of extra castor sugar; put these into the mould, shake them all over it and toss out all of the mixture that will not stick to the butter. Warm the flour in the oven, sieve it, and grate the lemon rind on to it. Put the eggs into a basin, beat them until frothy, add the sugar, stand the basin over a pan of boiling water, and whisk them for about ten minutes, or until very thick and ropy. The water must not be so hot under the basin that the eggs begin to set. Lightly fold half the flour at a time into the eggs. When all is in, pour the mixture into the mould, sprinkle the surface with a little castor sugar, and bake the cake slowly for about one hour. Care is needed in turning it out. Note.—This mixture can be baked in the small sponge cake tins, preparing them in the same way. A band of buttered paper, tied round outside the mould or tin as if for a souffle, protects the edges from darkening. Swiss Roll {Plain) {Illustrated) higredients— Two eggs. About four tablespoonfuls of any Two rounded tablespoonfuls each stoneless jam. of castor sugar, butter, and flour. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. One rounded teaspoonful of baking- powder. Method.—Line a flat baking sheet with greased paper. Fit the corners neatly, trim the edges evenly, and let the paper stand up round inside the tin, to the depth of about half an inch. Cream the butter and sugar. Beat in the eggs one at a time. Add the sieved flour and baking powder very lightly, then the milk. Pour the mixture into the tin, spread it over evenly. Bake it quickly for about ten minutes, or until spongy when pressed, and a delicate brown colour. Have the jam warmed, and a sheet of paper on the board thickly dusted with castor sugar. Turn the cake right over, brown side down on to the paper, and peel the latter off quickly. . Spread the jam over evenly, place the two hands behind the sugared paper, and roll up the cake quickly and neatly. If time is lost, the cake cools.