257 VEGETABLES pieces, according to their size. Season each of them with a little salt and pepper. Dip them into the prepared frying batter and fry them a golden brown in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain the pieces on paper, heap them up on a lace paper on a hot dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Hand the sauce separately. Artichokes, Globe, Boiled Ingredien ts— Three globe artichokes. Water. A small bunch of parsley, thyme. Salt. and marjoram. Method.—Cut the stalks off the artichokes, trim off some of the outer leaves, and the tips of any others that seem to require it. Wash them well in several waters. Lay them in a pan of boiling salted water with the herbs. If the water is very hard, or the artichokes old, add a scrap of soda the size of a pea. Leave the lid off the pan and boil the vegetables quickly for about twenty-five to thirty minutes, or until tender. Lift them out, drain them well, place them on a heated folded napkin in a hot vegetable dish, and hand with them oiled butter, vinaigrette, Hollandaise, or some other suitable sauce. Artichokes, Jerusalem, Boiled Ingredients— Two pounds of Jerusalem arti- Lemon juice or vinegar. chokes. Half a pint of melted butter or Two quarts of boiling water. white sauce. Two heaped teaspoonfuls of salt. Method.—Brush the artichokes free from earth. Peel them with as little waste as possible, but owing to their irregular shapes they have to be trimmed either round or oval. As each is peeled, place it at once into cold water, to which about a teaspoonful of lemon juice or vinegar has been added. The acidulated water helps to keep them white, an important point with this vegetable, as they turn a dirty grey tint almost immediately they are peeled. Lay the artichokes in a pan with the boiling water and boil them for about twenty minutes or until tender. Drain off the water, heap the artichokes in a hot vegetable dish, and pour over some hot white sauce, or melted butter. Note.—If liked, the artichokes may be cooked in half milk 17