Two heaped tablespoonfuls of VEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 135 Salt : pepper : nutmeg. let the soup boil gently till the cabbage is quite tender. Stir it now and then. Add the milk, not using all if it seems too much. Season the soup carefully, add the parsley, and serve in a hot tureen with dice of toast. Carrot Soup {Potage a la Crecy) Ingredients— One quart of stock. One heaped breakfastcupful of the red part of raw carrots chopped. One onion. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. chopped raw bacon or ham. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan ; add the chopped carrot, onion, and ham. Turn these about in the butter over the fire for ten minutes ; keep the lid on when not tossing them. Add the stock and boil the soup gently till the carrots are quite soft. The time depends on their age. Rub the soup through a hair sieve, put it back into a clean saucepan and let it reboil. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little cold stock or water. Pour it into the boiling soup and stir it till it boils, and let it continue to boil gently for about fifteen minutes. Remove any grease that boils up. Season the soup carefully, adding the sugar at the same time. Have the rice boiled in stock if possible, strain it, and, just before serving it, add it hot to the soup. Cauliflower Ingredients— Two small cauliflowers. One pint of white stock. One pint of hot milk. Half a gill of cream. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—Wash the cauliflowers well, trim off all green parts, and break the flowers into sprigs. Pick out about six of the best of these and boil them separately in salted water till tender, but not broken,—these are for the garnish. Put the remainder of the cauliflowers into a saucepan with the stock and a little salt, and let them boil gently till soft. Rub these and the stock through a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a clean stewpan, add Cream Soup One well-rounded tablespoonful of flour. Salt: pepper: castor sugar nutmeg. One level tablespoonful of corn- flour. Half a level teaspoonful of castor sugar. Half a teacupful of cooked rice.