195 MEAT Individual tastes must be considered as to whether the joint of beef or mutton is preferred well or under cooked, but bear in mind, lamb, veal, and pork are unpalatable and unwholesome unless very thoroughly cooked. Experience teaches that as joints increase in weight it is undesirable to allow an exact corresponding increase in the time for cooking. This can only be learnt by practice, observa- tion, and common sense. When cooked sufficiently, the meat will no longer feel flabby when firmly pressed with the finger, and it should be well browned. To Prepare the Joint.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it very thoroughly, and tie or skewer it into the correct shape. Tape or string is far preferable to skewers, as through the holes made by the latter, much of the juices escapes into the dripping pan. Saw off unsightly bones and make the joint look as trim and compact as possible. Score the skin of pork finely with a sharp knife and rub it over with a little salad oil. Be careful to note that loins and necks are jointed, otherwise the carver has an almost impossible task. Tie greased paper over any meat that is liable to dry or become scorched by the first great heat that is essential, such as fillet of veal, or joints of lamb (unless a piece of caul has been sent, which is better). When paper is used, it must always be removed for at least the last half-hour before the cooking is finished, to allow the exterior to brown. Positio7i of Jomt du7'ing Cookmg For Roasting.—Wind up the roasting jack and hang the joint so that the thickest part of it will be just opposite the centre of the fire, thus obtaining the greatest heat. This necessitates the thickest part hanging downwards. Put the joint close to the fire for the first ten minutes, so that the intense heat may harden the outside albumen and so keep in the juices; then draw it farther back from the fire, so that it will be cooked through, not burnt outside and raw inside. For Bakmg Meat.—Use a double baking tin; this allows of water being kept in the under pan, which prevents the dripping from burning. If a double tin is not possible, use an ordinary one and put a second tin, or even a pie dish of water, on the shelf below the meat, and do not let the water boil away. Put the meat on a trivet in the pan, so as to prevent it from actually lying in the dripping, and place the joint in the hottest part of the oven for the first ten minutes. In some ovens it is neces- sary to turn the joint over to brown it equally.