INVALID COOKERY 457 Cutlets of Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of chopped raw pheasant. One teaspoonful of butter. Three tablespoonfuls of milk or white stock. Pheasant Three or four tablespoonfuls of white sauce. One tablespoonful of cream. One level tablespoonful of flour. Half a beaten egg. Salt and pepper. Method.—Melt the butter in a small pan, stir in the flour, then add the milk or stock and stir the mixture over a slow fire till it can be rolled about in the pan without sticking to it. Let this mixture cool for five minutes, then add the pheasant and cream and half a beaten egg. Pound this mixture well and rub it through a fine wire sieve. Brush some small cutlet moulds with clarified butter, press some of the mixture well into each, so that they will take the shape nicely; level the top of the mixture with a knife dipped in hot water. Place them in a shallow pan on the fire with boiling water about half an inch deep. Lay a piece of buttered paper across the tops. Let the water simmer very gently till the mixture feels set in the centre ; they will 'probably take about fifteen minutes. See that the water is not deep enough to bubble over the edges of the tins. When they are sufficiently cooked shake them gently out on to a soft clean cloth and lightly wipe off all grease. Serve them on a hot dish with a little good white sauce strained over them. Note.—A little well-cooked spinach is excellent with this dish. Chicken, veal, or any raw game may be used. If the game is a dark colour a brown sauce should be used for coating them, not white. Panada of Pheasant {French) Ingredients— Three rounded tablespoonfuls of One slightly'rounded dessertspoon- chopped lightly cooked pheasant. ful of butter. A penny French roll. One tablespoonful of cream. Flalf a pint of milk. Salt and pepper. Method.—Put the crumb from the roll into a basin with the milk, and when it is well soaked beat it up with a fork as finely as possible. Chop the pheasant finely, then pound it in a mortar, if necessary adding a spoonful or two of extra milk, as this makes the pounding easier. Add this to the soaked roll, also the butter, the cream lightly whipped, and salt and pepper to taste. Beat the mixture over the fire for ten minutes, then