THE COMPLETE COOK 510 “ The Blow’.'—230°; Blow some syrup through a fish slice, and small bubbles form on the under side. “ The FeatheiT—232°; Same as above, but bubbles fly off. Small or Soft BallS—238°—240°; Drop some syrup into water, leave a second, and see if it will become like a ball of putty in the fingers. “ Large or Hard Ball’.’—247 “-25 2°; Same test as above, but the ball should be much firmer. “ Small Crack'.’—290°; Drop some syrup in cold water, when set it breaks, but sticks to the teeth when bitten. '''• Large Crack’.’—312°; Same test as above, but is hard and brittle, with no stickiness when bitten. “ CaranieL’—300°-350°; The sugar turns from a pale straw to a dark brown colour. Will burn very easily when near this degree. Fondant Cream Ingredients— Four lightly filled breakfastcupfuls One and a half gills of cold water. of loaf sugar. One small tablespoonful of glucose. Method.—Rinse out the pan or sugar boiler with cold water. Put in the sugar and water and let the sugar dissolve gently by the fire. Put on the lid and bring the syrup to boiling point; take off the lid, let it boil for five minutes, and add the glucose. Lower the thermometer gently into it and boil the syrup to 245° or a few degrees higher than “ soft ball.” Keep the syrup carefully skimmed and the sides of the pan brushed with a brush, dipped in cold water, but on no account stir it, or even move the thermometer, or the sugar may granulate and be spoilt. Sprinkle a slab or large dish with cold water, pour the boiled syrup on to this; sprinkle the surface of the sugar with a little cold water,—this will prevent a crust forming on it,—and leave it till cold enough to handle. If it is touched when it is very hot, it will become grained and rough in texture. Scrape it together with a palette knife dipped in cold water and knead backwards and forwards with the hand, until the fondant is white, creamy, and perfectly smooth. Leave it for twelve hours. It can then be flavoured and coloured, and, if liked, coated with coating fondant. A pretty effect is obtained by colouring the fondant cream a delicate pink and coating it with white coating fondant. Note.—It will keep for some time in an airtight tin.