JELLIES 353 skimmed; the liquid should now be reduced to a little over a quart. Strain it off and let it get cold. Next remove every suspicion of grease from the top of the jelly ; this is best done by wiping it with a cloth dipped in boiling water. Turn the jelly into a clean saucepan, heat it gently, and add the wine, brandy, spice, sugar, the thinly pared lemon rinds and strained juice, and lastly the crushed shells of the eggs, after having washed them carefully, also the lightly whipped whites of the eggs. Whisk all these ingredients over a gentle heat till the jelly boils up to the top of the pan. Let it sink and reboil twice. Then let it settle by the side of the fire for about ten minutes. Next strain it through a clean coarse tea-cloth, after having first poured through it plenty of boiling water to heat it. Let the jelly run through the cloth two or three times if necessary. It should be perfectly clear. Rinse out some moulds with cold water, pour in the jelly, and leave it to set. Note.—It is a good plan to set a little of the jelly quickly, and if it seems too stiff, a little more wine, lemon juice, or water could be added to it. Wine and brandy can be left out, if liked, and more water and lemon juice used. Castile Ingredien ts— One pint of clear claret, or wine jelly coloured red. About a teacupful of cream. Two and a half sheets of French gelatine. A dozen glace cherries coarsely chopped. Jelly One tablespoonful of preserved ginger cut in dice. Twelve shredded pistachio nuts. Two halves of preserved apricots cut in dice. Castor sugar. Method.—Rinse a plain round mould with cold water. Pour in enough warmed jelly to set the top of the mould to the depth of about half an inch. When it is set, stand a smaller mould or tumbler inside on this layer of jelly; there must be a space of about half an inch between the tumbler and the sides of the mould. Fill in this space with more warmed jelly and let it set firmly. When the surrounding jelly is firm, put a little warm water in the tumbler; this will loosen the jelly round it, and the tumbler may be easily withdrawn, showing a cavity in the middle for the cream filling. To make this: Dissolve the gelatine in a tablespoonful or so of water. Whip the cream, add the mixed fruits and sugar. When it is a little cooled, strain in the gelatine, mix well, and, when the cream is on the point of setting, pour it into the 23