MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS 147 turnip, and herbs out of the soup, they may be added to the stockpot. Put the pieces of chicken into the soup, reboil it, see the seasoning is correct, and serve it in a hot tureen. Note.—Sometimes about a dozen stewed stoned prunes are added just at the last, as well as the rice. A somewhat ancient fowl will do for this soup, only it will require longer cooking. If liked use two pounds of neck of mutton cooked whole with the fowl instead of the beef, and take it out when cooked. This can be served as a separate dish with parsley and butter sauce, thus lessening the expense of the soup. Gravy Soup Ingredients— Three pounds of shin of beef. Three quarts of cold water. Any cooked meat or poultry bones, or trimmings free from sauce. Two small carrots and turnips. One medium-sized onion. Four sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Method.—Wash the meat quickly and dry it. Cut it into one- inch squares. Peel and slice the onion. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, add to it the beef and onion. Fry these quickly in it till browned. Add the water, any oddments of bone to be used, the vegetables cut in large pieces, the herbs, spices, and a little salt. Let the soup boil very gently for about three hours. Keep it well skimmed during the cooking. Strain off the soup through a very fine strainer or hair sieve. When cold remove all the fat from the surface. Reboil it, cut some of the vegetables neatly and add them, and shake in the vermicelli broken in convenient lengths. Let this boil for about ten minutes, or till the vermicelli is quite cooked. Season the soup carefully and serve in a hot tureen. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of dripping. Eight peppercorns. Four allspice. Three tablespoonfuls of broken vermicelli. Salt and pepper. Hare Soup Ingredie7i ts— One small hare. Two quarts of stock. Three ounces of raw lean ham. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping. One onion and carrot. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Two glasses of Marsala or port. One tablespoonful of red currant jelly. A blade of mace. Four allspice. A dozen black peppercorns. The rind of one lemon. Seasoning.