94 THE COMPLETE COOK Beat Tip the basin slightly and hold the spoon so that the edge scrapes the basin, and bring it up through the mixture and over, with a long quick stroke, to the opposite side; under and up through again, lifting the spoon out of the mass and cutting clean through, scraping from the bottom at every stroke. Keep the bowl of the spoon and the sides of the mixing basin well scraped out, so that all the material may be equally beaten. We stir simply to blend two or more materials. We beat to add all the air possible to the mix,ture. We beat eggs, or batter, or soft dough. The albumen of the eggs and the gluten of the flour, owing to their viscidity, or glutinous properties, catch the air and hold it in filmy cells, in the same way as soap bubbles are made by blowing air into soapy water. The faster we beat, and the more we bring the material up from the basin into the air, the more of it is introduced and the more bubbles we have; but one stirring motion will destroy them. Yolks of eggs should be beaten nearly as much as the whites, or until they are light and lemon-coloured and thicken perceptibly. The whites should be beaten until they are stiff and dry, or fly off in flakes, or can be turned upside down on the plate without spilling. When beaten yolks and beaten whites are to be put together, always turn the whites into the yolks, as there is less waste than when the yolks are turned into the whites. Let the whites stand a minute, then run a palette knife round the edge of the basin, they will then slip out easily and leave the basin almost clean. Basins with slightly spreading sides and not too deep to be clasped from bottom to rim in the left hand, are most convenient. If tipped slightly towards the right the beating is done more effectually. Cut or Fold or Lift Omelets, sponge cakes, whipped cream, etc., should have the beaten white cut, or folded in carefully, to avoid breaking the air bubbles. Turn the mixture over the spoon, cut through, lift up, and fold the materials together, lifting the part from below up and over and mixing very gently until just blended. Do not stir round and round, or beat quickly. All mixtures which are raised with eggs alone, should have the yolks and whites of the eggs thoroughly and separately beaten. Shall we stir only one way ? No; stir any way you please.