THE COMPLETE COOK 66 faint smoke rise. This fact must be grasped before success is possible. Though frying is a speedy and very savoury method of preparing food, it is not by any means the most digestible, and if incorrectly performed is a potent cause for dyspepsia. Again, in many modern flats and badly arranged houses, the fumes given off from smoking fat are very irritating to the mucous membrane of the nose and equally so to a delicate stomach. A little coffee sprinkled on the stove during frying, will greatly disguise all undesirable odours. SAUTfilNG The exact meaning of this term is best described as “ tossing.” It is also a form of shallow frying, for just enough fat or butter, etc., is used to toss the food about in to prevent it from sticking to the pan. A sharp fire is needed, and the contents of the pan kept continuously moved and turned, by moving it backwards and forwards or skilfully tossing the food over. A saute pan resembles an ordinary frying pan, with the ex- ception of the edges, which are straight, not sloping outwards as is the case with frying pans. The latter, however, or an omelet pan, can be quite well used for this process. Grilling or Broiling The latter is the ancient word used for grilling, and is derived from the French briller to burn. Both terms are in use, and both indicate the same method, viz. to cook small pieces of meat, fish, poultry, game, or vegetables over, or in front of, a clear sharp fire. It is a similar process to roasting, with the same results and the same drawbacks, viz. it is an extravagant method, as much fuel and the best cuts of meat are essential to success. It is quickly performed, and the results are savoury and digestible. If, however, evaporation is not prevented, by the heat being intense enough to seal over the exterior of meats, they become dry and tasteless. It is essential that the griller is well heated and greased; unless the former is done, the albumen behind the shadow of the bars of the griller does not become hardened, and little streams of gravy will escape. Flat tongs for the purpose of turning the food are useful, in order to avoid piercing the flesh;