THE COMPLETE COOK 198 each pound the joint weighs, and an extra twenty minutes on the whole joint. If the joint is very thin or contains much bone, twenty minutes to the pound will suffice. Salted pork should be allowed twenty-five minutes. To Boil the Joint.—Lay it in a pan with warm water to cover it, unless it is very salt, when it is best to use cold water, to extract some of it. Bring the water to boiling point. Skim it well, boil it for a minute or so, then add the vegetables and simmer it as directed for fresh meat. To Serve Boiled Salted Meat.—No sauce is required. Pour round a little of the meat liquor and send more of it to table in a tureen. Arrange the vegetables round and dumplings, if used. Save the rest of the liquor for broths, etc. All salt meat, if intended to be eaten cold, will be more juicy and mellow if allowed to become cold in the liquid in which it was cooked: this is not wise, however, if the weather is hot, or if the joint is needed to last some time, as the moisture it will contain causes it to sour quickly. BEEF American Spiced Beef Cake Ingredients— Four pounds of the middle cut of the shin. Boiling water to cover it. One onion, carrot, and turnip. Three sticks of celery. A bunch of thyme, marjoram, parsley, and a bay leaf. Four allspice. Six peppercorns. One blade of mace. Method.—Wash the meat well and remove any skin, etc., which is not perfectly sweet and clean, or fragments of bone. Cut the meat and chop the bone in about four pieces. Put these into a saucepan with the water, prepared vegetables cut in halves, the herbs and the spice tied up in a piece of muslin. Simmer steadily till the meat falls off the bone and the liquor is reduced to about half a pint. Keep it well skimmed during cooking. Strain off the liquid, separate the meat from the vegetables and bone, and add the meat only to the liquor. Season somewhat highly and break up the meat with a fork. Pack it tightly into a mould or bread tin. Put weights on the top of the meat and press it well. Leave till cold. Then dip the tin, if necessary, into warm water to loosen the meat cake, and serve. Variations.—Knuckle of veal may also be prepared in the