184 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Melt the butter in a small stewpan. When it is hot add the bearded oysters and the strained liquor and the other ingredients. Cover the pan tightly, place it on a low fire, and shake it occasionally to keep the oysters from sticking. Cook them for two or three minutes or until they look plump instead of flat. Then serve them on neat rounds of toast, pour- ing some of the juice from the pan on to each toast. Fried Filleted Plaice, Soles, Flounders, etc. {Illustrated') higredients— One plaice. One teaspoonful of salt. One egg. Half a teaspoonful of pepper. White breadcrumbs. Frying fat. One tablespoonful of flour. Method— To Fillet the Plaice.—Wash and dry the fish. Lay it flat on the board, white side downwards; tail towards you. Cut round the head bone and across the tail with a sharp pointed knife. Next cut round the edge of the fins, where the thick flesh ends in the fin bones (see Illustration). Repeat these cuts on the white side also. Then turn it over so as to have the black skin uppermost. Make a cut along the backbone on each side of the fish, a faint line on the skin indicates its direction. Cut down until the bone is felt. Then the actual filleting com- mences ; begin by taking off the fillet on the left side of the fish. Hold the knife very flat, put the tip of the left first finger and the point of the knife into the backbone cut; pull back the flesh with the left hand and cut the flesh off the bones with the knife. Make long smooth strokes with the knife, always cutting towards you only, not pushing the knife up. Let the knife feel the bone all the time, thus it will be left clean and bare and the fillet will be free from jagged cuts. Continue to pull back the flesh and cut it free until the first fillet is right off. Then lay it on a paper on a tin by your side. Turn the fish, so as to have the second fillet also on the left hand, and proceed as for the first. When that is done the upper half of the fish has the bone quite exposed, so turn the fish right over and remove in the same way the two under fillets, bearing in mind that the piece being filleted must always be on the left hand. There should be four fillets in all. If the filleting has been well done the skeleton will be complete, with no gaps in the fin bones round. Should any spaces be noticed in the skeleton, where bones have been raised by the knife, feel