VEGETABLE PURGES AND THICKENED SOUPS 139 dried peas. Let these stew slowly in the butter for ten minutes. Then add the stock, parsley, and mint and boil the soup gently till the peas are soft. Every now and then mash them against the sides of the pan to break them. Rub the soup through a fine wire sieve, pour it back into a clean saucepan, add the milk, using sufficient to make it as thick as good cream. Season it carefully, add the cooked fresh peas and reboil it. Pour the soup into a hot tureen and serve with toast cut in dice or croutons. Note.—Preserved fresh peas can be used if the freshly grown ones are out of season; or for economy’s sake they may be omitted altogether. Haricot Ingredients— Half a pint of haricot beans. One quart of water or pot-liquor. One small onion. Three slices of fat bacon, or Puree One rounded tablespoonful of butter. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Half a pint of hot milk. Salt and pepper. Method.—Soak the beans in cold water overnight. Next day drain off the water from them and cut the bacon and onion into dice. Heat the bacon gently in a saucepan till the fat is drawn out without browning it, or melt the butter. Add the beans and onion and stir them over the fire for five minutes, but without colouring them. Add the water or pot-liquor and herbs and boil the soup gently for about three to four hours according to the hardness of the beans. Rub the soup through a fine wire or hair sieve. Pour the puree back into the clean saucepan, add the milk, and let it reboil. Season the soup carefully and serve with croutons or toast. Note.—If the pot-liquor is that in which salt meat was boiled, care is needed to see it is not too salt. Brown Haricot Soup Ingredients— One pint of haricot beans. Two and a half quarts of brown stock. Three tablespoonfuls of cooked chopped bacon. One onion. Four tomatoes. One leek. One small carrot and turnip. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One rounded tablespoonful of dripping. Salt and pepper. Method.—Soak the beans for twenty-four hours in cold water. Wash, prepare, and coarsely chop all the vegetables, except the