174 THE COMPLETE COOK Baked and Stuffed Haddock Ingredients— One haddock, about two pounds weight. Two heaped tablespoonfuls of fresh crumbs. Two level tablespoonfuls of chopped suet. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful of dried powdered herbs. One egg. Half a teacupful of milk. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of dripping. A teacupful of browned crumbs. Salt and pepper. Two slices of fat cooked, or raw bacon. Half a pint of anchovy sauce. Method.—Wash, dry, and trim the fins and tail neatly. Remove the eyes. To make the Stuffing: Mix the crumbs, suet, parsley, herbs, and seasoning with enough milk to prevent it crumbling. Press this into the cavity made for cleaning the fish. Skewer or sew the edges together to keep this stuffing in. Then either truss the fish into the shape of the letter S, by running a threaded trussing needle through the body at the tail, back again through the middle of the body and out the other side again through the eye sockets, then draw the string up tight enough to get the desired shape and knot it. Or, a more simple method is to push the tail right through the eye sockets, ramming it well in, then it will stick securely. Next rub it over with a little flour to dry the surface. Brush the fish all over with beaten egg and cover it with the browned crumbs, flattening these down gently. Lay the slices of bacon on the baking tin, put the fish on these, as they will prevent it sticking to the tin. Put the dripping into the tin and bake the fish in a moderately hot oven for fifteen to twenty minutes, ac- cording to its thickness. Baste it frequently. When cooked, pull out the skewers and string or thread. Lift the fish on to a hot dish, and pour round it some anchovy sauce. Note.—Other stuffing can be used, such as oyster stuffing. Tomato or piquante sauce can be used instead of anchovy. Gurnets, small codlings and unskinned whitings may be cooked by this recipe. To Fillet Haddock, Whiting, Mackerel, etc. Wash and dry the fish. Trim off the tail and fin bones. Cut off the head. Take a sharp pointed knife and make a deep cut from the head to the tail along the ridge of the back fins. Make a similar cut from head to tail on the other side also. Gradually work off the flesh from the bones, cutting