THE COMPLETE COOK 412 Calf’s Brains Toast Ingredients— One set of cooked calfs brains. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. Buttered toast. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. Two raw yolks of eggs. Salt and pepper. Method.—Skin and chop the brains rather coarsely. Have ready a neatly trimmed and well buttered piece of toast. Beat up the yolks with the milk. Stir in the chopped brains and seasoning. Melt and heat the butter till it just begins to bubble, pour in the above mixture, stir it briskly over a slow fire till it becomes like a soft custard. Season it and heap it up on the toast. Serve it at once. Note.—On no account coc eggs will become curdled a digestibility. Devilled Ingredients— Slices of raw ham. One tablespoonful of butter. Two teaspoonfuls of French mustard. One teaspoonful of English made mustard. ik the mixture quickly, or the ,nd tough and will lose their Ham, etc. Half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. One teaspoonful of chutney. Cayenne : salt. Browned crumbs. Watercress. Method.-—Work the mustards smoothly into the butter on a plate. Chop and add the chutney, strained lemon juice, and a dust of salt and cayenne. Have the ham cut in slices barely a quarter of an inch thick, gash each slice once or twice to prevent it curling up. Spread one side of the ham thickly with this “ devil ” paste and sprinkle over it a layer of the crumbs. Lay the slices on a greased baking tin in a quick oven, and bake them sharply for about eight to ten minutes, or lay them, crumbed side uppermost, on a flat gridiron over a sharp clear fire and grill them. Put the slices of ham on a hot dish on a lace paper, garnishing them with tufts of prepared watercress, seasoned with salt and lemon juice. Serve immediately. Note.—This devil paste may be spread in the same way on game, poultry, fish, bones, kidneys, mirshrooms, etc. Stewed Kidneys higredients— Four sheep’s kidneys. Two slices of streaky bacon. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped onion. Two or three mushrooms. Two teaspoonfuls of flour. One tablespoonful of butter. Salt: pepper. Half a pint of stock.