CHEESE COOKERY 393 spoons, or a forcing bag. Brush the tops of the balls over with a little beaten egg. Cut the cheese into neat small dice and press them lightly into the tops of each ramekin. Bake them in a quick oven until a delicate brown and quite light and hollow. Serve at once on a lace paper on a hot dish. Macaroni Cheese Ingredients— Eight coils of the curled, or sticks of the straight macaroni. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Break the macaroni into short lengths. Put it into plenty of fast boiling salted water and boil it from half to three-quarters of an hour, or until perfectly tender without losing its shape. Drain off the water and cut the macaroni into one-inch lengths. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothl}^, add the milk, and stir this sauce over the fire till it boils. Add the macaroni, rather more than half the cheese, and mustard, and seasoning to taste. Grease a pie dish, or a fireproof china baking dish, and turn the mixture into it. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese over the top and bake it in a quick oven until well browned. Have ready some neat triangles of toast, arrange these round inside the dish on the cheese and serve at once. Note.—The surface may be browned with a salamander, if liked. Should there be any white sauce left over, use it instead of making fresh. For an after-dinner savoury make about half this quantity and serve it heaped up on small croutons of fried bread, or hot buttered toast, either browning the surface as already directed, or sprinkling them over with cheese and browned crumbs in equal proportions. The same mixture may be served also in fireproof china ramekin cases. Savoury Biscuits Ingredients— About eight small water or milk One level tablespoonful of butter, biscuits. Half a teaspoonful of made One teacupful of grated Parmesan mustard, or other cheese. Method.~K\Ia the cheese, mustard, and butter well together. Keep back about two teaspoon fills of cheese. Season them One level tablespoonful of flour. One breakfastcupful of milk. One teaspoonful of made mustard. Salt: cayenne : toast.