473 DIET FOR INFANTS AND CHILDREN add lime water, allowing one teaspoonful to every three table- spoonfuls of milk and water: or, thin barley water may be substituted instead of boiled water; this is often successful. Delicate babies should have a teaspoonful of good pure cream added to each bottle, or a spoonful of raw beef juice. The latter has saved the life of many an infant. No starchy foods such as bread, sponge cake, rice, potato, etc., must ever be given until the child has cut one or two teeth. Before this takes place, the saliva lacks the ferment to convert the starch into sugar, which is the first step towards digestion. So, though the food is perhaps swallowed, it merely sets up irritation and often serious harm. For the same reason Patent Foods, which are not all free from starch, should never be given except if ordered by a medical man. It may be as well to add a caution against Over-Heated Food A baby’s mouth and throat are very delicate and easily scalded. A careful nurse will draw a little through the teat herself, to test the temperature of the food and also to see if the flow of milk is not too slow or rapid. Lack of Fat —that is, milk-fat or cream—will result in rickets in children. Many believe this disease arises from a deficiency of lime-salts in the water, but more often than not the child is not having enough fat. Give cream, cod-liver oil, or good fresh butter or bacon dripping to supply it in additional quantities. Soothing Syrup should be forbidden unless ordered by a doctor. Children have been physically and mentally ruined, and even killed, by the use of these by unconscientious or ignorant mothers and nurses. Children , Children and all young people while growing need the most nutritious food, plenty of it, and at regular intervals. Rich and stimulating foods are most undesirable for children; milk is still most necessary, and should be drunk instead of tea and coffee, except for an occasional treat. Children are usually very fond of sweet things, some help- ing themselves most liberally out of the sugar bowls! This is an instinctive craving and, within reason, should be gratified.