208 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Wash the tripe, blanch it by laying it in a saucepan with cold water to cover, and boil it for three minutes. Lift it out, scrape off and cut away all fat and divide the tripe into pieces two inches long and one broad. Mix the oil, vinegars, seasoning, parsley, and onion. Lay the pieces of tripe to marinade in these for half an hour, turning them often. Have the batter prepared as directed for Batter No. 3. Dip each piece of tripe into it without wiping off the marinade and fry them in clean hot fat until a bright golden brown. Drain them on paper; heap them up on a lace paper on a hot dish and garnish with fried parsley. Serve at once. Note.—Batter No. 2 may be used if preferred. Tomato or piquante sauce is excellent to accompany this dish. Tripe k la Ingredients— One pound of dressed tripe. One tablespoonful of chopped onion. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Lyonnaise One pound of tomatoes. Half a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. A piece of glaze the size of a filbert nut. A breakfastcupful of cooked rice. Seasoning. Method.—Wash the tripe, lay it in a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring it to boiling point, and boil it for three minutes. Lift it out on to the board and scrape off and cut away any fat on it. Cut the tripe into two-inch squares. Melt the butter, add the onion and fry it a light brown. Rub the tomatoes through a fine sieve, add this pulp to the onion and butter and mix them well. Lay in the pieces of tripe and add vinegar and glaze. Cover the pan and let the tripe simmer very gently for about two hours, or until it is easily pierced with a skewer. Should the tomato juice seem insufficient to cook it in add more pulp or a little stock. When it is tender, lift out the tripe and lay it on a hot dish. Mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little cold stock or water; pour it into the tomato pulp and stir it until it boils. Add stock or water if this sauce is thicker than good cream. Season it carefully, add the parsley and pour it over the tripe. Boil the rice as for a curry, and when hot and dry arrange it as a border round.