GAME 245 with flour, and baste it with butter, as this gives it a crisp frothed appearance. Then remove the string, skewers, and beef; place the bird on a hot dish; insert the tail feathers and garnish the dish with tufts of washed watercress seasoned with salt, pepper, and a few drops of salad oil. Serve with the bird fried crumbs, bread sauce, and good brown gravy. Note.—The beef can be omitted if liked and a lump of butter mixed with salt and pepper placed inside the bird. The pheasant can be larded if preferred, it is then not necessary to cover the breast with bacon. Roast Quails Ingredients— One quail for each person. A slice of raw fat bacon. A vine leaf, and A slice of toast for each quail. For every two birds allow One level tablespoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of chopped shallot. Two teaspoonfuls of melted glaze. Salt and pepper. Method.—Lay the livers of the birds aside. Brush the quails over with warmed butter, then lay over the breast of each a fresh vine leaf if procurable, and a slice of slitted bacon ; secure these with string. Roast them in a Dutch oven if possible, before a quick clear fire, for about ten to fifteen minutes. Baste them frequently with a little extra butter. Melt the tablespoonful of butter in a pan, add to it the chopped livers of the birds, the shallot, and a little salt and pepper. Stir all these over a slow fire until the livers are cooked, pro- bably they will take about four or five minutes. Then pound the mixture and add the glaze. Spread this paste on some neat pieces of toast or fried bread, a piece for each quail. Heat them in the oven. Lay each cooked quail, with the vine leaf and bacon removed, on one of the pieces, and arrange them on a hot dish. Garnish them with washed and seasoned watercress. Hand with them fried crumbs and good gravy. Roast Ortolans Cook and serve as directed for Roast Quails. Roast Snipe Ingredients— Snipe (one for each person). A piece of toast for each bird. A slice of fat bacon, and Butter. Method.—These birds, like woodcock, should not be drawn. Skin and leave the heads on and use the birds’ long beaks to