HOW TO lOI you. Dip the fingers in a little salt to prevent them slipping, hold the tail with the left hand. Hold a sharp knife in the right, with its edge quite flat with the fish and begin cutting the flesh off the skin, rolling it back from the knife as you proceed. Pull the tail rather back from the knife. Unless the latter is laid with the edge quite flat with the table, it will cut through the skin instead of removing the flesh from it. Lard Meat, etc. This may be done with strips of bacon, truffle, gherkin, tongue, ham, etc.; the first mentioned is the most often used. The object of larding is to introduce fat into very lean meat and poultry and vice versa, thus adding greatly to its nutritive value and flavour. “ Larding bacon ” should be bought, and this is cured without saltpetre, which gives a reddish tinge to other foods it is cooked with. But whatever bacon is used, it must be hard, firm, and without lean. A “larding needle” is necessary, into the shaped end of which the “ lardoons ” or strips are tucked. The size of the lardoons varies according to whether they are to lard a large bird or small fillet, etc. Cut the strips evenly, a little smaller than the needle—a useful size is about if inches long and an eighth of an inch wide; keep them as cool as possible. Across each slice of bacon will be noticed a line running the length of it. Cut the lardoons so as to avoid this line, or the top of each will fall off. If a small piece of meat is to be larded, place it on a piece of paper folded to three thicknesses and hold it across the fingers of the left hand. Thread the needle, push it into the meat and out again, leaving half the lardoon sticking out at each end. Have three or more rows in horizontal lines. Each row should not be directly under the last but betzveen the spaces, which thus become diamond shaped. Lastly, cut the endsjof the lardoons evenly with scissors, about a quarter of an inch should show of each strip. Bard Poultry and Game This is done to protect the breasts of delicate birds and so prevent them becoming dry and burnt. Take a slice of raw fat bacon, or even cooked may be used. It must be sufficiently large to well cover the whole breast. Slit the bacon at intervals, to prevent it curling up, and tie it over the breast of the bird with two or more pieces of string.