THE COMPLETE COOK 3o8 chopped pistachio nuts. Leave them until cold, then fill in the centre of each with a little lemon sponge and on this put a small round of jelly to form a lid. Note.—Whipped and flavoured cream is excellent in the place of lemon sponge. Apple Tart Ingredien ts— About two pounds of apples. Half a pound of any good pastry. About four tablespoonfuls of Dem- Two cloves, or a little grated lemon erara sugar. rind. Method.—Peel, core, and quarter the apples. Cut each quarter in half. Half fill a pie dish with the fruit, next put in the sugar and flavouring, and then the rest of the fruit. Half fill the dish with cold water. Roll out the pastry to the shape of the dish, but a little larger and about a third of an inch thick. Cut off a strip to fit round the edge of the dish, brush it with water, put on the strip of pastry, moisten this also and put on the top. Press the edges together, trim and flake them up with the back of the knife and crimp them neatly. Raise the pastry from the dish at each end, and bake the tart for about three- quarters of an hour, first in a quick part of the oven for the pastry to rise, and then in a cooler part to cook the fruit. Brush the top of it with a little cold water and dust it with castor sugar. Note.—All other fruit tarts are made in a similar manner, but the preparation of the fruit, and the amount of sugar and water added to it, must vary with each kind, according to whether the variety is, or is not, very juicy or sour. The top of the tart has a more finished appearance if it is brushed after baking with a little whipped white of egg, dusted with castor sugar, and then placed again in the oven for about five minutes. Apple Whip Ingredients— Two large sharp cooking apples. One tablespoonful of cream. One tablespoonful of sugar. Two tablespoonfuls of water. Half a teaspoonful of grated lemon The white of one egg. rind. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples. Put them in a saucepan with the water and lemon rind, and stew them gently until they are soft. Then beat them till they are smooth with a fork, and sweeten them to taste. Whisk the white of the egg