THE COMPLETE COOK 210 will take about five to seven minutes ; if well cooked, eight to ten minutes. Re-scrape the ends of the bones, as they must be quite clean. Place a tiny paper cutlet frill on the end of each bone and dish the cutlets in a circle, or semicircle, on a hot dish. Hold the bone in the left hand, the curved side of the cutlet facing you. It is sometimes necessary to prop the first one in position with a piece of crust of bread tucked in under it out of sight. Strain the hot sauce round and place any suitable hot garnish in the centre. Note.—The name given to the particular dish of cutlets depends on the garnish and sauce. Fried Lamb Cutlets Prepared exactly as for Mutton Cutlets, but lamb should always be well cooked. Chaudfroid Ingredients— Seven untrimmed mutton, or lamb, cutlets. Half a pint of brown sauce. Half a pint of aspic jelly. A piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Three teaspoonfuls of sherry. of Cutlets Two sheets of gelatine. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. A small lettuce. Half an endive. A tablespoonful of Mayonnaise sauce. Seasoning. Met/iod.—Heat the butter in a frying pan, lay in the cutlets and fry them quickly over a clear quick fire for about seven to eight minutes, turning them frequently. Lift them out of the pan and press them till cold between two tins weighted. When cold, trim them in the usual manner and brush each over with glaze, but not the bones. Heat the brown sauce with the glaze, sherry, gelatine, and half a teacupful of melted aspic: on no account melt all the aspic, but a little as required. When this sauce is thoroughly mixed, lay the cutlets on a wire pastry stand over a dish, or right on the dish if there is no stand, and pour the sauce over the cutlets to mask them. They must be well coated, so repeat this if necessary. Let this chaudfroid sauce set, then pour over each a little aspic jelly, warmed just sufficiently for it to flow over smoothly; repeat this also if the jelly seems to run off too rapidly. Leave them on ice until cold. Scrape any mixture off the ends of the bones and put a little cutlet frill on each. Put a bed of carefully prepared