221 COLD MEAT COOKERY A dainty cold fish entree is made in the same way, using a neat piece of cooked salmon, lobster, turbot, or oysters. Put a little small salad in the case instead of the ham, and if it is a red fish, tint the sauce a delicate pink with anchovy essence or lobster coral. COLD MEAT COOKERY Small Ham Mousses Ingredients— Half a pound of lean cooked ham. Pepper, grated nutmeg, and mace One gill of brown sauce. to taste. Half a pint of melted aspic jelly. Quarter of a pint of cream. Truffle or chilli. Method.—Chop the ham finely; pound it to a paste in a mortar, adding the brown sauce gradually while doing so. Whisk one and a half gills of melted aspic till it is just be- ginning to set, then stir it into the ham mixture, adding pepper, grated nutmeg, and ground mace to taste. If necessary add salt, but probably it will not be required. Whip the cream until it will just hang on the whisk, stir it into the mixture and whisk it gently until the mixture is just thickening. Have ready small china souffle cases with bands of foolscap tied round the top of each. Put in the mixture. Arrange a pretty design in truffle or chilli in the centre of each, then pour in a little melted aspic jelly to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Leave until set. Wet the outside of the paper band with warm water and draw it off carefully. Arrange the souffle cases on a lace paper. Croquettes of Meat, Poultry, etc. higredients— Two barely full breakfastcupfuls'of any cooked chopped meat. One gill of stock. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. Two teaspoonfuls of grated onion. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. For Beef.—One small teaspoonful of made mustard. For Veal.—One small teaspoonful of grated lemon rind. For Muttofi.—One small tea- spoonful of chopped chutney. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. One raw egg : breadcrumbs. Frying fat. Method.—Remove all bones, skin, etc., from the joint and use them to make the stock. Chop the meat very finely and mix it with the onion, parsley, and the particular flavouring