130 THE COMPLETE COOK through and quite free from holes. When cooked turn the custard out of the jar, cut it into slices about an eighth of an inch thick and stamp these out into fancy shapes with a cutter, such as diamonds, dice, crescents, etc. Pour the boiling con- somme into the hot tureen and slip the shapes of custard gently in. Note.—The eggs could be mixed with a little stock made of some meat essence and water if liked. Consomm^ k la Savoy Ingredients— One quart of boiling clear soup. Two tablespoonfuls of cooked ham Four chickens’livers. cut in dice. Two teaspoonfuls of tarragon leaves. Method.—Simmer the livers whole in enough plain stock to just cover them till they are quite tender. Probably they will take about ten minutes. Then lift them out and cut them into small neat dice. Put them in a hot tureen with the ham cut in dice the same size as the liver, and the leaves of tarragon cut in fine shreds. Pour the boiling consommd on to them and serve. Beef Broth in Cups {Bouillon en Tasses) Ingredients— Two pounds of lean beef, such as topside or sticking piece. Two quarts of cold water. One carrot, turnip, and onion. Two small sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley and herbs. One clove. Two allspice. Six peppercorns. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, and cut it up into small dice. Chop any bones there may be. Let the meat and bones soak in cold water for half an hour. Then put them into a saucepan, add the water and a little salt and bring them slowly to boiling point. Add the vegetables cut in quarters and the bunch of herbs, also the spice tied in a little piece of muslin. Simmer the broth very gently for three hours, skim it carefully. Strain it through a fine clean cloth or old table napkin into a basin, and leave it until cold. Then remove all grease, re-heat it and season it carefully. Serve in heated small soup cups, adding a little dust of parsley to each cup. Note.—This is much used to serve at dances, etc. Un- sweetened rusks or thin sippets of crisp toast should accom- pany it.