83 ECONOMY IN THE KITCHEN cakes, frying, etc. It will save pounds of butter and lard. In a poor neighbourhood the brown scraps strained off are greatly appreciated by hard-up families, they are savoury, nourishing, and can be used instead of suet and dripping. Bones, Cooked or Raw, and Gristle.—Put in the stockpot, or make into special soups. Ham Bones are a valuable addition when making pea, lentil, or haricot soup—as also are Bacon Rinds and Bones. These are often thrown away after cutting the matutinal bacon, but if dipped in boiling water and scraped to remove any dirt, they are excellent for flavouring. Sc7'aps of Meat, Game, Poidtry, Ham, Tongue, and Fish.— I. If in too small quantities add them to the stockpot with the exception of fish. 2. Or mix several varieties together, and after chopping use for various made-up dishes. Most of the dainty little entrees, souffles, patties, kromeskies, toasts, etc., mainly require scraps of this description for their foundation. Cold Vegetables Potatoes may be—i. Mashed, fried, or converted into scones, cakes, and croquettes. 2. Used for salad, with some good dressing, or steamed till hot, and served “ au maitre d’hotel.” 3. As a covering for pies made of re-heated meat or fish. Gatmots, Caidiflower, Leeks, etc., may be used as garnitures for soups or ragouts, stews, etc. Peas, Beans^Aspar'agus, in fact nearly all cold vegetables, make delicious salads, either each kind separately or mixed. Gelery,the outside Sticks and Tips,-ajs, flavouring for stock, stews, etc. Potdiquor, in which salted or fresh meat or poultry has been boiled, use as the foundation for broths and thick soups, or add it to the stockpot if not too salt. Water in which I'oot Vegetables have been boiled should also be saved for stock, as it contains much of their flavour and nutritive elements. Stale Cheese.—this, either grated or sliced, for any cooking purposes. It is invaluable for savouries. Oddments, such as drops of gravies and sauces, tomatoes, celery tops, the remains of sauces in bottles, trimmings of meat from cutlets or vegetables, must be put in the household stockpot. If it is needed for clear soups, thickened sauces should not be added.