3H THE COMPLETE COOK Chocolate Ingredients— Two level breakfastcupfuls of breadcrumbs. One and a half teacupfuls of grated ^ chocolate. Three slightly rounded tablespoon- fuls of butter. Pudding Two level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Three eggs. Half a pint of milk. Half a teaspoonful of vanilla. Method.—Well grease a mould or basin. Beat together the sugar and butter till they are like cream, and beat in the yolks of the eggs. Dissolve the grated chocolate smoothly in the milk, add it to the yolks and butter, etc., also the crumbs, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. S*tirthe latter in very lightly. Pour the mixture into the greased mould, cover the top with a piece of greased paper. Put it into a pan with boiling water to come half-way up the basin, and steam it for one and a half hours. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish and serve with it any good sweet sauce, wine sauce being particularly suitable. Note.—This mixture may be placed^ a greased pie dish and baked. a Chocolate Tartlets {IllustraUd^) Ingredients— Half a pound of any scraps of good ' pastry. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of fresh butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One rounded tablespoonful of ground rice. ot of Two rounded tablespoonjuls cake crumbs. Two rounded tablespoi grated chocolate. Two eggs. * Apricot jam : vanilla. A gill of chocolate icing. A teaspoonful of chopped pistachio nuts. Method.—Roll out the pastry about an eighth of an inch thick. Line some patty tins with it. Put a small teaspobnful of jam into each. Beat the butter and sugar to a soft cream. Mix in the two yolks of eggs, ground rice and cake crumbs. Dissolve the chocolate in a teaspoonful or so of water, using as little as possible, and stir it into the cake, etc. Add the whites of the eggs lightly beaten to a very stiff froth, and a drop or two of vanilla. Fill the pastry cases half full with the mixture and bake them in a moderately hot oven for about twenty minutes. Lift them out of the tins, and when cold coat the mixture in the centre with a little chocolate icing and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts.