333 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY To Bake Puff Pastry The pastry must be as icy cold as possible when it is put in the oven. If it has become softer while being cut out into patties, etc., put it again on to the ice. The greater heat should be underneath, so that the pastry may rise to nearly its full height before it browns; to prevent it from burning underneath when once it has well risen, and while the top is colouring, put another tin on the shelf under it. A very hot oven is required (see Ove7t Tests'). If too slow, the butter will ooze out and the pastry spread ; if too hot, it will burn before it has risen. Rough Puff Pastry Ingi'edients— One and three-quarter level break- One teaspoonful of lemon juice, fastcupfuls of pastry flour. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of Cold water, butter. Method.—Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Make a well in the centre, put in about half a tablespoonful of the butter, the lemon juice, and a little cold water. Mix these in with a knife, adding more water until a stiff dough is obtained. Knead it lightly on a floured board, then roll it out into an oblong strip about a quarter of an inch thick. Lay the butter in the centre, fold the half of the pastry over it, then the other half over that. Press the edges together, turn the side with no rough edges to your right, and roll it out lightly and as thinly as possible. Fold the pastry again in three, and roll out again. Repeat this folding and rolling until it has been rolled out four times. If possible let it cool on ice between each two rolls. Short Crust Pastry. No. i Ingi'ediefits— One and three-quarter breakfast- Half a teaspoonful of baking cupfuls of flour. powder. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of Half a teaspoonful of salt, butter. Cold water. Method.—Sieve or mix the flour, salt, and baking powder. Lay the butter on the flour and cut it into quite small pieces ; this avoids handling, and thus heating large lumps of butter. If dripping is used and it is very hard, cut it into thin shavings first. Next rub the butter into the flour with the tips of the fingers ; if the finger-tips begin to appear greasy, too much