479 BREAD AND SCONES Soda Scones Ingredients— Three and a half level breakfast- cupfuls of flour. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter or good dripping. One rounded tablespoonful of castor sugar. Half a pint of milk. Two tablespoonfuls of sultanas. Five level teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar. Two and a half level teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda. Method.—Have ready a flat baking tin slightly buttered. Sieve the sugar, cream of tartar, carbonate of soda, and flour. Rub in the butter finely, add the cleaned sultanas, and mix to a soft but not sticky dough with the milk. More or less milk may be required. Turn the dough on to a floured board, knead lightly, make it into two rounds, and roll them out half an inch thick. Mark tljem deeply across in four with the back of a knife. Put them on the tin, and bake in a quick oven for about three-quarters of an hour. When done, brush them over with a teaspoonful of butter melted in a tablespoonful of milk, and break the scones apart; on no account cut them, or they will be heavy. Yorkshire Tea-Cakes Ingredients— Two and three-quarter breakfast- cupfuls of flour. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One and a half gills of milk. One egg. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. Half a teaspoonful of salt. Half an ounce of compressed yeast. Method.—Well grease two round souffle or cake tins. If the latter is used, tie a band of greased paper round outside it; otherwise it will not be high enough. Warm the milk and butter until lukewarm. Mix the yeast and sugar together until liquid. Sieve the flour and salt. Make a well in the middle of the flour and strain in the yeast, milk, and beaten egg. Stir in the flour smoothly and knead and beat the dough well; it should be very soft without being actually sticky. Turn the dough on to a floured board and work it well together with a knife for five minutes, then cut it in half. Form each piece into a round flat cake, quite free from cracks. Drop a cake into each tin, twist a piece of paper over the top of each, and put them in a warm place to rise. When the dough fills the tins, put them in a very hot oven and bake for about twenty minutes. When the cakes are nearly done, take them out of the tins and finish cooking without them; the sides will be a better colour.