373 SAVOURIES on one side, on ice, if possible, to get cold and hard. Cover them with breadcrumbs, brush them with beaten egg and cover them again with crumbs; repeat this egging and crumbing a second time, pressing the crumbs firmly on with a knife. When a faint smoke rises from the frying fat, fry the cassolettes a golden brown and drain them on paper. Take a sharp pair of scissors, cut out a neat round from the top of each, and empty out the melted butter and keep the cases hot. Cut the truffle, carrot, gherkins, and anchovies into shreds. Warm the sauce in a small pan, add the shredded ingredients, and salt and pepper to taste. Fill in the cases, heaping up the mixture in the centre. Arrange them on a fancy paper and serve. Note.—These cassolettes of butter are useful, as they can be filled with any savoury mixture of fish, game, meat, etc. The butter that is poured out must be saved; it will be found to be none the worse. Devilled Caviare Ingredien ts— A small pot of caviare Small rounds of bread. Cayenne. One level tablespoonful of butter Method.—Shell and shred the almonds; put them on a baking sheet and bake them a pale brown. Put the caviare in a basin with the juice of the lemon and a dust of cayenne, mix these well together with a wooden spoon, add the almonds and season carefully. Before frying the rounds of bread in the butter scoop out each slightly in the centre. When fried fill in the hollows with caviare, heat thoroughly in the oven, garnish each with tiny crescents of red chilli, or pimento, and serve them at once with slices of lemon. One rounded tablespoonful of sweet almonds. One lemon. Devilled Chickens’ Livers Ingredients— Four chickens’livers. Half a teaspoonful of chopped Four slices of bacon. shallot or onion. One teaspoonful of chopped Salt and cayenne. parsley. Small rounds of fried bread. Method.—Wash and wipe the livers, sprinkle them with salt, cayenne, chopped parsley, and shallot. Roll each liver in a thin piece of bacon, place each roll on a round of fried bread, put them on a baking tin in a moderate oven and bake them