236 THE COMPLETE COOK hot dish. Mask it with some good sauce. Egg or plain white sauce is suitable. Note.—The fowl may be boiled in the stockpot; it is then not necessary to use the vegetables, herbs, and spice. Roast Fowl Ingredients— One fowl. A little butter, or good dripping. One slice of fat bacon. Method.—Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut in the bird, this prevents it getting dry. Slit the bacon once or twice, then tie it over the breast of the bird, which should be trussed for roasting. Wrap it in a piece of buttered paper and either hang it before a clear sharp fire, or put it in a quick oven. Cook it for about half an hour, more or less, according to size. Baste it well and often ; for the last eight minutes remove the paper and bacon ; sprinkle it with a little flour, baste it well, and let it brown nicely. Serve on a hot dish, garnished with neat rolls of bacon. Hand with it some good gravy and bread sauce. Roast Goose with Sage and Onion Stuffing Ingredients— A goose. One rounded tablespoonful of Three Spanish onions. butter. One heaped breakfastcupful of Salt: pepper: castor sugar; fresh breadcrumbs. nutmeg. One tablespoonful of powdered sage leaves. Method.— To make the Sage and Onion Stuffing: Peel, thickly slice, and par-boil the onions for five minutes. Strain off the water, add fresh, and boil the onions until half-cooked. Take them out of the water, chop them finely, and mix them with the dried and powdered sage leaves, crumbs, warmed butter, and seasoning. Wipe the goose inside with a clean damp cloth, put the stuffing into the body of the bird and close the ends neatly. Tie a piece of greased paper over the breast for the first half-hour, and roast or bake the bird for about an hour and a half to two hours, for a medium-sized bird. Baste it well, and nearly at the last dredge the breast with flour, then baste it again and finish cooking. Serve with apple sauce and thick gravy. Note.—This sage and onion stuffing is also used for roast duck or pork.