179 FISH and sharp. Lay on the mullet and grill them over, or in front, for about ten minutes, turning them frequently. When cooked lay them on a hot dish, put one or two pats of the Maitre d’Hotel butter on the top of each fish. Garnish them with a little fried parsley and serve them immediately. Note.—Grey mullet may be cooked in this fashion, but they are thought less highly of. To Serve Raw Oysters Have the oysters opened; examine each carefully; remove any splinters of shell, etc. Dust them lightly with salt and pepper and lay them in the refrigerator or on ice for about half an hour. Serve them on fancy oyster plates or on the flat shells; if the latter method is adopted, lay a lace paper or folded linen doyley on the plate under the shells. Serve separately with them quarters of lemon, thin brown bread and butter, and cayenne. Oysters in Aspic Ingredients— One dozen oysters in the deep A small piece of truffle, or shells. A few sprigs of chervil. About half a pint of aspic jelly. Brown bread and butter. One or two pickled chillies. Cayenne. Method.—Note that the shells of the oysters are washed clean and the flsh themselves free from grit or fragments of shells. Beard them. Lay an oyster in each shell, or two if they are very small. Pour in about a teaspoonful of slightly warmed aspic jelly and let it set. Then arrange round the oyster a light decoration of a strip or so of chilli and a tiny shape of truffle, or else a feathery sprig of chervil. Set these with a drop or two more of jelly, but not enough to float them out of place. When firmly set, add enough jelly to just cover the oysters. Leave till cold. Serve two or three shells to each guest, placing the shells on a doyley on plates. Hand with them rolled bread and butter and cayenne. Creighton Ingredients— Two dozen oysters in their liquor. Two level tablespoonfuls of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Oysters One tablespoonful of Worcester sauce. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Half a teacupful of milk or stock. Buttered toast. Salt: cayenne.