THE COMPLETE COOK 172 but it is a great improvement if only needed to last a week or ten days. If liked very acid, use all vinegar. Fish Stewed in Milk Ingredients— One fresh haddock, about one pound weight. Half a pint of milk. One gill of water. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Method.—Wash, dry, and fillet the fish. Put the bones into a saucepan with the milk, water, vegetables, mace, and herbs. Let this stock simmer gently for fifteen minutes, then strain it. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour smoothly, cook it without browning it for five minutes. Add the stock gradually and stir it over the fire till it boils. Season this sauce and lay in the fish cut in neat lengths. Let it simmer very gently from ten to twenty minutes according to the thickness of the fillets. Then lift them on to a hot dish, add the strained lemon juice and parsley to the sauce and pour it smoothly over the fish. Serve it with cut lemon and boiled potatoes. Note.—Any white fish may be cooked in this manner. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Half a lemon. Half a small onion and carrot. A small bunch of herbs. A small blade of mace. Salt and pepper. Fish Scollops Ingredients— A breakfastcupful of any cooked fish. * One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One gill of milk or fish stock. One teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Salt: pepper: a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Browned crumbs. Method.—Butter some natural, or china scollop shells, dust them over inside with some of the browned crumbs. Break the fish into small pieces, removing all skin and bones. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and stir this sauce till it boils. Season it with salt, pepper, anchovy essence, and the lemon juice. Add the fish, mixing it lightly. Fill the shells with the mixture, heaping it up in the centre. Cover the surface of each with crumbs and add a few small bits of butter here and there. Bake in a quick oven till hot, and