325 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Lemon Ingredients— Three - quarters of a pound of flaky pastry. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of cornflour. Three-quarters of a breakfastcupful of castor sugar. Pie One breakfastcupful of boiling water. Two lemons. Two eggs. A few grains of salt. Method.—Line a large tin or tin plate with the pastry; flake and crimp the edges. Prick the bottom of the pastry over several times to prevent it blistering. Put the water and sugar into a saucepan; when they boil, pour in the cornflour mixed smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Stir and boil these for five minutes. Add the salt, grated lemon rind, and the strained juice. Let the mixture cool for a minute or so, then add the beaten yolks of the eggs and the whites beaten to a very stiff froth. Fold these in, as for an omelet. Spread this filling in the pastry-lined plate, and bake it in a moderately hot oven for about twenty minutes or until the pastry is crisp and brown. Serve the’tart hot or cold. If liked, strips of pastry can be arranged in lattice form over the filling, or a meringue made of two whipped whites and two heaped tablespoonfuls of white sugar spread over after baking and then put in the oven to set. Note.—Oranges may be used if liked. Lemon Sponge Ingredients— Five sheets of gelatine. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Half a pint of boiling water. The white of one egg. The rind and juice of a lemon. Method.—Put the water and gelatine in a pan on the fire ; when the gelatine has dissolved add the sugar and the grated lemon rind. Put the white of egg on a plate and whisk it until stiff. Strain the gelatine and^lemon juice into a large basin ; when they have cooled slightly stir in the stiffly whisked white and whisk the mixture to a very stiff froth. Serve it either heaped up roughly on a glass dish, or before it is quite stiff turn it into a mould which has been rinsed in cold water, and leave until it is cold, when turn it out. Note.—This dish is very effective if half the mixture is coloured a pale pink. Orange Sponge is made in the same way, substituting an orange for the lemon.