THE COMPLETE COOK 534 Pickled Cabbage Ingredients— A firm red cabbage. Two tablespoonfuls of black Allow to each cjuart of vinegar peppercorns. Two teaspoonfuls of allspice. Method.—Well wash and trim the cabbage, cut it into fine shreds after removing all the stalk. Put the shreds into an earthenware pan, sprinkle them thinly with salt, cover and let them stand for two days. Boil the vinegar with the spice until it is well flavoured, then strain and let it cool. Drain off all liquid from the cabbage, put the latter into wide-necked bottles or jars, fill up with the vinegar. Cork and resin the bottles and keep in a cool dry place. Chutney Ingredients— One heaped breakfastcupful of raisins. One heaped breakfastcupful of sultanas. A dozen medium-sized sour apples. Two level breakfastcupfuls of Demerara sugar. Three small tablespoonfuls of salt. One level teaspoonful of cayenne. Three tablespoonfuls of mustard seed. Six breakfastcupfuls of vinegar. Three heads of garlic. Two or three chillies. Method.—Peel, core, and slice the apples, put them into a pan with half the vinegar, and boil them to a pulp. Put the rest of the vinegar into another pan with the sugar and boil until it is a clear syrup. When the apple pulp is cold, mix it with the vinegar .syrup. Meantime, stalk and clean the sultanas, stone and chop the raisins, and chop the garlic and chillies finely. Add these, with the salt, mustard seed, and cayenne, to the other ingredients. Boil all together for twenty minutes, stirring all the time. Pour the chutney into wide-necked bottles, cork them tightly, and in three weeks it may be used, but it improves with keeping. Lemon Pickle Ingredients— Small even-sized lemons. Allow one tablespoonful of mixed To each quart of vinegar spice. Method.—Peel the lemons very thinly, place them in layers with salt in a jar, and leave them for a week or ten days until they are quite soft. Put them into a jar with the required quantity of mixed spice tied up in a piece of muslin, pour over