493 CAKES AND BISCUITS Make a well in the flour, drop in the two yolks, add half the milk slowly, and beat the mixture well. Add the rest of the milk and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Heat the girdle, rub it over with a very little piece of dripping, or suet. Pour a tablespoonful of the mixture on to the hot girdle in as round a form as possible. The mixture should hiss and sizzle as it touches the girdle. Bake as many cakes at a time as the girdle will hold. When the tops of the cakes are full of bubbles, turn them, and bake the other side until they stop puffing up, when they will be sufficiently cooked. Serve them as quickly as possible. Wipe the girdle with a piece of kitchen paper and re-heat and grease it for each batch of cakes to be cooked, and beat the mixture slightly. Turn the girdle, if possible, in order to cook the cakes evenly. The girdle should by rights have an iron handle over it. Ground Rice Cakes Ingredients— Three rounded tablespoonfuls of ground rice. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Two eggs. A few drops of vanilla. Half a level teaspoonful of balging powder. Two tablespoonfuls of milk. Method.—Sieve the rice, flour, and baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar to a soft cream. Beat the eggs in one at a time. Add the ground rice, vanilla, and milk lightly. Half fill some greased patty or queencake tins with the mixture, and bake in a moderately hot oven for about ten minutes. Harrow Ingredients— Three rounded teacupfuls of flour. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Five rounded tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Cake Four eggs. Two lemons. Two level teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Three tablespoonfuls of milk. Method.—Line a cake tin with greased paper. Sieve the flour and baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar to a soft white cream. Beat in the eggs one at a time. Add the flour very lightly, the grated lemon rind, and lastly the milk. Put the mixture into the tin, and bake it in a moderately hot oven for about one hour. It should be a light golden colour.