PUDDINGS AND PASTRY 313 Method.—Mix the flour, salt, and baking powder. Rub into it finely the butter. Mix the flour to a stiff paste with the milk. Roll out the pastry in an oblong shape to the thickness of a quarter of an inch. Have the cherries stoned and well drained. Lay them all over the surface of the paste and dredge a little flour lightly over. Brush round the edges with water. Roll up into a bolster-like form. Tie it in a scalded and floured cloth and boil the pudding for one and a half hours. Then remove the cloth, place the pudding on a hot dish and serve with it the following sauce:—To make the Sauce: Mix the water and cherry syrup, sweeten to taste, add the cornflour mixed smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Boil all well, stirring it all the time. Add the butter and, if liked, a drop or two of cochineal to improve the colour. Note.—Other fruits can be used. Chopped suet substituted for butter. Sour milk will give excellent results. Cherry Tartlets Ingredients— A pound of any good pastry. Half a breakfastcupful of water. Two breakfastcupfuls of fresh One teaspoonful of fresh butter, cherries. One teaspoonful of cornflour. One breakfastcupful of loaf sugar. Method.—Line some deep patty tins thinly with the pastry. Fill them with raw rice in order that they may not lose their shape during the baking. Bake them quickly for about ten or fifteen minutes, or until they are a delicate brown. Then tip out all the rice, being careful no grains are left sticking to the pastry ; this rice should be saved to use again for a similar purpose. Wash and stalk the cherries. Boil the sugar and water, put in the cherries and simmer them for about ten minutes, or until soft. Strain off the syrup and put it back into the pan. Stone the fruit as neatly as possible. Add the butter to the syrup, boil it until quite thick. Pour into it the cornflour mixed thinly and smoothly with cold water. Reboil the syrup for five minutes. Fill the pastry cases with cherries and fill up with syrup. If they are required cold, do not add the syrup until it is very nearly cold. Sometimes a few drops of cochineal are needed to tint the syrup.