4i8 THE COMPLETE COOK This modern method is thought by experts to be superior to any other, but— 3. Packing them pointed end downwards in layers with dry coarse salt answers very fairly well. Both processes are more effective than the older ones of storing eggs in lime water, or smearing the shells with fat of some kind. Boiled Eggs {the best way) Put the eggs in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, and let them stand about ten minutes where the water will keep hot (180°), but not boiling. The white should be of a soft jelly-like consistency, and the yolk soft but not liquid. Experience will show the exact time to keep the eggs in the water to suit individual tastes. They should be served immediately, as they harden by being kept in the hot shell. An egg to be cooked soft should never be cooked in boiling water^ as the white hardens unevenly before the heat reaches the yolk. Hard-Boiled Eggs Cook eggs for twenty minutes in water just below the boiling point, for use in any recipe which specifies hard-boiled eggs. The yolk of an egg cooked ten minutes is tough and indigestible; twenty minutes will make the yolk dry and mealy; then it may be more easily rubbed smooth for salads, or other mixtures, and it can be more quickly penetrated by the gastric fluid. Curried Eggs {Illustrated) Ingredients— Four hard-boiled eggs. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two rounded teaspoonfuls of flour. One level teaspoonful of curry powder. One teaspoonful of chutney. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion, curry powder, and flour, and fry them slowly for about five minutes. Add the stock and stir the sauce till it boils. Put in the apple, chopped chutney, and season the mixture. Let it simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Boil the eggs for twenty minutes, shell them at once and cut each egg in half, the round way of the egg, and each half across in four. Make a circle on Two teaspoonfulsof chopped onion. One tablespoonful of grated apple. One teacupful of stock or milk. Four tablespoonfuls of boiled curry rice. Salt.