ICES S19 frozen, or like a thick creamy mass, according to the way in which it is to be used. Keep the pot in the freezing mixture until the ice is needed. Cover the pot and ice all over with a piece of wet flannel, sacking, or old carpet. Drain off the water now and then, and if necessary pack in more ice and salt. This will depend on the length of time the freezing pot is to be kept in it. To Mould Ice Puddings See the mould is clean and dry. When the mixture has been frozen in the usual way, as directed above, put it into the mould and press and shake it solidly down. Cover all cracks, joints, lid opening, etc., in the mould with lard, pressing it firmly on (this is to prevent any salt oozing into the ice), and then wrap the mould up in a piece of greased paper. Bury it right down in the ice and salt, and freeze for about three hours. To Unnioidd Ice Puddings Take the mould out of the ice, remove the paper and all the lard. Dip the mould right into cold water for about half a minute, wipe round the lid, open the mould gently, and slip the ice on to the dish carefully. Usually curled or flat wafers, cut or left whole, are used to garnish the dish. Small ices are served on glass ice plates, or in cups, fancy ice cases, or cases made from the rinds and skins of fruit with the pulp scooped out, such as tangerine oranges, a fresh pineapple, etc. For sorbets and pu7iches the mixtures are only half frozen. They must be a smooth creamy mass, never firm enough to mould, and are served in fancy glasses, or cups, holding sufficient for one person. They are usually served just before the roast. Frozen Apricots Ingredients— A tin of apricots. One quart of water. Two breakfastcupfuls of sugar. Half a pint of cream. Method.—Cut the apricots into small pieces. Put the sugar and water into a pan, dissolve the sugar and boil it to a syrup, until it will form a thin thread between the finger and thumb. Put in the fruit, let the mixture cool, then partly freeze it. Whip and add the cream, and finish the freezing. Note.—If preferred, the cream may be omitted altogether. Peaches, pineapples, cherries, and strawberries are delicious done in this way, but vary the quantity of sugar according to the fruit.