THE COMPLETE COOK 346 Cerise Souffle Proceed as for Vanilla Souffle, but omit the vanilla and add three tablespoonfuls of glace cherries cut in dice. When the soufde is turned out pour the sauce round and garnish it with little heaps of glace cherries cut in halves. Chocolate Souffle Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of grated chocolate. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One and a half level tablespoonfuls of flour. Method.—Prepare a souffle tin (see Ilhistration). Mix the milk, sugar, and grated chocolate together smoothly. Melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, add the chocolate and milk, and let the mixture boil well. Cool it slightly and stir in the yolks of the eggs, beating each in separately. Add about a teaspoonful of vanilla. Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture. Put it into the prepared tin and steam it for about an hour, or until it is spongy in the centre. Turn it carefully on to a hot dish and pour round it custard or German sauce. ^ Milanaise Souffle {Illustrated') Ingredients— Three eggs. Half a gill of hot water. Four level tablespoonfuls of castor Seven sheets of leaf gelatine, sugar. One tablespoonful of pistachio Half a pint of cream. nuts. Two lemons. Two or three macaroons. Method.—Tie a band of foolscap paper about four inches deep securely round, outside a plated or white china souffle case, it should stand about three inches up above the case. Put the three yolks of eggs into a basin with the sugar, the strained juice and grated rinds of the lemons. Whisk them well, then stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water on the fire and continue whisking till the mixture is a thick froth, quite hot, but on no account boiling. Strain it into a basin and let it become nearly cold. Dissolve the gelatine in the water. Whip the cream till it will just hang on the whisk, beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth. Stir in the cream to the yolks of Four eggs. One gill of milk. Two teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. Vanilla essence to taste.