lO THE COMPLETE COOK round paste brush, costing about tenpence, is for many things far preferable to a dish-cloth. The bristles penetrate into all crevices, the brush is very easily kept clean, the right hand need never be put into the water, and if a good brush is bought and it is soaked overnight in cold water before it is used, the bristles will never come out, and will last till they are worn to a stump. If dish-cloths and tea-cloths are soaped and well rinsed out every time they are used, they are easily kept clean. It is far better to have three or four cloths to use in rota- tion, than to use only one until it becomes stained and greasy. Endeavour should be made to use the proper cloths for each operation—not to wipe black saucepans on the tea-cloth, to open oven doors and lift hot tins with dusters, etc. If these suggestions were carried out, together with the usual common well-known rules, this much-abused portion of domestic work would become more popular and not beneath the dignity of any woman who knew how to perform it in the best possible manner. DISPOSAL OF KITCHEN REFUSE Cremation is the most satisfactory method of disposing of various animal and vegetable matter, both for economical and sanitary reasons: the former because by so doing fuel is saved. Certain rubbish, however, cannot be burnt, and for this a Dust-Bin is necessary; but unless certain rules are observed, this receptacle becomes a public nuisance and dangerous to health. If possible it should be placed at least six feet from the house, and be small in comparison to the house, so that it will require to be frequently emptied. It must be made of galvanised zinc, or some non-absorbent material; all wooden boxes and baskets are to be condemned, also fixed brick dust-bins. It should be removable, so that it can be carried out and thoroughly emptied, and a lid is essential, otherwise the contents become moistened with rain, and moisture fosters decay. No vegetable parings, bones, tea leaves, etc., should find their way into the dust-bin, all these must be burnt, after drying them as much as possible. Common sense should dictate that