CAKES AND BISCUITS 487 Cocoanut Cake Proceed as for Foundation Cake, adding to it one heaped tea- cupful of desiccated cocoanut and leave out the lemon juice. Coat with a glacd icing and sprinkle a little cocoanut and chopped pistachio nut on the top. Coffee Cake {Illustrated') Ingredients— Four eggs. One level teacupful of castor sugar. Four tablespoonfuls, slightly rounded, of Vienna flour. Four tablespoonfuls rounded of potato flour. For the Butter Filling— Six rounded tablespoonfuls of fresh butter. One and a half level breakfastcup- fuls of icing sugar. Method.—Separate the whites and yolks of the eggs. Beat the yolks with the castor sugar till the mixture is frothy and a light colour. Mix together the two flours and baking powder and sieve them. Beat the whites to a very stiff froth. Add as lightly as possible first half the flour, etc., then half the whites, then the remainder of each. Mix very lightly. Pour the mixture into a shallow round cake tin lined with greased paper. Bake the cake in a moderately hot oven for about thirty minutes, or till it is a light brown and feels firm when pressed gently in the centre. Turn it out of the tin, remove the paper, and let it get cold. Then cut the cake in half, so as to have two round cakes. If necessary, cut the top cake so as to level it and turn this side downwards, spread it with some of the coffee filling, and lay the second cake on the top. Pour the coffee icing smoothly over the top and let it set. Put the rest of the coffee butter filling into a forcing bag and pipe the top of the cake in any pretty design. Decorate also with blanched and shelled pistachio nuts. To make the Coffee Butter Filling.—Put the butter into a basin; work it till soft with a wooden spoon. Sieve the icing sugar through a hair sieve; beat it smoothly into the butter. Add coffee a few drops at a time; use enough to give it the One level teaspoonful of baking powder. One tablespoonful of pistachio nuts. Coffee icing. About one tablespoonful of strong coffee or coffee essence.