i8o THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Save the liquor from the oysters and beard them. Melt the butter in the chafing dish or stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly. Add the milk or stock, the oyster liquor, ketchup, and sauce and stir over the fire until it boils. Add the lemon juice, oysters, and heat for about five minutes without boiling. Add a seasoning of salt and cayenne and serve the mixture on rounds of hot buttered toast. Variations.—Any fish sauce left over can be used instead of making fresh. Fried bread, or hot buttered plain biscuits, can be used instead of toast. Oyster Croquettes higredients— Two dozen sauce oysters and their liquor. Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One gill of milk and oyster liquor. Two tablespoonfuls of cream. Two raw yolks of eggs. Half a lemon. Salt: cayenne. Egg : breadcrumbs : frying fat. Fried parsley. Method.—Beard the oysters and simmer the beards with the milk and oyster liquor. Quarter the oysters and see that they are free from bits of shell. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and stir it in smoothly. Strain in gradually the milk and oyster liquor and stir this sauce till it boils. Add the two beaten yolks of the eggs and cook the mixture again for a few minutes. Add the oysters, cream, strained lemon juice, and seasoning. Spread this mixture on a plate to cool. Then form it lightly into neat balls, or cylinder shapes. Roll these in crumbs, then brush them over with beaten egg and crumb them again. Fry them a golden brown in smoking hot fat, drain them on paper and serve piled upon a hot dish. Garnish them with fried parsley. Oyster sauce may accompany them. Note.—If preferred use one whole egg instead of the two yolks and omit the cream, substituting milk, to make this recipe less expensive. Oysters 4 la Demerara Ingredients— Two dozen oysters. One tablespoonful of any thick Two level tablespoonfuls of butter. bottled sauce. One tablespoonful of mango Thin round of hot buttered toast, chutney. Method.—Beard the oysters, be careful that no splinters of shell are left. Lay them in a stewpan and heat them till they