201 BEEF Curried Beef, Mutton, or Veal Ingredients— One pound of rump steak, or lean mutton, without bone, or fillet of veal. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One tablespoonful of chopped onion. One tablespoonful of grated raw apple. One teaspoonful of chopped chutney. One slightly rounded tablespoon- ful of curry powder. Half a pint of hot stock. One tomato. Four tablespoonfuls of Patna rice (boiled) Salt: pepper: a few drops of lemon juice. Method.—Wash and dry the meat, remove all skin and sinew, and cut it into cubes about half an inch square. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion, and cook it for three minutes without browning it. Add the meat and stir it over the fire for five minutes. Shake over the curry powder and cook it again for about five minutes. Then add the stock gradually, stirring it all the time, next the apple, chutney, and sliced tomato. Season it with a little salt, cover the pan, and let its contents simmer very gently for about an hour, or until the meat is perfectly tender. Lift the meat on to a plate. Strain the sauce into another pan, re-heat the meat for a minute or so, see the seasoning is correct, and add a few drops of strained lemon juice. Serve on a hot dish with either a border of the boiled rice round, or with it handed separately. Note.—More or less curry powder can be used according to the desired heat of the curry. If much less is wanted make up the amount with flour. A small piece of chopped rhubarb, or green gooseberries, can be used if there is not an apple. The tomato and chutney can be omitted. Beef Galantine {Illustrated) Ingredients— One pound of raw topside of beef. One gill of good stock. Half a pound of raw streaky bacon. A piece of glaze the size of a Three level teacupfuls of fresh walnut. white breadcrumbs. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Two raw eggs. Method.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water and dry it well. Remove any skin a«d gristle, also the rind and rust from the bacon. Chop both meat and bacon ■ finely, or put them through a mincing machine. Mix them with the crumbs, beaten eggs, and stock. Add a careful seasoning and pound