202 THE COMPLETE COOK the mixture gently with the end of a rolling-pin, to ensure its being well mixed. Shape it like a roly-poly pudding and roll it up tightly in a clean pudding cloth, tying the ends with string. Boil it gently for two hours in the stockpot. Then lift it out, reroll it tightly in the cloth, and press it between two flat tins, or dishes, with a weight on top till cold. Brush the top and sides over with two coatings of the warmed glaze, letting the first dry before adding the second coat. Trim a small slice off each end and lay the galantine on a dish paper. Pipe the top prettily with fresh butter and put a few sprigs of parsley round. Note.—If there is not a stockpot available, boil the roll in water to which a few pot vegetables have been added. Butter need not be piped on it unless liked. la Mode Beef a Ingredients— Three pounds of beef fillet cut thick. Two large slices of larding bacon. One quart of stock. One breakfastcupful of vinegar. One medium-sized onion sliced. One large carrot. Bunch of parsley, herbs, and bay leaf. A bunch of spring onions. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Two tablespoonfuls of dripping. .A teaspoonful each of cloves, allspice, and mustard seeds. Half a lemon. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash the meat and dry it well. Trim it neatly and lay it in a deep earthenware dish. Boil the vinegar for five minutes with the cloves, allspice, and mustard seeds. Then strain it off, cool it, and pour it over the beef. Let it be in this marinade for two hours, turning it often. Cut the bacon into long strips a third of an inch wide, and lard the best side of the beef. Tie it into a good shape with a piece of tape. Melt half the dripping in a stewpan, put in the beef and brown it on both sides. Lift it out and fry the sliced onion and carrot. Lay in the beef on the top of these vegetables, add the bunch of herbs, stock, and the spring onions. Trim off all but half an inch of green from these. Cover the pan tightly and let its contents simmer very gently from two to two and a half hours, or until the meat is tender. Melt the rest of the dripping in a stewpan, add the flour and brown it carefully. Strain in the hot stock gradually, stirring it all the time. Let it boil well, skim, and season it with salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Lay the beef, larded side uppermost on a hot dish, remove