433 INVALID COOKERY are most easily digested, and by their use, liquids may be offered in a solidified form as jellies. These offer immense variety and are tempting and popular. Care is needed to prepare these jellies, so that they are only slightly set, not stiff enough to mould well, as this usually necessitates the actual mastication of the food, which is not correct. Pepper is valuable at times if a slight stimulant is needed, but it is wisest to ascertain if its use will not be harmful. White pepper and even cayenne is less irritating than the coarse black. Vanilla and all Spices and Flavourings should be used with great discretion and only on permission from the medical man. Bread and Cakes.—The former must never be allowed new, but at least one day old. Toast, if well made, is better than bread, and rusks are light and digestible. If cakes are allowed, those varieties containing no butter should be chosen, such as sponge or a Mocha mixture. No fruit of any kind should be added. Foods prepared in the form of souffles, quenelles, and panadas are very light, easily digested, and will contain no indigestible fibres, etc. Steamed Foods will be lighter than the same boiled. Occasionally a carefully fried article of food is much appreci- ated, such as a perfectly fried sole or a fillet of whiting with all the bones removed. Ice is often in great demand in a sickroom. It is best wrapped up in a square coarse flannel or blanket and laid on a sieve in a basin or bath. It must be thickly covered over with more flannel. If ice is allowed to lie in the water melting from it, it will soon vanish altogether. BEEF TEAS: BROTHS: SOUPS: FOR INVALIDS Barley Cream Soup Ingredients— Half a pound of lean veal. One pint of cold water. Two level teaspoonfuls of pearl barley. One teaspoonful of chopped onion. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. One gill of cream. Salt and pepper. Method.—Put the pearl barley into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover it. Bring it to boiling point and boil it 28