264 THE COMPLETE COOK Young Carrots, Glazed, etc. Scrub the carrots, rub the skin off with a cloth, then boil them as directed for Boiled Carrots. Do not cut them. Serve with parsley and butter or brown sauce, or roll them about in a little warmed glaze until coated with it, and add a dust of sugar and chopped parsley. Note.—Balls the size of marbles can be scooped out of old carrots, boiled and glazed in a similar fashion. Cauliflower, Boiled Ingredients— One cauliflower. Salt. Boiling water. Half a pint of white sauce. Method.—Cut off the stalk close to the flower and notch it across in four. Trim off all withered or very coarse leaves and cut the tips of the others level with the flower. Hold it side- ways under the tap and let the water flow through it to wash out any insects, then leave it in cold salted water for an hour before cooking. Rinse it again, and lay it flower downwards in boiling salted water, allow a large teaspoonful of salt to each two quarts of water. Leave the lid off the pan and boil the cauliflower gently until the flower is tender but not broken. Allow from twelve to twenty-five minutes after the water reboils, according to the size. Remove any scum as it rises. Raise the cauliflower carefully out of the water, directly it is cooked, with a fish slice. Drain off the water, lightly pressing the cauliflower together in a clean cloth. Lay it on a hot dish and pour a little hot white sauce or melted butter over it. Cauliflower au Gratin Ingredients— One boiled cauliflower. One level tablespoonful of flour. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of grated cheese. Method.—Put the hot cauliflower on a hot “ au gratin ” dish, and squeeze it gently together in a clean cloth with the hands to press it into a neat shape. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk, and stir over the fire until it boils and thickeris. Add half of the cheese, and pepper, Salt, pepper, and a dust of nut- meg. One and a half gills of milk. A few browned breadcrumbs.