THE COMPLETE COOK 152 the soup in a hot tureen and hand with it hot boiled rice prepared as for a curry. Note.—If good stock is used instead of water, fresh meat need not be used, merely a few additional bones of poultry, game, etc. The amount of curry powder and paste must depend on the varieties used and according to the tastes of the diners. Small cubes of the best pieces of the meat, chicken, etc., used can be removed as soon as cooked and served in the soup. Mutton Broth. No. i Ingredients— Two pounds of middle, or scrag of mutton. Two quarts of cold water. Two level tablespoonfuls of rice. Two tablespoonfuls of carrot in dice. Two tablespoonfuls of turnip in dice. One tablespoonful of chopped onion. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. Salt: pepper. Method.—Wash the meat quickly in tepid water and dry it. Cut off as much fat as possible; then cut the meat into small dice. As each piece is cut lay it in the cold water with a little salt to soak slightly. Then put the meat, bones, and water on the fire, bring them slowly to boiling point. Add the washed rice and onion, carrot and turnip. Let the broth simmer very gently for two hours. Skim it well during the cooking. To serve it, remove all the bones and grease on the top, using soft paper if necessary. Season the broth carefully, add the parsley, and pour it into a hot tureen. Note.—If the broth is needed specially for invalids, see the recipe given in the invalid section. Thick Oxtail Soup Ingredien ts— One oxtail. Two quarts of cold stock, or two oxtails and two quarts of cold water. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of dripping or butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. One onion. Two small carrots. One turnip. Four outer sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley and herbs. Four cloves. Ten peppercorns. A small blade of mace. One glass of Marsala. Salt: pepper. Method.—Cut the oxtail into short pieces, dividing them at each joint, but make two pieces out of the largest joints. Wash these well, then put them into a saucepan with boiling water