THE SCULLERY 5 amounts given out must be entered with the date in the store- book. All goods must be periodically overlooked, in order to see if everything is in good condition, and what requires re- stocking. Never permit crumbs anywhere, or anything to be un- covered ; beetles and mice will never come if they cannot find a meal handy. The door of the storeroom or cupboard should be kept locked, and the key kept by the one who is responsible for its management. THE SCULLERY: KITCHEN UTENSILS: CARE OF THE SAME The scullery and sink are an index to the kitchen; for in all probability if these are dirty, greasy, and full of tea leaves, etc., the kitchen will also be disorderly. Scullery work is not perhaps the most pleasant of occupa- tions, but a well-trained woman knows by experience that it need not be so laborious and unpleasant as it often becomes, if grease and dirt are not allowed to reign supreme. “ Clean as you go,” is an excellent rule, but method and energy are even then needed to prevent an undue accumulation in the sink. A hard-and-fast rule should be made that nothing is left unwashed overnight; much trouble is saved if vessels are cleaned at once, and a sink full of dirty pots and pans is, to say the least of it, a bad start for the fresh day’s work. The sink should be made of glazed stoneware, which is non- absorbent and is easily cleaned. In a well-planned house, it is fixed against an outer wall, so that the waste pipe may lead at once into the outer air. It should also be inspected, to ascertain that the pipe is properly “ trapped ” and does not communicate directly with the house drain. Much illness is often caused through defective sink drainage. Stoppage of the waste pipe must be prevented by a grating, with quite small holes being fixed over the pipe, also the use of an enamelled sink basket, costing about tenpence, is to be strongly recommended; the waste water is poured through it and all pieces kept back. Daily Flushing of the sink with plenty of boiling soda water is essential; after this has gone down, clean water must