THE COMPLETE COOK 330 are filled with jelly or preserves, and served cold without a cover. Cupid's Wells.—Cut the rounds of puff paste three or four different sizes; use the largest one for the bottom, and cut the centres from the others, leaving the rims of different widths, and put them on the whole round, with the narrowest at the top. Bake and fill with jelly. To cut a Vol-au-vent.—This is made from the lightest form of puff paste, cut to any size and shape desired, a large oval being generally preferred. Mark the outline with an oval cutter, and cut quickly with a knife dipped in hot water. Put on two or three rims, wetting the edge of each with white of egg. Make an oval hoop of stiff paper, two inches high, and slightly larger than the vol-au-vent, and place around it to prevent scorching. Bake a large vol-au-vent nearly an hour. Cakes h la Polonaise.—Roll puff paste fairly thin, cut it into pieces three inches square, wet the centre, turn each corner over, press the point down in the centre, and put a very small round of paste on the centre. Bake, and when cool put dots of jelly on each corner. Bow-Knots.—Cut thin puff paste into half-inch strips, and shape them on the baking tin into the form of a double bow-knot. When baked, put jelly on each loop of the bow. Choux Pastry {^for i^clairs, Cream Buns, etc.) higredients— Half a pint of boiling water. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Four rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Two whole eggs and one extra yolk. A few grains of salt. Flavouring and castor sugar to taste. Method.—Put the water and butter into a stewpan, bring- ing them to boiling point; add to them the sieved flour and salt. Take the pan off the fire and beat the mixture well with a wooden spoon until all the lumps disappear. Then put the pan over a slow fire and stir it well until the mixture can be rolled about without it sticking to the sides of the pan.^ If overcooked the butter oozes out and the “ panada,” as it is called, must be made again. Let the mixture cool a little, then beat in the eggs one by one, stirring each one in smoothly before adding the others. Vanilla and castor sugar may now be added, and the mixture is ready for use. If it is required to be handled, let it become perfectly cold before touching it.