62 THE COMPLETE COOK 3. None of the nutritious elements of meat, fish, or vege- tables are lost in the water, thus all foods retain their full flavour and food value. 4. Pudding cloths are not required, thus the washing of them is saved. 5. Watery vegetables waste less and become drier,—example, marrows, turnips, certain varieties of potatoes. Steaming has, however, its drawbacks : 1. A long time is required before the food is cooked. 2. Steamed meat, fish, etc., will not produce any gravy. 3. It is a somewhat uncertain method, because should the water cease to boil rapidly under the steamer, the supply of steam will be insufficient and the cooking will be checked. 4. More fuel is required, unless the same steamer is utilised to cook several foods in separate compartments, one above the other. Stewing To stew is to cook foods by what is really a very gradual process of simmering; a small quantity of liquid only being used, and evaporation, loss of aroma and flavour prevented as much as possible by using a closely covered vessel. It is without doubt the most economical and nourishing of all methods, as the liquid used for the cooking is, in almost every instance, served as gravy or syrup, etc., so no soluble elements of the food, which are extracted into the liquid, are wasted. Should a fire have to be specially kept up, stewing would necessitate the use of much fuel, but this need never be the case, especially as, if the top space is limited, any stew can be equally, if not better cooked, in a covered utensil in a slow oven. The Advantages of Stewing are: 1. Coarse and therefore cheaper parts of meat can be used, as the slow cooking in moist heat softens the hard fibres and gelatinous substances. 2. As both liquids and solids are served, there is no waste of soluble nutritious elements. 3. Meat loses but little weight if stewed. 4. Little fuel is required and economy of time effected by the small amount of attention needed. 5. Vegetables being usually added to the meat, the bulk of the stew is economically increased, and it is rendered more wholesome and savoury.