476 THE COMPLETE COOK not so slowly done that the dough becomes chilled. Put the dough back into the basin, cover it and put it in a warm place to rise a second time for about one and a half hours, or until the dough is about twice its original size and the surface covered with fine cracks. If it rises too much, the bubbles, formed by the carbonic acid gas, break, the gas escapes, and the dough sinks down into a flabby wrinkled mass, and it does not rise a second time properly; consequently, the bread is heavy and probably sour. When sufficiently risen, cut the dough away from the sides of the basin even, if not quite ready to shape it; this reduces the bulk somewhat, by releasing some of the gas, but it will rise again ; it also checks the fermentation at the right moment, and thus the bread will be better for it. When ready to shape the loaves, turn the dough on to the board, knead it very quickly and lightly together, divide it into as many pieces as loaves are wanted (this makes one half-quartern loaf). For a Tin Loaf.—Grease a bread tin, shape the dough for it, drop it into the tin, prick it if liked on the top, and set the tin in a warm place until the dough, which should only half fill it, has risen to the top. Then bake it at once; it is better to bake it a little too soon than let it rise too long. For a Cottage Loaf.—Divide the dough into two balls, one a little smaller than the other; put the smaller on the top of the larger ball, and push the little, or fore finger right through the centre of both balls. Gash the upper and under ball here and there with a knife, put the loaf on a floured tin, and allow it to rise, or “prove,” a little in a warm place. If it rises too much the loaf will lose its shape. Bake the bread in a hot oven (340°) for the first fifteen minutes, then let the heat very gradually decrease for the rest of the time. A half-quartern will take about one and a quarter to one and a half hours to bake ; it is best over rather than under baked. When well baked, if tapped underneath with the fingers, a hollow, empty sound is noticeable. Take bread at once out of the tin and lay it on a sieve or on its side, in order that the steam can escape, and do not cover until quite cold. Whole Meal Bread l7igredients— Three heaped breakfastcupfuls of white flour. Three heaped breakfastcupfuls of whole meal flour. Half an ounce of com.pressed yeast. One breakfastcupful of tepid water. Half a breakfastcupful of tepid milk. Two level teaspoonfuls of salt. One teaspoonful of castor sugar.