COOKING STOVES 15 the steam and fumes of cooking; otherwise the delicate flavour of the food is spoilt. Usually a little knob is fixed by the side ' of the oven, which, when pulled out, opens a little window-like arrangement in the side or back of the oven, which leads into the flue. 2. An Inlet from the kitchen into the oven. This is con- trived by putting a kind of grating on the outside of the oven door, which is opened or closed by a sliding arrangement, similar to the ventilators in a railway carriage. It must be borne in mind that when either of these is open, the tempera- ture of the oven is lowered. Some Modern Improvements 1. A Convertible Stove, to which allusion has already been made. 2. Adjustable Grates.—By which the space for the firing can be made larger or smaller at will. A simple lever-like arrange- ment is fixed to the side of the grate, which, when manipulated, raises, or lowers, the bottom of the fire space. This is much better than keeping up a low fire, for, by the former plan, the fire is always on a level with the hot plate, so that the air sucked in is first heated before passing into the stove. If only a low fire is kept, there is a large space between the burning fuel and the hot plate, so the air drawn in is not properly heated, and consequently lowers the temperature of the entire stove. 3. Reversible Dampers.—By these the flame can be directed round the ovens, so as to give the greatest heat at the top or bottom of the oven, according to whether top or bottom heat is required. Bread, cakes, and pastry require bottom heat; meats, top heat. In very many stoves only top heat is arranged, that is, the flame passes from the fire, over the oven, down the side of it, under it, and then out into the flue. Reasons why a Stove Fails to Act.—Want of draught; this may arise from— 1. Leakage of air into the flues, through their having been badly set, or— 2. The insufficient height of the chimney, or the presence near it of a higher building, or tall trees, these causing a down draught. Both these are errors of builder and architect. 3. Sooty Flues.—And this is the commonest cause of all.