6o THE COMPLETE COOK 4. Fast boiling wastes soup by evaporation. 5. Frequent skimming improves the colour and clearness of soups. Therefore—i. Cut the meat small and chop the bones in short pieces. 2. Place them in cold water. 3. and 4. Boil soups gently unless they contain much bone. 5. Skim meat soups carefully. METHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS Boiling This term implies that the food is cooked by moist heat, by immersing it in boiling liquid for a certain time. Correctly speaking it is a vague expression, often used erroneously, for in no case does the solid mass of food boil, merely the water or liquid in which it is placed. Also “ boiled meat,” “ boiled custard,” etc., are spoken of, when if actual boiling heat were used, the food would be ruined. Boiling is one of the simplest, most economical, most generally used and abused methods of cooking; but when used legitimately it renders food both wholesome and digestible. Boiling has three distinct objects : 1. To 7'etain all possible nutriment and flavour within the food boiled, preventing as far as possible their escape into the liquid used for the boiling,—example, boiled fowl or fish. This result is accomplished by putting the food into boiling liquid, and by a preliminary process of actual boiling, say for ten minutes, thus hardening the albumen over the entire surface, thereby forming a coating through which the juices cannot escape. After this sealing process is complete, the heat must be reduced to simmering point. 2. To extract the nutriment and flavour into the WqmA—for example, bone and meat soups and broths. This result is obtained by putting the material used into cold liquid, which extracts the juices ; soaking it before applying heat; slowly heating to boiling point and then boiling the in- gredients steadily till all the goodness is extracted. 3. Meats are placed in cold water, to have the nutriment partly in the liquid and partly in tne meat,—example, Irish stew, various fricassees. The liquid is brought quickly to boiling point, kept at that heat for a minute or so and then reduced