293 SAUCES until the sauce boils. Let the sauce simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes. Add more stock, or a little milk, if it is too thick. Skim it well and season it carefully with salt and a dust of castor sugar. Strain the sauce through a fine strainer and use as desired. Note.—The amount of curry powder used must be increased or decreased, according to its strength and individual tastes. Curry paste may also be used. If very little powder is added, use a little more flour. A little fresh or sour cream is an excellent addition. Milk and water may be used, if meat stock has to be avoided. Egg Sauce Ingredients— Half a pint of white or Bechamel One hard-boiled egg. sauce. Seasoning. Method.—Boil the sauce. Shell the egg, separate the yolk and white and cut each into dice. Add these to the hot sauce, season it and serve in a hot tureen. Note.—If the sauce is required to look more ornamental, rub the yolk through a wire gravy strainer and sprinkle it on the surface of the fish, chicken, etc., after it has been coated with the sauce. Espagnole Sauce {Rich Brown Foundation Sauce) Ingredients— One pint of brown stock. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Three heaped tablespoonfuls of raw ham or bacon cut in dice. A bunch of parsley and herbs. One teacupful of sliced carrot. One sliced onion. One tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms or mushroom trim- mings. Three raw tomatoes. One clove ; three peppercorns. One glass of sherry or claret. Seasoning. Method.—Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the ham, vegetables, herbs, and spice and fry all these a light brown. Add the flour and brown that carefully also. Put in the stock and tomatoes and let the sauce simmer gently for half an hour. Stir it and skim it well. Add the sherry and seasoning and pass the sauce through a hair sieve or a tammy cloth. Should the sauce be too thick add more stock. Note.—If the stock is very weak, put in a small piece of glaze, or, failing that, a little meat extract.