VEGETABLE PUREES AND THICKENED SOUPS 141 Method.—Wash the carrots and scrape them quite clean. Take a round vegetable cutter, with the scoop about the size of a large pea, and cut the red part of the carrots into balls. Grate the remaining carrot on a bread grater. Two large tablespoonfuls of grated carrot are needed, so it may be neces- sary to use a third one. Chop the shallot finely. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot and grated carrot and stir them over a low fire for about eight minutes, but without browning them. Then add the stock, balls of carrot, bay leaf, and a little salt and a dust of castor sugar. Cover the pan and let the soup boil gently for about thirty-five minutes or till the carrots are soft; mix the flour smoothly and thinly with a little cold milk or water. Take out the bay leaf from the soup, strain in the mixed flour, add the milk and stir it over the fire till the soup boils. Season the soup, be careful it is not too thick, and serve it in a hot tureen with croutons of bread. Note.—A little cream can be used if wished. Method.—Peel and slice the onions. Put them in a pan with cold water to cover; bring them to boiling point and scald them for five minutes. Drain off as much of this water as possible, it is used to remove much of the pungent oil from the onions. Melt half the butter in a stewpan, add the onions, and cover them. Let them cook in the butter for about ten minutes without colouring in the least, add the stock and boil the soup till the onions are soft. Rub all through a hair or wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, melt the rest of the butter in it, and stir in the flour smoothly. Add the sieved soup and milk gradually and stir till it boils. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the cream and strain them into the soup. Re-heat it again without letting it boil. Season the mixture carefully, pour it into a hot tureen and serve with it sippets of toast or croutons and grated parmesan cheese. Note.—For a plainer soup, omit the 3^oIks of eggs and cream, using a little more flour. Puree of Onions Ingredients— Two large Spanish onions. One pint of boiling white stock. One pint of hot milk. Two level teaspoonfuls of flour. Two raw yolks of eggs. One gill of cream. Salt; pepper ; nutmeg. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter.