97 HOW TO point will make it rough, curdled, and quite useless for the purpose intended. Clarify Butter Place two or three ounces of butter in a stewpan. Melt it gently and heat it till it bubbles thickly. Remove| the white scum then stand it aside for a few minutes to settle. Pour off the clear oily portion, carefully keeping back all the sediment at the bottom of the pan. Butter wastes considerably in clarify- ing, so it is wise to do over the amount required. Whisk Eggs Separate the whites from the yolks carefully, bearing in mind if the least speck of yolk mixes in with the whites nothing will make them stiff. Place the whites in a basin, or for about two or three in number a plate is preferable. If a basin is used, beat with a wire whisk, if a plate, use a broad-bladed knife. Add a few grains of salt to the whites and whisk slowly at first, gradually using a quicker motion till the whites are so stiff that they will not fall off the plate or out of the basin if turned over, and they also begin to have a very slightly curdled appearance. Stale eggs will never become stiff, as the whites are thin and watery. After standing for a short time the air bubbles break, the air escapes and the frothy mass sinks, and it is not possible to whisk it a second time. Pound Almonds or Pistachio Nuts After blanching and shelling dry the nuts gently but thoroughly in a slow oven. Place them in a mortar and pound them well, turning the mass over repeatedly. Every now and then a drop or two of orange flower water or plain water may be added, this will often prevent them becoming oily. Egg and Crumb Foods Beat a raw egg very thoroughly on a plate, for the sake of economy two teaspoonfuls of milk may be added. Have close at hand a piece of soft paper containing plenty of dried white breadcrumbs, or if these are not possible make some fresh white crumbs. Brush the article to be coated all over with the egg, moving it with the brush and a knife, and with these two utensils, not fingers, lift it out of the egg. Drain off some of the egg, lay the food gently in the crumbs and shake plenty of 7