THE COMPLETE COOK 82 well-ordered establishment, for the kitchener will dispose of everything unsuited to the dust-bin, and save the coal at the same time. When possible it is wise to buy certain stores in large quantities, as then often a considerable saving may be effected; but this is possible only if there is proper storage for them, and a responsible individual to deal them out in rational quantities. The utilisation of household scraps is one of the most puzzling and important problems that the housekeeper has to solve, so suggestions are given here as to— What to do with— Stale Bread—i. If a large piece, damp it slightly and re- bake it till it feels soft and crisp, it is then equal to new. 2. Pull, not cut, it in small rough pieces and bake them in a moderate oven till they are a light brown and crisp. When cold store these in a tin and serve them with cheese and butter, etc. An excellent substitute for “ pulled bread.” 3. Or proceed as in 2, and when crisp, crush the pieces, pass the crumbs through a fine wire sieve and store them for sprink- ling on boiled hams and bacon, or dishes au gratin. If only coloured very slightly, they are excellent to use for coating fried foods which require to be egged and crumbed. It is a good plan to have different tins of golden brown crumbs, very light brown crumbs, dried white crumbs. The latter are far preferable to use for crumbing purposes, than fresh ones. 4. Cut the bread into very thin slices or sippets, and bake them a light brown, and serve with soup or in the place of rusks or toast. 5. Cut thin slices of bread and butter, make into sweet or savoury sandwiches, dip in batter and fry as fritters. 6. Use as the foundation for many baked, boiled, and steamed puddings. Dripping, Pieces of Fat, Skimmings from the Stockpot, etc., must be made into Clarified Fat. Put all dripping from joints, odd pieces of cooked or uncooked fat, whether beef, mutton, or pork, etc., into a saucepan with enough cold water to come to about a quarter of the depth of fat. Boil it quickly without a lid till the water has evaporated and the liquid fat is quite clear like oil, and the pieces floating in it are like shrivelled brown skin. Stir it frequently during boiling, and when cooled a little strain off the liquid fat into a jar or basin, and use it for pastry.