INVALID COOKERY 431 turkey, pheasant, quails, partridges, and young pigeons are best. Do not give rabbits, ducks, or geese. Fish is a valuable food; but white fish should be selected, such as whiting, sole, haddock, plaice, turbot, etc. These have all the oil stored ift the liver, and thus there is an entire absence of fat in the flesh. “ Oily fish,” though nourishing, is not as digestible, as the oil penetrates all through the flakes of the flesh, rendering it too rich. To this class belong herrings, salmon, eels, mackerel, etc. Oysters are the only shellfish allowable. These are, when eaten raw, most nourishing and digestible, so much so that sometimes they can be retained by the patient when other foods are not possible. Milk, being the only perfect food that is capable of sustain- ing life and health without being supplemented by other foods, is of the greatest value. It should be swallowed very slowly, and by many is more easily digested if gently heated, than if taken quite cold. It must not, however, boil, as by so doing the albumen coagulates on the top, entangling with it much of the cream ; both these are then removed as “ skin.” The addition of soda water or barley water will render milk more digestible, as these prevent the formation of the large curds, which in cases of great weakness have at times produced fatal results. Eggs are most digestible for sick people when taken raw; or at most very lightly cooked. They are best when beaten and mixed with milk or wine. Ahvays strain beaten eggs to remove any stringy portions. Next to milk, they most nearly approach a perfect food. Cream.—Not only is this of great value in severe illness, but it is easily made into most appetising dishes. Whey.—In this the curdy portions and some of the cream are removed, and thus it becomes very digestible, more so than whole milk. Skim Milk is refreshing and nutritious, but of course lacks the valuable milk-fat, viz. cream. Junkets.—A very popular and dainty form of offering milk. Much appreciated when the patient is on a milk diet. Butter supplies the necessary fat in one of the most easily assimilated forms. Cheese is not usually desirable for invalids, though they frequently desire it for its savoury flavour. It is too con- centrated a food to be easily digested. Sugars.—Most valuable on account of the warmth-giving properties they possess.