THE COMPLETE COOK 438 Note.—Any cooked vegetables cut with a cutter like small peas, or in shreds; cooked macaroni, Italian paste, etc., can be used, if solid food is permitted, in place of the vermicelli. Beef and Sago Broth Ingredien ts— One pound of topside of beef. Two raw yolks of eggs. One and a half pints of cold water. Salt: pepper. One tablespoonful of small sago. Method.—Wash the meat quickly, dry it, remove all fat, and scrape it finely with a sharp knife. As quickly as it is scraped lay the meat in the cold water with a little salt. Let it soak for half an hour, then pour it all into a saucepan and let it barely simmer by the side of the fire for an hour and a half. Do not let it boil. Then strain it through a rather coarse gravy strainer, pressing the meat well. Re-heat it and sprinkle in the sago, stirring it all the time. Let it simmer gently till the sago is quite transparent and well suspended all through the soup. Season the broth and let it cool for a minute or so, then strain in the yolks of the eggs beaten with a tablespoonful of cold water or stock. Re-heat sufficiently to cook the eggs without bringing it to boiling point. Serve with sippets of toast or unsweetened rusks. Note.—Any beef tea that is ready can be used instead of specially preparing the broth. Semolina or crushed tapioca can take the place of the sago. Chicken Ingredients— Half an uncooked chicken with the giblets. A level tablespoonful of rice. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Broth Half a teaspoonful of chopped onion. One quart of cold water. Salt and pepper. Method.—Cut the meat into small pieces, chop the bones, and clean the giblets thoroughly. Put these into a saucepan with the onion, water, and a little salt and let them simmer gently for three hours, keeping it well skimmed. Wash the rice carefully, and, half an hour before the broth is cooked, sprinkle it in and continue cooking. Next strain off the broth, remove every scrap of skin and bone from the meat and cut it into neat small dice. Put it and the rice back into the broth.