441 INVALID COOKERY Cut all small bones from the nostrils and remove the eyes. Tie the head together again with a piece of tape. Put it in a saucepan with the water and a little salt. Bring it slowly to boiling point and remove every particle of scum. Add the vegetables cut in dice and let it simmer for two hours. For the last half-hour boil the rice in it. When cooked lift out the head, cut some of the best pieces of the meat and tongue into neat small dice and lay them aside. Skim the broth well, strain and season it carefully, add the meat and a little vegetable, and just at last stir in the parsley. Serve with sippets of dry toast. If necessary, all solid portions could be strained out; in that case the entire head should be neatly arranged on a hot dish, sauced over with parsley and butter sauce, and served as Boiled Lamb’s Head at some other meal. Note.—This broth is more delicate than if sheep’s head were used. Pearl barley might be used instead of rice, but it should be put in with the vegetables at the beginning. Soup Milk Ingredients— Four medium-sized potatoes. One quart of boiling white stock, or half milk and half water. Two sticks of celery. One medium-sized onion. A slice of ham or bacon. One slightly rounded tablespoon- ful of butter. One tablespoonful of crushed tapioca. One gill of cream. One gill of milk, or half a pint of milk and no cream. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash and scrub the potatoes, then peel and slice them. Lay them as they are done in clean cold water. Wash and slice the celery, peel and slice the onion and cut the bacon in dice. Melt the butter in a bright pan, put in the vegetables and bacon, stir them over the hre for five minutes for the vegetables to absorb the butter. On no account allow them to colour in the least, for it should be as white a soup as possible. Add the stock, or milk and water, and let it boil gently till the vegetables are soft; they will probably take three-quarters of an hour. Rub the soup through a hair sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, put back the soup and reboil it. Shake in the tapioca, stirring it all the time, then add the milk, a gill or half a pint, according to whether cream is used or not. Cook it until the tapioca is quite clear. Season carefully, adding the cream, if it is to be used, and it is ready. The consistency