HOW TO 99 Pound Meat, Game, etc. Free it from all bone, fat, gristle, and skin. Pass the lean through a mincing machine or chop it small. Then pound it well, doing a small quantity at a time; when all the mass is fairly smooth, add the cream, panada, eggs, etc., as directed. If fish is to be pounded it does not require mincing first. Chop Fresh Mushrooms Remove the stalks and peel them, then wash them quickly in cold water; dry them lightly and chop them finely, or coarsely as desired. Fry Parsley Pick off large feathery tufts of parsley. Well wash and thoroughly dry it. Place it in a frying basket if possible, and slip the basket gently into some hot fat from which the blue smoke has barely risen. Move the basket gently about till the fat has stopped, or very nearly stopped, bubbling, then lift it out at once. Drain off the fat and turn the parsley on to paper to remove all grease. Properly fried parsley should be light green and so crisp that it will crumble if rubbed between the fingers. If the fat is too hot or if the parsley is kept in too long, it becomes brown or even blackened. If the fat is too cool or the cooking too short in duration, it will be tough and greasy. If no basket is available, gently drop the parsley right into the fat. It should be noted that parsley when fried will shrivel up to about one-third of its original bulk. Curl Celery Trim the root and green sticks off a good head of celery. Wash it well. Cut the head into four even portions lengthways and once across. Use a small sharp knife and slit each stick finely and evenly about six times, but leave half an inch at the bottom end uncut. As each is done, put it into plenty of ice- cold water, the colder the better, and leave it in till well curled. This is a pretty garnish for cold dishes, or to hand with cheese. Open Oysters Keep them as cool as possible, scrub the shells. Hold the oyster in a thickly folded cloth in the palm of the left hand, with the deep shell downwards so as to retain the liquor. Work