331 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY Flaky Pastry Ingredients— Two level breakfastcupfuls of Half a level teaspoonful of salt, pastry flour. Cold water. Six rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Method.—Sieve or mix the flour and salt. Divide the butter into four parts. Chop one-fourth finely into the flour in the basin, then rub it lightly into the flour until no large lumps of butter are visible. Pour a little cold water into the middle of the flour and mix it in with a knife, adding more water gradually until the flour is made into a stiff, but not crumbly paste. Add the last quantity of water cautiously. Turn the paste on to a floured board, knead it lightly until free from cracks, and roll it out into an oblong strip barely a quarter of an inch thick. Work each of the other portions of butter on a plate with a knife, until they can be easily spread. Put little bits of one of these portions in rows down the whole length of the pastry, but leave a narrow margin round the edge without butter. Dust a little flour over the butter. Fold the pastry in three, press the edges firmly together and roll it out again Spread on the second portion of butter as before and repeat this folding, rolling, and spreading until all the butter is used After the last is rolled in, it is ready for use. Puff Pastry Ingredierits— One and three-quarter level break- Half a level teaspoonful of salt, fastcupfuls of pastry flour. Cold water. One breakfastcupful packed solid One teaspoonful of lemon juice, of good butter. Method.—Wash the butter well by working and kneading it in ice-cold water. Fold it in a clean soft cloth, squeeze and knead it well to press out the moisture, and shape it into a flat square, or oblong. Lay the butter on ice till very hard. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, make a well in the centre, into which put the strained lemon juice and two or three table- spoonfuls of the coldest water obtainable. Mix the flour into a soft, pliable, but not sticky paste, adding more cold water as it is required, and work all the time from the centre. Knead this paste lightly until it is free from cracks and rough bits (see Illustration'), Roll out this paste until it forms a square or oblong about twice the size of the butter. It should be about a quarter of an inch thick and a little thinner round the edges