JELLIES 359 Russian Jelly Ingredients— One pint of clear jelly. Cochineal. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water. Warm the jelly, put it into a basin, and whisk it briskly until it is like white froth. Pour about a teacupful into another basin, add to it enough cochineal to colour it a very delicate pink, whisk until beginning to set, then pour it into the mould to any depth that will give a good effect. Pour the rest of the white whisked jelly, as it is setting, on to the top of the pink and leave the mould until set, then turn it out. If the second layer of jelly is allowed to become too set before being poured on to the first, each will come out separately when unmoulded, and if they are not set enough, one will blur into the other. Clear Wine Jelly Ingredients— One pint and a quarter of water. Twenty sheets of French gelatine. A quarter of a pint of lemon juice. Half a pint of sherry. The rinds of two lemons. A teacupful and a half of loaf sugar. Two cloves. Half an inch of cinnamon stick. Two shells and whites of eggs. Method.—Select a perfectly clean well-lined pan that will hold at least two quarts. Put into it the water, gelatine, strained lemon juice, sherry, very thinly pared lemon rinds, sugar, spice, the washed and crushed shells of the eggs, and the whites whipped to a fairly stiff froth. Take a clean egg whisk and whisk all these over the fire until the mixture is very hot, then leave off whisking and let the jelly boil well up in the pan. Draw the pan aside, let the jelly sink, then reboil it up once more. Put the pan at the side of the fire, cover it and let the jelly settle for five minutes. Meanwhile, rinse out a perfectly clean, rather coarse tea-cloth, which is kept only for straining jellies, in boiling water, place it under the hoop of a jelly stand, or place a wooden chair upside dowm on the kitchen table. Lay the cloth over the legs, twisting and tying it securely to the same with string; arrange the cloth so that it dips down in the centre after the fashion of a jelly bag. Put a clean hot basin under the cloth on the upturned seat of the chair, and carefully pour the jelly into the centre of the cloth. When the pan is empty, put it down, and slip a second hot basin under the cloth, drawing out the first one and pouring its contents back again