THE COMPLETE COOK 196 Basting.—Add a tablespoonful or so of dripping to the tin with which to baste the joint. The amount needed depends on whether the joint is fat or lean. Unless the meat is frequently basted it will be spoilt. When Cooked.—Lay the joint on a hot dish and keep it hot while the gravy is made. Remove any tape or skewers. Put a neat frill on the ends of unsightly bones, e.g. the shank bones of legs, or shoulders of mutton, and dust the joints with a little seasoning. Pour off the dripping from the tin into a basin and save it. Be careful to keep back all brown particles and sedi- ment to be seen under the surface of the dripping. To Make the Gravy Serve a thin clear gravy for beef, mutton, and lamb, and a thickened brown gravy for veal, pork, and boned and stuffed joints of mutton. Clear Gravy for Roast or Baked Meat.—After pouring the dripping out of the tin, add to the meat juice and brown particles left in it a gill to half a pint, or more according to the joint, of boiling stock or water; add salt and pepper to taste. Put the dripping tin over the fire, and let the gravy boil well, stirring and scraping off all the brown pieces from the tin into the gravy with an iron spoon; it is these which will colour and flavour the gravy. Skim off all grease as it rises. Strain a little gravy round the joint, not over it, and the rest serve separately in a sauce tureen. Much gravy in the dish renders carving neatly an impossibility. Thick Gravy for Roast or Baked Meat.—Pour off all except about a tablespoonful of the dripping from the tin, as directed for the clear gravy. Shake about a level tablespoonful of flour over the tin in the dripping. Brown it carefully over the fire without burning it. Stir in gradually about half a pint of hot stock or water, drawing the dripping tin aside while this is done. Next stir it over the fire till the gravy boils. Skim it well, season it carefully, and strain a little round the joint and the rest into a sauce tureen. Boiling Fresh and Salted Meats Fresh Meat To Prepare the Joint.—Put a saucepan of water on the fire to boil. Wash the joint, wipe it, and trim off all rough or