529 JAMS AND PICKLES resembles honey. It must not be allowed to boil, or it will be spoilt. Pour the mixture into clean dry jars, cover and store in a cool dry place. Note.—A double milk saucepan is the best to make this in, there is then no fear of its boiling. Marmalade Ingredients— Twenty-four Seville oranges. Cold water. Double their weight in loaf sugar. Six large lemons. Method.—Wash and rub the oranges well in cold water to clean them. Put them in a large pan with enough cold water to float them, and boil them until the rinds are soft enough to be easily pierced with a pin. Drain off the water, cut each orange into quarters and remove all pips, put them in a basin with a pint of cold water, and let them stand twelve hours. Put all the pulp from the oranges into a basin and mash it well. Scrape the empty skins quite clean and cut them into very fine shreds. Strain the water from the pips on to the sugar, also the lemon juice. Boil this syrup until it pours from the spoon like oil. Then add the pulp and rinds and boil them gently until some of the marmalade jellies when it is cooled on a plate. It will probably take about half an hour. Pour it into heated jars and tie down tightly. Brandied Peaches Ingredients— Three pounds of peaches (not Half a pint of water. over-ripe). Four breakfastcupfuls of loaf One and a half pints of brandy. sugar. Method.—Hh.& fruit must be perfectly sound. Halve the peaches, remove the skin and stones, taking care to keep the halves unbroken. Crack some of the stones and take out the kernels. Crush the sugar slightly, put it into a pan with the water and kernels and let it boil until it forms a good thread when tested between the finger and thumb. Skim it carefully, add the peaches, cover the pan closely, and cook the fruit until it is tender, but not broken. Add the brandy and bring the syrup again to boiling point, then remove the pan from the fire. Put the fruit into wide-necked bottles, fill them up with the hot syrup and cork and resin the bottles, or cover them with bladder. Store in a cool, dry place. Note.—Apricots may be treated in a similar manner. 34