THE COMPLETE COOK 492 quite dissolved. Mix the ginger and salt in a little flour, and dissolve the soda smoothly in the milk. Stir several spoonfuls of flour into the syrup smoothly, add the milk and the flour containing the ginger and ^ salt. Then continue to beat in spoonfuls of flour until the mixture is in a stiff dough which can be kneaded, then knead it well. Roll out portions of it at a time to one-third of an inch thick. Cut it into strips half an inch wide with a pastry cutter with a crimped edge. The length of the strips can vary to suit the baking tin. Bake in a moderately hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Note.—Dripping instead of butter could be used. It could be cut into round biscuits if more convenient. Chopped almonds sprinkled on top are excellent. Grandmother’s Pound Cake Ingredients— One breakfastcupful of butter. Five eggs. Two breakfastcupfuls of pastry Half a teaspoonful of powdered flour. mace. One and three-quarter breakfast- cupfuls of castor sugar. ^Method.—Cream the butter and sugar until they resemble thick cream ; add the mace. Break the eggs in one at a time and beat in each one thoroughly before adding the next. Add the flour very lightly. Turn the mixture at once into a prepared cake tin and bake it slowly for about one hour. The grain of the cake should be fine and close, not porous, as if carbonic acid gas had been introduced ; yet it must be soft, light, and velvety. This texture is obtained by the thorough creaming of the butter and sugar and by not overbeating the eggs. Griddle or Girdle Cakes Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of flour. Two eggs. One level teaspoonful of carbonate Half a teaspoonful of salt. of soda. Barely a pint of sour milk, or cream. Method.—If there is not a proper girdle, such as is used in Scotland, a thick baking tin or frying pan can be used for these cakes, or any thick flat piece of iron, to lay right on the top of the stove. Make the mixture in a bowl with a lip to it, so that it can be more easily poured out. Mix and sieve together the flour, salt, and soda. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs.