SHORT MARKETING HINTS 49 The breast should be plump, and both the breastbone and the beak soft and pliable. The former is sometimes broken in fowls, to deceive purchasers; but the difference between a broken bone that slips when moved and the soft, yielding cartilage may be very easily detected. Be careful to note that the birds are free from all discolora- tion, and that the eyes are full and clear. Long thin necks, with a purplish tint, denote age, so also does a purplish tint on the thigh. Hen birds are usually considered more tender than cocks, and for boiling select fowls with light-coloured legs and very white skins. For roasting, the darker-hued black - legged varieties are richer in flavour. Young birds are downy under the wings and have short wing feathers. Ducks and Geese should be under a year old, and should have the bills and feet pliable and yellow; if these are stiff, red, and hard, the birds are old. Turkeys should have smooth black legs and the skin and flesh very white, Norfolk turkeys are reckoned the best. Pigeons should have the flesh on the breast a light red, with the legs a darker tint. Old birds are thin and very dark coloured on the breast. Wild pigeons, though cheaper, are apt to be dry and tough. Squabs are young tame pigeons, and the wing feathers will be very short. Rabbits, if young, will have large knee joints in comparison to their size, soft brown fur, smooth sharp claws, and short necks ; the ears will be so soft and thin that they will tear easily. If old, they will have greyish fur, thick blunt claws, and tough ears. If ready skinned, the flesh should be fresh and moist looking, with a slight bluish tinge. Game In young birds, the legs should be smooth and the feet supple: the beaks so brittle, that the under portion snaps across easily if it is bent backwards. The breasts should be firm, hard, and plump, and the long quills in the wings soft and not fully developed. In all Waterfowl the feet should be moist and pliable, as they soon become dry and hard after killing, and these birds must be eaten fresh, as from the oily nature of their flesh they soon become rank in flavour. If the beaks appear to be moist and the throat muddy, they are stale.