231 POULTRY mix it with a little Mayonnaise sauce. Set the rest of the aspic on the ice to become very cold, then chop it rather coarsely. Cut the cucumber in thin slices and then across in half. Heap the salad in the centre of an entree dish, arrange the pieces of chicken round it, and garnish the dish with a few sprigs of endive, a border of chopped aspic, and an edging of the half slices of cucumber bent together so as to represent a scolloped border. Note.—The fowl may be left whole if desired, the breast being handsomely decorated with truffle, shapes in cut aspic jelly, etc. Instead of truffle, sprigs of chervil may be used, or shapes of radishes or beetroot. If it is not convenient to use aspic jelly, dissolve three sheets of gelatine in the white sauce, adding a little tarragon vinegar to flavour it, then strain the sauce and use it for coating as directed. The decorations cannot then be set with the warmed aspic, but the effect is still very good. Chaudfroid of Turkey Proceed as for the Chaudfroid of Chicken, but usually the bird is boned, stuffed, made into a galantine, boiled and then masked and decorated. Quite twice as much or even more sauce will be required. Crepinettes Ingredients— One and a half breakfastcupfuls of chopped chicken. One barely full breakfastcup of chopped tongue. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. One egg and two extra yolks. of Chicken One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Half a teaspoonful of chopped shallot. One gill of white stock or milk. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg. A little lemon juice. Pig’s caul. Breadcrumbs. Method.—Melt the butter and fry the chopped shallot in it for a few minutes without colouring it. Stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk or stock, and stir over the fire until it boils well. Then put in the chicken, tongue, and parsley. Beat up the two yolks and add them with a dust of nutmeg, salt, pepper, and lemon juice to taste. Make the mixture hot without boiling it, then turn it on to a plate to cool. Next shape it into even-sized cork-like shapes,