INVATJD COOKERY 439 Add the parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, and serve it either hot or cold. Note.—All stringy portions of meat, as well as the heart, lungs, and liver, should be removed after they have been cooked. Chicken Essence Ingredients— Half an uncooked chicken. Salt and pepper. Three tablespoonfuls of cold water. Method.—Cut the meat in small pieces, removing all fat, and chop the bones small. Put meat, bones, and water in an earthenware jar, add a little salt. Cover the jar tightly and place it in a pan of boiling water and let it boil gently from four to five hours. Season it carefully to taste. Next strain off the liquid, pressing the solid part well. Leave it till cold, then carefully remove all grease from the top. This is excellent served cold in a jelly, or it may be re-heated. Note.-—Old fowls will do for this recipe; they will, however, require longer cooking. Chicken Soup Ingredients— One uncooked fowl and the giblets. One gill of cream. Three pints of cold water. Two yolks of eggs. One small onion. Two teaspoonfuls of arrowroot or One small carrot. cornflour. Half a blade of mace. Salt and pepper. Method.—Wash the fowl and giblets, cut them in small pieces. Put these with the cleaned vegetables and water into a saucepan, add the salt and mace. Let these simmer for three hours, skimming frequently. Strain the liquor into a basin and leave it till cold. Then remove all fat. Reboil it and pour into it the arrowroot or cornflour thinly mixed with a little cold milk. Stir this till it reboils; let it continue to do so for five minutes, otherwise it will have a rough taste. Let it cool slightly. Meantime beat up the yolks with the cream, and, when the soup has cooled, strain them in. Cook gently for a minute or two, but do not let it boil. Season it to taste and serve with sippets of dry toast. Egg and Broth Whip Ingredients— One egg. One teaspoonful of warmed butter. One tablespoonful of strong beef Salt and pepper, if permitted. essence, or raw beef juice.