THE COMPLETE COOK 46 The flesh is usually preferred when of a very pale colour though it is more juicy when a deeper pink. The fat should be clear and white: the lean, finely grained and a delicate pink. The kidney small, free from discoloration, and wrapped in plenty of firm white fat. Veal very rapidly turns sour, so must be cooked speedily. Lamb has many points in common with veal. It is immature meat, needs thorough cooking, and does not keep well. The flesh should be firm, clear, and of a delicate red, and the fat white with no tinge of yellow. The kidney and fat round it should show no sign of being flabby or tainted. The veins of the neck end of the forequarter should be of a bluish tint, not greenish, as the latter denotes that the meat is stale. Pork.—Fresh pork, though very nourishing if it can be digested, cannot be regarded as a wholesome meat, and should never be eaten by children, or those with delicate digestions, as it contains an excess of fat. Pork is the one meat which is rendered more wholesome with salting. Never buy it in warm weather; an old but wise rule is, only to permit it on the table in those months that have an “ R ” in their spelling. As the flesh of the pig is peculiarly liable to disease, it is most necessary to exercise care in selecting it, and to purchase it from reliable dealers only. Pork is best when small and lean, with the flesh of a delicate brownish pink with a fine grain. The fat should be white, firm, and free from specks or kernels. The skin thin, elastic, and smooth. Soft, flabby flesh and yellowish fat with kernels indicate that the pork is of very inferior quality and probably diseased. Never buy pork from which the rind has been removed, or any which shows signs of discoloration. “ Dairy fed ” pork is the most delicate in flavour. No pork will keep, but requires to be quickly, and, it may be added, most thoroughly cooked. Venison, like mutton, must not be too young. Buck venison is the most highly esteemed. The lean should be finely grained and dark in colour; this deepens if it is well hung, as it should be. The fat should be plentiful, firm, and of a clear, creamy white colour. The age of the animal may be judged from the hoof. If the cleft is