METHODS OF COOKING: THEIR SPECIAL POINTS 65 for sausages, eggs, omelets, pancakes, cutlets, bacon, etc. For the latter the pan is heated and the bacon fried in the fat that is extracted from it by heat. Of the two methods the first is the most economical, because, though the amount of fat seems large at the outset, it can be strained when a little cooled through a fine cloth, and with proper care be used over and over again. While, with dry frying, the ounce or two of fat used each time is usually so full of pieces, crumbs, etc., when done with, that any remaining is thrown away. It is necessary to remember that food, if very moist or cold, or if too many pieces are fried at a time, will greatly lower the temperature of the fat, and there is then danger of the grease soaking in. In the case of the presence of moisture, the commotion caused by the bubbling makes the fat boil over on to the stove. This will result in the fat catching fire, and this not unfrequently has ended in loss of life. It may be wise to remark here, for the benefit of the ignorant, that water must never be poured on to biirning fiat. Smother the flame if possible by putting a lid on the pan, or put sand, salt, earth, or ashes on it, but never water, as you value your life. For the reason that moisture causes fat to bubble over, never have the pan more than half full of fat, so that there is room for it to rise up a reasonable amount, and never let drops of water, or condensed steam from lids of saucepans, etc., fall into the hot fat. A wire frying basket is convenient, as the food can be easily raised to the surface to ascertain if of the right colour ; it is not, however, suitable for all preparations, some of which require a perforated fish slice or iron spoon. As grease adhering to the surface of fried food is displeasing to the eye, palate, and digestion, all foods so cooked must be drained carefully on soft paper or a clean cloth. There are, as is usual with every rule, exceptions, for bacon, sausages, and meat of all kinds are never drained. Fat which bubbles when it contains no food, is never hot enough for frying purposes. Ignorant cooks will imagine that because water bubbles when it boils, fat must be hot enough if it does the same. This is quite wrong and is the cause of nearly all failures in frying. Bubbling fat merely indicates the presence of moisture, and until that moisture has been evaporated and the bubbling ceases, the right heat has not been reached; neither will the 5