THE COMPLETE COOK 454 boiling point and boil it for five minutes; this is to blanch and get rid of the bitter taste. Strain off and throw away the water. Put the chicken, barley, and stock into a pan with a saltspoonful of salt. Let these simmer very gently from one hour and three-quarters to two hours. Next take out the chicken and barley and pound them, adding the liquid slowly. Rub the puree through a fine wire or hair sieve. Whip the cream till it will nearly, but not quite, hang on the whisk. Stir it in very lightly but thoroughly. Season the mixture and re-heat it. Serve it on small rounds of buttered toast. Note.—It may also be served cold. Veal, pheasant, or rabbit could be used. Chicken Custards Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of raw chicken. One egg and one extra yolk. Half a gill of cream or white stock. Half a gill of milk. Two or three tablespoonfuls of good gravy. Salt and pepper. Method.—Put the chicken through a mincing machine, then pound it and rub it through a wire sieve. Beat the eggs just sufficiently to blend the yolks and whites, but not until they are frothy. Add to them the chicken, milk, cream, or stock, and seasoning to taste. Well butter some small moulds or cups ; pour in the mixture. Place the moulds in a steamer or a shallow pan, with boiling water to come barely half-way up them; in either case lay a piece of buttered paper over the top to prevent the condensed steam falling into the custards. Steam them very gently till they feel set in the centre; they will probably take about fifteen minutes. Then turn them carefully on to a hot dish, heat and season the gravy and strain it round. Note.—The custards may be eaten with bread and butter instead of gravy, if preferred. Mince of Raw Chicken Ingredients— Four rounded tablespoonfuls of raw chicken cut in dice. One raw yolk of egg. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. One teaspoonful of flour. Quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped onion. Half a gill of milk or white stock. A little lemon juice. Salt: pepper. A slice of toast.