401 SALADS Method.—The vegetables should consist of carefully boiled peas, carrots, turnips, French beans, and sprigs of cauliflower. Rinse out a border mould with cold water. Slightly warm the jelly, and coat the bottom of the mould about half an inch deep with it. Let this set, then decorate the top of the mould with some pretty design made out of strips of anchovy, eggs, chilli, and gherkin. Pour in more aspic jelly and let it set. Put in the vegetables, capers, etc., in layers with the jelly, arranging them as prettily as possible until the mould is full, the last layer being of jelly. Leave it until set. Dip the entire mould into warm water and slip the jelly on to a glass dish. Have ready some nice mixed salad and mix with it any cooked vegetables there may be over. Arrange this in the centre of the mould, coat with Mayonnaise and garnish with truffle and some chopped jelly round. Salmon Mayonnaise or Salad Ingredients— About three-quarters of a pound of cold cooked salmon. Half a pint of Mayonnaise sauce. Half a small cucumber. One lettuce. One endive. One teaspoonful of capers. Two pickled gherkins and red chillies. Two filleted anchovies. Method.—Remove all bone and skin from the fish and break it into large flakes. Put it in layers in the dish with the pre- pared lettuce, endive, a little seasoning, and sauce. Pour the rest of the sauce over the top and put round a narrow border of small lettuce leaves and a thick ring of thin slices of cucumber overlapping each other. Garnish the salad with capers and strips of the gherkins, anchovies, and chillies, and keep in a cold place until needed. Winter Salad Ingredients— A gill each of cold cooked carrot. One lettuce. turnip, beetroot, potato, and One teaspoonful of chopped sprigs of cauliflower. parsley. Three hard-boiled eggs. A gill of Mayonnaise or any other A bunch of watercress. salad dressing. Method.—Break the cauliflower into neat sprigs and cut the other vegetables into dice. Carefully wash the lettuce and watercress and remove all stalks from the latter. Shell the eggs and cut each in quarters lengthways. Mix together the vegetables and dressing, arrange these in a heap in the centre of a salad bowl and place a neat border of lettuce leaves round. 26