MISCELLANEOUS HINTS 115 Gelatine if dissolved in milk will often cause it to curdle, Dissolve it in water, then strain it into the milk. Keep the remains of lemons, used for their juice, to scour the copper utensils. Do not wash macaroni and suchlike pastes before cooking. Young beetroot leaves are excellent dressed as spinach. Never cut lettuce leaves, but pull them in pieces with the fingers. Keep all tinned foods as cool as possible, and in summer place them on ice or in cold water before opening them. Turn all tinned foods out of the tins immediately they are opened, except foods preserved in oil. After blanching and shelling almonds, throw them in cold slightly salted water to whiten and crisp them. When using tinned stone fruit, from which usually the kernels have been removed, a few drops of almond essence will be found an improvement. Arrowroot, if of a good quality, should crackle when rubbed between the fingers and feel firm. Never allow soups, stews, etc., to remain overnight in the saucepan, as this will often cause them to turn sour. If coffee is ground long before use, it loses flavour. It must also be kept closely covered, or it absorbs other flavours and loses its own. After washing currants and other fruit, if dried quickly they become hard and tough. When candied peel is chopped, remove the lump of sugar from the centre. Save it and use it for gingerbread or milk puddings. Have everything in readiness before commencing to cook. A little salt thrown on will clear a smoky fire. Never cut off the fins of turbot and brill, as they are considered a delicacy, being very gelatinous. A good cook knows the value of a stockpot, for water is the resource of a thriftless cook. A mincing machine will save much time and labour. If onions are blanched, they become more digestible, as some of the essential oil is extracted. Break eggs separately into a cup to ascertain if they are good. Perfectly new-laid eggs will take a minute or so longer to cook than if a day old. An egg that has been laid twenty-four hours is more easily poached than one just taken out of the nest.