191 FISH Note.—Brill and other firm white fish are excellent cooked in this manner. Use other sauce than cucumber if preferred. Turbot a la Normande Ingredien ts— Two teaspoonfuls of anchovy- essence. The juice of half a lemon. Three-quarters of a pint of good white sauce. Two or three filleted anchovies, pickled gherkins, and chillies. A dozen olives. Seasoning. Method.—Wash and wipe the fish, then bone it, so as to leave the fish whole; it then forms a kind of bag into which the shrimp farce is placed. Use a sharp knife and cut the flesh gradually back off the bone. The short bones along the flns must be left in. Chop the shrimps very finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the water or, what is much better, fish stock made from the centre bone and some fish trimmings. They only need to be boiled in enough cold water to cover them for about fifteen minutes; add also to them a bunch of parsley and herbs and a scrap of onion ; the stock is then strained off for use. After adding the water or stock, stir the mixture till it boils and will leave the sides of the pan without sticking to it. Mix in the shrimps, lemon juice, anchovy essence, seasoning, and the raw egg. Mix all these very thoroughly. If liked a deeper pink, add a drop or two of cochineal. Spread this farce evenly over inside the fish in the baglike cavity made by removing the large bone. Press the upper side well on to the under one. Rub the outside of the fish over with lemon juice and wrap it up in a piece of greased paper. Lay it on a baking sheet in a moderate oven and bake it for about twenty-five to thirty minutes, according to its thickness. Remove the paper, pour any liquor in it into the sauce, and lay the fish on a hot dish. Have a rich white sauce, made with fish stock, ready; strain it smoothly over the fish and garnish it tastefully with strips of anchovy, gherkin, and chillies. Add a further garnish of the turned olives. Note.—Brill or halibut is excellent cooked by this recipe. Preserved prawns could be used if liked. Three pounds of turbot. A gill of shelled shrimps. One raw egg. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. Half a -oint of cold water or fish stock.