107 HOW TO COMPILE A MENU if need be let her practise those she is nervous about beforehand ; never attempt too much. 5. Calculate what are the resources of the kitchen, and arrange the menu to suit the stove, number of pans, moulds, time-saving appliances available, etc. 6. Increase or reduce the number of courses according to the style of the menu required. One soup, fish, entree, joint or roast of game or poultry, followed by a hot pudding, or cold sweet, and a savoury, will furnish a most dainty dinner in the hands of a skilful manager. If liked, offer either soup or fish, not both, and it is not unusual to have the sweet banished and merely a particularly choice savoury handed. Hors d’ceuvres, two soups, etc., and joint as well as a roast bird, and sweets ad lib., can be provided for a more elaborate menu. 7. Study the marketing lists intelligently, so as not to squander money unnecessarily: aim at a touch of originality, for excellent as soles, turbot, salmon, asparagus, sweetbreads, etc., are, they become horribly monotonous when they put in an appearance at almost every dinner throughout the season. 8. Pay due regard to the season and temperature. Take advantage of the numerous cold entrees, sweets, etc., when summer is at its height, and use them with great caution when the thermometer is down to zero, 9. A discreet selection and artistic assortment of dishes, as regards the ingredients employed, and the prevailing flavours and colours, is essential, e.g.: Two Soups.—One must be clear, the second thick ; one brown, the other white, red or green. If only one is given, clear is most popular. Two Dishes of Fish.—One plainly dressed, served whole, or in fillets; the other in the form of fritters, souffle or cream. Tivo Entrees.—Let one be cold, the other hot. One very light, such as kromeskies, quenelles, and suchlike, the second more substantial: cutlets or beef fillets in same style. The same with Two Sweets. The principal ingredient used for one dish should not appear in any other. If spinach puree is handed in the soup course, spinach should not enter into the composition of any other dish on the menu. No two dishes of beef or mutton or white meats may be used in the same dinner. Nor yet two fried foods following on