COLD MEAT COOKERY 223 the stock gradually if hot, stir it all the time until the sauce boils. Season it carefully, note if the colour is appetising and the consistency that of good cream. Unless these points are correct the dish will be a failure. Cool the sauce a little, then lay in the meat. Cover the pan and let it stand by the side of the fire until the meat is flavoured by the gravy and hot through, but on no account allow it to boil, or the hash will be tough. The meat should remain in the sauce for at least half an hour. Then arrange the slices neatly on a hot dish ; strain the sauce over them and put round a neat border of sippets of toast or fried bread. Mince of Cooked Meat Ingredients— The same as for Hash. Method.—Proceed as for Hash, but cut the meat into very small dice, or it may be chopped finely, or put through a mincing machine. Stir the chopped meat into the sauce and proceed as already directed. Note.—The border may be made of cooked rice, macaroni, spaghetti, haricot beans, mashed potatoes, peas, chopped carrots or cabbage as convenient. Potted Cooked Meat, Game, etc. Ingredien ts— One pound of any cooked meat. Four tablespoonfuls of butter. game, poultry, etc. Salt: pepper : made mustard. Method.—Remove all bone, skin, and gristle from the meat. Pound it to a paste and rub it through a hair sieve. It is best mixed with a little of the oiled butter before pounding it. Season it somewhat highly, cayenne may be added if liked. Add enough oiled butter to make it into a smooth stiff paste. Pack it tightly into small pots. Smooth the top of each and level it. When the butter used for mixing has had time to set, pour some clarified butter over the top, so that the meat is quite covered. Let this butter set, and keep the jars in a cool place until needed. Note.—When ham is used, if there is plenty of fat with it, butter for mixing into the paste will not be required. Beef, game, and fish are better alone, but veal and ham, chicken and tongue, etc., make good combinations.