SAVOURIES 381 Method.—Make the Nouille Paste first. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Make a well in the centre, put in the yolks of eggs and work them gradually into the flour ; add more flour, if necessary, or a little water, if too dry. The paste when mixed must be very stiff Knead it well until smooth and stiff, shaking in flour until there is no trace of any stickiness. Fold it up in a cloth and put it aside for an hour. Then roll it out as thinly as possible, until it seems almost possible to see through it, and divide it into two pieces. Pound the poultry, ham, two teaspoonfuls of the cheese, yolk of egg, tomato, and cream or white sauce, and rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Add the parsley and season it well. Arrange small balls of this farce in even rows down one piece of paste at about one and a half inches apart. Brush round each little heap with white of egg or water. Lay the second strip on the top of the first. Press the upper paste down gently round the heaps, so as to fasten the edges together. Take a plain or fluted round cutter, a little larger than the balls of forcemeat, and stamp out each ravioli. Note that the edges of each are well closed. Have ready a pan of fast boiling slightly salted water. Drop in the ravioli, boil them fast for two minutes, stirring them gently, then let them boil slowly for six minutes. Lift them out with a fish slice, lay them on a clean cloth to drain, and put them in layers in a hot fireproof dish with the rest of the cheese and the hot tomato sauce. Re-heat in the oven for a few minutes, and serve them at once. Note,—Any savoury mixture may be used for the farce. Savoury Rice Ingredients— One teacupful of rice. One teacupful of chopped ham or smoked fish. Three breakfastcupfuls of stock. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One tablespoonful of finely chopped onion. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Salt: cayenne. Method.—Wash the rice, melt the butter, and fry the onion in it until a pale yellow. Add the rice and stir it into the butter over the fire for five minutes. Add the stock and cook the rice very slowly until it is soft and has absorbed the stock. Should it seem too thick before it is cooked enough, add more stock or water. When the rice is a soft thick mass, add the ham, parsley, and seasoning. Heap the mixture up pyramid