200 THE COMPLETE COOK Fillets of Beef k la Como Ingredien ts— One pound of fillet of beef. A dozen mushrooms. Three or four slices of cooked ham. Four tablespoonfuls of hot mashed potatoes. A piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Half a pint of brown sauce. Two tablespoonfuls of port wine. One tablespoonful of butter. Method.—Cut the fillet into small rounds, about the size of the top of a claret glass and nearly three-quarters of an inch thick. Flatten these slightly and trim into neat rounds. Brush them with a little warmed butter, put them in a heated and greased gridiron, and grill them for eight to ten minutes by a sharp fire. Turn them several times; they should be slightly underdone. While these are grilling, cook the washed and peeled mushrooms in a little butter in a frying pan until tender. Heat the sauce with the glaze and wine. Arrange a straight bed of the mashed potato down a dish, and put both to keep hot. When the fillets are cooked, brush them over with a little warmed glaze and arrange them in two straight lines on the potato, each overlapping the previous one. Put a single line of the mushrooms up the centre, and on them a narrow line of the lean of the ham cut in small dice. Strain the sauce round and put any ham left over in a heap at each side. Fillets of Beef with Oysters Ingredients— Half a pound of fillet of beef. > Three tablespoonfuls of stock or Six oysters. gravy. Two teaspoonfuls of butter. Salt and pepper. One teaspoonful of flour. Method.—Wash and dry the meat quickly. Cut it into small neat fillets about three-quarters of an inch thick. Heat the butter, put in the fillets and the flour and fry them till slightly browned, then pour in the stock. Mix it well and put on the lid of the pan and let all simmer very gently for about an hour. It must not be allowed to boil, or the fillets will be tough. When cooked, season the gravy carefully, strain into it any liquor there may be with the oysters, and add the oysters after first bearding them and cutting each in half. Re-heat the gravy for a few minutes without boiling it. Arrange the fillets on a hot dish with the oysters in the centre, and strain the gravy over.