317 PUDDINGS AND PASTRY gently for five minutes, stirring it all the time. Separate the yolks and whites of the eggs. Let the boiled cornflour cool a little, then stir in the yolks of the eggs, the butter and sugar. Turn the mixture into a buttered pie dish ; beat the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth and mix them in lightly. Dust a little nutmeg over the top and bake the pudding in a moderate oven for about five to ten minutes. Serve it quickly before its souffld-like appearance goes. Note.—Ground rice may be used in the same way. If nutmeg is objected to, leave it out. Creme Frete Ingredients— One pint of hot milk. One whole egg and three extra yolks. Two well-rounded tablespoonfuls of cornflour. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Four tablespoonfuls of cold milk. One teaspoonful of butter. One teaspoonful of vanilla. Half a teacupful of castor sugar. Breadcrumbs : a few grains of salt. Frying fat: an inch of cinnamon. Method.—Boil the milk with the cinnamon until well flavoured. Mix the cornflour, flour, salt, and sugar smoothly and thinly with a little extra cold milk. Take out the cinnamon and pour the boiling milk on to the cornflour, etc., stirring well all the time until the mixture boils well. Let it cool slightly, then add the three beaten yolks of eggs. Pour the mixture into a double saucepan and let it cook for fifteen minutes, keeping it well stirred. Add a teaspoonful of butter and the same of vanilla, and turn the mixture into a deep buttered baking tin, the layer should be about an inch thick. Leave until cold. When very firm, sprinkle the pastry board with some crumbs and turn the cream on to it. Cut it into strips two and a half inches long and one wide, or into squares or diamonds. Roll these in crumbs, then dip them into beaten egg and then again in crumbs. Fry the shapes a golden brown in smoking hot fat. Drain them on paper, dust them with sugar, and serve them as quickly as possible. Baked Custard Pudding Ingredients— One pint of milk. Nutmeg. Three eggs. A few grains of salt. One tablespoonful of castor sugar. Method.—Butter a pie dish. Make the milk hot, but not boiling. Beat the eggs, pour on the hot milk, stirring them