FISH 169 egg. If more convenient use equal parts of fish and potato or even more of the latter. A Fish Cake higredients— The same as for fish cakes, only use one tablespdonful more butter, and only one raw egg, and no breadcrumbs or frying fat. Method.—Prepare the mixture as for fish cakes. But instead of shaping it into cakes, thickly butter either an enamelled tin plate, or fireproof dish. Press the mixture into it; smooth the top and score it with a fork. Put the tin plate on the top of the stove, or in a quick oven, and cook the cake till it is well browned underneath ; then if the top is not coloured enough, turn the cake over on to another plate and then slip it back again on to the hot one, this time with the pale side downwards. Serve it in the fireproof dish, but if a tin plate was used, slip the cake on to a clean hot dish to serve it. This is an excellent method for a busy household, as it saves the shaping, crumbing, etc. The mixture may be cooked in the plate or a frying pan entirely over the fire,—this is handy if there is no oven. Creamed Fish in Potato Border Ingredients— About one and a half breakfast- cupfuls of any cooked fish free from skin and bone. One large tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. About half a pint of milk or fish stock. Method.—Break the fish into large flakes. Melt the butter, add the flour smoothly, and pour in the milk or stock and stir over the fire till the sauce boils well. Then add the fish, hard- boiled egg cut in dice, and a careful seasoning of salt and pepper and strained lemon juice. Let all these heat thoroughly through. Make the potatoes very hot and arrange them as a border on a hot dish, patting it into a symmetrical form and then marking it prettily with a fork or knife. Heap the hot fish mixture neatly in the centre and serve immediately. Variation.—Should there be any unsweetened sauce, either white or brown, be sure and use it instead of making fresh. A border of well-boiled rice, macaroni, haricot beans, spinach, or merely sippets of toast, or fried bread, can be used instead of potato. Salted or smoked fish is delicious cooked as above. One hard-boiled egg. One teaspoonful of lemon juice. Salt: pepper. One and a half breakfastcupfuls of mashed potatoes.