THE COMPLETE COOK 2i6 carefully and cook it in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Serve in the casserole immediately it is cooked. Note.—Half cream and half white sauce could be used, but it somewhat alters the character of this dish. Chicken and rabbit are also excellent cooked by this recipe. Cassolettes of Veal Ingredients— For the cases— Two breakfastcupfuls of mashed potato. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. For the mixture— Four tablespoonfuls of minced cooked veal. Four tablespoonfuls of minced cooked ham. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. One level tablespoonful of flour. Method.—Mash the potatoes very finely. Stir into the warmed butter the beaten yolk of one egg, and salt and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire till hot, to cook the egg. Turn it on to a plate and leave it to cool. Shape it into small round cases about one and a half inches high, or press out the potato and stamp out the cases with a cutter. Beat the second egg, brush each case over with it, then roll it lightly in the breadcrumbs. Repeat this egging and crumbing a second time. With a small pastry cutter mark the centre of each case. Fry these cases a light brown in plenty of smoking hot fat. Drain each on paper and remove the marked centre with a knife, carefully scooping out some of the soft potato so as to leave a hollow case. To prepare the Mixture.—Mix the chopped veal, ham, and parsley. Melt the butter, add the shallot and flour and stir them over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Add the milk and stir the sauce until it boils. Let it cool slightly, then put in the meat, stir all together and season it carefully. Fill the cases neatly with the mixture, heaping it a little in the centre. Serve the cassolettes on a lace doyley, garnishing each with a small sprig of parsley or chervil. Note.—Any mixture of game, poultry, meat, or fish may be used, and bacon substituted for ham. Two eggs. White crumbs. Salt and pepper. One and a half gills of milk. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Half a teaspoonful of chopped onion or shallot. Salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste.