498 THE COMPLETE COOK Rock Cakes Ingredients— Three rounded teacupfuls of flour. Four rounded tablespoonfuls each of butter and castor sugar. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of currants or sultanas. One piece of candied peel. Method.—Sieve the flour and baking powder. Rub in the butter lightly and finely. Add the sugar, cleaned fruit, chopped peel, and nutmeg. Mix all these to a stiff paste with the beaten eggs. Knead lightly with the hand, then if too dry to bind, add a little milk. If the mixture is too soft, or the oven slow, the cakes become flat. Put small rough heaps of the mixture on to a greased baking sheet, and bake them quickly for about fifteen to twenty minutes. This quantity will make about sixteen cakes. Note.—If plainer cakes are required, use one egg and drip- ping instead of butter. Shortbread Four rounded tablespoonfuls of One rounded tablespoonful of flour. castor sugar. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of One or two strips of candied peel, butter. Method.—Mix the flour and sugar in a basin. Cut the butter into it in small pieces. Rub it lightly into the flour. Then continue rubbing it in, using more pressure, until the butter begins to bind the flour. Turn it on to a board and rub and knead it, until it no longer crumbles, but is a soft pliable paste, capable of being moulded without cracking. The time depends on the warmth of the room, weather, and butter, also the skill of the cook. Use no moisture for this kind of short- bread. Roll it out about three-quarters of an inch thick, either into one large, or several smaller rounds, or ovals. Lift them on to a greased paper on a baking sheet. Crimp the edges. Tie round outside the edges a band of buttered stiff paper to prevent burning, and prick the surface of the shortbread all over right through. Put some design in cut peel on the top, pressing it level with the cake, and bake exceedingly slowly for about three-quarters of an hour. Dust it with castor sugar and leave until cold before moving it. Note.—The paste may be rolled more thinly and stamped out with cutters into Shortbread Biscuits., if liked. Two eggs. One teaspoonful of baking powder. Half a teaspoonful of grated nut- meg. Milk, if needed.