CLEAR SOUPS 127 Method.—Wash and prepare the vegetables, slice them very :hinly and cut them into long fine shreds about an inch and a quarter long. Use only the orange-coloured part of the carrot and eave the peas whole. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add all ;he vegetables, except the shredded lettuce and tarragon, toss :hem gently in the butter over the fire till they colour slightly. Add to them about a pint of ordinary stock, the sugar, and 1 little salt, and let the vegetables cook in it gently till they ire tender; skim off all grease as it rises. For the last five minutes add the lettuce and tarragon. When the clear soup is rhoroughly hot, strain out this Julienne garnish and add about a areakfastcup of it to the hot clear soup. Let it reboil, season ,t if necessary, and remove any scum and serve it in a hot lureen. Note.—Cooked asparagus points may be added when in season. If fresh peas and beans are not obtainable, use the preserved ones or leave them out. Clear Soup with Macaroni {Consomme aux Macaroni) Ingredients— One quart of clear soup. About half a teacupful of grated A breakfastcupful of cooked Parmesan cheese. macaroni. Method.—Break the macaroni into half-inch lengths. Boil it ior about three-quarters of an hour, or till it is tender ; in boiling slightly salted stock or water the former is best. Drain it, rinse it well in hot water to separate the pieces. Boil the clear soup, slip in the macaroni, ascertain if the seasoning is correct, ind serve in a hot tureen. Hand the grated cheese separately. Clear Soup with Vermicelli {Consomme aux Vermicelli) Proceed as for the above soup, using a teacupful of vermicelli aroken into fairly short lengths. It will take about eight minutes only to boil. Clear Soup with Spaghetti {Consomme aux Spaghetti) Proceed as for Vermicelli Soup. Dlear Soup with Italian Paste {Consommi aux pAtes dItalie) Proceed as for Macaroni Soup, using about three large ;ablespoonfuls of the paste and cooking it for about fifteen minutes in stock or water.