THE COMPLETE COOK 2I8 the mixture through a wire sieve. Take great care with the seasoning or the quenelles will be insipid. Throw a morsel of the mixture into boiling water, cook it for two or three minutes, taste it, and if too solid and firm beat into the uncooked mixture a little more cream or stock. The consistency is of the greatest importance. Slightly butter a shallow pan. Dip two dessert- spoons into boiling water, fill one with some quenelle mixture, smooth the rounded top with a knife dipped in boiling water, scoop it out with the second spoon (see Illustration) so that the quenelle is egg-shaped. Lay each quenelle as it is shaped in the pan. Fill it three-parts full of boiling water. Lay a piece of greased paper over them. Poach them very slowly for about fifteen minutes. Baste them now and then with the boiling water. Lift them out on to a hot clean cloth to drain. Arrange them on a hot dish, if liked, on a very low bed of mashed potatoes. Pour a good white sauce over and round them. Put a few hot cooked peas, tossed in a little butter, down the centre, and a light decoration of chopped truffle or parsley on each quenelle. Quenelles of Chicken Make exactly as Quenelles of Veal, using raw chicken in place of veal. Quenelles of Rabbit Proceed as for Quenelles of Veal, using raw rabbit. To Prepare Sweetbreads Wash them, and soak them in cold salted water for two hours. Put them into a stewpan with enough cold salted water to cover them and add a squeeze of lemon juice. Let them simmer gently for about eight minutes. When blanched, lift them out and lay them in cold water again to become white and firm. Then remove all gristle and fat and membranes, but not the skin. They can then be pressed until cold, before their cooking is finished, or cooked at once, as the recipe may direct. Calf’s heart sweetbreads are expensive, but lamb’s throat sweetbreads are quite inexpensive and often will answer quite as well, unless a large well-shaped one is requii'ed to serve whole, or in large slices.