THE COMPLETE COOK 456 more butter. Cut the bread and butter thinly and trim off all crusts before spreading on the mixture, otherwise so much of it is wasted. Press two slices together and cut them into neat shapes. Arrange them on a lace paper and garnish them with a sprig of parsley. Note.—Any game or poultry can be used, and tongue may be substituted for ham, or only chicken used, if preferred. Steamed Breast Ing7'edients— Half the breast of a raw fowl. A small piece of fresh butter. of Chicken A tablespoonful of well-cooked spinach. Salt and pepper. Method.—With a sharp knife remove half the breast of the chicken, then carefully take the skin from off it. Butter a plate, lay on the piece of chicken, sprinkle it with a little salt and pepper and cover it with another plate. Place the plate over a pan of boiling water, choosing a pan on the top of which the plate will just fit. Let the water boil fast for about thirty-five to forty minutes, then try a small piece of the chicken to see it is quite tender ; this is an important point. If it is, it is cooked enough; if not, steam it a little longer. Then serve it on a hot plate, and pour round it any essence which may have escaped, during cooking, on to the plate. Arrange the spinach neatly on the plate, and serve very hot. Note.—Any game or poultry is specially nourishing cooked in this way. Stewed Chicken higredietits— Half a young chicken. One gill of water. One gill of milk. One tablespoonful of cream. One stick of celery. Quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped onion. One level tablespoonful of flour. Salt and pepper. Method.—Cut the chicken into neat small joints, taking off all the outer skin. Put it in a stewing pan with the water, milk, the chopped onion, and celery, and a little salt. Let these stew gently in the oven for one and a half hours, keeping the cover on the jar. Mix the flour smoothly with a little extra cold milk, add it to the chicken, etc. Let it come to the boil so as to cook the flour and thicken the sauce, then season it carefully, and add the cream. Arrange the pieces of chicken on a hot dish and strain the sauce over.