THE COMPLETE COOK 39^ pour in the milk, lift and draw together the edges of the cloth, and drain and squeeze the curd quite dry. This curd is the most nutritious part of the milk and is worth saving. Put it into a small basin with the cream and butter, and mix it to a smooth paste with a spoon ; add seasoning to taste. It may be shaped like butter, or served just broken up lightly with a fork. It ought to be moist enough not to crack when handled; if too soft put it aside for an hour in a cool place. If scalded too long, the curd becomes very hard and brittle. It is best freshly made, and is considered excellent by many spread on fresh ginger-bread. Golden Ingredients— About a breakfastcupful of thin small pieces of any rich cheese. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two tablespoonfuls of milk, cream, or ale. Buck Two raw eggs. One teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Salt : pepper. Hot buttered toast. Method.—Heat the butter and milk, or ale, in a stewpan or chafing dish. Add the cheese and Worcester sauce. Stir well over a slow fire until the cheese is nearly melted, then pour in the eggs well beaten together. Whisk or stir this mixture over a slow heat until it is a creamy, soft mass just lightly set. Season it and pour at once on pieces of prepared toast. Garnish them with parsley and serve immediately. Gruyere Ramekins Ingredients— Two rounded tablespoonfuls of Two tablespoonfuls of Gruyere Vienna flour. cheese in dice. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of Two eggs. butter. One teacupful of hot water. Salt: cayenne. Method.—Dry the flour slowly on a tin in the oven, then sieve and measure it. Put the water and butter into a sauce- pan; when they boil turn in all the flour at once. Take the pan off the fire and beat the mixture until smooth. Let it cool slightly, then beat in the eggs thoroughly one by one. Season it somewhat highly. Grease a baking sheet. Put small round balls of the mixture about the size of a large walnut on the tin, not too close together. Use either two