THE COMPLETE COOK 254 toast and pour over any juice there may be in the paper. Garnish with a sprig or two of well-washed watercress. Note.—The watercress may be sprinkled with a few drops of good salad oil and the best vinegar or lemon juice. Some like a little good, clear gravy with this dish, also bread sauce. Chaudfroid of Quails Ingredients— Four boned quails. A small bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf. Half a pint of good brown stock. Three tablespoonfuls of sherry. Half a small carrot, turnip and onion. A gill of aspic jelly. For the Stuffing— Half a pound of calfs liver. Quarter of a pound of bacon. One small onion. Half a small carrot. A bunch of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf. One tablespoonful of chopped truffle. Salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Method.—Cut the bacon, liver, onion, and carrot into small dice. Cook the bacon in a pan over the fire for a few minutes, then put in the liver, herbs, and vegetables and cook them for ten minutes. Take out the herbs, and pound the rest of the ingredients in a mortar. Rub the mixture through a sieve, add the truffle and season it carefully with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Remove all bones except the leg bone from the quails, or get the poulterer to do so. Next stuff each bird with the stuffing, making it into as natural and neat a shape as possible. Wrap each in a piece of buttered paper and put them in a stewpan with the stock, herbs, onion, carrot, and turnip, the bones of the birds and the sherry. Put the lid on the pan and let all cook steadily for about half an hour. Put the quails on one plate with another plate over them, on this place weights at equal distance apart and leave them until cold. Strain the stock and skim it very carefully. Boil it with the lid off the pan until it is reduced to the consistency of glaze. Brush each bird over with this, let it get cold, then give each a second coating of glaze. When this is set, pour over each a little melted aspic jelly, and, if liked, decorate them with truffle stamped out into tiny fancy shapes. Arrange the quails on a bed of fresh salad, with a garnish of cut cucumber and chopped aspic. Note.—The truffle may be omitted from the farce if wished.