THE COMPLETE COOK 170 The addition of about one tablespoonful of grated cheese to the sauce is thought excellent by many, or that amount of cheese and the same of fresh breadcrumbs may be shaken over the surface of the fish, after which the dish must be placed in the oven till the cheese browns nicely, unless a salamander is used. Fish Cutlets Ingredients— One level breakfastcupful of cooked chopped fish. Two hard-boiled eggs. One raw egg. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One teacupful of fish stock. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped parsley. One teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Seasoning : a slice of onion. Breadcrumbs : frying fat. Method.—Put all the fish bones and trimmings into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover them. Add a sprig or two of parsley, one slice of onion, and a little salt. Boil these gently for twenty minutes, then strain off this fish stock. See that all skin and bones are removed from the fish,—this is most easily done when it is still hot. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour smoothly, add the hot fish stock gradually, stirring all the time. Then boil this “ panada ” till it leaves the sides of the pan without sticking to them. Mix in the fish, chopped hard-boiled eggs, parsley, anchovy essence, and season- ing. Turn the mixture on to a plate to cool a little. Then flour the hands and shape the mixture into even-sized cutlets, resembling lobster cutlets. Roll these in the crumbs, then brush them over with beaten egg and again cover them with crumbs. Flatten these down so as to give a smooth surface, and fry a few cutlets at a time in plenty of smoking hot fat. When cooked drain them on paper, and insert a short piece of parsley stalk in the pointed end of each. Serve them on a hot dish with a lace paper under them, and a garnish of cut lemon and fried parsley. Note.—Any kind of cooked fish can be used for these, and if there is any suitable thick sauce left over, use it instead of making fresh. Fish Pie Ingredients— One heaped breakfastcupful of any kind of cooked fish. Two heaped breakfastcupfuls of mashed potatoes. Two tablespoonfuls of butter. Two level tablespoonfuls of flour. One or two hard-boiled eggs. One pint of milk or fish stock. .Salt and pepper.