158 THE COMPLETE COOK turtle are quite soft, skimming it carefully. Next strain the stock into a basin and cut the turtle into neat fairly large squares. Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, add the ham cut in dice and fry it a light brown, before it is sufficiently coloured shake in the flour and fry that a light brown also. Remove all grease from the turtle stock, then add it to the flour, etc.; stir it over the fire until it boils and thickens. Let it simmer gently for half an hour, removing all scum as it rises. If the colour is not dark enough add a small piece of meat glaze. Add the wine, brandy, salt, and pepper and lemon juice to taste. Add the pieces of turtle and serve in a hot tureen. Note.—This is a much less costly soup than it would be if made from fresh turtle, and it is generally used, except for City banquets and suchlike. FISH SOUPS Lobster Ingredients— One lobster. Three rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of flour. Two quarts of fish stock, or milk and water. Half a gill of cream. One glass of sherry. Bisque Two teaspoonfuls of anchovy essence. Half a lemon. Half a carrot. Half a turnip. One shallot. Two sticks of celery. A bunch of parsley and herbs. ■ Salt: cayenne. Method.—Wash the lobster, cut it up, remove the meat, and save that from the claws for the garnish. Slice the vegetables, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the vegetables, the bunch of herbs, the finely pounded lobster shell and flour. Stir these over the fire for five minutes. Add the stock and stir till the soup boils. Put in the rougher pieces of lobster meat finely chopped. Let the soup simmer for half an hour, keep it well skimmed. Strain it through a fine sieve. Rinse out the pan, pour back the soup, add the cream, sherry, anchovy essence, seasoning, and a few drops of strained lemon juice. Re-heat without boiling it. Add the claw meat cut in small dice and serve the soup in a hot tureen. Note.—Wine and cream may be left out. About six large oysters cut in quarters are also sometimes added. For an inexpensive soup use a tin of lobster.