222 THE COMPLETE COOK suited to the kind of meat being used. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the strained stock gradually, stirring it all the time until it boils. Cool the sauce for a minute, then add the meat, etc., and season the mixture carefully. It should be of quite a soft creamy consistency, so, should the meat be particularly dry, a little more stock, milk, bottled sauce, or tomato pulp, etc., must be added. Turn the mixture on to a plate until cold. Mark it into even divisions and shape each into round balls, ovals, pear or cork shapes. Flour the hands a little if the mixture sticks. Roll each croquette in the fine dry breadcrumbs, then brush them over with beaten egg, next cover again with crumbs. Fry the croquettes in plenty of smoking fat until they are a bright golden brown. Drain them on paper and serve neatly heaped on a lace paper on a hot dish. Garnish them with fried parsley. A tureen of hot sauce may be served with them if liked. Note.—Pay great attention to the flavouring and consistency of the mixture, or croquettes are most uninteresting. Any variety of poultry, game, or meat is suitable, or two or more kinds mixed. Do not make fresh sauce if there is any left over. For a change roll the egged croquettes in vermicelli, broken rather small, instead of crumbs. For white meats such as chicken, veal, rabbit, and pheasant, use a white sauce, and a little cream is a great improvement, so also are chopped cooked mushrooms, truffle, etc. Should the meat be very dark, egg and crumb the croquettes twice, or the dark brown will show through the crumbs and spoil the appearance. Hash of Cooked Meat Ingredients— About a pound of cooked meat. Two small onions. One small carrot and turnip. A bunch of parsley, herbs, and bay leaf. Four allspice. Two tomatoes. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter or dripping. One rounded tablespoonful of flour. Three-quarters of a pint of cold stock or water. Salt: pepper : nutmeg. Sippets of toast or croutons. Method.—Make stock of the chopped bones and rough pieces of the joint; with the stock, one onion, the rest of the prepared vegetables, and allspice. This should simmer for one hour and then be strained. Chop the second onion finely and fry it and the flour a fairly dark brown in the dripping. Add