CARE OF KITCHEN UTENSILS 9 have been first washed in hot soda water. Soda should not be used for wooden goods, as it tends to make them yellow. Sand whitens wood, but it must be most carefully washed off after- wards. If dough has to be scraped off boards, use the back, not blade of the knife, and scrape with the grain ; if done otherwise the surface becomes roughened. A capital Scouring Paste for all wood, tins, and general cleaning purposes is: One pound of soft soap. One pound of powdered whiting. One pound of silver sand. One quart of boiling water. A little salt. Put all these in an old saucepan, boil, and stir well for ten minutes. Cool a little and pour into a jar or tin for use. It will keep a long time. Never clean dish-covers, or anything that comes in contact with food, with paraffin. Sieves need most careful drying, otherwise hair sieves will mildew and iron-wire sieves rust. Copper-wire sieves are so troublesome to keep in order and so dangerous if neglected, that it is wisest not to use them at all. Stains and burnt particles of food on crockery, can be removed by soaking it first, then rubbing it well with a piece of woollen material dipped in sand or salt. Brushes and dish-cloths should be kept perfectly clean, and dried when possible in the open air. Glass should be washed in a wooden bowl, kept for that purpose only, and with cups and saucers, etc., should be washed in the pantry. Never wash pudding, jelly, or any other strain- ing cloths with soap, or of course send them to the laundress. When done with, place them at once in clean hot water, with a little borax if greasy, this is better than soda. Wash them in several waters. Rinse them well and hang them up till perfectly dry. When assured on this important point, fold them neatly and keep them in a dry drawer. Any good scouring soap will remove the stains off knives, etc., after which they must be well washed. Do not wash the insides of metal tea and coffee pots with soapy water. Rinse them well with clean water and rub off any brown marks with a dry cloth. Never use a ragged or fluffy dish-cloth. The pieces are sucked into the pipe and cause serious obstruction. A stout