156 THE COMPLETE COOK the broth seem too thick, add a little boiling water, but it is correct for it to be a thick broth. Note.—A greater or lesser variety of vegetables can be used, and a larger or smaller amount of each according to the thick- ness desired. Rice can be used instead of barley, and takes less time to soften, and lamb instead of mutton. Scrag end of neck of mutton is cheaper than the middle part, but it is so bony that it is not nearly so economical as it first appears. Sheep’s Head Broth Ingredients— One sheep’s head prepared and split. Three quarts of cold water. One carrot, turnip, and onion. Two sticks of celery. Three tablespoonfuls of pearl barley. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of fine oatmeal. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Salt: pepper. Method.—Remove the brains from the head, lay them in cold water, and save them for some savoury or entrde. Wash the head and tongue thoroughly. Cut away all small bones from the nostrils, remove the eyes and any hairy portions. Soak the head and tongue in enough tepid salted water to cover them for one or two hours. Then put the head and tongue in a saucepan, add the three quarts of cold water and a little salt. Bring these to boiling point and skim very thoroughly. Add the vegetables, cut in large pieces, and the washed pearl barley. Simmer the broth for three and a half hours, skimming it now and then. Then lift out the head and tongue, cut the latter into neat dice after skinning it. Cut some of the best parts of the meat off the head into half-inch dice, also some of the vegetables, save these and a little of the barley. Rub as much of the rest of the head meat, barley, and vegetables as possible through a rather coarse wire sieve. Moisten it now and then with some of the broth. Mix this sieved meat, etc., smoothly with the strained broth. Reboil it, add the oatmeal after first mixing it smoothly and thinly with a little cold water. Stir the soup till it boils. Add the barley, dice of meat, and vegetables and seasoning. Let it simmer for ten minutes. Add the parsley and serve with toast. Note.—If more convenient, do not rub the meat, etc., through a sieve, but cut up as much of them as seems desirable, and add it to the broth. Rice can be used instead of pearl barley. Lamb’s instead of sheep’s head.