255 GAME Snipe Pudding Ingredients— Six snipe. Half a pound of lean veal. One onion. One tablespoonful of flour. One tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Four mushrooms. A bunch of parsley and herbs. A piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Half a pint of good brown stock. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. Salt and pepper. About a pound ot suet pastry. Lemon juice. Method.—Cut the snipe in halves and sprinkle each with salt and pepper and lemon juice. Melt the butter, when it is hot fry in it the thinly sliced onion and flour. Add the chopped mushrooms, parsley, and the herbs tied together. Fry these for a few minutes, then add the stock. Boil gently for ten minutes, then take out the herbs, add the glaze, and season it carefully. Well grease a pudding basin, roll the suet crust out to a quarter of an inch thick. Line the basin carefully with it. Put in the veal cut in dice, the pieces of snipe, and the gravy. Wet the edge of the pastry, cover the top with a round of it, pressing the edges together. Tie a scalded and floured cloth over the top, taking care to make a pleat across the top of the pudding. Place it in a pan of fast boiling water, and boil it for two and a half hours. Serve it in the basin with a serviette pinned.round it. Hand with it a tureen of good gravy, made from the giblets and trimmings of the birds. Note.—Partridges may be used in the same way. If liked a glass of claret may be added to the sauce in the pudding. Hashed Venison Ingredieyits— One pound of cooked venison. A piece of glaze the size of a One pint of good brown sauce. walnut. One tablespoonful of red currant A glass of port wine. or rowan jelly. Salt and pepper. Method.—Cut the meat into thin slices. Put the sauce in a pan with the glaze, jelly, and wine. Bring these gently to boiling point. Cool the sauce for a minute. Put in the slices of meat and let them heat very gently in the sauce from fifteen to twenty minutes. On no account must the gravy be allowed to boil, or the meat will be tough. Arrange the slices on a hot dish, season the sauce carefully, pour it over, and garnish the dish with neat sippets of fried bread. Hand red currant jelly with the hash.