MEAT, GAME, AND POULTRY SOUPS 157 Turkey Ingredients— The remains of a roast turkey. Two quarts of cold stock. A piece of ham bone, or a slice or two of raw or cooked ham or bacon. One onion. Soup One tablespoonful of dripping. Two tablespoonfuls of flour. One tablespoonful of walnut ketchup. A bunch of herbs and parsley. Salt : pepper. Method.—Remove any stuffing from the turkey, as it is often too strongly flavoured to improve the soup. Chop the bones small after taking off as much meat as possible. Put the meat and bones into a saucepan, with the stock, herbs, and ham, add a little salt and boil it steadily for two hours. Keep it well skimmed. Then strain the soup, take out the bones and herbs and rub as much of the meat as possible through a wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan. Melt the dripping, put in the chopped onion and flour and fry these a good brown; add the soup gradually and stir it till it boils. Put back the sieved turkey meat, add seasoning and the ketchup. Let the soup simmer gently by the side of the fire for ten minutes, skimming off all grease as it rises. Strain the soup into a hot tureen through a rather coarse gravy strainer. Serve with it toast or croutons. Note.—If it is too much trouble to rub the flesh of the bird through the sieve, chop the meat very finely and add it after thickening the soup. Turtle Ingredients— Half a pound of sun-dried turtle. One pound of lean beef. One pound of knuckle of veal. Quarter of a pound of lean ham. Two and a half quarts of stock. Four level tablespoonfuls of flour. Two rounded tablespoonfuls of butter. Two sherry glasses of Marsala. Half a glass of brandy. A bunch of parsley, thyme, mar- Soup joram, sweet basil, and one bay leaf. One carrot, turnip, and onion. Two sticks of celery. Four cloves : four allspice. A blade of mace. A dozen peppercorns. Salt and pepper. Half a lemon. Half a teaspoonful of anchovy essence. Method.—Wash the pieces of turtle thoroughly in cold water. Put them in a basin of cold water and let them stand for four days, changing the water each day. Next place the turtle in a saucepan with the stock, veal, beef, and the vegetables washed, prepared, and cut in pieces. Add also the herbs tied together, the anchovy essence and the spice tied up in muslin. Boil all these slowly from eight to nine hours, or until the pieces of