HOW TO ADAPT AND WHAT TO SUBSTITUTE 85 Apparatus needed Substitute Pastry brush Flour or sugar dredger . Frying basket . Wire sieve Electro or fireproof scallop shells Ice tub .... Freezing pot Wooden spatular Ice pick .... Rolling pin Double saucepan Tammy cloth . Salamander Dutch oven Wire griller Pretty moulds . Basins too large for boiled puddings Saucepan stands Chopping boards Pastry board . Colander .... Trussing skewer Knife board Jelly stand and bag . Stockpot . . . . Kitchen stove, owing to burst boiler,frozen pipes, no water in cistern, etc. Saute pan.... A firm quill feather, crust of bread or a piece of dough rolled up. Paper becomes sodden. Any clean small tin with a few holes punched in the lid. A penny tin fish slice, iron spoon, or a skewer. A coarse gravy strainer, or fine colander ; for bread crumbs grate the bread on a grater. A few of the deep natural scallop shells from the fishmonger. A zinc bath or pail. A large milk can. Palette, or strong paper knife, or iron or electro spoon. Coarse darning needle or„, hat pin, gently hammered in. Empty glass bottle, if very light, half filled with cold water, the latter also aids in cooling the pastry. Pour the custard, etc., into a jug or a large empty jam jar, and stand this in a saucepan half full of boiling water. Rub the puree or sauce through a hair sieve or fine gravy strainer. Heat an old shovel till nearly red hot and leave a few red cinders in it, or even a red- hot poker will colour small surfaces. A wire griller. A Dutch oven or toasting fork, only the latter needs holding. Pudding basins, glasses that have contained preserved tongues, brawn, etc. Pack up with bread and remove it before serving. Penny flat iron stands, small wooden box lids, or brown paper. Clean stout wooden box lids. Top of well-scrubbed wooden table, or stone or slate slab in larder. Wire sieve. Use coarse needle and fine string. Two large corks, one to rub on the powder with, the other for polishing. Clean tea-cloth tied over legs of an inverted chair, the basin slipped under the bars on the seat. Large saucepan or boiler. Spirit lamp or oil stove, if no gas is obtain- able. A frying pan.