JAMS AND PICKLES 535 enough boiling vinegar to well cover them. When cold, cork the jar tightly, and either cover it with a piece of bladder, or resin it down. Keep from two to three weeks before using them. They should have a brownish, almost semi-transparent appearance, and the vinegar quite thick. Pickled Onions Ingi'edien is— Small silver pickling onions. Two teaspoonfuls of allspice. Allow to each quart of vinegar Two level teaspoonfuls of salt. Two tablespoonfuls of black Three bay leaves. peppercorns. Method.—Choose quite dry onions. Remove the two outer skins with a silver knife,—a steel one causes them to turn black. It is easier to peel them in a basin of cold water ; this removes a little of the strong essential oil, helps to whiten them, and saves much pain to the eyes. They must be dried lightly when taken from the water. Boil the vinegar with the spices until it is well flavoured, then let it get cold. Put the onions in wide- necked bottles or jars. Fill them up with vinegar, adding a little spice to each bottle. Cork, or tie down, and keep for a month, when they will be ready for use. Pickled Walnuts Ingredients— Young green walnuts. One tablespoonful of allspice. To each quart of vinegar allow One level teaspoonful of cloves. Two tablespoonfuls of black One level teaspoonful of salt. peppercorns. AIethod.—V\!\'pe the nuts in a cloth, then prick each all over with a darning needle. Put them into an earthenware jar and cover them with a strong cold brine, made by boiling half a pound of common salt in each quart of water required. Pour this over them and leave them for a week, turning them well each day. Then pour off this brine and replace it with fresh, and leave them for two more days. Then place the walnuts on trays and leave them in the sun until they are black; they should be turned occasionally. Pack them into wide-mouthed bottles, and boil sufficient vinegar to cover them, with the required amount of spice, until it is well flavoured. Leave it until cold, then strain it and fill up the bottles. Cork tightly and seal. They are best kept for at least three months before using them. The walnuts should be so young that they can be pierced right through with a needle.