316 THE COMPLETE COOK moulds or into scalded and floured cloths. Boil them for four hours. Note.—If preferred, the puddings may be steamed ; in that case they will take much longer to cook, but they will be lighter. Coburg Ingredients— Three breakfastcupfuls of milk. One teacupful of rice. One breakfastcupful of boiling water. One egg. Pudding Four tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. One level teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. One tablespoonful of butter. Half a level teaspoonful of salt. Method.—Well wash the rice, sprinkle it into the boiling water and cook it gently until all the water is absorbed. Heat the milk, in a double saucepan if possible, add the half-cooked rice and boil it gently until it is perfectly soft and of a thick creamy consistency. Should it become too thick before it is really soft, add more milk. Beat the egg until very light, add half the sugar to it. When the rice is cooked, whisk the egg in at once, a little at a time. Then add the salt and a piece of the butter the size of a walnut. Turn the mixture into the dish in which it is to be served. Mix the rest of the sugar with the cinnamon. Sprinkle this evenly over the top of the rice. Put the rest of the butter in small pieces over the top of the pudding just before it is required. Place the pudding in front of the fire, or in the oven for a second or two, when the butter, etc., ^^ill form a delicious sauce over the surface of the pudding. ^ Note.—Tapioca, sago, or semolina can be used instead of tife rice. Small pieces of red or black currant jelly instead of the butter and sugar. The jelly requires heating to make it flow over the pudding. Cornflour or Arrowroot Pudding Ingredients— Two level tablespoonfuls of corn- Three teaspoonfuls of castor sugar. flour or arrowroot. A lump of butter the size of a Half a pint of milk. walnut. Two eggs. A dust of nutmeg. Method.—Mix the cornflour or arrowroot thinly and smoothly with a little cold milk. Boil the remainder; when it comes to boiling point pour it on to the mixed cornflour and stir it well. Pour it back into the saucepan and boil it