461 INVALID COOKERY gelatine in two or three tablespoonfuls of hot water, strain it into the custard. Sweeten and flavour it and pour it into small moulds. Leave till cold, then turn out carefully. Note.—This is most nutritious, as well as being agreeable to take. Steamed Custard Ingredients— One gill of milk. One teaspoonful of castor sugar. One whole egg and one extra yolk. Vanilla. Method.—Beat the eggs lightly but well together without frothing them. Boil the milk. When it has cooled slightly pour it on to the eggs, add the sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Well butter some small cups or moulds. Strain in the custard and twist a piece of buttered paper over the top. Steam the custards very slowly till they are firm; if they are cooked at all quickly they will be watery and full of holes. When they are sufficiently cooked, let the custards stand for a minute or two, then turn them carefully out. Serve them either plain, or with stewed fruit or jam. Note.—This mixture can be baked, if so wished. If a particularly nourishing dish is required use half a gill of cream and half a gill of milk. Invalid’s Trifle Ingrediejits— Two penny sponge cakes. One whole egg and one extra A little red or black currant yolk. jelly. Half a gill of cream. One glass of sherry. Castor sugar to taste. One gill of milk. Method.—Cut the cakes in halves lengthways, spread each with a little jam, press the pieces together, and cut them through again lengthways so as to have four finger-shaped sandwiches. Arrange these in a pretty dish and pour the sherry over them. Next beat up the egg and yolk, boil the milk, when it has cooled slightly pour it on to the eggs, stirring them all the time. Put this custard into a jug, place it in a pan of boiling water, let the water boil steadily until the custard thickens, stirring it all the time. Sweeten it to taste, and when cold pour it over the cakes. Whip the cream stiffly, sweeten it slightly, and heap it roughly over the custard. Note.—Any plain cake without fruit will do, and it is of no