VEAL 215 VEAL Calf’s Head with Maitre d’Hdtel Sauce Ingredients— Half a small calf’s head. Cold water to cover. One small onion. Half a small carrot and turnip. Two sticks of celery. A small bunch of parsley and herbs. Six peppercorns. Two cloves : three allspice. Salt and pepper. Half a pint of Maitre d’Hotel sauce. Method.—Clean the head thoroughly. Remove the brains and lay them aside in cold water. Put the head to soak in cold salted water for two hours. Next put it in a saucepan with cold water to cover it and a little salt. Let this boil for ten minutes, then pour off and throw away this water. Add more cold water, enough to cover the head, add a little salt, the cleaned vegetables cut in large pieces, the spice tied up in a small piece of muslin, and the bunch of herbs. Let these simmer very gently for about three to four hours. Skim it well. Lift out the head, cut off all the meat in neat large pieces, arrange the required quantity on a hot dish. Pour the hot sauce over and serve very quickly. Note.—The tongue and brains may be used for other dishes. The latter are suitable for invalids, but the texture of the tongue is too close. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped Salt: pepper, shallot. Method.—Wash, wipe, and cut the meat into half-inch dice. Remove all skin or sinews. Melt the butter in a sautd pan, put in the meat and fry it quickly until lightly tinged with brown, add the shallot and also colour that slightly. Sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, add the potatoes cut in cubes like the meat, and turn the mixture gently over the fire for five minutes, —on no account break the potatoes. Pour off as much of the butter as possible and add the cream and tomato pulp, the latter made by rubbing some tomatoes through a fine sieve. Pour all these ingredients into a casserole; season the mixture Veal k la Carmen Ingredients— One pound of fillet of veal. One pound of cooked new potatoes. One tablespoonful of butter. A breakfastcupful of cream. Two tablespoonfuls of tomato pulp or sauce.