THE COMPLETE COOK 358 Method.—Put the milk on to boil. Mix the cornflour smoothly and thinly with a little cold milk ; add it to the boiling milk, stirring it all the time. Boil and stir it for five minutes, then add the sugar and gelatine dissolved in about two tablespoonfuls of water. Cool the mixture for a minute or so, then stir in the beaten yolks of eggs and cook them without boiling for a minute. Add whatever flavouring is desired, and pour half the custard into a basin and colour it a pretty pink. Strain this and the plain yellow custard on to separate flat dishes; the layers should be about a third of an inch thick. Let these set, then stamp them out in diamond shapes or dice. While the custard is setting rinse a mould with cold water and pour in and set a layer of the clear jelly on the top of it, next arrange in as symmetrically as possible a ring of the custard shapes, then pour in and set another layer of jelly, and continue these layers until the mould is full; the last must be of jelly. Arrange the coloured custard tastefully and see that the layers of jelly are of the same depth, or else the effect is spoilt. When cold unmould and decorate with chopped clear jelly. Note.—If creams have been made and any of the mixture can be spared, set some of it as directed on dishes and use instead of making a fresh cornflour custard. It is a good way of using up the remains left over of a cream, for it need not be cut into regular shapes, if irregular ones are more con- venient. Ingredients— Port Wine Jelly Three-quarters of a pint of port wine. One gill of water. The rind and juice of one lemon. Twelve lumps of sugar. Ten sheets of French gelatine. Two cloves. Cochineal. Method.—Dissolve the gelatine in the water, with the thinly pared lemon rind, lemon juice, sugar, and cloves. Let all these stand by the side of the fire for ten minutes. Then strain them into the port wine and colour the jelly with cochineal, as gelatine always spoils the colour of the wine. Pour it into a mould rinsed with cold water, and leave to set. Note.—Less wine and more water and lemon juice may be used, if preferred. Do not use the sediment in the bottle of port, or if it escapes, strain the jelly through muslin to filter it out again.