JELLIES 355 Clear Lemon Jelly Ingredients— Half a pint of lemon juice. One and a half pints of water. Twenty sheets of French gelatine. The rinds of four or six lemons. Method.—Make and clarify Jelly. One teacupful and a half of loaf sugar. One inch of cinnamon stick. Four cloves. Two shells and whites of eggs, as directed for Clear Wine Macedoine of Fruits {Illustrated) Ingredients— One and a half pints of clear wine jelly. One banana. Eight or ten black grapes. Eight or ten white grapes. Half a dozen strawberries. Half a dozen dessert cherries. A tablespoonful of shredded almonds. A tablespoonful of shredded pistachio nuts. Method.—Warm the jelly till just liquid. Rinse a mould out with cold water; fix it firmly in a colander containing some chipped ice. Pour in some jelly to the depth of half an inch, and let it set. Meantime, stalk the grapes and strawberries, stalk and stone the cherries, peel and slice the banana in rings. Arrange a pretty design of various fruits and shredded nuts in the top of the mould, add a little more jelly, and let it set to hold the fruit firmly: then add enough jelly to well cover it. Let this set, then add another layer of mixed fruits, then more jelly, and so on till the mould is full. Let the mould become perfectly set and cold, on ice, if possible, then dip it into warm water and turn it carefully out on to a pretty dish. Put a border of chopped jelly round. Note.—Any mixture of fruits can be used, the more variety the better. In winter Tangerine oranges, or bottled or tinned kinds are handy. Greengages, peaches, apricots, etc., stoned and cut into neat pieces are excellent when in season. Any clear jelly of any flavour is suitable. Set in small moulds, the effect is very good, or in a border mould with the central space filled with whipped and flavoured cream. Maraschino Jelly Make a pint of clear lemon or wine jelly, using rather more water and less lemon juice. If sherry is used, it should be of a very pale tint. After it is clarified add about one