THE COMPLETE COOK 366 and slip out the stone as neatly as possible. Lay the prunes on a flat dish, first selecting about six of the best shaped of them and lay them aside. Pour a little slightly warmed jelly on to the prunes, turning them about in it until they are coated all over. Slightly melt the rest of the jelly; when it is just beginning to restiffen, stir in gently the jelly-coated prunes, and turn all into a wet pudding basin, or mould. Unless the prunes are first coated the juice spoils the rest of the lemon jelly. When cold, turn out the shape on to a dish and heap over it the cream whipped, sweetened, and flavoured. Cut little stalks from the angelica, insert a stalk into each of the reserved prunes, and garnish the cream with them. Gateau of Prunes Ingredients— Two breakfastcupfuls of prunes. Two breakfastcupfuls of water. Seven sheets of gelatine. Three level tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Method.—Decorate a border mould with clear jelly and shredded almonds. Wash, then soak the prunes overnight in the pint of water. Next day stew them until quite soft in the same water, adding the sugar, grated lemon rind, and strained lemon juice. Strain out the prunes and save the syrup. Cut the prunes in halves, remove and crack a few of the stones and add the kernels to the fruit. Dissolve the gelatine in the prune syrup and strain it on to the fruit. Mix all well, and when the mixture is beginning to stiffen, pour it at once into the mould. When it is set, dip the mould into tepid water and turn out the shape. Heap whipped and flavoured cream in the centre, and a pretty finish is given by putting round a border of chopped jelly. Note,—Vanilla, brandy, or wine can be added as flavouring, if wished. One lemon. About one gill of clear jelly. A few blanched almonds. One gill of cream. Riz a rimperatrice Prepare a cream as directed for Bavaroise Cream, but add to the hot custard one teacupful of well-boiled Carolina rice. Stir the mixture now and then until it is beginning to set, then pour it into the mould. Unless this is done the rice will sink. The rice should be boiled in milk and be very soft.