440 THE COMPLETE COOK Method.—Break the egg into a small basin, add the butter, beef essence, and seasoning. Place the basin over a saucepan of boiling water, which must be kept at a gentle simmering heat. Beat the egg lightly till it tastes hot and has slightly thickened. Serve at once in a custard glass, or give in spoonfuls. It is excellent when nourishment is needed quickly. Variations.—Chicken or mutton broth, wine, brandy, milk, or cream, may be used instead of the beef essence. Raw beef juice is the most nutritious. If permissible a few very thin fingers of toast should accompany this preparation. A Delicate Ingredients— One pound of raw whiting. One quart of white stock or half milk and half water. Half a carrot. A small piece of onion. One inch of celery. A sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram. A small blade of mace. Fish Soup The yolks of two raw eggs. Half a gill of milk. Half a lemon. One rounded tablespoonful of butter. One slightly rounded tablespoon- ful of flour. One teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Method.—Wash and dry the fish and cut it into small pieces. Put it in a saucepan with the stock, vegetables, bunch of herbs, and mace. Let these simmer gently for twenty minutes, then strain off the liquid. Melt the butter in a pan, stir in the flour .smoothly, then add the fish liquor and stir it till it boils. Draw it to the side of the fire and let it cool slightly. Beat up the yolks with the half gill of milk, and, when the soup has cooled, strain them in. Re-heat the soup without boiling it, to cook the eggs. Season it, adding a few drops of lemon juice and the parsley. Serve with sippets of dry toast. Note.—Other white fish such as sole or plaice could be used. Lamb’s Head Broth Ingredients— One lamb’s head. One level tablespoonful of rice. One quart of cold water. Two teaspoonfuls of chopped Half a carrot, turnip, and onion. parsley. A small piece of celery. Salt and pepper. Method.—Chop the head in half, well wash and clean it. Take out the brains, and, after washing them in cold salted water, tie them in a piece of muslin to save for another dish.