PRESENTED BY#The University Library Leeds Medical and Dental LibraryI A COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21506887_0001COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY, HUMAN AND COMPARATIVE ; WITH DIRECTIONS FOR DISSKCTING THE DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE HUMAN BODY. INTENDED PRINCIPALLY FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS. By ANDREW FYFE, FELLOW or THE ROYAf. COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF EDIKBURGH &C. &C. NINTH EDITION, REVISED AND CORRECTED BY ANDREW FYFE, M. D. F. R. S. E. &c: &c. IN FOUR VOL UMES,^ WITH PL A TES. VOL. L EDINBURGH: PRINTED FOR ADAM BLACK, NORTH BRIDGE STREET; AND LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, & GREEN, LONDON. 1826.TO THE GENTLEMEN ATTENDING THE MEDICAL CLASSES IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH, THE FOLLOWING VOLUMES, MEANT TO FACILITATE THEIR PROGRESS IN THE STUDY OP ANATOMY, ARE DEDICATED, With much respect, By their most obedient, And very humble Servant, ANDREW FYFR College, Oct. 1. 1823.ADVERTISEMENT. The anatomy OF THE HUMAN BODY, in this Work, is arranged nearly after the manner of the Course of Lectures delivered by the late Dr Monro, and consists of the following Parts, viz. VOLUME L Part I. Treats of the Bones.—H. Of the Muscles, with their Simple and Compound Actions.—HI. Of the Bursse Mucosae, Ligaments, and other parts of the Joints. VOLUME 11. Part IV. Treats of the Viscera, and Organs of the Senses. VOLUME III. Part V. Treats of the Blood-vessels.—VI. Of the Absor- bents.—VII. Of the Nerves.—VIII. Of the Glands in General.—IX. Directions for dissecting the dilFerent parts of the Human Body.—Glossary.—Index. VOLUME IV. Contains the Comparative Anatomy. Part I. Treats of Mammalia.—11. Of Birds.—III. Of Reptiles.—IV. Of Fishes.—V. Of Mollusca.—VI. Of Crustacea.—VII. Of Insects.—VIII. Of Worms.—IX. Of Zoophytes.CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME. PART L OF THE BONES. Pag, Of the Bones in General, . - 3 Of the Composition of the Bones, - %h. Colour of the Bones, - - %h. Lamellae, or Plates of the Bones, - 4 Cancellae of the Bones, _ . 5 Blood-vessels of the Bones, - -7 Comparative View of the Bones, - 8 Lymphatics of the Bones, - - 9 Nerves of the Bones, - - ih. Chemical Analysis of the Bones, - ib. Use of the Bones, - - - 10 Periosteum, - - - 11 Membrana MeduUaris, _ _ \% Marrow, - - %h. Cartilages, - - - 14 Of the Original Formation of Bone, 17viii CONTENTS. Pag, Classes of Bones, - - - 20 Prominences of Bones, - - 21 Cavities of Bones, - - %h. Different Kinds of Connexion of Bones, 23 Different Kinds of Motion of Bones, - 24 Of the Skeleton, - - 25 Of the Head or Skull in General, - 27 Sutures, - - - - SI Of the Separate Bones of the Head, - 34 Os Frontis, - - - %b, Ossa Parietalia, - - 39 Os Occipitis, - _ - 42 Ossa Temporum, - - - 47 Os Ethmoides, - 54 Os Sphenoides, - 57 Of the Bones of the Face, - - 64 Ossa Nasi, - - - . 65 Ossa Unguis, - - - 66 Ossa Malarum, - - - 67 Ossa Maxillaria Superiora, - - 69 OssaPalati, - - - '7S Ossa Spongiosa Superiora, - - 75 Ossa Triangularia, - - 76 Vomer, - - - ib. Maxilla Inferior, - - 77 Teeth, - - - 82 Os Hyoides, - - - 84 Bones of the Trunk, _ - 86 Spine, - - - True Vertebrae, - - - 87 True Vertebrae in General, - %b.ix CONTENTS. Pag. Peculiarities of the True Vertebrae, 90 False Vertebrae, 96 Os Sacrum, ih. Os Coccvffis, 100 Pelvis, _ _ - - 103 Os Innominatum, ib. Os Ilium, - _ - - ib. Os Ischium, 106 Os Pubis, - - - 107 Thorax, - - „ _ 11 Costas, or Ribs, _ _ _ _ ib. Peculiarities of the Ribs, 116 Sternum, 118 Bones of the Superior Extremities, 122 Shoulder, - - ib. Clavicle, - - . _ ib. Scapula, - - - , 124 Arm, 128 Os Humeri, ib. Fore-arm, - _ _ 133 Ulna, - ib. Radius, - 135 Hand, 138 Carpus, - - ib. Os Scaphoides, 139 Os Lunare, ib. Os Cuneiforme, - 140 Os Pisiforme, - - _ ib. Os Trapezium, - 141 Os Trapezoides, ib. Os Magnum, 142X CONTENTS. Pag, " Os Unciforme, - - - 142 Metacarpus, - - - - 143 Metacarpal Bones of the Fingers, ib. Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb, 146 Bones of the Fingers, - - 147 Bones of the Thumb, - 148 ^ Bones of the Inferior Extremities, - 150 Thigh, - - - - ih. Os Femoris, _ _ _ i5. Leg, _ - _ - 154 Tibia, - - - . - . ib. Fibula, - - - - - 157 Patella, - - - 159 Foot, 161 Tarsus, - - - ^b. Astragalus, - - - ib. Os Calcis, - - 163 Os Naviculare, - - 164 Ossa Cuneiformia, - - 165 Os Cuboides, - 166 Metatarsus, - - - - 167 Toes, , - - - - 169 Ossa Sesamoidea, - - 171 Principal Differences between the Male and Fe- male Skeletons, - - - 172xi CONTENTS. PART 11. OF THE MUSCLES. Pag, Of the Muscles in General, - - 177 Muscles of the Integuments of the Cranium, and of the Eye-lids, - 181 common to the Head and External Ear, - - - 184 of the Nose and Mouth, - 186 of the Lower Jaw, - - 192 on the Fore and Lateral Part of the Neck, - - - 195 — situated between the Os Hyoides and Trunk, - - 196 situated between the Lower Jaw and Os Hyoides, - - - 198 situated upon the Back Part of the Pharynx, - - 205 — of the Glottis, - - 207 situated upon the Anterior and Late- ral Parts of the Abdomen, 210 — of the Male Parts of Generation and of the Anus, - . 222 of the Female Parts of Generation and of the Anus, - 226 of the Os Coccygis, - 228 situated within the Cavity of the Ab- domen, - - 229 situated upon the Anterior and Late- ral Parts of the Thorax, - 2SSxii CONTENTS. Pag. Muscles situated between the Ribs, and with- in the Thorax, ' - - 236 contiguous to the Anterior Part of the Vertebrae of the Neck, - 238 situated upon the Posterior Part of the Trunk, - - 240 Muscles of the Superior Extremity, - 256 Muscles arising from the Scapula, - 257 ■ chiefly situated on the Arm, serving for the Motion of the Fore-arm, 262 qn the Fore-arm and Hand, serving for the Motion of the Hand and Fingers, - - 265 Interossei, - - 279 Interossei Interni, - %b. Interossei Externi, - 280 Muscles of the Inferior Extremity, - 284 Muscles of the Pelvis and Thigh, serving for the Motion of the Thigh and Leg, ih, —— situated on the Leg and Foot, ser- ving for the Motion of the Foot and Toes, - - - 298 Interossei, - , - - 311 Interossei Interni, - - ib, Interossei Externi, - - 312 /CONTENTS. xiii PART III. OF THE BURS^ MUCOSAE.—OF THE LIGA- MENTS AND OTHER PARTS OF THE JOINTS. Of the Burs^ Mucosae, - - 317 BuRSiE Mucosae of the Head and Neck, 319 BURS^ Mucosa OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES, 320 Bursae about the Joint of the Shoulder, ib, about the Joint of the Elbow, 321 upon the Under Part of the Fore-arm and the Hand, - - ih. BURS^ Mucosa OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES, 324 Bursa? upon the Pelvis and Upper Part of the Thigh, - - - ib,* about the Joint of the Knee, - 325 about the Ankle, - - 326 in the Sole of the Foot, - 327 Of the Ligaments, &c. of the Joints, 328 Synovial Organs, commonly called Glands of the Joints, - 330 Ligaments of the Head and Trunk, - 332 Ligaments of the Lower Jaw, - ib. connecting the Head with the First and Second Vertebrae of the Neck, and these two Vertebrae with each other, 333 of the other Vertebrae, - 3S4 of the Ribs, - 336 Ligaments of the Bones of the Pelvis, 339xiv CONTENTS. V Pag. Ligaments of the Superior Extremities, 343 Ligaments of the Clavicle, - - ib: of the Scapula, - - 344 of the Joint of the Shoulder, 345 , &c. of the Joint of the Elbow, 346 — between the bodies, and between the Under Ends, of the Radius and Ulna, - - 348 —, &c. between the Fore-arm and Wrist, - - 349 of the Carpus, - - ih. between the Carpal and Metacar- pal Bones, - - 350 — between the Extremities of the Metacarpal Bones, - 351 at the Base of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb, and at the First Joint of the Fingers, - ih, of the First and Second Joint of the Thumb, and Second and Third Joints of the Fingers, ib, retaining the Tendons of the Mus- cles of the Hand and Fingers in situ, - - - 352 Ligaments of the Inferior Extremities, 354 Ligaments, &c. connecting the Os Femoris with the Os Innominatum, ib. —, &c. of the Joint of the Knee, 356 '—^ connecting the Fibula with the Tibia, - - 360 ™^—^ connecting the Bones of the Tar- sus with those of the Leg, 361CONTENTS. XV Pag. Ligaments of the Tarsus, - - between the Tarsus and Metatarsus, 363 connecting the Metatarsal Bones to each other, - - ib, • of the Phalanges of the Toes, 364 , and Sheaths retaining the Tendons of the Muscles of the Foot and Toes in situ, - - ib>V PART I. OF THE BONESOF THE BONES IN GENERAL. OF THE COMPOSITION OF THE BONES. The Bones are the most hard, compact, and inflexible parts of the Body. They are numerous, and nicely adjusted to each other, to allow free motion in all directions. They are made of a firm Substance externally, to support and give attachment to the softer parts. They are hollow, to contain the Marrow, to render them lighter and stronger, and to extend their Sur-^ face, for affording attachment to the Muscles, Colour of the Bones. They are more or less of a white or red Col<)ur, ac- cording to the proportions of Earth or Blood entering their composition ; and are therefore whitest in Adults^ A 24 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. and reddest in Children, more earth being found in the former, and more blood in the latter. In living Animals, they are of a bluish colour, in consequence of the Blood contained in their small Vessels appearing through their Surface. Lamellae, or Plates of the Bones. Bones are composed of Lamellce, or Plates, which are formed of, Fibres running longitAidinally, or in a radiated manner, according to the natural figure of the Bone. The lamellated structure may be seen, by exposing them to the heat of a strong fire; or to the weather; or by boiling them under an increased pressure; or by observing their exfoliations when in a diseased state. Scarpa, in a late publication, denies the lamellated structure of the Bones, and endeavours to prove that they have every where a Cellular texture. The Plates of Bones are originally formed by the Vessels of the Periosteum Externum and Membrana MeduUaris, and not, as has been supposed by some Authors, from Layers detached from the external Pe- riosteum. The Plates are connected by Fibres, which some have considered as Claviculi or Nails, and called Per- pendicular, Oblique, &c. according to their different di- rections The outer Plates of Bones are firmly compacted, so as to appear like one solid substance.5 Part I.] OF THE BONES. ' CaNCELLI OF THE BoNES. The Inner Parts of Bones in general, whether long, round, or flat, have their Plates and Threads running in various directions, intersecting each other, and form- ing the CanceUi, Lattice-worJc, or Sjpongy Substance of the Bones ; the Cancelli communicating every where with each other. The Cancelli^ in the middle of long Bones, are Fi- brous, and form the Reticular Substance which divides the Bone into large Cells. Towards the extremities of long Bones, the Cancelli are lamellated, and much more numerous than in their middle. Cancelli, of a similar nature to those of the long Bones, are also placed between the Tables of flat, and inner parts of round Bones. In some of the broad Bones, however, as the Sca- pula, the solid parts are so much compressed, as to leave little or no room for Cancelli. On the contrary, in the middle of the long Bones, as the Os Humeri, the Cavities are so large, as to give to the Bone the appearance of a hollow Cylinder. In some of the largest of the long Bones, as the Os Femoris, their solid sides, near the middle, are re- markably thick, and there the Cancelli are almost im- perceptible ; while, at their extremities, their sides are scarcely thicker than writing-paper, and the Cancelli are so numerous as to occupy the whole space between their sides.6 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Cancelli of Bones are formed by flie internal Plates passing inwards, and decussating each other; and in the long Bones, their sides, in consequence of sending off the Cancelli, become gradually thinner to- wards their extremities, while the Cancelli in propor- tion become more numerous. The thinness of the Tables of the Bones near their extremities, is not in proportion to the increase of dia- meter, but to the quantity of Cellular Matter sent in- wards. That the Tables at the middle of the long Bones form not only the Tables at the extremities, but also the Cancelli; and that the same quantity of Osseous Mat- ter exists at the middle as at the ends of these Bones, is proved by sawing a Bone across into portions of equal lengths, when it is found that the weight of each of the pieces is nearly the same. The Cancelli, though extremely minute, can be seen even in the most solid parts of Bones. Some run in a longitudinal, and others in a transverse direction com- municating with the longitudinal, and becoming gra- dually smaller in their passage from the internal Ca- vity towards the outer Table of the Bones.—This may be observed by exposure to heatj or in Bones enlarged by disease. These Cells are distinguishable from the Canals for containing the Vessels, the former being ir- regular, and the latter cylindrical. The Cancelli support the Membranes containing the Marrow, as the Cellular Substance does the Fat, and prevent one part of the column of Marrow from gravi- tating upon another, in the various positions of thePart li] .YMuCmOTHE^ BONES. ' 'WD - t Body^ Tbey also furnish a wider surface for the dis- persioa bf the Arteries which secrete ihe Marrowi b:i.c> Blood-vessels of the Bo^^es. thei^iir;^ Bones thet^ =^ iitme^rdus ^dre^, te the more intimate ^bniie^dotv of the Perit>^- t6iim with^he Bone, ^nd for lodgeiilent to Blood-vessels which pass into its substance. Many minute Orifices are observed upon the surface, and particularly in the Furrows of Bones, for the trans- mission of Blood-vessels into their substance. Near the middle of iriost of the Bones, especially the long ones, there is a slanting" Canal for the passage of the principal Medullary Vessels, which consist of Ar- teries and Veins. Numerous Orifices, some of them very considerable in size, are observed'at the extremities of long- Bofies. Some serve for the transmission of Blood-vessels, and others for giving attachment to the Fibres of the Liga- ments of the Joints. The principal Vessels pass into the Cancelli, inter- nal Membranes and Marrow, and return to the solid substance of the Bone, where they meet those sent in- wards from the Periosteum. * ; a , :.'. ; , ■ Some Jiat Bones, as those of the 0ra!mum, are en- &ely supplied from the Vessels of the surrounding Membranes, and the Vascularity there is uniform. liln a subject, the ^rferi^^ of the Bones, and some- ftmes the Veins^i csLti be shewn by a successful Injection thrown into them; but the latter are more readily;S COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. seen in Subjects that die with their Veins full of Blood; and in living Animals, when the Bones are cut across, their Vascularity appears from the Blood which oozes from their divided extremities. The Vascularity of Bone is also shewn, by feeding ^n animal for some time on the Rubia Tinctorum, or Madder-root, after which the Bones are observed to be completely tinged with the colouring matter of the Madder. As a person advances in life, the Blood-vessels of the Bones contract in their diameters, as appears from the Bones of old people having less blood in them than those of a person at an early period of life; from In- jections being thrown into the Vessels of the Bones of old persons with more difficulty than in youth ; from less of the injected matter being received in the former; and from the Bones of old Animals receiving less of the tinging matter of Madder than those of young ones. Comparative View of the Bones. From comparing the Bones of people of different ages, it is found, that there is a constant waste and re- newal of their substance; that the Bones increase in weight as a person advances to maturity ; that they continue nearly of the same weight till old age begins, and then become lighter; that the specific gravity of their solid sides, on the contrary, increases by age; for then they become harder and more compact, but thinner, and have larger Cavities than the Bones of young persons.Part I.] ^ OF THE BONES. 9 Lymphatics of the Bones. y Bones, like other parts, have their Lymphatics, as appears by the Absorption of Madder deposited in the substance of the Bones of Animals receiving it with their Food; by the absorption of part of the Bone itself, when in a diseased state; by the absorption of Bone as a person advances in life ; and even by Injec- tion. Nerves of the Bones. The Nerves of the Bones are small, but may be ob- served in certain parts of them, accompanying the prin- cipal Arteries; and it is presumed they exist in all. From the minuteness of the Nerves, and rigidity of the parts on which they are dispersed, Bones are not sensible in the sound state; and even in the diseased, the pain felt may be owing to the Membranes within them. Chemical Analysis of Bones. The component parts of Bones are, an Earthy Mat- ter, Cartilage, Gelatin, and Marrow, and these vary- ing in proportion in different persons, in different Bones of the same person, and in the same Bone at different ages. The Earthy Matter, however, bears the largest proportion; but this is less in Children than in persons of more advanced life.to COMPENDIUM OE MJATOMY. [Part E The Earthy Matter is obtained by calcination, or by maceration in a diluted acid, and afterwards preci- pitating it, when it is found to consist chiefly of Lime in union \fith Phosphoric Acid. In either of these Prbc^skfes, the Bone retains its shape ; but in the for- fnisr it is brittle, and of a pure white colour, while in the latter it is flexible, cohsistihg principally of iCaictfo laginoiis Matter^: , : ^ ;"d--^';; By boiling in Water i'oi? a suMcient length of time, and especially if under an increased pressure, as in Pa- pin's Digester, the Fat and Gelatin are dissolved and separated, and the Bone retaining its Earthy Matter,, preserves also its white colour. Use of the Boni;s. . . ' . .lia (n lit::, r . ^ r - : • U nnu ; .^^>^-)->r'!Br:-r^ ■ -The ge^tieral Use of th^ Bbnes^ ig^r^to- give firmness attd support to the soft parts,—to defend them from external injury,—to determine their shape, size, and situation, and regulate their different motions and atti- tudes. ,i: Uf They furnish an essential part of the Organs of Lo- comotion, by giving attachment to the Muscles and their Tendons, and serving as Levers for these to act on. . ' " They form in some parts Columns, whiclx* e4li ,be moved in diff'erent directions^a-i^lilla jii flGi*i<)q@iq ai gar ujThe extremities of the Bone^ give form to the Jcaiit^^ •, atad by their magnitude they render these more secure^ a^d increase the force of the Muscles which belong to; them. '! ' B^onB fbB stom'ioPart L] OF THE BONES. ( 11 The Bellies of the Muscles being generally placed upon the middle of the Bones, and the Tendons fixed to their extremities, the symmetry of the limbs is also thereby preserved. . ; Periosteum. ; ji^WhB Periosteum derives its name from its furnish- ing a general covering to the Bones. In certain parts, however, it imperforated by Muscles, Ligaments, or Cartilages, which are fixed immediately to the surface of the Bones ; and at the Joints it sepa- rates from the Bones, to give a covering to the Capsu- lar Ligaments. It is formed of many Fibres, which, in certain parts, can be divided into Layers. The outer Surface of this Membrane is connected to the surrounding parts by Cellular Substance. "Yh^Q inner Surface is more uniform than the outer, and its Fibres run, most frequently, in the same direc- tion with those of the subjacent Bone. The inner part of the Periosteum is intimately con- nected to the surface of the Bones by short Fibres; and this connexion is much stronger in Children than in Adults. Some of these Fibres may be considered as Ligamentous, but most of them are found by Injec- tion to consist of Blood-vessels. The Periosteum, as well as other Membranes, must be supplied with Nerves but these are too minute to be readily traced. The Sensibility of the Periosteum, like thiit of other13 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. Membranes, is by no means acute. In the inflamed state, its sensibility is very considerable. The principal Uses of this Membrane are,—to trans- mit the Vessels which are spread out upon its surface into the substance of the Bones ;—to give attachment to Muscles;—to prevent the effects of Friction between them and the Bones ;—to assist in binding the latter together ;—to assist in setting limits to the increase, and to check the overgrowth of Bones ;—and, in young persons, to strengthen the junction of the Bones with their Epiphyses, Cartilages, and Ligaments. Membrana Medullaris. This, improperly called Periosteum Internum, is an extremely fine Membrane, which lines the inside of the Bones in general, sends Processes into the solid sides of these, and is divided into numberless small parts, which also line the different Cancelli. It forms so many ir- regular Bags, communicating with each other, and af- fording a large surface for the dispersion of the secre- tory Vessels of the Marrow. Marrow. The Marrow may be considered as an Appendage to the general Corpus Adiposum, and is somewhat of the nature of Butter. It is found to be a species of fixed oil possessing peculiar properties, and is deposited by the Arteries in the Cavities of the Bones, at the same time that the rest of the Body is supplied with Fat.Part I.j OF THE BONES. 13 The Blood-vessels of the Marrow, surrounded by the Periosteum, enter the Bones by oblique Canals, which have already been taken notice of in the description of the Bones in general. When the Arteries have entered the Cavities of the Bones, they divide into Branches, which are spread out upon the Cancelli, Membrana Medullaris, and Mar- row ; from these many minute Branches are reflected outwards to the Tables of the Bones, which communi- cate with those sent from the inner surface of the Pe- riosteum. The Veins which return the blood from the Marrow and substance of the Bones, are collected into small Trunks, which pass out where the Arteries penetrated the Bones, and discharge their contents into the neigh- bouring Veins. The greater degree of Vascularity of the solids in Children than in Adults is no where more conspicuous than here ; for Injections which pass readily in these Vessels in Children, cannot be made to penetrate so far in those of persons more advanced in life. In conse- quence of which, the Marrow is found to be thin and bloody in Children, oily and thick in Adults, and wa- tery in old people. The Marrow, like the Fat, when viewed through a Microscope, resembles a cluster of pearls ;—or it is contained in Spherical Sacs, upon which vessels are mi- nutely dispersed, but from which no Excretory Diicts have been discovered to pass out. ^.j It possesses little Sensibility in the sound state; and what it does possess is considered by the latest Authors14 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. as belonging rather to its Membranes than to the Mar- arowi iti^el£r > Nerves cannot be detected in the Marrow ; but that this part of the Body is not without Nerves, seems to be proved by the experiments made on the Marrow when the Bones of living animals are cut, and by the pain a person frequently suffers from Diseases within the Bones. - ; Jj.x li. . u . ; Marrow,^accordi^lg^^to•thVEx'|^^ of Berze- Lius, consists of pure Marrow, with a very small pro- portion of Skins of Blood-Vessels, Albumen, Gelatin, Extractive Peculiar Matter, and Water. The Marrow answers the several purposes to the Bones which the Fat does to the other Organs. Ac- cording to SoEMMERRiNG, the usc of the Marrow is to render the Bones comparatively lighter; but the real use of this substance is probably not y^t suffi- ciently known, nr.fll ro-fbiln Cartilages. Cartilages are of a white colour, of an elastic nature, and much softer than Bones, in consequence of the smaller quantity of Earth entering their composition. Their Structure is not so evidently Fibrous as that of Bones, yet by long Maceration, or by tearing them asunder, a Fibrous disposition is perceptible. Their Vessels are extremely small, though they can be readily injected in Cartilages where Bone is begin- ning to be formed. The Vessels of the Cartilages of the Joints seem entirely to exclude the red Blood. NoPa«t I.] 1/ i^^^ATHE bones. 15 Anatomist has been able to ioject them ; and Madder, mixed with the food of Animals, does not change their colour as it does that of Bones, The existence of^ Lymphatic Vessels in them, is proved by their being absorbed during the Process of Ossification, or in certain diseases. No Nerms can be traced to them ; nor do they pos- sess any sensibility in the sound state. Yet the Gra- nulations which rise on the surface of Cartilages, after Amputation at the Joints, are very sensible. Upon their surface there is a thin Membrane, termed Perichondrium, from its covering the Cartilages, which in Cartilages supplying the place of Bone, as in those of the Ribs, or at the ends of the long Bones in Chil- dren, is a continuation of the Periosteum, and serves, the same general purposes to Cartilage as the PerioSr teum does to Bone. . The Perichondrium of Cartilages which supply the place of Bone, or by their flexibility possess a degree of motion, has Blood-vessels, which, like those of the Periosteum, can be injected. But the Vessels of this Membrane belonging to other Cartilages, particularly that covering the Articular ones, cannot be injected. Upon the surface of Articular Cartilages, the Peri- chondrium is a Reflection of the inner surface of the Capsular Ligament, and is so very thin^ and adheres so closely, as to appear like part of the Cartilage itself. They have no internal Cavity, nor Cancelli, nor in^ ternal Membrane, for lodging Marrow; their weight is nearly a third less than that of Bone. Their Texture is less changed by acids ; but a much greater propor-16 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. tion of them than* of Bones is destroyed by the action of fire. They are softened by Maceration in water; and the Articular Cartilages, by long boiling, are in a great measure dissolved. They are found to consist chiefly of Albumen and Water, with a small proportion of Phosphate of Lime. One set of Cartilages supply the place of Bone or by their flexibility, admit of a certain degree of motion, while their elasticity recovers their natural po- sition ;—as in the Nose, Larynx, Cartilages of the Ribs, Cartilages supplying Brims to Cavities, he. Another set, in Children, supply the place of Bone, until it is formed, and afibrd a Nidus for the Osseous Fibres to shoot in ;—as in the long Bones of Children, A third set, the most extensive, by the smoothness and slipperiness of their surface, allow the Bones to move readily, without any abrasion ;—as in the Abdu- cent or Articular Cartilages, By their elastic nature, they render the motions easier, and lessen the concus- sion in the more violent motions of the Body, as run- ning, jumping, &c. They also prevent the inordinate growth of Bones at their articulating surfaces, and the coalescence of the Fibres of adjoining Bones. A fourth set supply the oflice both of Cartilage and Ligament, giving the elasticity of the former, and flexi- bility of the latter; uniting some imnioveably together, and allowing to others a small degree of motion ; as in the Cartilages of the Bones of the Pelvis and Spine. Cartilages are divided by some Anatomists into two Sets, viz. Temporary and Permanent. The first in- cludes those in which Bone is formed in the Child; theIPakt I.] OF THE BONES. H other consists of those of the External Ear, of the Eye- lids, Nose> Larynx, and Trachea, and of the Articular, Interarticukr, and Intervertebral Cartilages. Op the original Formation of Bone. The generality of Bones are originally formed, either between Membranes, or in the substance of Cartilages; the Teeth are formed in distinct Bags. The Ossification of broad Bones begins, in some, as in those of the Cranium, between Membranes only, and in others, as in the Ossa Iliaj in Cartilage^ and the Ossification appears in each Bone in one or more places : There the Osseous particles are so joined to- gether, as to have a Fibrous appearance. The Fibrous Structure is most distinctly seen in the Bones of the Cranium of a Foetus about three months after Conception, where the beginning of the Ossifica- tion in each Bone is like a fine irregular Net-work, in the middle of which the Fibres are more closely con- nected than in the circumference. In viewing the flat Bones of a Foetus a little more advanced, the bony particles are observed to be so dis^ posed, as to have a distinct radiated appearance. The vacancies between the Fibres, which occasion the radiated appearance, are found by Injection to be chiefly passages for Blood-vessels. As the Foetus becomes larger, the Osseous Fibres increase in number, but become less apparent, the In- terstices being now filled with Osseous matter, which increases in quantity till a Lamina is produced ; and VOL. T. B18 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [VauH I. as the Bone continues to grow, more Laminae are add- ed, till the more solid part of a Bone is formed. The Inner Layers of the Bones are observed to be more porous than the Outer, and none of them are found to have the solidity they acquire in the Adult state, till they have arrived at their full growth. The Ossification of long' Bones begins between the Periosteum and Membrana MeduUaris, in a Jelly which afterwards hardens into Cartilage, and forms a Central Ring, from which the Fibres extend towards the ends of the Bone. The Interior Lamellae, forming the solid sides of the long Bones, are considerably shorter than the Ex- terior, because they pass gradually inwards to form the Cancelli, while the exterior parts are continued to the extremities of the Bones. The Ossification of spherical-shaped Bones, as in the Wrist, begins by one Nucleus, and that of irregular- formed Bones, as in the Vertebrae, by different Nuclei; and both of these sets of Bones have their origin in Cartilage. In proportion as Osseous Matter is deposited, the Cartilage is absorbed, leaving behind it the different Cavities and Cancelli. All the parts termed Epiphyses, likewise, have their original formation in Cartilage. The Ossification which begins in Cartilage is consi- derably later than that which has its origin between Membranes, and this is at very different times in diffe- rent parts of the Body ; the processes being soonest completed in those Bones which cover the Organs most essential to life.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 19 When Ossification is about to begin in a particular part, the Arteries, which were formerly of the Serous kind, become dilated, in consequence of a greater de- termination of Blood to them, and receive now the red Blood from which the Osseous matter is secreted. This matter retains, for some time, the form of the Vessels, which give it origin, till, more Arteries being by de- grees dilated, and more Osseous matter deposited, the Bone at length attains its complete form. Some Bones are completely formed at the time of Birth, as the small Bones of the Ear. The generality of Bones, however, are incomplete until the age of puberty, or between the fifteenth and twentieth year, and in some few instances not until a later period. In Children, the greater number of Bones have Epiphyses or Appendices ; these, in Adults, become Apophyses or Processes which spring directly from the body of the Bone. The Epiphyses begin to appear after the Body of the Bone is ossified, and are themselves ossified at seven or eight years of age, though their external surface is still somewhat Cartilaginous. In the early period of life, the Body and Ends of long Bones make three distinct parts^ each of which has its centre of Ossification, and the parts can readily be separated by boiling, or by maceration in water. The Epiphyses are joined to the Body of the Bone by Cartilages, which are thick in Children, but gra- dually become thinner, in consequence of absorption, as Ossification advances, till at last, in the Adult, the external marks of division are not to be seen ; though B 9.^0 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. frequently some mark of distinction may be observed in the Cancelli. The Epiphyses belong chiefly to such Bones as are destined for much motion, and have larger diameters than the Bones to which they are fixed; in consequence of this they form a firmer Articulation, aiid give a more commodious attachment to the Muscles. Classes of Bones. Bones are either Broad and Flat, Long and Round, or Spherical and Irregular. Broad Bones have thin sides, and their Cancelli are smaller and more equal in size than in the long ones. They defend the parts which they inclose, and give origin to many Muscles. The long Bones have thick strong Walls at their middle, but become remarkably thin towards their ex- tremities ; on the contrary, the Cancelli are few in num- ber, but large in the middle of the Bone, while^ near the ends, the Cells are numerous and small. The long Bones, by their roundness and thickness, at their middle, are better enabled to resist the vio- lent pressure and injuries to which they are frequently exposed, while their extremities being large, though the quantity of matter is the same, they are less easily broken in a transverse direction. This increase of size allows also a broader Basis for the Body to rest upon, and affords more space for the attachment of Muscles and other soft parts. The spherical irregular Bones admit of a diversityPart I.] OF THE BONES. SI of motions, and lessen the shocks which the Joints to which they belong would otherwise frequently sustain. Prominences of Bones. The greater number of Bones have Prominences, termed Processes^ projecting from them. When the process is of a roundish form, it is termed Caput, or Head. If the Head be flattened, it has the name of Condyle. A rough unequal Protuberance is styled Tuberosity. When a Process comes off from a Bone narrow, and is afterwards enlarged, the contracted part of it is called Cervix, or Neck. A long Ridge upon a Bone is termed Spine. A pro- cess terminating in a sharp point is named Coronoid. Some Processes derive their names from the sub- stances they are supposed to resemble,—as Coracoid, like a Crow's Beak,—Styloid, like a Pen or Pencil,— Mastoid, like a Nipple,—or Anconoid, from belonging to the Elbow,—or Spinous, from being sharp like a Thorn. The rising Edges or Brims of Cavities are known by the name of Supercilia. The use of the Processes is to give a more advanta- geous attachment to Muscles, and form Surfaces of Articulations. Cavities of Bones. Many of the Bones have also Cavities or Depres- sions, which have likewise got particular names. Deep Cavities, with large Brims, are termed Coty-22 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. loid, from resemblance to an ancient measure. They are called Glenoid, when of a superficial nature. Small Cavities are named Pits, when of a roundish form, and sunk perpendicularly into the Bone ; Fur- rows, when long and narrow; Nitches, or Notches, when forming breaches in the Bone; Sinuosities, when broad, superficial, and destitute of Brims; and Fosscb, when large and deep, with unequal Brims. In the Interior parts of the Bones, when there are large Cavities with small openings, they are termed Sinuses;—when the openings go quite through the substance of the Bone, they are called Foramina, and the passage between the openings. Canals. The Cavities allow the ends of Bones to move in them, lodge and protect other parts, and afford a re- ception or a passage to the Muscles, Tendons, Vessels, Nerves, &c.o CD O o o Oh as . T3 o ^ Ph o a» B «4H o § • 1—t ^ CD -5 CD "5 ^53 "ts o , O CD •■ O cS CO go ^ CD 02 S W3 ?^ c3 . o ^ -5 •1—1 o o H ^ o o ^ «2 <^ 1-5 .P n5 S CD O I: ^6 I i 550 1 ±? >^ I 8 o O cS CO O CD M 1^ o S s 1= s « cni O O •<1 O O ^ 'S g Co P3 ■ ^ ^ . ^3 O Q PS O •-2 g I o ^ S O OJ § <i _rj .r-i M pC; 55 fcq o o .2 ^ ^ ^OF THE BONES. 25 Part X] OF THE SKELETON, Though the term Skeleton is applied to a variety of substances, yet, in Anatomy, it is always understood to signify the Bones of Animals, connected together in their natural situation, after the soft parts of the Body in general are removed. It is termed a Natural Sheleton, when the Bones are joined by their own Ligaments ; And an Artificial Skeleton, when joined by Wire, &c. Small Subjects, and the Bones of those which are not fully ossified, are most conveniently prepared in the first way ; while the Bones of large Adult Animals are more readily cleaned when single, and are easily re- stored to their proper places. In viewing the Bones in their natural situation in the Skeleton, scarcely any one of them is observed to be placed in a perpendicular direction to another; yet in an erect posture, a perpendicular line from their common centre of gravity falls in the middle of their common base. On this account, the Body is found to be as firmly supported, as if the axis of all the Bones had been a straight line, perpendicular to the horizon, and much greater quickness, ease, and strength, are given to the Body, in several of its most necessary motions.26 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Bones are in general similar to each other in the opposite sides of the Skeleton, though in many in- stances there is some variation. The Human Skeleton is generally divided into Head, Trunks Superior and Inferior Extremities,27 Part I.J OF THE BONES, OF THE HEAD OR SKULL IN GENERAL. By the Head is meant all that part of the Skeleton which is placed above the first Bone of the Neck. It therefore comprehends the Cranium and Bones of the Face. The Cranium, or Brain-case, varies in shape in dif- ferent persons, according to the original form of the Brain upon which it is moulded. The variety in shape exists not only in different persons, but in the opposite sides of the same Skull, scarcely any one being found perfectly similar there, when minutely examined. The variety of shape has been supposed by some Authors to be increased by the different management of the Heads of Children at an early period of life. From this the difference of shape observed in the Skulls of people of different nations has been accounted for. The form, however, does not appear to be much affected by the management of the Head at an early period of infancy, since its characte- ristic marks are found to remain nearly the same, how- ever much the customs in dress and general manage- ment may vary. The Cranium forms a vaulted Cavity for lodging and defending the Brain, with its Membranes, Vessels, and Nerves.28 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The General Figure of the upper part of the Cra- nium is compared to that of an Egg. The medium length of it appears to be about six inches and a half, and the greatest transverse diameter, which is a little behind the External Auditory passages, about five inches. The Cranium is of a flat form at its sides, partly by the action of the Temporal Muscles. The flatness of this part of the Head is found to in- crease the sphere of vision, and to give a more advan- tageous situation for the Ears, that they may receive a greater quantity of sound, while they are less expos- ed to danger. The Surface of the upper and outer part of the Cra- nium is smooth, where it is little affected by Muscles, and is covered by the Periosteum common to all the Bones, but in the Skull termed Pericranium. The under and outer Surface of the Cranium is ir- regular where it gives attachment to Muscles, &c. and passage to Vessels and Nerves. The anterior and under portion of the Cranium is hollow^ to make part of the Orbits. The posterior Surface of the Cranium is mar'ked by the insertion of Muscles arising from the back part of the Trunk. The upper and inner Surface of the Cranium is lioL low^ for lodging the Brain. The under and inner Surface of the Cranium has many unequal Cavities^ for lodging the Lobes and Ap- pendages of the Brain and Cerebellum, and for allow- ing passage to the Vessels and Nerves of the Encephar Ion in general.Paet I.] QF THE BONES. S9 Upon the fore part of the base of the Cranium the Anterior Lobes of the Brain rest; in the middle of the base are two deep Fossae, for lodging the Lateral Lobesj while the Posterior Lobes and the Cerebellum occupy a still deeper Cavity behind. Along the inner side of the Cranium are many Fur- rows, formed by, and for the reception of, the Blood- vessels of the Dura Mater* Upon the inner Surface of certain Crania, Sinuosi- ties are observed, for lodging luxuriances of the Brain; and here the Cranium is sometimes so thin, as to be ren- dered transparent; the two Tables being then closely compacted, without any Cancelli. In some Crania, Pits are seen of different Figures and sizes, for lodging Granulous Bodies on the Dura Mater, termed Glands of Pacchioni ; or sometimes they are occupied by the meeting of large Veins of the Dura Mater. Here also there is often a want of Can- celli. The Bones of the Cranium are composed of two Tables, which at the upper part are nearly parallel to each other. The two Tables have intermediate Cancelli, termed here Diploe, though nearly of the same nature with the Cancelli in other flat Bones* The External Table of the Cranium is somewhat thicker than the Internal^ which, from its thinness and consequent brittleness, is called Vitrea. The Diploe, or Cancelli, between the Tables, are more regular in the Bones of the upper than of the under part of the Cranium, where, in several of the hard Bones, they are not observable*50 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The thickness of the Bones varies much in different parts of the Cranium ; in a transverse section about its middle height, the Bones are about one-fifth of an inch in thickness, except at the Temples, where they are thinner, and at the Front and Occiput, where they are thicker. This thickness is understood to be in the prime of life; in youth and old age, the Bones are considerably thinner, in the former case not hav- ing attained their full growth, and in the latter, part of them having been absorbed. In the Skulls of old subjects, the Diploe are often so obliterated, that scarcely any vestige of them can be seen. In certain diseased bones, on the contrary, the Di- ploe are of a great thickness, while the Tables of the Skull are thin like paper. The Cranium is generally composed of eight Bones; six of which are said to be proper to the Cranium, and two common to it and the Face. The six proper to the Cranium are. The Os Frontis^ placed in the fore part of the Cra- nium. The two Ossa Parietalia, placed in the upper and lateral parts of the Cranium. The tzvo Ossa Tempora, placed in the under and lateral parts. The Os Occipjtis, which forms the back, and some of the lov/er part of the Cranium. The tz€o Bones common to the Cranium and Face, are^Part I.J OF THE BONES. 31 The Qs Ethmoides, placed in the fore part of the Base of the Cranium. The Os Sphenoides, situated in the middle of the Base. Sutures. The Bones of the Cranium have Seams or Sutures between them, which are five in number. Of these three are termed True, from having serrated appear- ances ; and two are called False or Squamous Sutures, from the Bones which form them overlapping each other, as the Scales of Fishes do. The three true Sutures are, The Coronal Suture, placed between the Frontal and Parietal Bones, and getting its name from this being the part where the Ancients wore their Coronce or Garlands. About an inch of each of its extremities wants the serrated appearance: The Lamhdoid Suture, situated where the Occipital joins the Parietal and Temporal Bones. It begins some way below the Vertex, or Crown of the Head, from which its two Legs extend obliquely downwards and to each side, in form of the Greek A. The parts of the Lambdoid Suture, placed between the Occipital and Temporal Bones, have little of the serrated appearance, and are called Additamenta Su~ turoe Lambdoidalis. The Sagittal Suture, situated between the Parietal Bones, and named from being extended between the middle of the Coronal and beginning of the Lambdoid Sutures, as an Arrow is between the String and Bow,S2 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Sagittal Suture is sometimes continued through the middle of the Frontal Bone to the Nose. This is said to be more frequent in Females than in Males. Upon examining a great number of Crania, the Author found it taking place in one out of nine or ten. The serrated appearance of the True Sutures is seen distinctly on the outside of the Cranium only; on the inside, the Bones appear almost to be joined in straight lines. In some Skulls, the internal Surface is found entire, while the Sutures are manifest without; the inner Plates meeting and coalescing sooner than the outer. As a person advances in life, the True Sutures be- gin to be obliterated, first on the inner, then on the outer side, till in very old age not a vestige of one of them is to be seen. The two False, called also Temporal Sutures, placed a little above the Ear, between the upper edge of the Temporal, and under edge of the Parietal Bones. Each of the Portions of the False Sutures, situated between the upper and back part of the Parietal, and the upper and back part of the Temporal Bones, is called by some Additamentum SuturcB Squamosce, and has in that part the true serrated appearance. Besides the Squamous Sutures here taken notice of, it is to be observed, that the term Squamous is also ap- plied to all the Sutures on which the Temporal Mus- cle is placed; it therefore includes part of the Coronal ^nd Sphenoid Sutures. Sometimes, though rarely, there is a double Squa^ mous Suture, dividing the scaly part of the Bone into two unequal portions.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 33^ In the Sutures of the Cranium there are often Ad- ditional Bones, called Ossa Triquetra^ from their being of-a triangular form, and Ossa Wormiana, from Wor- Mius, who, though not the discoverer, gave a descrip- tion of them. The Ossa Wormiana vary much in figure, size, and number, and are occasionally found in the different Sutures, though most frequently in the middle of the Lambdoid. Wherever they occur, the Sutures surrounding them are observed to be similar to the neighbouring Sutures; of course they are equally with them distinguished from Fractures of the Skull. Their formation is considered to be owing to an in- crease in the number of the points of Ossification, or to a deficiency in the Ossification of the ordinary Bones of the Cranium; in which last case, separate Ossifica- tions begin in the unossified interstices. Between the Bones of the Cranium and those of the Face, five Sutures are also found, and they are said to be common to these two sets of Bones. Parts, how- ever, of these Sutures, lie only between the Bones of the Cranium. The Sutures here are. The Ethmoid Suture^ which surrounds the Ethmoid Bone- The Sphenoid Suture, which surrounds the Sphenoid Bone. The Ethmoid and Sphenoid Sutures in some parts assist in forming other Sutures, especially the Squa- mous and Transverse ; and in other parts, there is but one Suture common to these two Bones. The Transvei'se Suture, which runs across the Or- VOL. I. c34 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. bits and root of the Nose, between the Frontal, Malar, Sphenoid, Ethmoid, Superior Maxillary, and Nasal Bones. The Zygomatic Sutures, placed between the Zygo- matic parts of the Temporal and Cheek Bones^ and slanting obliquely downwards and backwards. The advantages derived from the Cranium being formed of different Bones and Sutures are, that the Spheroidal figure is sooner completed;—that the Bones, which are at some distance from each other at Birth, yield, and conduce to an easier Delivery;—that the Dura Mater, by the Sutures, has a firmer adhesion;— and that Fractures are frequently prevented from ex- tending so far as they would do in one continued bony Substance ; which last circumstance takes place in ex- treme old age. OF THE SEPARATE BONES OF THE HEAD. Os Frontts. The principal things to be attended to in this Bone, are. The Situation of the Os Frontis in the fore part of the Cranium. Its Shape, which has been compared to that of a Clam-shell, or to the Concha Bivalvis, or Cockle.Part I.J OF THE BONES. 35 Its external Surface convex above, and smooth, be- ing little impressed by muscular action. The external and internal Angular^ or Orhitar Pro- cesses, forming part of the Orbits. The Swperciliary Arches, or Ridges on which the Supercilia or Eye-brows are placed, extending between the external and internal Angular Processes on each side, and giving attachment to part of the Occipito- frontalis and Corrugatores Superciliorum. Projections, generally seen above the inner ends of the Superciliary Ridges, indicating-the situation of the Cavities called Frontal Sinuses. The Nasal Process, placed between the internal An- ^ gular Processes, and forming part of the Nose. It is thick and strong, and much serrated where it supports the Nasal Bones. Part of the Temporal Process, or Ridge, on each side, behind the external Angular Process, which forms the boundary between the Temporal and Frontal Mus- cles. The Orhitar Processes, or Plates, which, contrary to the rest of the Bone, are hollow below, and extend a considerable way back, to form the upper parts of the Orbits for lodging the Eyes and their Appendages. They are remarkably smooth below, and are render- ed so thin by the pressure of the Brain and Eye on the opposite sides, that they become transparent, and the Cancelli, especially in old people, are obliterated. The Sinuosity at the upper part of the Orbit, be- hind the outer end of the Superciliary Ridge, on each side, for lodging the Lacrymal Gland. c ^36 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 1. Behind each internal Angular Process, a small Pit, to which the Cartilaginous Pulley of the Superior Oblique Muscle of the Eye is fixed. The Temporal Fossce^ behind the Temporal Pro- cesses, for lodging part of the Muscles of that name. The Opening between the Orbitar Processes, for re- ceiving the Cribriform plate of the Ethmoid Bone. The Foramen Supra-orhitarium, a little to the inner side of the middle of each Superciliary Ridge, through which a branch of the Ocular Artery, and part of the Ophthalmic Branch of the Fifth Pair of Nerves, pass to ithe soft parts of the Forehead. In some Skulls, the Vessels and Nerves are lodged in Furrows on the Surface of the Bone. Frequently, instead of a Hole, a Notch only is seen, the Vessels and Nerves then passing over the Superci- liary Ridge ; or two Holes in one side, and one in the other, &c. The Foramina Orbit aria Interna, Anterius et Pos- teriuSy sometimes called Foramina Etlimoidea, between the Orbitar Plates of the Frontal and Ethmoid Bones. They are about three-fourths of an inch distant from each other, and are occasionally found entirely in the Frontal Bone. Through the Anterior a small Twig of the first part of the Fifth Pair of Nerves, with an asso- ciate Artery from the Ocular, passes to the Nose. The Posterior transmits a small Branch of the Ocular Ar- tery to the same part. Besides these, there are some- times other Foramina Orbitaria Interna, which also give passage to Twigs of the Ocular Artery to the Nose. Small Perforations are found upon the under and fore part of the Frontal Bone, for the transmission ofPart I.J OF THE BONES. 37 minute Arteries or Nerves into the Sinuses, or to the Substance of the Bone. The concave inner and fore part of the Os Frontis, for lodging the Anterior Lobes of the Brain. The convex under parts, for supporting these Lobes, and covering the Eyes. The Ridges and Depressions of the Orbitar Processes, marked by the convolutions of the Brain. Small Furrows on the inside of the Bone, for lodg- ing Blood-vessels of the Dura Mater. Slight Sinuosities^ more evident on the under than on the upper part of the Bone, occasioned by the con- volutions of the anterior part of the Brain. The Frontal Spine, or Crista Interna, in the middle of the under part of the Bone, formed by the coales- cence of the inner tables, for the attachment of the Falx of the Dura Mater. In such Skulls as have the Sagittal Suture continued to the Nose, the Frontal Spine does not appear ; the inner Plates, in such cases, not having grown together to form it. The Frontal Furrow, extending upwards from the Spine, and becoming gradually larger in its course, for lodging the upper part of the superior Longitudinal Sinus of the Dura Mater, and for the attachment of the Falx. The Foramen Ccecum at the under part of the Spine, for the reception of a Process of the Falx, and of small Blood-vessels which penetrate into the Nose, or to the substance of the Bone. Plere also the superior Longi- tudinal Sinus takes its origin. This Hole is frequent- ly common to the Frontal and Ethmoid Bones. The Frontal Sinuses, placed behind the inner ends38 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. of the Superciliary Ridges, about an inch in height, and somewhat more than that in breadth, and, in some Skulls, forming prominences near the root of the Nose. The Walls of the Sinuses, formed by a separation of the tables of the Bone ; there being no Diploe here. The Partition between them placed perpendicularly, and preventing them from having any communication with each other. Their capacities vary much in different Subjects, and they are frequently unequal in size in the same Body. In some they are wanting, which is oftener found to happen in persons having a flat Forehead, and where the Sagittal Suture is continued to the Nose. In others, they are so large as to extend from one side of the Fron- tal Bone to the other. In some Skulls, each of these Sinuses has partial partitions, and, in others, one Sinus occupies the place of two. Sometimes, though rarely, they have a communication with each other. At the inner and under part of the internal Angu- lar Process, a small round Passage from each Sinus, leading into the Cavity of the anterior Ethmoid Cells, and from these to the Nose. The Frontal Sinuses add to the strength and melody of the Voice, by serving as a vault to resound the notes. Hence, in a stoppage of the Nose, by disease or other- wise, the Voice is rendered harsh and disagreeable. The Frontal Bone is composed of two Tables with intermediate Cancelli, is of a moderate thickness, and nearly of equal density throughout, excepting at the »Orbitar Plates, which are remarkably thin. The Frontal Bone serves to defend and support the Anterior Lobes of the Brain. It forms a considerablePart I.] OF THE BONES. 39 part of the Orbits of the Eyes, assists in forming the Septum Narium, Organ of Smelling, &c. It gives origin to the Gorrugator Supercilii, to part of the Temporalis and its Aponeurosis^ and of the Or- bicularis Palpebrarum. It gives insertion to part of the Occipito-Frontalis, and to the Trochlea of the Trochlearis. In a Foetus of nine months, the Os Frontis is divid- ed longitudinally through its middle into two pieces which are incomplete at their upper and back part, where they assist in the formation of the Bregma or opening of the Head.—The Superciliary Holes and Frontal Sinuses are not yet formed, the latter not ap- pearing till several years after birth. OssA Parietalia. The parts here to be attended to are, The situation of the Ossa Parietalia, in the upper and lateral parts of the Cranium. The figure of each Parietal Bone a Trapezium, or approaching that of a Square. The Superior or Sagittal Margin^ the longest and straightest. The Anterior or Coronal edge, next in length. The Posterior, Occipital, or Lambdoid edge, shorter. The Inferior, or Temporal, shortest and thinnest, and in form of a ragged Arch, to be connected to the upper rounded edge of the Squamous part of the Tem- poral Bone. The three first edges of the Bone ragged, where they , assist in forming the true Sutures.40 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet I. The Corners of the Bone obtuse^ excepting the infe- rior-anterior, which forms a kind of Process. The Corners or Angles of the Bone are named Fron- tal, Sphenoidal, Occipital, and Mastoid, according to their situations. The external Surface of the Bone convex and smooth^ having no Muscles but the Temporal fixed to it. The Transverse arched Ridge, or Line, frequently of a whiter colour than the rest of the Bone, placed externally a little below its middle height, for the ori- gin of the Temporal Muscle. The radiated Furrows at the under part of the Bone, formed by the Fibres of the Temporal Muscle. Near the inferior or semicircular edge, many inequa- lities, which join similar inequalities on the inside of the Temporal Bone, to form the Squamous Suture. The Foramen Parietale, near the upper and back part of the Bone, for the transmission of a Vein, which passes obliquely from the Integuments of the Head to the superior longitudinal Sinus; and sometimes of a small Branch from the Temporal or the Occipital Ar- tery, to the Falx of the Dura Mater. In several Skulls, one of the Parietal Holes is want- ing ; in some, two are found in one side; in others, none in either. The internal concave surface of the Bon^. The Furrows made by the blood-vessels of the Dura Mater ; the principal of which begin by a trunk, term- ed Meningea Media, at the under and fore part of the Bone, where frequently a real Canal is formed, which ought to be attended to by Surgeons in the operation of the Trepan over this part.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 41 In the progress upwards, the Furrows divide into many Branches, and frequently small passages are seen' running from these into the Diploe. The depression at the upper edge of the Bone, for the attachment of the upper part of the Falx, and lodgment of part of the superior longitudinal Sinus. This is most distinctly seen when the Bones are con- joined. The depression for the longitudinal Sinus, like the Sinus itself, becomes larger in its course backwards ; and frequently it is larger in one Bone than in the other. The Fossa at the under and back part of the Bone, for lodging a small part of the lateral Sinus. Numerous, though slight depressions, found on the inside of the Bone, especially below, occasioned by the prominences of the Brain. Near the attachment of the Falx are observed, in many Skulls, Pits, varying in size and number, for lodging the Glands of Pacchioni. The Parietal Bones have the two Tables and Diploe the completest, and are the most equal and smooth of any of the Cranium. They serve as Walls to protect the upper and lateral parts of the Brain, and give ori- gin to part of the Temporal Muscles and their Apo- neuroses. The connexion of the Parietal Bones to the Os Fron- tis by the Coronal, and to each other by the Sagittal Suture. In a Foetus, the sides of the Parietal Bones are incomplete, and there is no Parietal Hole. Between the Parietal Bones and the middle of the divided Os43 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. Frontis, there is a large Interstice, termed, in common language, Opening of the Head, and by Anatomists, Bregma, Fons, vel Fontanella, from its being supposed by the Ancients, that through it the superfluous Hu- mours of the Brain were evacuated. The Bregma is occupied by a strong Ligamentous Membrane, which adheres firmly to the ragged edges of the Bones, and is lined within by the Dura Mater, and covered externally by the Pericranium. The whole of the Ligamentous Membrane is gene- rally absorbed, and the Bregma filled up with Osseous Matter, by two, though sometimes not till near seven years of age. The Bregma has in some instances, though very rarely, been found open in Adults. Os OCCIPITIS. Here attend to. The Situation of the Occipital Bone in the back and under part of the Cranium. Its rhomboid figure, with the angle above generally a little rounded. The two lateral Angles obtuse. The external surface convex, and smooth at the up- per part. The large rough Arched Ridge, or Transverse Arch, or Linea Semicircularis, running across the Bone, near the middle of the convex surface, to the middle of which the Trapezii Muscles are fixed; the outer and upper parts giving origin to the Occipito-frontalis, and the outer and under, insertion to part of the Sterno- mastoidei.Part I.] 43 OF THE BONES. The smaller Arch, half-way between the former and the passage termed Foramen Magnum. The depressions between the middle of the large and small Arches, for the insertion of the Complexi Muscles. The impressions between the Arches and the Tem- poral Bones, for the attachment of the Splenii. Cavities between the smaller Arch and the Foramen Magnum, for the reception of the Recti Minores, and impressions made more externally by the Recti Majo- res and Obliqui Superiores. The perpendicular Spine, of inconsiderable size, running through the middle of the two Arches, and separating the Muscles of the opposite sides. In some strongly-marked Skulls, the upper end of this Spine is so prominent, as to form an external pro- tuberance, or Spinous Process, The unequal edges of the Foramen Magnum, for the insertion of the Ligaments, by which the Head is fixed to the Vertebrae of the Neck. The inferior Angle, contrary to the rest of the Bone, flattened and stretched forwards in the form of a wedge ; hence called Cuneiform, or, from its situation. Basilar Process. The unequal Surface of the Cuneiform Process, for the attachment of the Recti Anteriores. The two Condyles placed at the base of the Cunei- form Process, and at the fore and lateral parts of the Foramen Magnum, for the articulation with the Atlas or first Vertebra of the Neck. The oval form and smooth Cartilaginous surface of44 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. the Condyles, corresponding with the superior articu- lating Process of the Atlas. The Condyles run obliquely forwards and inwards, and are deepest at their inner parts; in consequence of which they are prevented from sliding to either side out of the Cavities of the Atlas. In some Subjects, each of the Condyles is more or less divided transversely, giving the appearance of two Prominences. Round their roots, the surface is unequal, for the attachment of the Capsular Ligaments connecting this Bone to the first one of the Neck. The rough Prominence at the outer sides of the Con- dyles, for the insertion of the Recti Capitis Laterales; and, anterior to these Prominences, the Semilunar Notches, or Jugular Fossae, which form part of the Holes common to the Temporal and Occipital Bones. The Flexion and Extension of the Head are perform- ed at the Condyles, but they are found to be placed be- hind its centre of gravity, which affords space for the Mouth, Throat, &c. ; and the Head is prevented from falling forwards by the constant action of the strong Ex- tensor Muscles, placed on the back part of the Neck. The internal Surface of the Bone hollow^ for con- taining the back part of the Brain. The Cruciform Spine of the inner side, formed by two Ridges, the one placed perpendicularly in the mid- dle of the Bone, the other crossing the first in a hori- zontal direction. The Internal Occipital Protuberance, at the middle of the Cruciform Spine, where the longitudinal Sinus ends in the two lateral Sinuses.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 45 The upper Limb of the perpendicular Spine hollow in the middle, or frequently at one side, and that com- monly the right one, for the reception of the superior longitudinal Sinus, and the attachment of the Falx. The lateral Limbs, placed opposite to the great ex- ternal arched Ridge, and hollozv in the middle, for con- taining the lateral Sinuses, and giving attachment to the Tentorium Durae Matris. The hollow in one of the lateral Limbs, and more especially the right one, is frequently the continuation of that made in the perpendicular Spine by the longi- tudinal Sinus, and therefore is often larger than the other, which, in such cases, is occupied by the continu- ation of the Vein termed Torcular Herophili. The lower Limb of the perpendicular Spine short, and sometimes double, for the attachment of the Falx Minor ; sometimes it is hollow, for the reception of an Occipital Sinus. The Cerebral Fossce at the sides of the upper Limb, for containing the posterior Lobes of the Cerebrum. The FosscB at the sides of the lower Limb, for con- taining the Cerebellum. Anterior to the Fossae for lodging the Cerebellum, and a little to the outer side of the Foramen Magnum, two Cavities for receiving the lateral Sinuses, previous to their passing through the base of the Cranium. The concave Surface of the Cuneiform Process, for receiving the Medulla Oblongata, Basilar Artery, and Accessory Nerves. The depressions at each side of the Cuneiform Pro- cess, where the inferior Petrosal Sinuses are placed. The Foramen Magnum Occipitis, behind the Basilar46 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. Process, and between the Condyles, for the passage of the Medulla Oblongata, and its investing Membranes, with the Vertebral Blood-vessels, and Accessory Nerves. The Foramen Magnum, of a rhomboid, or oval form, with the short diameter placed transversely, correspond- ing with the shape of the Spinal Marrow, by which it is chiefly occupied. The superior or anterior Condyloid Foramina, at the sides of the Foramen Magnum, and immediately over the Condyles, for the passage of the ninth pair of Nerves. The posterior Condyloid Foramina, at the back part of the root of the Condyles, for the passage of Veins from the Occiput, or from the deep parts of the Neck, into the lateral Sinuses, near their terminations. Frequently one of the posterior Condyloid Forami- na is wanting; sometimes both, :when the Veins pass through the Foramen Magnum. Besides the Holes above taken notice of, others are often found, near the edges of the Bone, for the trans- mission of Veins, the number and size of which are un- certain. This Bone is among the strongest of the Cranium, though very unequal in thickness; being thick and strong above, where it is little impressed by Muscles, and so thin below, where it is pressed by the weight of the Cerebellum internally, and affected by the action of the Muscles externally, as to be in many Skulls renr dered transparent. But the thick Muscles and strong- Spines and Protuberances of the Bone, assist greatly in preventing injuries from happening here.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 47 The conne/vion of the Bone to the Ossa Parietalia, by the Lambdoid Suture. The Occipital Bone protects the under and back part of the Brain, gives origin on each side to the Occipito- frontalis, to part of the Trapezius, Constrictores Pha- ryngis Superior et Jnfei'ior; insertion to the Recti Capitis Antici Major et Minor, Rectus Capitis Late- ralis, Complexus, Recti Capitis Postici Major et Minor, Obliquus Capitis Superior, and to part of the Sterno- cleido-mastoideus and Splenius. In a Foetus, the Occipital Bone is divided into Jour pieces, viz. the Occipital, two Lateral or Condyloid, and the Basilar; the first, which is by much the largest, forms all the part of the Bone above the Foramen Mag- num ; the second and third are placed at the sides of that Foramen, and constitute almost the whole of the Condyles; and the fourth forms the Cuneiform Process. OssA Temporum. In these we observe, The situation of each Temporal Bone in the under and lateral part of the Cranium. The Squamous Plate, which forms a part of the Temple, and gives origin to a portion.of the Temporal Muscle. The Squamous Plate appearing equal and smooth externally, with a thin semicircular edge above, which, by overlapping the under edge of the Parietal Bone, gives name to this Process. The Mastoid or Mammillary Process, at the under and back part of the Bone, of various form and size.48 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. giving insertion to strong Muscles, '^particularly the Sterno-mastoid ; and containing Cells which communi- cate with each other, and with the Cavity of the Ear called Tympanum. The Petrous Process^ remarkably hard, very une- qual, and of an oblong form, but becoming smaller in its progress; placed at the base of the Bone, from which it runs obliquely forwards and inwards, and con- tains the internal Organ of Hearing, to be afterwards described. ^ The Zygomatic Process, running almost horizontally from the under and fore part of the Squamous Plate, at first large, then curved, to join the Os Malse; forming a Zygoma or Arch, on the inner side of which the Tem- poral Muscle passes to the Lower Jaw, while its edges give attachment to part of the Temporal and Masseter Muscles, and to the Aponeurosis Temporalis. A Tubercle of an oblong form at the root of this Pro- cess, covered with a smooth Cartilage, making part of the Articulation of the Lower Jaw. The Styloid, or Pencil-Vike Process, placed at the under part of the root of the Pars Petrosa, and going obliquely downwards and forwards, to give origin to Muscles which borrow part of their name from it, and belong to the Tongue and Throat. It is generally about an inch in length, though some- times much longer, and is remarkably slender. It is frequently, even in Adults, not entirely ossified, and is then apt to drop off in macerating the Bones. The Vaginal Process, of an inconsiderable size, sur- rounding the root of the Styloid Process, and deepest at its fore part.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 49 The Semicircular Ridge, undiQv the upper part of the external Meatus ; sometimes also considered as a Pro- cess, and called Auditory, for the connexion of the Car- tilage of the Ear. The Mastoid Groove, at the inner part of the root of the Mastoid Process, giving origin to the Digastric Muscle ; and a little anterior to this another Groove, in which the Occipital Artery runs. The Glenoid or Articular Cavity, placed obliquely behind the root of the Zygoma, of an obldng, or some- what oval form, of great size, and lined with Cartilage, for the Articulation of the Lower Jaw. The Glenoid Fissure, at the back part of this Cavity, and between it and the Pars Petrosa, and also between the Pars Petrosa and Sphenoid Bone, for the attachment of a portion of the Capsular Ligament of the Articula- tion of the Lower Jaw. A Depression between the Glenoid Fissure and Sty- loid Process, for lodging a portion of the Parotid Gland, The Thimhle-like Cavity, or Jugular Fossa, at the inner side of the root of the Styloid Process, and under and back part of the Pars Petrosa, for lodging the top of the internal Jugular Vein. This Cavity is frequently larger in the one side of the Head than the other, corresponding with the size of the Vein which goes through it. Between the roots of the Squamous and Zygomatic Processes, a Cavity for lodging part of the Temporal Muscle. The Meatus Auditorius Extei'nus,—a large Canal, between the Mastoid and Zygomatic Processes, lead- ing inwards and forwards to the Organ of Hearing. VOL. I. D50 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 1. Around the external Meatus, a rough suKace, for the connexion of the Cartilages and Ligaments of the Ear. The Foramen Stylo-mastoideum, or Aqueduct of Fal- LOPius, between the Styloid and Mastoid Processes, and at the root of the Pars Petrosa, for the transmission of the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair of Nerves. The Foramen Caroticum, vel Canalis Caroticus, at the inner and fore part of the Jugular Fossa, and also before and at the inside of the Styloid Process, leading upv/ards, then forwards, through the Pars Petrosa, for the transmission of the internal Carotid Artery to, and of the Great Sympathetic Nerve from, the Brain. In the upper and back part of the Canal, one, some- times two minute Holes are observed, through which the internal Carotid Artery sends one or two Twigs to the Tympanum. The Iter a Potato ad Aurem, or Eustachian Tube, between the Fissure for the Capsular Ligament of the Lower Jaw, and the passage of the internal Carotid Artery, and under the contiguous parts of the Spinous Process of the Sphenoid Bone and Pars Petrosa, extend- ing outwards and backwards in a horizontal direction, till it terminates in the Tympanum. In the Subject, it is formed, by the addition of Car- tilage and Ligament, into a trumpet-like Tube, which is continued forwards and inwards to the back part of the Nostril, and conveys air from the Nose to the Tym- panum of the Ear. On the external side of the Osseous part of the Eus- tachian Tube, and at the top of the Glenoid Fissure, is the course of the Nerve termed Chorda Tympani,Paet I.J OF THE BONES. ^ 51 The Foramen Mastoideum, occasionally found at the ^ back part of the Mastoid Process, oi in the Lambdoid Suture. When present, it sometimes transmits an Ar- tery to the Dura Mater, but more commonly a Vein from the Integuments of the Head to the Lateral Sinus. Sometimes two or three Foramina Mastoidea are ob- served, serving the same purpose with that already no- ticed ; but these, like all the other passages for Veins leading into the Sinuses, are very uncertain. The upper and mner Edge of the Squamous Plate, formed into Ridges and Furrows, where it is connected with the Parietal Bone, and the fore part of this Plate irregular, where it joins the Sphenoid Bone. The inner Surface of the Squamous Plate, unequal where it is marked by the Convolutions of the middle part of the Brain, and by the Arteries of the Dura Mater. The Pars Petrosa, vel Pyramis Trigona, as seen within the Cranium, of great size, running forwards and inwards, with a sharp angle above, which divides the Bone into two flat sides ; one facing obliquely for- wards and outwards, and the other as much backwards and inwards. T\\e anterior and outer Surface of the Pars Petrosa opposed to the lateral Lobe of the Brain. The posterior and inner Surface of the Pars Petrosa opposed to the Cerebellum. The Ridge or Angle between the two Surfaces of the Pars Petrosa, for the attachment of the Tentorium Durae Matris. A Groove frequently found upon the Ridge of the Pars Petrosa, for lodging the superior Petrosal Sinus. D 252 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part L A curved Fossa, at the root of the posterior Surface of the Pars Petrosa, and opposite to the Mastoid Pro- cess, for lodging the Lateral Sinus, where it turns down- wards to go out of the Cranium. In this Fossa the passage is observed which corresponds with the Fora- men Mastoideum. This Cavity is frequently larger in one Temporal Bone than in the other, which happens in cases when the Lateral Sinuses are of unequal size. The Meatus Auditorius Internus, vel Foramen Au~ ditwum, passing outwards and backwards, in the pos- terior Surface of the Pars Petrosa, for the passage of the Seventh Nerve, and the principal Artery belonging to the Inner Ear. In the bottom of this passage there are many Fora- mina ; one above, more conspicuous than the rest, is the beginning of the passage for the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair of Nerves. The others are the pas- sages of the Branches of the Portio Mollis of that Pair. Some way below the Meatus Internus, is the open- ing of the passage, termed, by Cotunnius, Aquceductus Cochlece ; and near the same distance behind the Mea- tus, and on the same side of the Bone, is the mouth of the Aquceductus Vestihidi. The Foramen Innominatum, near the middle of the Anterior Surface of the Pars Petrosa, and leading back- wards, for the passage of the Vidian Nerve, which is reflected from the Second Branch of the Fifth, to the Portio Dura of the Seventh Pair. The Orifice of the Cancdis Caroticus appearing at the outer and fore part of the Pars Petrosa. - The Foramen Jugulare, vel Foramen Lacerura Pos-Part I.] OF THE BONES. 53 terius, or Hole common to the Pars Petrosa and Cunei- form Process of the Occipital Bone, for the passage of the Lateral Sinus, the Eighth, and the Accessory Nerves. The Nerves pass through the fore part of the Hole, and are separated from the Sinus by a Process of the Dura Mater, stretched between two small Processes of these Bones. In some Skulls, an Osseous Partition separates the Nerves from the Sinus. The Squamous part of the Temporal Bone is thin, but equal, while the Pars Petrosa is thick and strong, but irregular, having within it several Cavities, Pro- cesses, and Bones, which belong to the Organ of Hear- ing. The connewion of the Bone, at its upper curved Edge, to the Parietal Bone, by the Squamous Suture. To the under and back part of the Parietal Bone, by the Additamentum Suturae Squamosse. To the Occipital Bone, by the Additamentum Su- turae Lambdoidalis. The Temporal Bone protects the inferior and lateral parts of the Brain, and contains the Internal Organ of Hearing. It gives origin to the Digastricus, Stylo-hydideus, Stylo-glossus, Stylo-pharyngis, Levator Palati, Ante- rior Auris, Retrahentes Aureiri, and Stapedius, to part of the Temporalis and its Aponeurosis, Constrictor Pharyngis Superior, and Masseter; insertion to the Trachelo-mastoideus, and to part of the Sterno-mas- toideus and Splenius. In a Foetus, the Squamous part of the Bone is sepa- rated from the Petrous by a Fissure ; there is no ap-'54 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. pearance of Mastoid or Styloid Process; and instead of an Osseous Meatus Externus, there is only a Ring of Bone, in which the Membrana Tympani is fixed. Os Ethmoides. Observe hsre, The sittcation of the Ethmoid, or Cribriform Bone, in the fore part of the Base of the Cranium. Its Cuboid Figure^ and division into middle and la- teral portioiiSj which are connected together at the up- per pa.rt. The Cribriform Plate^ from which the Bone has its name, placed horizontally at the upper part of the Bone, and perforated, excepting at its posterior portion, with many Holes, disposed irregularly and of different sizes, for the transmission of the Branches of the First, or Olfactory Pair of Nerves. In a recent Subject, these holes are so much filled up by the Processes of the Dura Mater which inclose the Nerves, that they are much less evident than in a Bone where the Membranes have been removed. The Crista Galli, or Process compared to the Comb of a Cock, arising perpendicularly from the middle of the Cribriform Plate, and highest at the fore part, be- coming gradually lower in its passage backwards. To the edge of this Process, and to the unimperfb- rated part of the Cribriform Plate, the Falx of the Dura Mater is fixed. A Notch at the fore part of the root of the Crista Galli, contributing, in a small degree, to the formation of the Foramen Caecum of the Frontal Bone.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 55 The Nasal Plate, extending downwards and forwards from the base of the Crista Galli, to form the upper and back part of the Septum Narium, or Partition of the Nostrils. The greater part of this Process is very thin, but to- wards its anterior and under edge it becomes thicker^ for its firmer junction with the Bones and middle Car- tilage of the Nose. It is frequently bent a little to one side; in such cases, the two Nostrils become unequal in size. The Ethmoid Cells, sometimes termed Labyrinth, of an indeterminate number, size, and form, placed under, the Cribriform Plate, a little to the outside of the Na- sal Lamella, separated from each other by thin Parti- tions, and serving the same purposes as the Frontal Sinuses. Their communications with each other, with the open- ing of the Frontal Sinuses of the corresponding side, and also with the Cavity of tlie Nose. The OsSpongiosumSuperius, on each side, projecting inwards and downwards into the Cavity of the Nose, from the Ethmoid Cells, at the side of the Nasal La- mella, and serving for enlarging the Organ of SmelL The Triangular Form, and thick Spongy Texture of each at its under edge. Its convexity towards the Septum, and concavity out- wards. In the Quadruped, this Bone is convoluted like a Shell, or a Turban; hence, in the Human Species, as well as in Quadrupeds, it is frequently ^called Con- cha, vel Os Turbinatum. The Ossa Plana, or Orbitar Plates, for covering a56 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOxMY. [Part I. large share of the Ethmoid Cells, and forming the greater part of the inner sides of the Orbits. On the upper edge of the Os Planum, two small Notches appear, which, with similar Notches in the Frontal Bone, form the Internal Orbitar Holes. The Substance of the Ethmoid Bone is the thinnest of any of the Bones of the Cranium, the Ossa Plana, and parts which form the Ethmoid Cells, being as thin as writing-paper, and extremely brittle. It differs, be- sides, from almost every other Bone in the Body, in its Sides or Walls being formed of single Lamellae, with scarcely any Medullary Cells, the Crista Galli ex- cepted. The connexion of the Cribriform Plate to the Orbi- tar Plates of the Frontal Bone by the Ethmoid Suture; and to the Sphenoid Bone by a Suture common to the two Bones, but generally considered as belonging to the latter. The connexion of the Ossa Plana to the Orbitar Plates of the Frontal Bone, by part of the Transverse Suture. The jposterio7- edge of the Nasal Plate, joined to the Processus Azygos of the Sphenoid Bone. Its upper edge, joined to the Nasal Processes of the Frontal and Nasal Bones. Its anterior edge, joined to the middle Cartilage of the Nose. The Ethmoid Bone assists in sustaining the Anterior Lobes of the Brain, gives passage to the Olfactory Nerves, attachment to the Falx, forms a large portion of the Organ of Smelling, and of the inner sides of the Orbits, but has no Muscles attached to it.Paet L] of the bones. 57 In a Foetus, the Ethmoid Bone is divided into two by a Cartilaginous Partition, which afterwards forms the Nasal Plate and Crista Galli. The other parts of the Bone are completely ossified. Os Sphenoides. Here attend to, The situation of the Sphenoid, Cuneiform, or wedge- shaped Bone, in the middle of the Cranium. Its irregular Figure, which has been compared to that of a Bat with extended wings. The Temporal Plates, or Wings, placed at the sides of the Bone, and each hollow at the upper and outer part, for lodging a share of the Temporal Muscle; and also at the under and outer part, where the Pterygoi- deus Externus has some of its origin. The Orhitar Plates, at the fore part of the Temporal Wings, forming a portion of the outside of the Orbits. The upper and fore part of the Temporal Plates, forming irregular Surfaces, where they are connected to the under and lateral portions of the Frontal Bone. The Spinous Process, at the under and back part of each Temporal Plate. A Styloid Process, frequently observed at the point of the Spinous, from both of which the Circumflexus Palati arises. Between the Temporal and Spinous Processes, a ragged Arch for receiving the fore part of the Squa- mous Plate of the Temporal Bone. The two Pterygoid, or Aliform Processes, placed al- most perpendicularly to the Body of the Bone, These58 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. Processes are compared to the wings, though more properly resembling the feet of the Bat. Each is com- posed of two Plates. The External Plate^ broad and hollow without, where the External Pterygoid Muscle has its origin. Be- tween the root of this Plate and that of the Temporal one, a large Depression, where the principal part of the External Pterygoid Muscle arises. Before this is another Depression, forming part of the opening com- mon to the Sphenoid, Malar, and Superior Maxillary Bones. The Internal Plate^ narrower and longer than the External, and with its fellow on the opposite side, forming the back part of the Nose. A hooh-like Process upon the Internal Plate, over which the Circumflex us Palati moves as on a Pulley. The Fossa Pterygoidea, facing backwards between the Pterygoid Plates, giving rise to the internal Ptery- goid Muscle. A small Depression behind the root of the internal Pterygoid Plate, which gives origin to part of the Cir- cumflex Muscle of the Palate. A Groove on each side, which extends at the inner part of the Bone, between the root of the Styloid Pro- cess and that of the internal Pterygoid Plate, assisting in the formation of the Eustachian Tube. The two Triangular Processes, which adhere to the under part of the Sphenoid, and to the Ethmoid Bone, and which are considered as two of the Bones of the Face. The Processus Azygos, standing single, and forming ^ sharp ridge, which projects from under the middlePart I.j OF THE BONES. 59 and fore part of the Bone. This Process is often bent to one side, dividing the two Nostrils unequally. The Clinoid Processes, seen on the inside of the Bone, compared to the supporters of a bed, of which there are, Tivo Anteriory projecting from the fore and lateral part of the Body of the Bone, and extending horizon- tally outwards ; each terminating in a point which ob- tains the name of Transverse Spinous Process. One Posterior, situated transversely, some way be- hind the anterior Processes, but projecting obliquely upwards and forwards, and frequently ending in two Knobs, which also incline a little forwards, and form two Posterior Clinoid Processes. Sometimes one or both of the Anterior Clinoid Pro- cesses are united with the posterior, forming an Arch over the internal Carotid Artery. The Processus Olivaris, a small ridge running trans- versely between, and a little behind, the roots of the anterior Clinoid Processes, and considered by some as a fourth Clinoid Process. Between the anterior Clinoid Processes, a small points ed Process frequently juts forwards, to join the Cribri- form Plate of the Ethmoid Bone, from which it is sometimes called Ethmoid Process. The Temporal Fosscb of this Bone, which lodge a share of the lateral Lobes of the Brain. A Fossa between the anterior Clinoid Processes, where part of the anterior Lobes of the Brain rests. A Depression before the Processus Olivaris, where the conjoined Optic Nerves lie; and a Fossa on each60 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pakt I. side of it, where these Nerves are situated, previously to their entering the Orbits. The Fossa Pituitaria^ Sella Turcica^ Epliippium^ or Turkish Saddle^ situated between the Processus Oli- varis and posterior Clinoid Process, but open laterally, for lodging the Glandula Pituitaria. A Notch^ running upwards at each side of the Pos- terior Clinoid Process, and from it a slight impression, stretched along the lateral parts of the Sella Turcica, and terminating in a Pit at the root of the anterior Cli- noid Process. These point out the course of the in- ternal Carotid Arteries, when they have entered the Cranium, and previously to their perforating the Dura Mater, to be dispersed upon the Brain. Besides these Impressions, several others may be ob- served, made by Nerves and Vessels leading to or from their respective Foramina in the base of the Cranium. The Foramina observed in this Bone are placed at the roots of the Temporal Processes, or between these and the Body of the Bone, and are as follow, viz. The Foramina Optica between the roots of the ante- rior Clinoid Processes and body of the Bone, for the transmission of the Optic Nerves and Ocular Arteries. Sometimes, though rarely, there are Foramina pecu- liar to these Arteries. The Foramina Lacera Superior a, or Superior Orhi- tar Fissures, under the anterior Clinoid Processes and their transverse Spinous Parts, for the passage of the third, fourth, first part of the fifth, and the sixth pair of Nerves, with the Ocular Veins. The Foramina. Lacera are largest at their inner ends. At their outer extremities they are considerably smaller,61 Part I.] OF THE BONES. and are partly formed there by the Os Frontis; hence, they may be ranked among the common Holes of the Cranium. The Foramina Rotunda^ a little behind the Fora> mina Lacera, for the passage of the second part of the Fifth Pair of Nerves, which are termed the Superior Maxillary. From the outer end of each Foramen Rotundum, a small Groove frequently extends outwards between the Ridge separating the Orbitar from the Temporal Pro^ cess, and points out the course of a Branch of the Su- perior Maxillary Nerve to the Temporal Muscle. The Foramina Ovalia, considerably larger than the Foramina Rotunda, and placed farther back, and mord externally, for the passage of the third part of the Fifth Pair of Nerves, and commonly for the passage of the Veins also, which accompany the principal Ar- teries of the Dura Mater. The Foramina Spinalia, a little to the outer and back part of the Foramina Ovalia, and in the points of the Spinous Processes, for the transmission of the middle and principal Trunks of the Arteries of the Dura Mater, the impressions of which are so conspi- cuous on the inner side of the Temporal Bones. The Foramina Pterygoidea, vel Foramina Pterygo-* palatina, termed also, from the discoverer. Foramina ViDiANA, at the roots of the inner Plates of the Ptery- goid Processes, for the passage of two recurrent or re- flected Branches of the second part of the Fifth Pair of Nerves: The Foramina Pterygoidea are the smallest of the Sphenoid Holes, and cannot be distinctly seen in an62 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. entire Skull, being partly concealed by the Palate- Bones. Sometimes one or more small passages are observed in or near the Sella Turcica, for the transmission of Elood-vessels into the Sphenoid Sinuses, or to the sub- stance of the Bone. These passages were, in former times, considered by some Authors as conducting Pi- tuita by the Sphenoidal Sinuses into the Nose. The Foramina Lacera Anteriora^ common to the points of the Partes Petrosae and the Sphenoid Bone. In a recent Skull, each of these Holes is filled be- hind by a thin plate of Bone, which covers the internal Carotid Artery, and farther forwards, by a Cartilagi- nous Ligament, which lies over the Eustachian Tube, both of which drop out by maceration. Through this opening, also, Mucus was formerly supposed to be conveyed from the Glandula Pituitaria to the Nose. The Two Sphenoid Sinuses, occupying the whole of the Body, or the middle of the Bone, at the under and fore part of the Sella Turcica, answering the same purposes with the Ethmoid and Frontal Cells. A complete Partition running perpendicularly be- ^ tween the right and left Sphenoid Sinuses. A Passage from the upper and fore part of each of the Sphenoid Sinuses, descending in a slanting direc- tion into the Meatus Superior, or superior-posterior parts of the Nose. Occasionally one of these passages is wanting. The two Sinuses are frequently of unequal size, and sometimes there is but a single large Cavity, with an opening into one of the Nostrils. In some Subjects,Pakt I.] OF THE BONES. 63 instead of Sinuses, the Body of the Bone is composed of large Cells. The substance of this Bone is the most unequal of any in the Body, some parts being extremely thin, while others are thicker than most parts of the Cranium. The conneooion of the Bone to all the other Bones of the Cranium, by the Sphenoid Suture, though others, as the Transverse, Ethmoid, &c. are confounded with it. The Sphenoid Bone forms the middle of the Base of the Cranium, a share of the Temples, Orbits, and Nose, and assists in supporting the anterior and middle Lobes of the Brain. It gives passage to the Blood- vessels of the Dura Mater and Eye, and to the greater part of the Cerebral Nerves. It affords origin to the Levator Palpebrse, Laxator Tympani, and all the Muscles of the Eye-ball, except- ing the Obliquus Inferior ; to part of the Buccinator, Pterygoidei Externus et Internus, Temporalis, Cir- cumflexus Palati. and Constrictor Pharyngis Superior. In a Foetus, the Temporal wings are separated from the Body of the Bone by maceration, and there are no Sphenoid Sinuses. In the early period of life, the Sphenoid Bone is joined to the Cuneiform Process of the Occipital Bone by a thin Cartilage, which, by the age of fifteen or sixteen years, is in general completely absorbed, and the two Bones so firmly united by an accretion of sub- stance, or in the manner that Processes are united to the bodies of long Bones, that Dr Soemmereing has described them as one Bone, under the name o£ Sphe- no-occipitale.64 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. The Bones of the Face, and the relative proportions between the Face and Cranium, vary considerably a- mong people of different nations, but they likewise differ among the individuals of the same country. It is difficult, therefore, to ascertain the proportions with accuracy. An Angle termed Facial^ however, is con- sidered by some late Authors, as being the simplest method of determining this circumstance. The Facial Angle is formed by drawing a line, called Transverse^ through the external Auditory Passage and bottom of the Nostril, and another, termed Facial, from the convexity of the Forehead to the under and fore part of the Upper Jaw, so as to intersect the former. In the Grecian, as measured from the Antique Sta- tue, the Facial Angle is found to be about 90^, or be- tween 90® and 100^ ; in the European, about 80®, or between 80® and 90® ; and in the African, on account of the greater prominence of the Jaws, about 70^ only. According to Dr Camper, the boundaries of the Fa- cial Angle, in the Human Subject, are 70® and 80®. By a vertical longitudinal Section of the Head, the area of the Face of the European is observed to be only half of that of the Cranium, but is somewhat more in the Negro; or, the Face is larger in the one, while the Cranium is bigger in the other. In the Bones of the Face we observe, Their Division into Upper and Under Jazvs. The Upper Jaw, or Maxilla Superior, besides theOF THE BONES. Part I.] 65 Teeth, composed of seven Pairs of Bones, and one with- out a Jellow ; viz. Two Ossa Nasi ; Tzvo Ossa Unguis ; Two Ossa Ma- larum ; Two Ossa Maxillaria Superior a ; Two Ossa Palati; Two Ossa Spongiosa Inferiora; Two Ossa Triangularia ; and the Vomer. The Lower Jaw, or Maxilla Inferior, consists of a single Bone, with the Teeth. The Bones of the Upper Jaw are joined together by Sutures which have no distinct Indentations, like those of the Cranium ; but, like them, they are frequently found obliterated in the Skulls of old people. The Bones here, in consequence of the nature of the Su- tures, have no motion but what they possess in com- mon with the Cranium. The Sutures shall be taken notice of in the description of the Bones between which they are placed. Ossa Nasi. Their Situatiofi in the upper and fore part of the Nose. The oblong Form of each, though irregularly so. The thick, ragged, upper end, where it forms a strong connexion with the Frontal Bone. Each narrowest a little below the upper end, and bent backwards. The Iriferior Extremity, thinner and broader than the rest of the Bone, and unequal where it gives at- tachment to the Cartilaginous part of the Nose. The under half convex externally, by which, when VOL. T. E66 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. the Bone is joined to its fellow, a strong Arch is form- ed, that is fitted for resisting injury. The inner margin thick and broad above, but thin below, where it joins its fellow on the opposite side. Its internal Concavity/, where it forms part of the Cavity of the Nose. The Spinous Process, which joins the Nasal Lamella of the Ethmoid Bone, and thereby forms part of the partition of the Nose. One or more Holes externally, for transmitting Ves- sels into the substance of the Bone, or to the Mem- brane of the Nose. The substance of the Bone remarkably firm and strong, with very few Cancelli. Its Connexion to the Frontal Bone, by the transverse Suture. To its fellow by the anterior Nasal Suture. The Ossa Nasi form the upper and fore part of the Nose, and give attachment to the Compressor Naris, and to part of the Occipito-frontalis. In a Foetus, the Ossa Nasi are proportionally short, but are otherwise complete. Ossa Unguis, vel Laceymalia. Their Situation at the inner and fore part of the Orbit. Their Size, the least of the Bones of the Face. The Division of each externally, into two depressed Surfaces, with a Ridge between them which forms the boundary of the Orbit at the inner Angle. The Ridge between these Surfaces frequently formsPart I.] OF THE BONES. 67 a little Process below, where it assists in covering part of the Lacrymal Sac. The posterior Surface^, the largest of the two, form- ing part of the Orbit; and having the appearance of being a continuation of the Pars Plana of the Eth» moid Bone. The anterior Surface^ for lodging part of the La» crymal Sac and Duct, and perforated by small Holes, through which Fibres pass, to make a firm connexion between the Bone and its investing Membrane. In the anterior Depression, the perforation is made in performing the operation for Fistula Lacrymalis. The inner or Nasal Surface, composed of a Furrow and two irregular convex Surfaces, corresponding with the anterior Ethmoid Cells. The substance of the Bone is the thinnest and most brittle of any in the body, in consequence of which it is frequently met with in an imperfect state. Its Connexion to the Frontal Bone by the Transverse Suture, and to the Os Planum by the Ethmoid Suture. Internally, it is connected with the Ethmoid Cells. The Os Unguis forms the inner and fore part of the Orbit, covers part of the Ethmoid Cells, and receives a share of the Lacrymal Sac. * In a Fcetus, it is fully formed. OssA Malarum, vel Ossa Jugalia. The Situation of each in the outer part of the Cheek The external convex Surface, smooth and of a some- what rhomboid form.68 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The posterior hollow Surface, for lodging part of the Temporal Muscle. The superior Orhltar Process, forming part of the outside of the Orbit. The iriferior Orhitar Process, forming part of the lower Edge of the Orbit. The Maxillary Process, forming the under part of the Prominence of the Cheek. The Arch between the Orbitar Processes, which forms near a third part of the anterior Circumference of the Orbit. The Zygomatic Process, the most conspicuous, ex- tending backwards, and becoming oblique, to join the Zygomatic part of the Temporal Bone, and with it to form an Arch over the Temporal Muscle. The Internal Orhitar Plate, hollow and extending back between the Orbitar Processes, to form a share of the outer, under, and fore part of the Orbit. A Passage through the Bone, for the transmission of small Vessels or Nerves from the Orbit to the Face, and sometimes from the Face to the Orbit. A Notch in the outer part of the internal Orbitar Process, assisting in the formation of the large Slit at the bottom of the Orbit. The substance of the Bone is thick and hard, with some Cancelli. The Connexion of the superior Orbitar Processes and internal Orbitar Plate to the Frontal and Sphe- noid Bones, by the Transverse Suture. The Connexion of the Zygomatic Process to the Temporal.Bone, by the Zygomatic Suture. The Os Malae closes the outer part of the Orbit, andPart I.] - OF THE BONES. 69 gives form to the Cheek. It affords origin to the Zy- gomatici Major et Minor, to part of the Masseter ilnd Temporalis, and insertion to part of the Aponeurosis Temporalis. In a Foetus, the Bone is fully ossified. OssA Maxillaria Superiora. Their Situation in the fore part of the Upper Jaw, and sides of the Nose. Their Size^ the largest of the Bones of the Upper Jaw, on which account they have got their name. The Nasal, or Angular Process of each, forming a portion of the side of the Nose, and of the inner part of the Orbit, and overlapping the outer edge of the Os Nasi above, while that Bone covers the edge of the Nasal Process below. A Ridge at the under and inner side of the Nasal Process, for supporting part of the Os Spongiosum In- ferius. The Orhitar Plate, facing obliquely outwards, and forming a large share of the under side of the Orbit. The Malar Process, at the outside of the Orbitar Plate, unequal, ragged, and of a triangular shape, where it contributes, with the Os Malae, to form the Prominence of the Cheek. The Tuberosity, or Bulge at the back part of the Bone, which forms the posterior boundary of the Ca- vity called Antrum Maxillare, and gives origin to a portion of the external Pterygoid Muscle. A Depression behind the Malar process, where the under end of the Temporal Muscle plays.70 COMPENDIUM OP ANATOMY. [Part I. A Depression at the under and fore part of the Ma- lar Process, where the Muscles which raise the Upper Lip and corner of the Mouth, originate, and where a Branch of the Fifth Pair of Nerves is lodged, and commonly a large portion of Fat. The Alveolar Arch^ at the under part of the Bone, of a Spongy nature, where the Alveoli or Sockets of the Teeth are placed. The Alveoli^ or Sockets of the Teeth, porous, for the firmer adhesion of the reflected Membrane of the Gums, and for the transmission of Blood-vessels into the substance of the Bone ; the Sockets corresponding in number with those of the Teeth, and varying in depth, size, and form, according to the nature of the Teeth fixed in them. The Palate Plate or Process, placed horizontally, forming part of the Roof of the Mouth, and of the Bottom of the Nose. The Palate Plate, thin in its middle, and thicJc at its edges ; smooth towards the Nose, but rough, unequal, and porous below, for the firm connexion of the Mem- brane of the Palate, and for the passage of Blood- vessels and Nerves to the substance of the Bone. The Nasal Spine, contributing, in a small degree, to the formation of the Septum of the Nose. An Arch formed by the Palate Plate, both above and below, for enlarging the Cavities of the Nose and Mouth. In advanced life, where the Teeth have fallen out, the Roof of the Mou th, which was formerly arched, becomes flat,, in consequence of an absorption of the Alveoli, and the Cavity of the Mouth is now diminished in size. A Notch forming the under and fore part of the Nos-Paet L] of the bones. 71 tril, to the edge of which, and to the corresponding one of the Nasal Process, the Cartilages of the side of the Nose are connected. The Lacrymal Fossa, at the outer and back part of the Nasal Process, which, with that of the Os Unguis, forms a passage for the Lacrymal Duct into the Nose. A Canal, termed hifra-orhitar, in the Orbitar Plate, terminated anteriorly by the Foramen Infra-orhitarium, through which the Infra-orbitar Branch of the second part of the Fifth Pair of Nerves, with a Branch of the internal Maxillary Artery, pass to the Face. From this Canal, minute Passages lead downwards, for receiving the Blood-vessels and Nerves that supply the fore part of the Jaw and corresponding Teeth. The Foramen Incisivum, vel Palatum Anterius, be- hind the Fore-Teeth, common to both Bones below, but proper to each above, and filled with a Process of the Soft Palate, and with Small Vessels and Nerves, which run between the Membranes of the Mouth and Nose; the Nerves chiefly belonging to the Naso-pala- tine Branch of the Second Portion of the Fifth Pair. In some Subjects, there is a distinct Ductus Incisi- vus, leading from one or from both Nostrils into the Cavity of the Mouth, similar to that which is always found in large Quadrupeds. A small Hole commonly found in the Nasal Process, and some minute Passages at the back part of the Tu- berosity, for the transmission of Blood-vessels and Nerves into the substance of the Bone and Large Dentes Molares, and into the Antrum Maxillare. The Sinus Maocillaris, Antrum Maxillare, or, from its dA3scriber, Highmorianum, of great size, being the72 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. largest of all the Sinuses of the Head, occupying, the whole inner part of the Body of the Bone. It is situat- ed under the Orbitar Plate, and above the large Den- tes Molares, and destined for the same purposes as the other Sinuses of the Bones of the Head. The Partition between the Sinus and Sockets of the Teeth is commonly of considerable thickness; but not unfrequently there is only a thin Plate interposed, and small Prominences, containing the points of the roots of the Teeth, may often be observed in the middle of this Cavity. The Opening of the Sinus, large in the separated Maxillary Bone, but, in the connected state, so covered by the Os Spongiosum Inferius, and by the Palate Bone and Membranes, as to leave only one, and sometimes two Apertures, little larger than to admit the point of a Surgeon's Probe. The Aperture is situated at the upper part of the Sinus, and descends obliquely back- wards to terminate in the Cavity of the Nose, between the Ossa Spongiosa Superius et Inferius. The Substance of this Bone is hard and dense, ex- cept at the Alveoli, where it is remarkably Spongy. The connexion of the Bone to the Os Frontis, by the Transverse Suture,—to the Os Unguis, by the Lacry- mal Suture,—to the Os Nasi, by the Lateral Nasal Suture,—to the Os Malae, by the internal and exter- nal Orbitar Sutures,—to the Os Planum, by the Eth- moid Suture,—to its fellow, by the longitudinal Palate Suture,—to its fellow also, between the fore part of / the Nose and Mouth, by the Mystachial Suture. The Ossa Maxillaria form the greater part of the Nose and Roof of the Mouth, a considerable part ofPart I.] OF THE BONES. 73 the Orbits and Cheeks, and contain all the Teeth whicli belong to the Upper Jaw. The Superior Maxillary Bone gives origin to the Obliquus Inferior Oculi, Levator et Depressor Labii Superioris Alaeque Nasi, Levator Anguli Oris,—to part of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum, Pterygoideus Exter- nus. Buccinator, Masseter, and Constrictor Pharyngis Superior. In a Foetus there are six Sockets for the Teeth,— no Tuberosity, and the Maxillary Sinus is only begin- ning to be formed. OssA Palati. Their Situation in the back part of the Palate. The Ohlong Shape jd^ the Palate Plate of each, which forms the back part of the Osseous Palate. Its posterior Curved Edge, where it is connected with the Velum Palati; also the point at the inner extre- mity of the Curve, for the origin of the Muscle of the Uvula. Its thick, strong substance, where it joins its fellow. Its Spinous Process or Crest, at the inner edge of the Palate Plate, joining the under part of the Vomer, and contributing to the formation of the Septum Narium. The Pterygoid Process, of a Triangular or Pyramid dal form, with Fossae corresponding to the Pterygoid Plates of the Sphenoid Bone. The Nasal Plate, forming a portion of the side of the Nose and Antrum Maxillare. A Ridge on the inside of this Plate, upon which the back part of the inferior Spongy Bone rests.74 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Two Orhitar Processes^ at the upper and back part of the Nasal Plate, contributing a little in the for- mation of the Orbit, and of the Ethmoid and Sphenoid Sinuses, being hollow within. The Anterior Orbitar Process, the larger of the two, with its upper Surface appearing in the bottom of the Orbit, behind the back part of the Os Planum and Os Maxillare. A Notch between the Orbitar Processes, forming part of the Foramen Spheno-Palatinum; and sometimes this a complete Foramen, for the passage of the Nasal Ves- sels and Nerves, the former belonging to the Internal Maxillary, and the latter to the second portion of the Fifth Pair. The Foramen Palatinum Posterius, vel Palato-Maoc- illare^ at the outer end of the Palate-Plate of this Bone, but common to it and the Maxillary Bone, for the trans- mission of Nerves of the Second Branch of the Fifth Pair, with associate Blood-Vessels, which are the prin- ciple Nerves and Vessels of the Palate. A small Hole frequently observed behind the former, and communicating with it, for the passage of a Branch of the Palatine Nerve. The Foramen Spheno-Maooillare, Lacerum Inferius^ or Irvferior Orhitar Fissure^ at the under arid outer part of the Orbit, and common to the Cuneiform, Max- illary. Malar, and Palate Bones, for lodging Fat be- longing to the Eye, and transmitting small Twigs of Vessels and Nerves into the Orbit. The Palate-Plate of this Bone and its Pterygoid Process are firm and strong ; but the Nasal Plate and Orbitar Processes are thin and brittle.75 Part I.] OF THE BONES. The conneooion of the Os Palati to the Palate-Plate of the Maxillary Bone, by the Transverse Palate Su- ture ;—to the Maxillary Bone, at the side of the Nose and bottom of the Orbit, by the Palato-Maxillary Su- ture ;—to the Pterygoid Process of the Sphenoid Bone, by the Sphenoid Suture ;—to the Os Planum and Eth- moid Cells, by the Ethmoid Suture ;—and to its fel- low, by the Longitudinal Suture. The Palate Bone forms part of the Palate, Nose, and Orbit, covers a share of the Ethmoid, Sphenoid, and Maxillary Sinuses, gives origin to part of the Azygos Uvulae, to a portion of the Pterygoideus Externus, and insertion to part of the Circumflexus Palati. In a Foetus, the Palate Bone is complete, but there are no cells in the Orbitar Processes. OssA Spongiosa, vel Turbinata Inferiora, vel Concha Inferiores. The Situation of each Spongy Bone, projecting in the under part of the side of the Nose. Its triangular Jbrm and spongy appearance, resem- bling the Os Spongiosum Superius. Its convexity toward the Neptum Nasi, and cmicavity outwards. The under edge placed horizontally near the under part of the Nose, more or less convoluted, of consider- able thickness and strength, and ending in a thin sharp point behind. The two Processes at the upper part of the Bone, the anterior ascending and forming part of the Lacrymal Groove, and the posterior descending in form of a76 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paiit I. Hook, to make part of the side of the Maxillary Sinus, and to contract the opening of that Cavity. The Connexion of this Bone to the Os Maxillare, Os Palati, and the Os Unguis, by a distinct Suture in the young subject; but in the Adult, by a concretion of substance. The Ossa Spongiosa Inferiora afford a large surface for extending the Organ of Smell, by allowing the Membrane of the Nose to be expanded, upon Avhich the Olfactory Nerves are dispersed. They form a boundary between the Middle and Inferior Meatus of the Nose; cover the under Orifice of the Lacrymal Canals; assist also in the formation of these Canals, and of the Orifices of the Maxillary Sinuses. In a Foetus, these Bones are almost complete. OssA Tbiangulabia, vel Cornua Sphenoidalia. The Situation of each triangular Bone between the Body of the Sphenoid Bone and root of its internal Pterygoid Sinus. Its Connexion to the back part of the Ethmoid Bone. In an old person, it grows so firmly to the Sphenoid, as to be considered by some Authors as one of its Processes. Vomer. Its Situation in the under part of the Septum Nasi, where it separates the 'Nostrils from each other. It commonly descends perpendicularly, but it is fre-Part I.J OF THE BONES. 77 quently bent to one side, in which case the one Nostril is rendered larger than the other. Its Form approaching that of a rhomboid, or it is compared to that of a Ploughshare, from which it has its name. The superior and posterior part, thick and strong, with a Furroxv above to receive the Processus Azygos of the Sphenoid Bone. The superior part, with a Groove to receive the Na- sal Plate of the Ethmoid Bone, and the Cartilage of the Nose. The inferior Edge connected with the Spinous Pro- cesses of the Palate and Maxillary Bones, by a small Ridge corresponding with a Groove of these Bones. The posterior-inferior Edge, thick above, but thin and sharp below, unconnected with any other Bone, and turned to the Cavity of the Throat. The Vomer has a smooth surface, and a dense Sub- stance ; in a young person, it consists of two Plates, but in an old Subject, these are compressed together, so as to render the Bone transparent. It divides the Cavity of the Nose into right and left Nostrils, receives the middle Cartilage of the Nose, and serves to extend the Olfactory Membranes. Maxilla Inferior. The Figure of the Maxilla Inferior, or Lower Jaw, compared to that of the letter U; or it forms half of a long oval, with the convex middle part forwards. The division into CJmi, Sides, and Processes.18 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The Chin, extending between the Holes termed Mental Foramina at the fore part of the Jaw. The under part of the Chinj more prominent than the upper edge of the Jaw, with a triangular eminence in the middle of its outer Surface, which, with the pro- jecting under edge, renders this part peculiar to Man. This projection of the Chin is less apparent in a Ne- gro, where the Alveolar Border is so expanded as to increase the prominence of the Mouth. The Sides, reaching from the Mental Foramina to the back part of the Bone. A Transverse Ridge on the fore part of the Chin, with depressions on each side, for the Origin of Mus- cles of the Under Lip, Small Prominences and Depressions on the under, inner, or back part of the Chin, for the attachment of the Fragnum Linguae, and of several Muscles which belong to the Throat. The Base^ or lowest part, forming the under boun- dary of the Face. The Angles of the J aw at the back part of the Base, Impressions made by the Masseter Muscle upon the outside of the angle, and also on the Plate which arises from it. The plate, which rises from the angle of the Jaw, on each side, running upwards and a little backwards, and terminating in two Processes^ termed Condyloid and Coronoid. The Condyloid^ or Articular Process^ with an oblong rounded head, covered with Cartilage, and placed al- most transversely upon a Cervix at the upper and back part of the Bone; though, with respect to each dther,79 Part I ] OF THE BONES. the Condyles are somewhat oblique, the external ex- tremity being directed a little forward. At the under and fore part of the Condyle, a cavity for the insertion of the Pterygoideus Externus. The Coronoid Process, into which the Temporal Muscle is inserted, situated sl little lower than the Con- dyloid Process, and, in the natural situation of the Jaw, placed on the inner side of the Zygoma, The Anterior Edge of this process, forming a Ridge which goes downwards and forwards, terminating at the outside of the Posterior AlTeoli. From this the under edge of the Buccinator takes its Origin. From the inner side of the Coronoid Process, ano- ther Ridge of the Buccinator takes its Origin. From the inner side of the Coronoid Process, ano- ther Ridge seen terminating nearly opposite to the former. To this the Internal Membrane of the Gums^ and Mylo-hyoideus, are attached. The Alveolar Process, and Alveoli, nearly similar to those of the Upper Jaw. The Alveolar Process, extending along the Upper Edge of the Bone, from the Coronoid Process of one side to that of the other; and thickest behind, corre» sponding there with the increased thickness of the Teeth. The Alveolar Process, composed of two Plates^ and divided by cross Partitions, which, as in the Upper Jaw, mark the different Alveoli for the Fangs of the Teeth. The Posterior Part of the Internal Plate, slanting inwards, and thinner thaw the external, giving the J aw a twisted appearance,80 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. Opposite the Alveoli, the external Plate swelling, and giving a fluted form, which is observed in the whole extent of the Alveolar Process of the Upper Jaw, and in the fore part of the Lower Jaw. At the fore part of the Jaw, the Alveoli are perpen- dicular, but turn inwards behind, where they are placed nearer the inner than the outer part of the Jaw. The Sockets are worn down by absorption in old age, in consequence of which the Teeth drop out, the Jaw becomes narrower, the face shorter, and, when the Mouth is shut, the Jaw appears more prominent. The posterior Maxillary Foramen^ at the roots of the Condyloid and Coronoid Processes, upon the inner side of the Jaw, for the passage of the Third, or infe- rior Maxillary Branch of the Fifth Pair of Nerves, with the corresponding Blood-vessels, into the Bone. A small-pointed Process at the inner edge of this Hole, where a Ligament goes off to be fixed to the Temporal Bone. Above the Hole, the Bone marked by the passage of the Nerve and Vessels; and below it, commonly a small Furrow^ pointing out the course of a Branch of this Nerve which goes to the Mylo-hyoideus and the Sublingual Gland. Between the Posterior Maxillary Foramen and the Angle, the Bone marked by the insertion of the Inter- nal Pterygoid Muscle. The Anterior Maxillary Foramen^ or Mental Hole^ at the side of the Chin, where the remains of the In- ferior Maxillary Nerve and Vessels come out. The Inferior Maxillary Canal, running in the sub- stance of the Bone, between the Posterior and Ante-• Part I ] OF THE BONES. 81 rior Foramina, a little below the roots of the Teeth, and having many Perforations, for the passage of small Branches of Vessels and Nerves which supply the Jaw and Teeth. The Tables of the Jaw, remarkably tUck^ compact, and hard, and within, furnished with numerous Me- dullary Cells, which surround the Maxillary Canals. The Articulation of the Jaw by its Condyloid Pro- cess with the Glenoid Cavity of the Temporal Bone, and also with the Tubercle at the root of its Zygoma- tic Process. An intermediate moveable Cartilage, thin in the centre and thicker at the edges, is placed in the Articulation of the Lower Jaw, allowing the Condyle to remain in the Glenoid Cavity, in the gentler motion of the Jaw, but admitting it to advance upon the Tubercle or Root of the Zygoma, when the Mouth is widely opened. The Lower Jaw is a principal agent in Manduca- tion. Deglutition, and Speech ; and gives origin to the Depressor Labii Inferioris, Depressor Anguli Oris, Levator Labii Inferioris, Mylo-hyoideus, Genio-hyoi- deus, and to part of the Buccinator, of the Genio-hyo- glossus, and Constrictor Pharyngis Superior; insertion to the Temporalis, Masseter, Pterygoidei Externus et Internus, Digastricus, and to part of the Platysma Myoides. In a Foetus, the Lower Jaw is somewhat of a semi circular Figure, and is composed of two pieces joined together in the middle of the Chin, by the interven- tion of a Cartilage. This union, termed Symphysis, gradually ossifies, and leaves no mark of any former division. VOL. I. p82 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. TEETH. The Situation of the Teeth, in the Alveoli of the J aws. Their Number, sixteen in each Jaw. The Base, or Body of each Tooth, appearing with- out the Sockets. The Roots, or Fangs, placed in the Sockets, and of a conical form. The Cervix, or Collar^ between the Base and Roots of the Teeth. The Roots of the Teeth covered by a Vascular Mem- brane, reflected from the Gums, and serving as a Pe- 7'iosteum to the Teeth, and a lining to the Alveoli. The Cortex, or Enamel, covering the Base of each Tooth, and becoming gradually thinner towards the Cervix. The Fibres of the Osseous part forming Lamellae, which run according to the length of the Teeth. A Foramen at the point of the root of each Tooth, and a Passage leading from it into a common Cavity in the Base of the Tooth, for lodging the Vascular and Nervous substance called Pulp of the Tooth. Division of the Teeth into four Classes, viz. —On each side of each Jaw,— Two Incisores ;—One Cuspidatus, or Caninus ;— Two Bicuspidati, or Small Molares and Three Large Molares.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 83 The Incisores, placed in the fore part of the Jaw, hav- ing their Bases formed into Wedges sloped out behind. The Cuspidatus, farther back than the former, hav- ing its Base in form of a Wedge^ like the Incisores, but pointed in the middle. The Bicuspidati, still farther back, each with double points^ one external, the other internal, which, in the Upper Jaw, are nearly upon a level, but, in the Under Jaw, highest on the outside of the Teeth. The Incisores, Cuspidatus, and Bicuspidati, with single Roots, excepting the small Molares of the Up- per Jaw, which have frequently two Roots. The first of the three posterior, or large Molares of the Under Jaw, with five, and each of the other two with four points. Each of these three Teeth, having two, three, or sometimes four roots. In the Upper Jaw, the first large Molaris having four, and each of the other two only three points. In each of these three Teeth, generally one root more in those of the Upper, than in the corresponding Teeth of the Under Jaw. The last, or backmost Molaris, called Sapiens, smaller, and having generally^/^iX'^r roots. The Teeth connected to the Sockets by Gomphosis, and by a firm adhesion to the Gums. At Birth, the outer shell only of the five Temporary Teeth, and of the anterior Permanent Molaris, in each side of each Jaw, is found. These Teeth are situated in Capsules, within the Jaw. At this period there are no roots formed. For a fuller descriptio7i of the Teeth, see Vol. II.S4 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. Os Hyoides, vel Os Linguale. The circumstances to be attended to here are, The Situation of that Bone at the root of the Tongue and top of the Larynx. The Shape^ compared to that of the Greek letter v, from which the Bone has derived its name. The division of the Bone into Body, two Cornua, and two Appendices. The Body of the Bone, the middle broad part, con- vex before, and concave behind, and by much the lar- gest of the five pieces. The Body of the Bone of an oblong form, placed transversely, and divided anteriorly into an upper and under Surface by a Transverse Ridge. Several Impressions seen on the fore part of the Bo- dy, occasioned by the numerous Muscles fixed to it. The concavity behind oblique, to receive the Thy- roid Cartilage, when the Os Hyoides and Larynx are pulled towards each other. The Cornua, extending backwards and upwards from each end of the Body, with their two plain Sur- faces slanting from above downwards and outwards, and giving attachment to Muscles and Ligaments of the Tongue and Larynx. Each of the Cornua becoming gradually smaller in its course backwards, and ending in a round Tubercle, which is connected to the upper cornu of the Thyroid Cartilage. Between the Body and Cornua, frequently a Furrow, pointing out the former separation in young Subjects. The Appendices^ having the size and form of a grainPart I.] OF THE BONES. 85 of decorticated Barley, placed at the upper part of the Articulation between the Body and Cornua, for the attachment of the Muscles. From each Appendix, a Ligament is sent up to the Styloid Process of the Temporal Bone, to assist in connecting the Os Hyoides to the Cranium. The substance of this Bone is Cellular, but covered with a firm external Plate, which adds considerably to its strength. The Os Hyoides is not immediately connected to any other Bone, but is kept in its place by numerous Muscles and Ligaments to be afterwards described. The Os Hyoides serves as a Lever for numerous Muscles acting upon the Tongue, Larynx, and Fauces. It gives origin to the Hyo-glossus, and to part of the Constrictor Pharyngis Medius ; insertion to the Ster- no-hyoideus, Omo-hyoideus, Stylo-hyoideus, Genio- hyoideus, Thyro-hyoideus, to part of the Genio-hyo- glossus, Digastricus, and Mylo-hyoideus. At Birth, the greater part of the Bone is in a Carti- laginous state, and the Appendices continue so for many years after the other parts are completely ossified. In a young Adult, the five pieces of which this Bone is composed may be separated by putrefaction, in consequence of which Soemmerring describes them as so many distinct Bones.86 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pari I. TRUNK. We observe here, The Trunk, composed of the Spine, Pelvis^ and Thorax. Spine. The Spine, reaching from the Condyles of the Occi- pital Bone, to the lower end of the Os Coccygis. The Spine appearing straight, when viewed ante- riorly or posteriorly. The several Curves of the Spine, when viewed in a lateral direction; the Curvatures accommodating themselves to the soft parts of the Neck, Thorax, Ab- domen, and Pelvis. The Spine, composed of a long upper, and short un- der Pyramid, joined together by their Bases. The Upper Pyramid, composed of true Vertebrce, or Bones which turn upon each other. The Under Pyramid, formed of Jalse Vertebrce, or Bones which, at an early period of life, resemble the true Vertebrae, but which afterwards grow together, so as not to contribute to the motions of the Trunk of the Body,Paet L] of the bones. -87 TRUE VERTE-BRJE, True Vertebrj2 in General. The true Vertehroe, commonly twenty-four in num- ber, though in some rare cases only twenty-three ; or, on the contrary, twenty-five. This last circumstance has been observed in a Negro. Each of the true Vertebrae composed of a Body and Processes, The Body of a Spongy nature, with upper and wider Surfaces placed horizontally. The anterior convexity of the Body, and posterior concavity. Numerous small Holes on the anterior and lateral parts of the Body, for the passage of Blood-vessels in- to the Substance of the Bone, or for the attachment of Ligamentous Fibres. A Ring of Bone, at the upper and under edges of the Body, of a firmer texture than the rest of its sub- stance, and thereby adding to the general strength of the Bone. The King of Bone forming a superficial Cavity, which receives the Intervertebral Substance. The Bodies of the upper Vertebrae in general small- er and more solid; as they descend, they become larger and more spongy. The Intervertehral Substances, of a Cartilago-Liga^ mentous nature, placed between the Bodies of the \ er-88 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. tebrae, for fixing them together, and allowing the Spine to be moved in all directions. The Intervertebral Substances^ composed of Concen- tric Lamellce, with their edges firmly fixed to the Bo- dies of the Vertebrae. The Lamellae of these Substances, formed of Ob- lique Fibres, which decussate each other, and are very compressible. The Centre of these Substances changes from La- mellcB^ and puts on the appearance of a Mucus or Pulp, which has little compressibility, and serves as a. pivot, upon which the other parts of the Substance can move with such gradual yielding, as to lessen shocks in the Spine, in violent motions of the Body. The Intervertebral Substances, like the Vertebrae themselves, larger and thicker as they descend, to give more security to the parts they support. An Arch sent out from the back part of the Body of each Vertebra, which, together with the Body, forms a large Hole; and the different Holes being placed over each other, a Canal is formed for lodging the Spinal Marrow. A Notch at the upper and under edges of each side of the Arch, forming, in the contiguous Vertebrae, the passages of the Spinal Nerves. The Processes of each Vertebra, seven in number; viz. two Superior Oblique, two Inferior Oblique, two Transverse, and one Spinous. The two Superior Oblique, or Articulating Processes, covered with Cartilage, placed upon the upper part of the sides of the Arch. The two Inferior Oblique or Articulating Processes,89 Part I.] OF THE BONES. also covered with Cartilage, and placed upon the un- der part of the sides of the Arch. The two Superior Oblique Processes of one Verte- bra, articulated with the two Inferior Oblique of the Vertebra immediately above it. Round the edges of the Oblique Processes, rough Lines, for the attachment of their articulating Liga- ments. The two Transverse Processes projecting from the sides of the Arch, and between the Oblique Processes. The Spinous Process, sent out from the back part of the Arch, which, being sharp and pointed, gives name to the whole chain of Bones. The Edges of this Process, as well as of the Arch, rough, where Ligaments come off which fix the corre- sponding parts of the contiguous Vertebrae together. The substance of the Processes stronger, with a thicker external Plate than the Bodies of the Vertebrae. The Vertebrae are joined to each other by a double Articulation, their Bodies being connected by the In- tervertebral Substances already described; and their Oblique Processes so joined by their Ligaments, as to allow a small degree of motion to all sides. In a Foetus, each Vertebra consists of three pieces connected by Cartilages ; viz. the Body not fully ossi- fied, and a curved Bone on each side, forming a small share of the Bony Arch, on which are observed, the Oblique Processes complete, the beginning Transverse Processes, but no Spinal Process,90 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paki I. Peculiarities of the True Vertebra. The Vertebrae, on account of certain peculiarities, divided into Cervical, Dorsal, and Lumbar. The Cervical Vertehrce, or VertehrcB of the NecTc, commonly seven, in some very rare cases only six ; or, on the contrary, eight in number ; having their Bodies smaller than those of the other Vertebrae. The Bodies of the Cervical Vertebrae flattened ante- riorly, for the passage of the Esophagus, and for the attachment of the Longi Colli and Recti Majores; and flattened also posteriorly, corresponding with the breadth of the Spinal Marrow. The Bodies of these Vertebrae mutually embracing each other, the under and fore part of each overlapping, in a small degree, the upper and fore part of the Ver- tebra immediately below, while the lateral parts of the in- ferior Vertebra overlap the sides of that directly above it. The Articulating Processes more oblique than the rest. The Transverse Processes perforated for the passage of the Vertebral Blood-vessels, and hollowed above for the transmission of the Spinal Nerves. The Spinal Processes, placed horizontally, shorter than the rest, and Jhrhed for the attachment of the Musculi Inter-spinales. The Cervical Vertebrae admit of Jree motion, in con- sequence of the thickness of their Cartilages, and the nature of their Processes, but give less protection be- hind to the Spinal Marrow than is given in other partsPart I.] OF THE BONES. 91 of the Spine, in consequence of which, punctures in the back part of the Neck are more apt to become fatal. The first Vertebra, called Atlas^ from its supporting the Globe of the Head, having only a small Arch in- stead of a Body. The upper and under Surfaces of the Arch, marked by the Ligaments which fix it to the Head and second Vertebra. The back part of the Arch holloxv, and covered hy a smooth Cartilage, where it turns upon the Processus Dentatus of the second Vertebra. The inner parts of the sides of the Vertebra, be- tween the superior and inferior oblique Processes, marked by the Lateral Ligaments which go to the Pro- cessus Dentatus, and by the Transverse Ligament which passes behind that Process. The Foramen Vertebrale, larger than in any of the other Vertebrae, for receiving in its fore part the Tooth- like Process of the second Vertebra, and in its back part the beginning of the Spinal Marrow. An Arch upon the back part of the Atlas, instead of a Spinous Process, marked by Muscles and Ligaments. The Superior Oblique Processes, oval, slanting, and hollow, for receiving the Condyles of the Occipital Bone. A Curved Fossa under the outer and back part of each Oblique Process, for the passage of the Vertebral Arteries into the Head, and Tenth Pair of Nerves out of it. The, Transverse Processes, longer than in any other Cervical Vertebra, for the origin of several Muscles. The comiexion of the Atlas to the Occipital Bone^9% COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. where the Head has its Jleooion and extension^ but little other motion. The second Vertebra, called Dentata^ from the Pro- cessus Dentatus, or tooth-like Process on the upper part of its Body. The Body of this Vertebra larger than the rest, and of a Conical figure. The fore part of the Processus Dentatus, convex, and covered with Cartilage where it turns upon the At- las. It has the same appearance behind, where it moves upon the Transverse Ligament. The Sides of this Process, marhed by the insertion of the Lateral Ligaments, and its point by the insertion of the perpendicular Ligament, which is fixed to the edge of the Foramen Magnum of the Occipital Bone. The Superior Oblique Processes placed horizontally, and a little elevated in the middle, to be received into the hollow Inferior Oblique Processes of the Atlas, where the Head has its principal rotatory motion. The Spinous Process, thick and strong, to give ori- gin to the Muscles which assist in the extension and rotation of the Head, and turned down to allow these motions to be readily performed. In a Foetus, the Vertebra Dentata consists of four pieces, three of which are common to all the Vertebrae; the fourth is the Processus Dentatus, which is joined by Cartilage to the Body of the Bone. The third, fourth, fifth, and sixth Vertebrae differ- ing from each other chiefly in becoming larger in their descent. The seventh Cervical Vertebra, approaching in form to the Dorsal Vertebras.—The Spinal and TransversePart I.J OF THE BONES. 93 Processes have no Bifurcation, nor have the Transverse any perforations except in some rare cases. The Dorsal Vertebrce, commonly twelve in number; sometimes, however, eleven only; and at other times thirteen have been observed. The Bodies of the Dorsal Vertebrae, horizontal above and below, larger, sharper before, flatter at the sides, and more hollow behind, than those of the Cervical Vertebrae. A Pit, lined with Cartilage at each side of their up- per and under Edges, near the Transverse Processes, for the Articulation of the Heads of the Ribs. The Intervertebral Substances, thin to admit only of little motion; and thinnest anteriorly, to enlarge the Curve of the Spine, and increase the cavity of the Thorax. The Spinal Canal is here more Circular, but corre- sponding with the size of the Spinal Marrow,—is smaller than in any of the other Vertebrae. The Oblique Processes, having nearly a perpendicu- lar direction, the upper one slanting forwards, and the under ones backwards. The Transverse Processes, long, turned obliquely backwards, and enlarged at their outer extremity, where they are faced with Cartilage, to be articulated with the Tubercles of the Ribs. The Spi7ious Processes, long, thick at the roots, but slender near the extremities, and pointing obliquely downwards over each other, by which the Spinal Mar- row in this part is well protected. The upper edge of each of the Spinous Processes of these Vertebrae, formed into a Bidge, which, in certain94> COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. V motions of the Spine, is received by a Groove in the under part of the Spinous Process of the Vertebra im- mediately above it. The last peculiarity of Structure, with the others already mentioned, prevent the Dorsal Vertebrae from having much motion. The Spinous Processes becoming gradually larger and more oblique, from the fourth to the eighth or ninth, from which downwards, they are shorter and placed more horizontally, the undermost Vertebra of the Back resembling the uppermost of the Loins. The Bodies of the four uppermost Dorsal Vertebj-ae, contrary to the general rule, becoming smaller as they descend, which allows the Trachea to divide at a sharp angle. The Jirst Dorsal Vertebra, having the whole of the Pit for the Head of the uppermost Rib formed in it. The eleventh Dorsal Vertebra, wanting the Articular Surface on its Transverse Process, and frequently hav- ing the whole cavity for the Head of the eleventh Rib on its Body. The twelfth Dorsal Vertebra, receiving the whole Head of the last Rib, and having no Cartilaginous Sur- face on its Transverse Process. The Lumbar VertebrcE, or those of the Loins, com- monly five, seldom six, and still more rarely four in number. The Bodies of the Lumbar Vertebrae larger and broader than those of the other two classes. The Intervertebral Snhstances, the thickest of any, and most so at their fore part, by which the Spine isPart I.] OF THE BONES. 95 rendered convex there, for the support of the Abdomi- nal Bowels. The Oblique Processes^ remarkably deep, and placed upright, the Superior Oblique Processes of one Verte- bra facing inwards, and receiving the Inferior Oblique Processes of the Vertebra above it, which are turned in the opposite direction. The Transverse Processes, long, slender, and spread out from the Bone, to give origin to large Muscles, and to admit free motion. The Spinous Processes, short, large, snd strong, and placed horizontally, with narrow edges above and be- low, and broad flat sides, giving origin to Muscles of great strength. The Spinal Canal, larger than in the back, for the passage of the Cords of the Spinal Marrow, which form the Cauda Equina. In consequence of the thickness of the Intervertebral Substances, and the situation of the Processes of the Lumbar Vertebrae, the motion of this part of the Spine is extensive, though not so much so as in the Neck. The true Vertebrae give an erect posture to the Trunk of the Body ; allow a sufficient and secure mo- tion to the Head, Neck, and Trunk ; conduct the Spi- nal Marrow; support and protect the Bowels, and other soft parts ; and on each side give Origin to the Longus Colli, Recti Capitis Anteriores Major et Minor, Rectus Capitis Lateralis, Lesser Muscle of the Diaphragm, Psoae Magnus et Parvus, Rhomboideus, Splenius, Ser- rati Postici Superior et Inferior, Spinalis Dorsi, Com- plexus, Trachelo-mastoideus, Levator Scapulae, Semi- spinalis Dorsi, Semi-spinalis Colli, Transversalis Colli,96 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part Levatores Costarum, Kecti Capitis Postici Major et Minor, Obliqui Capitis Superior et Inferior, Interspi- nalis Colli, Dorsi, et Lumborum, Intertransversalis Colli, Dorsi, et Lumborum,—to part of the Obliquus Internus, Transversalis Abdominis, Iliacus Internus, Trapezius, Latissimus Dorsi, Sacro-lumbalis, Longis- simus Dorsi, and Multifidus Spinas ;—Insertion to the Longus Colli, Spinalis Dorsi, Semi-spinalis Dorsi, Multifidus Spinae, Semi-spinalis Colli, Transversalis Colli, Cervicalis Descendens, Obliquus Capitis Inferior, Scaleni Anticus, Medius, et Posticus, Interspinales Col- li, Dorsi, et Lumborum, Intertransversales Colli, Dorsi, et Lumborum,—to part of the Splenius, Longissimus Dorsi, and Quadratus Lumborum. FALSE VERTEBRA. The False Vertebra, composed of the Os Sacrum and Os Coccygis. Os Sacrum. The Bone obtaining its name from its having been offered in Sacrifice. The triangular form of the Bone, with its pointed under extremity.97 Part I.] OF THE BONES. T\iQ jlat concave anterior Siurface^ for enlarging the Cavity of the Pelvis. The under and Jhre part forming a turn^ called by some the Lesser Angle of the Bone, and which varies much in different Subjects. The convex irregular Surface behind, where strong Muscles arise, which assist in extending the Spine and Thigh. Four transverse prominent Lines seen anteriorly, in- dicating the situation of the Cartilages which original- ly divided the Bone into five pieces. The upper part of the Body of the first portion of the Os Sacrum, similar to that of the Vertebrae of the Loins, while the fifth portion corresponds with the first piece of the Os Coccygis. The Spinal Canal, of a triangular form, of great size above, but becoming gradually smaller in its descent; corresponding to the size of the under end of the Spinal Marrow, termed Cauda Equina, which goes through it. The under part of the Spinal passage, commonly qpm behind; the Canal being completed, in the Subject, by the addition of a strong Ligamentous Membrane. - Sometimes the Canal is open through the whole length of the'Os Sacrum. The Arch at the sides and back part of the Spinal Canal, much thicker and stronger than in the True Vertebrae. The Oblique Processes, excepting the two uppermost, all united together, and confounded with the Trans- verse Processes. The two Superior Oblique Processes belonging to this VOL. I. G98 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part L Bone^ facing backwards, to correspond with ^the two inferior Processes of the last Lumbar Vertebra. A large Ohiong Process on each side of the Bone, formed by the concretion of the outer ends of all the original Transverse Processes. The upper lateral parts of the Bone, which corre- spond with the three superior Transverse Processes, divided into two irregular Cavities on each side, by a perpendicular Ridge, The anterior of the two Cavities lined with Cartilage, Ifrhich glues this Bone to the Os Ilium, and in such a manner as not to allow any motion. The Cartilage which unites these Bones to each other is remarkably thin, but adheres so intimately to the Os Sacrum, that in separating that Bone from the Ilium, the Cartilage commonly comes with it, leaving the Ilium quite bare. The posterior Cavity, rough, and irregular, divided into two, by a Transverse Ridge formed by the union of the Oblique Processes ; and in a recent Subject, full of Ligamentous Fibres and Cellular Substance, which are included in the general Capsular Ligament, and which also assist in fixing this Bone to the Os Ilium. The portion of this Process formed by the three up- permost Transverse Processes, remarkably thick and strong, while that belonging to the two last is much smaller, but irregular behind, where it gives attach- ment to the Ligament termed Sacro-sciatic. Of the Spinous Processes, the three uppermost com- monly distinct, but remarkably shori;: There is a great variety, however, in the number and appearance of thePart I.] OF THE BONES. 99 Spinous Processes in different Bones, and consequently of the length of the complete part of the Spinal CanaL The two inferior Spinous Processes commonljJhrJcedy the parts not meeting behind into a Spine, but leaving between them the opening already mentioned, for the under end of the Cauda Equina. Sometimes the whole Spinous Processes are wanting. Four Pair of Large Holes on the anterior Surface of the Bone, at the end of the Lines already described, and superficial Grooves running out from the Holesj \ for the Passage of the Sacral Nerves. The Holes become smaller as the Bone descends, cor- responding with the Nerves which pass through them. Four pair of Holes on the posterior Surface, not much smaller than those seen anteriorly, but so filled with Cellular Substance, and covered with Membranes in the recent Body, as only to admit small Nerves tQ pass out to the Muscles on the back part of this Pelvis, and minute Arteries to enter the Cauda Equina. At the root of each superior Oblique Process, ante- riorly, an impression made where the Lumbar N^ve passes out. A Notch at the under end of each side of the Bone, or a Hole common to it and the Os Coccygis, for the passage of the last Spinal Nerve. The Substance of the Os Sacrum, like that of the other Vertebrae, is very spongy, and covered only by a thin external Plate; this, however, is rendered consi- derably stronger, by a Ligamentous Membrane which adheres to it. The connexion of this Bone above to the last Lum- bar Vertebra, in the same manner as the other Verte- G S100 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. brse are connected to each other, and the same motion allowed as to these Vertebrse.—The projection formed between these two Bones anteriorly, obtains the name of Promontory^ or Greater Angle of the Os Sacrum, The Os Sacrum serves as a common Base and sup- port of the Trunk of the Body, guards the Nerves is- suing from the under end of the Spinal Marrow, de- fends the back part of the Pelvis, and gives origin to Muscles moving the Trunk and Thigh, viz. to the Cur- vator Coccygis, to part of the Latissimus Dorsi, of the Sacro-lumbalis, Longissimus Dorsi, Obliquus Exter- nus Abdominis, Multifidus Spinae, Gluteus Maximus, and Pyriformis. In a Foetus, the Os Sacrum consists of five distinct Vertebrae, each of which has several Osseous Nuclei, and the pieces have Intervertebral Substances similar to those of the True Vertebrae. At this time, each of the Vertebrae of the Os Sacrum, as well as of the True Vertebrae, consists of a Body and two lateral parts^ which are joined together by Cartilages. The Cartilages between the different Vertebrae of the Os Sacrum continue till about the time of Puber- ty, when they are absorbed. Os Coccygis, vel Ossa Coccygis. The Os Coccygis, or Rump-Bone, forming an Ap- pendage to the under end of the Os Sacrum. The Situation of this Bone at the under end of the Os Sacrum. Its Figurey broad and Jlat above, and tapering below.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 101 cmvex behind, and forming a Curve Jbrwards, to de- fend it from injury when a person is in a sitting pos- ture. The four pieces of which it is composed in young Subjects. The Bone is considered by some Authors as being formed of three pieces ; and then the Os Sacrum is said to have six,- The Jirst or uppermost piece by much the largest^ with Shoulders reaching farther out tlian the end of the Os Sacrum. This is regarded by some as a proper dis- tinction between the Os Coccygis and Os Sacrum. From the back part of the Shoulders, two Cornua frequently ascend to join the forked Spinous Processes at the end of the Os Sacrum, and form a passage for the transmission of the last Pair of Spinal Nerves. The three lower Bones of the Os Coccygis becoming gradually smaller, the fourth terminating in a rough point. Cartilage is interposed between the different pieces of this Bone in young Subjects, joining them toge- ther, after the manner of the Vertebrae ; allowing mo- tion upon each other forwards and backwards, but chiefly between the first and second pieces ; and a greater degree of motion there in a Female than in a Male. In advanced life, but earlier in Men than in Women, the pieces grow together so as to admit no motion; but this takes place much later between the first and second than between the other pieces. The Substance, like that of the Os Sacrum, is spon- gy ; but this Bone differs from the Sacrum in having10^ COMPENmUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I, no passage for the Spinal Marrow, nor Holes for Spi- nal Nerves. The connexion of this Bone, in young Subjects, to the Os Sacrum, by Cartilage,—in old People, by a union of Substance. The Surface of the Bone is covered by a strong Li- gament, which adds to its strength; and its sides give rise to numerous Muscular Fibres, which, while they derive their origin from it, serve at the same time to protect it. The Os Coccygis sustains the Intestinum Rectum, contracts the Inferior opening of the Pelvis, and assists in supporting the Rectum, Bladder, and Uterus. It gives origin to the Sphincter Ani, and to part of the Gluteus Maximus, insertion to the Coccygeus, Curvator Coccygis, and to part of the Levator Ani. In a Foetus, the Os Coccygis is almost entirely com- posed of Cartilage; but the different Processes can rea- dily be distinguished from each other by their form.Part I.] OF THE BONES. log PELVIS. Here observe. The Pelvis, or Bason, situated at the lower part of the Trunk, and formed by the Os Sacrum, Os Coccy- gis, and two Ossa Innominata* OS INNOMINATUM, Vel Os Cox^. The Situation of the Os Innominatum, in the fore part and side of the Pelvis, and in the under and late- ral part of the Abdomen. The size the largest of the Broad Bones of the Ske- leton. The Division of the Bone, in children, and to the age of Puberty, into Os Ilium, or Haunch-bone, Os Ischium, or Hip-bone, and Os Pubis, or Share-bone. In the Adult, the three Bones are ossified together^ but retain their original names. Os Ilium. The Os Ilium, or Iliac portion of the Os Innomina* tum^ the largest of the three pieces, forming the upper104 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I, part of the Os Innominatum, and spreading out, to as- sist in supporting the contents of the Abdomen. The Dorsum^ or outer Surface of the Bone, depressed at the fore part, raised farther back, and concave be- hind, the whole giving origin to the Glutei Muscles, or Extensors of the Thigh. The Crista or Spine, or upper semicircular edge of the Bone, for the attachment of the Oblique and Trans- verse Abdominal Muscles. In a recent Subject, the Spine is covered with a Tendinous and Cartilaginous crust, that separates in macerating the Bone. The anterior-superior Spinous Process, or anterior extremity of the Spine, for the attachment of the Sar- torius, the Tensor Vaginae Femoris, and of Poupart's Ligament, or Crural Arch. The anterior-inferior Spinous Process, a little below the former, for the attachment of the Rectus Femoris. Between the two anterior Spinous Processes, a Notch for lodging the beginning of the Sartorius Muscle. The two posterior Spinous Processes, at the back part of the Spine, less considerable than the two anterior; partly for the origin of Muscles of the Back, but chiefly for the attachment of Ligaments which belong to the Joint between this Bone and the Os Sacrum. The outside of the posterior Spinous Processes flat and rough, where parts of the Gluteus Maximus and Pyri- formis take their origin. The Notch of the Os Ilium under the posterior-infe- rior Spinous Process, for the passage of the Pyriform Muscle, Sciatic Nerve, and Blood-vessels. The Venter, qr inner concave Surface of the Bone, forPart I.] OF THE BONES. 105 the attachment of one of the Flexors of the Thigh, termed Iliacus Internus^ and the support of a portion of the Intestinum Ilium and Colon. A Passage in the Venter, near its under part, and another in the Dorsum towards its anterior region, for the principal Medullary Vessels of the Bone. Besides these, different Foramina are seen, of less consideration, for admitting Vessels into the Substance of the Cancelli. A Depression at the inside of the anterior-inferior Spinous Process, where the Flexor Muscles of the Thigh, viz. the Iliacus Internus and Psoas Magnus, pass, with the anterior Crural Vessels and Nerve. The Linea Innominata^ vel Linea Ilio-pectinea, at the under part of the Venter of the Bone, forming the lateral portion of what is termed Brim of the Pelvis, and the line of division between the Pelvis and Abdo- men. Into the Iliac Portion of the Linea Innominata, the Tendinous Expansion continued from the Psoas Parvus is inserted. The inner and hack part of the Bone, rough and very irregular, the posterior portion of this irregular surface projecting behind the Os Sacrum, and giving origin to some of the large Muscles of the Back; the middle being for the attachment of Ligaments which go to the Os Sacrum, and the anterior for the firm connexion which subsists between this Bone and the Cartilage which glues it to the Os Sacrum. The circumference of this rough and irregular sur- face gives attachment to the Capsular Ligament of the Joint. The undery fore, and outer part of the Bone, form-.106 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. ing the upper and back part of the Acetabulum, or Cavity for the articulation of the Thigh-bone. Os Ischium, Or Ischiatic part of the Os Irmominatum* The Situation of the Os Ischium in the lowest part of the Pelvis. Its Figure irregular ; its Size next to that of the Os Ilium. The upper thick posterior part of the Bone, forming the under and largest portion of the Acetabulum. The Spinous Process sent back from the upper part of the Bone, for the attachment of Muscles,—and of the superior Sacro-sciatic Ligament, which completes the Notch of the Os Ilium into an Iliac Foramen. The outer Surface of the Bone, at the root of the Spinous Process, hollow for the passage of the Pyri- formis. Under the Spinous Process, a Sinuosity, which, in a recent Subject, is covered with Cartilage, where the Tendon of the Obturator plays as on a Pulley, in its way from the inner side of the Pelvis to the Thigh- bone. Below the Acetabulum, the Cervix of the Bone, where the Tendon of the Obturator Externus is lodged. The Tuberosity, or Tuher Ischii, below the Cervix of the Bone, which is covered with Cartilage that is separated by maceration. The upper part of the Tuber placed obliquely, and giving attachment to the Gemiixus Inferior, to theOF THE BONES. 107 Part I.] under Sacro-sciatic Ligament, and to the largest Flexor Muscles of the Thigh, consisting of the long Head of the Biceps Flexor Cruris, Semi-tendinosus, and Semi- membranosus. The external anterior Margin of the Tuberosity forming an obtuse Ridge, which gives rise to the Qua* dratus Femoris. The thinner and more scabrous part of the Tuber, which has a curved direction, is what we rest upon in sitting. It gives origin to the Crus Penis in the Male, to the Crus Clitoridis in the Feii(iale, and to part of the Adductor Magnus Femoris. The Tuberosity of the Bone contracting and going upwards and inwards to form the Crus, which is united to that of the Os Pubis by an accretion of Substance. The Crus impressed on the outer side by the origin of the Adductor Magnus Femoris, and on the inner side by the Crus and Erector Penis in the Male, and the Crus and Erector Clitoridis in the Female. Os Pubis, vel Os Pectinis, Or Pubal part of the Os InTwminatum. The Situation of this Bone at the upper and fore part of the Pelvis. Its Size, the least of the three portions of the Os In^ nominatum. The Division of the Bone into two Branches, a ho- rizontal and a descending. The thickest and strongest part of the Bone, forming the upper and fore side of the Acetabulum,108 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The upper part of this portion of the Bone, formed into a ridge by its junction with the Os Ilium. The upper part of the Bone becoming smaller where it is flattened above, and rendered smooth by the pas- sage of the Flexor Muscles of the Thigh, and of the anterior Crural Vessels and Nerves. The upper and inner part of the Bone increasing in size, and forming the rough Crest or Angle^ where the Rectus and Pyramidalis, and the inner end of Pou- part's Ligament, are attached. A Ridge, or Spine, extended from the outer and fore part of the Crest, along the upper and inner edge of the Bone, to form, with a similar Ridge of the Os Ilium, the Linea Ilio-pectinea, Brim, or upper opening of the Pelvis. This Ridge is described by some Authors as being sometimes so sharp, as to injure the parts which lie im- mediately contiguous to it. Another Ridge, from the Crest or Angle, extending downwards and outwards towards the breach in the fore part of the Acetabulum. A Cavity between these Ridges, for the origin of the Pectineus. Immediately below the undermost of the two Ridges, the Bone having a twisted appearance, and a Notch which is formed into a Hole in the Subject, by the addition of the Obturator Ligament, for the passage of the Obturator Vessels and Nerves. The inner end of the Bone rough and unequal, but covered with a Ligamentous Cartilage, which, in fresh Bones, joins the two Ossa Pubis so firmly together, as to prevent them from moving upon each other.109 Part I.] OF THE BONES. I The inner part of the Bone broad, and depressed before, where it gives origin to part of the Adductor Muscles of the Thigh. The inner part of the Bone becoming narrower, and ending in the Crus^ which goes downwards to join the Crus of the Os Ischium, and form, along with that Crus, one side of the Arch of the Pubis. The Foramen Ovale, vel Thyroideum, passing down- wards and outwards, and of a triangular shape, with the angles blunted. It is formed by the Os Pubis and Os Ischium, and in the Subject is filled, excepting at the Notch above mentioned, by a Membranous Liga- ment, which gives rise to a large share of the Obtura- tor Muscles. The Acetabulum, or Cavity, (compared to a Vinegar measure used by the ancients), placed farther out and a little higher than the Foramen Thyroideum, and formed by the three pieces which compose the Os In- nominatum, in such a manner, that the Os Ilium con- stitutes less than two-fifths, the Os Ischium more than two-fifths, and the Os Pubis one-fifth of that Cavity. The Cavity of the Acetabulum very deep, especially behind, and made still deeper in the Subject, by its Brim being tipped with a Cartilaginous Ligament. Round the outer edge of the Brim, the Bone rough, where the Capsular Ligament of the Joint is fixed. A Breach in the inner and fore part of the Acetabu- lum, which, in the Subject, has a strong Ligament stretched from one end of that Notch to the other, but leaving a Hole behind for containing part of the substance called Gland of the Joint. The Cavity oi the Acetabulum lined ^ith Cartilage,no COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part L excepting at its under, inner, and fore part, where there is a rough Depression for containing the greater portion of the substance mentioned above. The Brim, Introitus, or Upper Opening of the Cavi- ty of the Pelvis, approaching in a Male to a circu- lar, and in a Female to an oval form. The Eocitus, or Irvferior Opening, is large in a Skeleton, but in a Subject in a great measure is fill- ed up by Ligaments and Muscles, which support and protect the contained parts, and leave only the passa- ges from the Bladder of Urine and Rectum in a Male, and, together with these, the passage from the Uterus in a Female. In what is considered as a standard Female Pelvis, the distance between the Os Sacrum and Os Pubis, at the Brim, is found to be between four and five inches, and that between the two Ossa Ilia between five and six inches. In the Inferior Opening, the proportions are reversed, the distance between the Symphysis Pubis and Os Coccygis being longer than that between the Ossa Ilia. The depth of the fore part of the Pelvis, at the Symphysis of the Pu- bis, is about an inch and a half, behind it is six inches, and at the sides three inches and a half. The Pelvis may vary from the above dimensions according to the size and proportions of the Body, which may differ somewhat in the different nations, yet be well formed; or it may vary from disease either of the Bones or Vis- cera, and then it is considered as distorted. The substance of the Iliac part of the Os Innomina- tum is Cellular, with a thin external Table, which, in some old people^ is so much aflfected by Muscular ac-Paet I.] OF THE BONES. Ill tion about its middle, as to become transparent. The other two portions of the Os Innominatum are Cellu- lar, as in other flat Bones, but some parts of the exter- nal Table are of considerable thickness and strength. The Ossa Innominata, joined behind to the Os Sa- crum by a thin Cartilage, and by Strong Ligaments, so as to have no motion; the Joint obtaining the name of Posterior Symphysis of the Pelvis, or Sacro-iliac Sym- physis, The Connexion of these Bones to each other ante- riorly, by a Ligamentous Cartilage and Ligaments, which also prevent motion here. This connexion is termed Symphysis Pubis, or Anterior Symphysis of the Pelvis. The Os Ilium gives origin to the Quadratus Lum- borum, Glutei Medius et Minimus, Tensor Vaginae Femoris, Sartorius, Rectus Femoris,-—to part of the Latissimus Dorsi, of the Longissimus Dorsi, Sacro- lumbalis, Obliquus Externus, Obliquus Internus, et Transversalis Abdominis, Pyriformis, Gluteus Maxi- mus, Multifidus Spinse, and Iliacus Internus. The Os Ischium gives origin to the Gemini, Semi- tendinosus, Semi-membranosus, Long Head of the Bi- ceps Flexor Cruris, Quadratus Femoris, Transversalis Perinei, Coccygeus, Erector Penis in the Male, and Erector Clitoridis in the Female ;—to part of the Ad- ductor Magnus Femoris, Obturatores Externus et In- ternus, and Levator Ani. The Os Pubis gives Origin to the Rectus Abdominis, Pyramidalis, Pectineus, Gracilis, Adductores Longus et Brevis Femoris,—to part of the Adductor Magnus, Obturatores Externus et Internus, and Levator Ani;112 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. ■^Insertion to the Psoas Parvus, and to part of the Obliquus Externus Abdominis. Use of the Pelvis.—The Pelvis constitutes the Basis of the Trunk, and forms Sockets for the Thigh- bones to move in. It contains the Bladder of Urine and the Rectum in a Male, and together with these, the Uterus in a Female. It gives origin to the Mus- cles which extend the Trunk, and attachment to those which bend the Body. It sends off the principal part of the Muscles which move the Thigh, and gives pas- sage and protection to Blood-vessels, and to some of the largest Nerves of the Body. In a Foetus, the Spine of the Os Ilium, and that part of the Bone which belongs to the Acetabulum, are Cartilaginous. The Spinous Process, the Tube- rosity, and Crus of the Os Ischium, the Crus of the Os Pubis, and that portion of it which forms the Ace- tabulum, are also in a Cartilaginous state. The shape of the Cavity of the Pelvis, at this period, is altogether different from that in an Adult, the under being wider than the upper part.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 113 THORAX. The circumstances to be attended to in this part of the Skeleton are. The Thorax, formed of the Sternum or Breast-bone before, of the Ribs on each side, and of the Dorsal Ver- tebras behind. The general figure of the Thorax, approaching that of a Cone, but left open above for the passages to the Lungs and Stomach, and for the great Blood-vessels. The Lower Part of the Thorax, slanting; the fore part being considerably shorter than it is behind. The Under Margin on each side, forming a curved line, the convex side of whicH is turned downwards. The under end of the Thorax is occupied, in a Subject, by the Diaphragm, which forms an arched partition between it and the Abdomen, with the con- vex side upwards. COST.E. The Situation of the Costae, or Ribs, slanting down- wards, with respect to the Spine. Their Number, in a Male as well as in a Female, commonly tzvelve on each side, though sometimes thir- teen, and at other times only eleven; their number al- ^ ways corresponding with that of the Dorsal Vertebrae. VOL. I. H114 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. Their Figure, cmiveoc externally, by which their strength is increased ; and concave and smooth inter- nally, with their flat sides turned towards the Lungs, which they protect. The Head of each Rib, formed into a Ridge and ^two hollow Surfaces covered with Cartilage, to be ar- ticulated with the Bodies of two Vertebrae, and their intermediate Cartilage. Round the Head, the Bone spongy, for the attach- ment of the Capsular Ligament of the Joint. The Tubercle of the Rib, at a little distance from its Head, and placed posteriorly, with aflat Cartilaginous Surface and irregular Edge, to be articulated to the Transverse Process of the undermost of the two Verte- brae, to which the head of the Rib is joined. The Cervioo of the Rib, between its Head and Tu- bercle, of a roundish form. Another small Tubercle in most of the Ribs, at the outer side of the former, for the attachment of Liga- ments which fix the Ribs to each other, and to the Transverse Processes ; and also for the insertion of the outer Slips of the Longissimus Dorsi. " Beyond the Tubercle, the Rib rendered Jlat behind, by the Sacro-lumbalis. The Angle of the Ribs to which the Sacro-lumbalis is fixed, where the Bones are about to bend, to form the lateral part of the Thorax. The Rib becoming broader and flatter at the lateral part of the Thorax, and the flat Surface opposed to the Lungs. The upper Edge of the Rib, round where the inter- costales are fixed.Part I.J OF THE BONES. 115 The under Edge, sharp where the Intercostalis Ex- ternus has its origin. A Fossa at the inside of the under Edge, for lodging the Intercostal Vessels and Nerve. The upper Edge of the Fossa gives origin to the Intercostalis Internus. The Fossa wanting towards the extremities of the Ribs; the Vessels not being in contact with them be- hind, and too small to impress them anteriorly. An Oval Pit in the anterior extremity of each Rib, for receiving the Cartilage which runs from it towards the Sternum. The Cartilages of the Ribs, placed between them and the Sternum, or connected to each other, or lying loose among the Muscles. The Cartilages, like the Ribs, Jlat on their outer and inner Surfaces, and smooth wher« they are opposed to the Lungs. The Cartilage of each Rib, forming, with the Rib itself, a Curve^ the concave part outwards; And with the Sternum, an obtuse Angle above, and an acute one below. The Cartilages yield to the motions of the Ribs, and enable them to return to their former position, when the Muscles of inspiration cease to act. The Cartilages of the Ribs, in old people, are frequently ossified. The Ribs are connected behind to the Vertebrae by a double articulation, and before to the Sternum by the Cartilages, or by the Cartilages to each other, in such a manner as to allow motion upwards and downwards, though only a small degree in any single Rib, and that tovv^ards its middle ; but no motion in any other direc^ tion. ,116 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part L Peculiarities of the Ribs. The first Rib tlie most crooked; from this downwards the Ribs become gradually straighter. The uppermost Ribs approaching nearest to the ho- rizontal situation ; their obliquity, with respect to the Spine, increasing as they descend, and their anterior extremities becoming more distant from each other. The Cartilages of the Ribs, like the Ribs themselves, becoming gradually longer from the first to the seventh, but, contrary to what happens in the Ribs, approach- ing nearer to each other in their descent. The length of the Ribs, increasing from the first to the seventh, and then decreasing to the twelfth. The distance between the Heads of the Ribs and their angles, increasing to the ninth Rib, correspond- ing with the breadth of the Sacro-lumbalis which co- vers them. The seven uppermost Ribs having their Cartilages, joined to the Sternum, and opposed to the Heart and Lungs, considered as the Custodes, or Guards of Life^ hence termed True Ribs. The five inferior, not reaching the Sternum, termed False Ribs. The Cartilages of the YalseWihs, shorter as they de- scend, and more flexible than those of the True Ribs. The first Rib placed in a horizontal situation, with one of the flat sides facing upwards, and the other downwards, in consequence of which one of the edges is turned outwards, and the other in the contrary di- rection.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 117 The posterior Extremity of the first Rib, articulated only with the first Vertebra of the Back. A Jlat Surface upon the upper part of this Rib, v/here the Subclavian Vessels and Nerves pass over it to the Arm. The Fossa for the Intercostal Vessels and Nerve wanting at the edge of this Rib, on account of their running at a distance from this part of the Bone. The anterior Extremity of the first Rib united to the Sternum at nearly right angles, and its Cartilage so short, so firmly fixed, and so frequently ossified, as to be only moved with the Sternum. The Cartilages of the two under True Ribs, and three upper False Ribs^ commonly joined to each other by cross Cartilages, or by a union of substance, though sometimes this union takes place among a smaller number than that mentioned above. The Cartilage of the eighth Rib sometimes joined to the Sternum, and then forming one of the True Ribs. The Head of the eleventh Rib, having no Tubercle for articulation, being only loosely joined to the Trans- verse Process. The twelfth Rib much shorter than the rest. Its Head is only joined to the twelfth Vertebra of the Back. It has no Tubercle, nor articulation with the Transverse Process ; neither has it any Fossa at its under edge, the Vessels and Nerve running sbme way below it. The Anterior Eoot7'emities of the eleventh and twelfth Ribs, not joined to each other, nor to any other Rib, but lying loose among the Muscles ; hence these Ribs sometimes named Fhating Ribs. The substance of the Ribs, like that of the Verte-118 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. brae, is Cellular, and only covered with a thin exter- nal Plate, which becomes somewhat thicker towards the Vertebrae. In a Foetus, the Heads and Tubercles of the Ribs have Cartilages, part of which become thin Epiphyses. After Birth, the Bodies of the Ribs encroach gradually on the Cartilages; hence the Cartilages of the Ribs are proportionally shorter in Adults than in Children. The Ribs give form to the Thorax, and compose a considerable portion of the Walls of the Abdomen. They cover and defend the Heart and Lungs, and as- sist the latter in performing respiration. They give Origin to the Serratus Magnus, Pectoralis Minor, Intercostales Externi et Interni, Subclavius, the three Scaleni, and Accessorii ad Sacro-lumbalem, —to part of the Diaphragm, of the Sterno-hyoideus, Sterno-thyroideus, Pectoralis Major, Latissimus Dor- si, Obliquus Externus, et Transversalis Abdominis ; —Insertion to the Intercostales Externi et Interni, Levatores Costarum, Sterno-costalis, Serrati Postici Superior et Inferior, Sacro-lumbalis,-—to part of the Longissimus Dor si, Quadratus Lumborum, Obliquus Internus, et Rectus Abdominis. Sternum. The Situation of the Sternum, in the fore part of the Thorax. The Sternum, thick and broad above, and thin and narrow below. The outer Surface fiat.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 119 The inner Surface slightly hollowed^ to enlarge the Cavity of the Thorax. Pits upon each edge of the Sternum, to receive the Cartilaginous ends of the seven True Rihs. The Pits at a considerable distance from each other above, but becoming gradually nearer as they descend. The Cancelli of the Sternum, covered only by a thin external Plate, but this is rendered stronger by a Ten- dinous Membrane investing it in the recent state. Thfee Pieces composing the Sternum, in a person of m:iddle age, and these joined together by Cartilage. The different pieces of this Bone are frequently found ossified together in old people. The upper piece of the Sternum, of a somewhat tri- angular figure, compared to that of a Heart as painted on playing-eards, but appearing as if cut across below. , The upper and hacli part hollowed^ to make way for the Trachea. The upper Corners.^ thicker and strcmger than the I'est of the Bone, with a Cavity in each, lined with Cartilage, for receiving the ends of the Collar Bones. Under these Cavities, the Bone becoming thinner, and having a Pit upon each side, for receiving the Cartilage of the first Rib. Part of the Pit in each of the under Corners of the first piece, for the Cartilage of the second Rib. The second piece of the Sternum, of an oblong form, but a little broader below than above, and considerably longer than the former. The second piece varies considerably in shape in dif- ferent Subjects, being frequently as broad above as be-120 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet L low, and sometimes considerably broader. It is near- ly of the same thickness throughout. Complete Pits upon the edges of this piece, for the Cartilages of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth Pair of Hibs, and part of the Pits for those of the second and seventh. Lines extending across the Bone, between the Pits, denoting the original marks of division of this piece. The Connexion of the second piece of the Sternum to the first by Cartilage, which, in the earlier period of life, allows some yielding, but this becoming gra- dually less as the person advances in life. The third piece of the Sternum Cartilaginous in a young Subject, and pointed like a broad-sword, hence termed Cartilago Ensiformis. An Adult has this piece commonly ossified in the middle, and Cartilaginous at the edges. The Size of this piece much less than that of the other two. Only one half of the Pit, for the Cartilage of the seventh Rib, formed in each side of this piece. The Variations of the Cartilago Ensiformis are con- siderable in diiferent Subjects;—for, instead of the common form, it is sometimes narrower like the point of a small sword, or turned obliquely to one side, or forwards, or backwards, or forked at the point, or per- forated in the middle. The Sternum is joined by Cartilage to the seven upper or True Ribs, on each side, and by an inter- articular Cartilage to the anterior ends of the Clavicles. The Sternum defends the Heart and Lungs, assists in the formation of the Thorax, sustains the Medias-Part I.J OF THE BONES. 4 .tinum, is a medium of attachment to the Ribs, and serves as a Fulcrum or point on which the Clavicles roll. It gives origin to the Sterno-costalis,—to part of the Pectoralis Major, of the Sterno-mastoideus, Sterno- hyoideus, Sterno-thyroideus, Intercostales Interni, and Diaphragm;—Insertion to part of the Rectus, Obli- quus Internus, et Transversalis Abdominis. In a Foetus, this Bone is composed of seven or eight pieces, but the number varies in different Subjects. By degrees the pieces unite, till at length they fovm the three Bones already described.122 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. fPARx I. SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. We find here. Each Superior Extremity^ composed of the Bones of the SJwuIder, Arm, Fore-Arm, and Hand. Shouldek. The Shoulder, consisting of the Clavicle or Collars- Bone, and Scapula or Shoulder-Blade. Clavicle. ' The Situation of the Clavicle, between the upper part of the Sternum and top of the Scapula, and placed , almost horizontally. The Sternal or internal Extremity, triangular, and larger than the Body, with one of the angles elongated backwards where it gives origin to a Ligament extend- ed between the Clavicles. The Surface next the Sternum, covered with Carti- lage, and irregularly hollowed, to correspond with the inter-articular Cartilage, which, with the Capsular Li- gament of this Joint, allows a small degree of motion in all directions. Round the edge of the Cartilaginous Surface, thePart I.] OF THE BONES. 123 Bone marked by the strong Ligaments, which fix it to the Sternum. The Body of the Bone next the Sternum, bent for- wards^ and that next the Scapula turned backy the whole resembling an Italicor a key used by the An- cients, from which, or from the support, like a beam, it gives to the shoulder, its name is derived. The upper part of the Clavicle, next the Sternum, rounded^ the extremity, next the Scapula, thin and flat where it lies over the Joint of the Humerus. Over 'the Bone in general, rough marks are observ- ed, for the attachment of Muscles and Ligaments. The under Surface hollow, for lodging a portion of the Subclavius. In the under Surface, and near the middle, one or more small Canals, leading obliquely outwards, for the passage of the Medullary Vessels. The Eooternal or Scapulary Extremity, oval and flat, and tipped with Cartilage, to be articulated with the Acromion of the Scapula. Near the back part of the Scapular extremity, a Tubercle, for the attachment of a strong Ligament, which connects this Bone to the Coracoid Process of the Scapula. The substance of this Bone is like that of other long^ round Bones, but the external Table is of considerable thickness and strength. The Clavicle supports the Shoulder at a proper dis- tance from the Thorax, and thereby renders the mo- tion of the Arm more extensive. It gives attachmen to several Muscles, and defence to lurge Vessels and Nerves.124 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. It gives origin to part of the Sterno-cleido-mas- toideus, of the Sterno-hyoideus, Pectoralis Major, and Deltoides ;—Insertion to the Subclavius, and to part of the Trapezius. In a Foetus the Clavicle is completely formed. Scapula. The Situation of the Scapula, upon the upper and back part of the Thorax, at some distance from the Ribs, the interval being occupied by a cushion of flesh composed of the Serratus Magnus and Subscapularis. The shape of the Scapula triangular, with one of the angles placed downwards. The Venter, or inner Surface, concave, correspond- ing with the convexity of the Ribs, and marked with Ridges and Depressions which run in a radiated man- ner towards the Cervix of the Bone ; pointing out the attachments of the Subscapularis, and the impressions made by that Muscle. The Dorsum, or outer Surface of the Scapula, ren- dered convex in some parts, and concave in others, by the action of the Muscles which cover it. The body of the Scapula is remarl<;ably thin, and, in an old person, transparent. The three Edges of the Bone thic1<: and strong, and termed Costce. The Superior or Cervical Costa, the sJiortest of the three, and placed nearly opposite to the second Rib. A Semilunar Notch, which is sometimes converted into a Foramen, near the fore part of the superior Cos-Part I.] OF THE BONES. 125 ta, for the passage of the superior Scapulary Vessels and Nerves. The inferior or anterior Costa^ extending obliquely downwards and backwards, between the third and eighth Ribs. The inferior Costa, impressed where it gives origin to the Teres Minor, the long Head of the Triceps Ex- tensor Cubiti, and Subscapularis. The posterior Costa^ or Base of the Bone, placed obliquely with respect to the Vertebrae, the upper end being considerably nearer than the under. The upper part of the Base, above the large Ridge termed Spine, running obliquely forwards to the upper angle, and giving attachment to the Levator Scapulae. The portion of the Base under the Spine, rough, for the insertion of the Rhomboides, and Serratus Major Anticus. The inferior Angle very acute, and marked behind by the passage of the Latissimus Dorsi, and the origin of the Teres Major. The superior Angle, approaching to a right Angle. The anterior Angle, forming the Cervix or Necl<:^ which descends from the Semilunar Notch, and sup- ports the Head of the Bone, which is considered as one of its Processes. The Glenoid {i. e. Shallow) Cavity, placed on the fore part of the Head of the Bone, and lined with Car- tilage for the articulation of the Os Humeri. The Cartilage lining this Cavity, thick at the edges, but thin toward the centre, by which it is rendered deeper, for receiving the Ball of the Os Humeri. The shape of this Cavity, resembling an Egg cut126 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. longitudinally, with the large end upperngiost, but so shallow as to receive only a small portion of the Ball of the Os Humeri, the rest of the Ball being contain- ed in the Capsular Ligament. The Spine^ or great Ridge, running across the Dor- sum of the Bone, dividing it into small upper and large under surface, and giving origin to part of the Spinati. The Spl^e, small at its beginning, hollowed and curv- ed latterly by the action of Muscles, and becoming higher and broader in its course forward. A triangular Space, between the root of the Spine and base of the Bone, where part of the Trapezius is fixed. At the under side of the Spine, near its base, a pas- sage for the principal Medullary Vessels ; and in the thicker parts of the Bone numerous other, but smaller passages, which answer the same purpose. The Fossa SuprOr-spinata, or Cavity above the Spine, for the origin of the Supra-spinatus. The Fossa Infra-spinata^ or space under the Spine, for the origin of the Infra-spinatus. The under part only of this space is a real Fossa, the rest of the Bone here being somewhat convex. The Spine becoming broad and flat, and terminating in a point at its anterior extremity, where it is termed Acromion^ extremity, or top of the Shoulder. The under surface of the Acromion hollow^ for the passage of the Spinati, which run to the upper end of the Os Humeri. The Situation of the Acromion over the upper end of the Humerus, which, together with the Ligaments,' contributes, to the protection of the Joint.Part OF THE BONES. The anterior Edge of the Acromion, tipped with Cartilage for its articulation with the outer end of the Clavicle. The Coracoid, or Crow's-heah-lihe Process^ arising from the Neck of the Bone, and making a curvature forwards, so as to leave a hollow at its root for the passage of the Subseapularis. The Point qf this Process^ which gives origin to the Pectoralis Minor, short Head of the Biceps, the Cora- co-Brachialis, and to a strong Ligament which passes transversely from its side, to be fixed to the Acromion, for the protection of the Joint. At the upper part of the root of this Process, a small Tubercle^ which gives attachment to a Ligament of the Clavicle. The substance of the Bone is very unequal in thick- ness ; for the Inferior Costa and Processes are thick and strong,^ while the Body is so pressed by its own Muscles, especially in old people, as to become in many parts transparent. The Scapula h joined to the Clavicle by Ligaments of such strength, as only to allow between these two Bones a small degree of motion, and that chiefly of a twisting nature; but the Scapula is so connected by Muscles to the Head, Os Hyoides, Trunk, and Arm, as to have motion upwards, downwards, and to either side, and, through the medium of the Clavicle, to be rolled upon the top of the Sternum. The Scapula serves as a support to the Arm, forms a socket for the Arm-Bone to move in, and has nume- rous Muscles so attached to it, as to assist in enabling the Arm to act freely in all directions. It also serves128 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. as a defence to the back of the Thorax, and is fixed in such a manner by the surrounding parts, as to be capable of sustaining Bodies of great weight* It gives Origin to the Supra-spinatus, Infra-spina- tus, Teres Major, Teres Minor, Subscapularis, Biceps" Flexor Cubiti, Omo-hyoideus, Coraco-brachialis, L^ong Head of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti,—and to part of the Deltoides;—Insertion to the Rhomboideus, Pectoralis Minor, Serratus Magnus, Levator Scapulae, —and to part of the Trapezius. In a Foetus, the Base, Acromion, Coracoid Pro- cess, and Head of the Scapula, are Cartilaginous. The three first are afterwards joined as Epiphyses; while the Head, with the Glenoid Cavity, is gradually produced from the Body of the Bone. ARM. The AHM, consisting of a single Bone, the Os Humeri, vel Os Brachii. The Os Humeri, the longest and strongest of the Bones of the Superior Ex:tremity. The Situation of this Bone at the side of the Tho- rax, and under the Scapula. The Ball or Head of the Os Humeri, forming a small segment, or about a third part of a large sphere, covered with Cartilage, and placed obliquely at the upper, inner, and back part of the Body of the Bone, to correspond with the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 1S9 The Cervioc or Neck^ surrounding the edge of the Ball, and forming a superficial Fossa, where the Cap- sular Ligament is fixed. Numerous Holes round the upper end of the Bone, for the insertion of the Fibres of the Capsular Liga- ment, and for the passage of Blood-vessels into the Bone. A long Groove or Fossa, lined with a Cartilaginous and Tendinous Crust, in the upper and fore part of the Bone, for lodging the Tendon of the long Head of the Biceps, which descends from the upper edge of the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula. The smaller Tubercle, placed at the upper and inner side of the above-mentioned Groove, for the attach- ment of the Subscapularis* The larger Tuberele, opposite to the former, and on the outer side of the Groove, for the attachment of the Muscles which cover the Dorsum of the Scapula ; viz. the two Spinati, and Teres Minor. A Ridge continued down from each Tubercle along the sides of the long Fossa, for the insertion of Mus- cles passing from the Trunk of the Body, or from the Scapula. To the External Ridge the Pectoralis Major is fixed, and to the Internal the Latissimus Dor si and Teres Major are inserted. Behind the lower end of this last, another Ridge for the insertion of the Coraco-Brachialis. From the back part of the root of the largest Tu- bercle, a Ridge descends, from which the short Head of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti rises. A Passage slanting downwards in the fore and inner VOL. I. I130 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet I. part of the Bone, near its middle height, for the Me- dullary Vessels. The outer side of the Bone, near its middle, some- what roughs for the insertion of the Deltoides. The Bone^ marked at the under end of the Groove for lodging the long Head of the Biceps, for the at- tachment of the Deltoides and other Muscles. The Body of the Bone, round near its upper end; but, as it descends, appearing twisted^ then Jiat^ and increasing in breadth at the lower extremity. From the Muscular Prints on the fore part of the Body of the Humerus, a hlunt Ridge^ continued to the upper part of the Cartilaginous Surface, covering the lower end of the Bone. The under and back part of the Bone, rendered flat and smooth, by the motion of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti. A large Ridge at the under and outer, and a small Ridge at the under and inner edge of the Bone, for the attachment of strong Tendinous Fasciae, which ^ive origin to part of the Muscles of the Fore-arm. The Bidges ending below in two Condyles, or Knuckle-like Processes, the situation of which, in order to avoid confusion in the terms external, internal, &c. is here to be considered with a reference to the Palm of the Hand turned forwards^ The external Condyle, placed at the under and outer part of the Bone, for the origin of the Extensor Mus- cles of the Hand and Fingers, The internal Condyle, at the under and outer part of the Bone, more pointed and prominent than the former,Part I.] OF THE BONES. 131 for the origin of the strong Flexor Muscles of the Hand and Fingers. The Surface at the under end of the Bone, between the Condyles, covered with Cartilage for the articula- tion with the Bones of the Fore-arm. The oblique Situation of the articulating Surface, the inner end being lower than the outer, by which the Hand turns more readily to the Face, or the upper parts of the Body. The inner part of the articulating Surface, consist- ing of a large internal and small external Eminence, with a middle Cavity, or a Trochlea or Pulley, upon which the Ulna moves. The outer part of the Articular Surface, upon which the Head of the Radius plays, of a round form, and <jonsidered by some Authors as the smooth part of the outer Condyle. Round the edge of the Articular Cavity, the Bone marked by the insertion of the Capsular Ligament of the Joint. A small Cavity at the under and fore part of the Bone, above the Trochlea, for receiving the Coronoid Process of the Ulna in the flexion of the Fore-arm. A large Cavity at the under and back part of the Bone, also above the Trochlea, the under part of it for receiving the Olecranon of the Ulna in the exten- sion of the Fore-arm, and the upper part for contain- ing the Fat of the Joint. Between these Cavities the Bone is pressed so thin as often to become transparent, especially in an old person. The Substance and inner Structure of the Os Hu- 1 213^ COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. meri are the same as in other long round Bones. The sides are compact, but the Cancelli are so large in the middle of the Bone, as to give the appearance of a hol- low Cylinder. The Ball of the Os Humeri is articulated with the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula, which, from its super- ficial nature, and the long Ligaments inclosing the Joint, allows the Arm to move in all directions ; the Bone even performing a small degree of motion round its own axis. The extent of motion of the Arm, how- ever, is considerably increased by the rolling of the Scapula. The Os Humeri gives origin to the Brachialis Inter- nus, second and third Heads of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti, Extensores Carpi Radiales Longior et Brevior, Supinator Radii Longus, Anconeus, Extensor Digito- rum Communis, and Palmaris Longus;—to part of the Supinator Radii Brevis, of the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, Pronator Radii Teres, Flexor Carpi Radialis, Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, and Flexor Digitorum Sublimis.—In- sertion to the Deltoides, Supra-spinatus, Infra-spina- tus, Teretes Major et Minor, Subscapularis, Latissi- mus Dorsi, Pectoralis Major, and Coraco-brachialis. In a Foetus, the extremities of the Bone are Car- tilaginous ; and the Ball with the Tubercles, and the Trochlea with the Condyles, form afterwards Epi- physes, previously to their union with the Body of the Bone.Part I.] OF THE BONES. FORE-ARM, Consisting of two Bones, the Ulna, or Cubit, and Radius, or Wheel-spoke-like Bone, Both of these are observed to be proportionally longer in Africans than in Europeans. Ulna. I'he Situation of the Ulna at the inner part of the Fore-arm; the Arm being supposed to hang by the side of the Body, with the Palm of the Hand turned forwards. The Olecranon^ Processus Anconeus, or Top of the Cubit, placed at the upper end of the Bone, and form- ing the posterior prominent part of the Elbow. The upper end of this Process rough, where the Triceps Extensor Cubiti is fixed. The Coronoid, or Sharp Process, at the upper and fore part of the Bone, but considerably lower than the Olecranon, for forming a part of the Hinge of the Joint of the Elbow. The Great Sigmoid, or Semilunar Cavity, between the Olecranon and Coronoid Process, lined with Car- tilage, and divided into two slanting Surfaces by a middle Ridge, the Cavity being adapted to the Troch- lea of the Os Humeri. Across the middle of the greatf Sigmoid Cavity, a little Pit, for lodging part of the Fat of the Joint. Round the edge of the Sigmoid Cavity, the Bone134 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. roughs for the attachment of the Capsular Ligament of the Joint. The Small Sigmoid, or Semilunar Cavity^ lined with Cartilage, at the outer side of the Coronoid Pro- cess, where the round Head of the Radius plays, which is confined in its place by an Annular Ligament, fixed to the Edges of this Cavity. The Tubercle of the Ulna, or small rough spot un- der the root of the Coronoid Process, for the insertion of the Brachialis Internus. At the upper and outer part of the Bone, a triangu- lar Surface, where the Anconeus is lodged. The Bodi/ of the Ulna, of a triangular form, be- coming gradually smaller in its descent. The sharpest Angle opposed to the Radius, for the attachment of the Interosseous Ligament. The sides forming this angle, jlat, and marked by the Muscles which arise from them. A Passage slanting upwards, about a hand-breadth below the upper end, for the Medullary Vessels. The under end of the Bone, forming a small round Head, which is covered with Cartilage on that side where the Radius moves upon it, and also on its ex- tremity, where it is opposed to a moveable Cartilage placed between it and the Carpus. The Styloid Process, at the inner side of the small round Head, from which a strong Ligament goes off to be fixed to the Bones of the Wrist. The Ulna is articulated at its superior extremity with the lower end of the Os Humeri, the Joint at this part forming a complete Hinge, which allows an extensive degree of flexion, and as much extension as to approachPart I ] OF THE BONES. 135 a straight line with the Upper Arm ; but little or no rotation* It gives origin to the Pronator Radii Quadratus, and Indicator ;—to part of the Extensores Ossis Me- tacarpi, Primi Internodii et Secundi Internodii Polli- cis, Flexores Carpi Radialis et Ulnaris, Flexores Di- gitorum Sublimis et Profundus, Supinator Radii Bre- vis, Pronator Radii Teres, and Extensor Carpi Ulna- ris.—Insertion to the Brachialis Internus, .Triceps Extensor Cubiti, and Anconeus. Radius. The Radius shorter than the Ulna by the length of the Olecranon. The Situation of the Radius at the outer part of the Fore-arm. The upper end of the Radius, covered with Cartilage, and formed into a circular Head, which is hollowed above, for receiving the outer part of the Articular Surface of the Os Humeri. The inner side of the Head smooth, and also cover- ed with Cartilage, where it plays in the small Semilu- nar Cavity at the outer side of the Ulna. The Cervix of the Radius smaller than the Head; in the Subject surrounded by a circular Ligament, which keeps the Bone in its place, and allows it to roll upon the Ulna. The Tubercle of the Radius, at the under and in- ner part of the Cervix, for the insertion of the Biceps Flexor Cubiti. The Body of the Bone larger than that of the Ulna,136 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. convex on its outer and back part, and rounded here by the Muscles which cover it. The anterior and posterior Surfaces next the Ulna flat, where Muscles of the Hand take their origin. The antej'ior and posterior Surfaces, terminating next the Ulna, in a sharp Ridge, to which the Inter- osseous Ligament of the Fore-arm is fixed. A Passage slanting upwards, on the fore part of the Bone, and about a hand-breadth below its upper end, for the Medullary Vessels. A roifgh Surface, at the outer and middle part of the Bone, for the insertion of the Pronator Radii Teres. The lower e7id of the Radius, becoming gradually larger, and flat on its fore part, where it is covered by the Pronator Radii Quadratus. A Ridge upon the under and back part of the Ra- dius, with a Fossa upon each side of it, where the Tendons of the Extensor Muscles of the Fingers pass. The outer side of this extremity of the Bone hollow- ed by the Extensors of the Thumb. A semilimar Cavity at the inner side of the under end of the Radius, lined with Cartilage, for receiving the corresponding extremity of the Ulna. The loiver end of the Bone, formed into a Cavity of .an oval or navicidar shape, and lined with Cartilage, for receiving the two first Bones of the Carpus. A small Transverse Ridge, frequently found in the middle of this Cavity, which insinuates itself between the two first Bones of the Carpus. The under and outer part of the Radius, forming a Process somewhat similar to the Styloid Process of the Ulna. From this a Ligament is sent to the Wrist.Part I,] 137 OF THE BONES. The Structure of the Radius and Ulna is the same as that of other long Bones. The Head of the Radius is articulated with the outer part of the articular Surface of the Os Humeri; the Radius is besides joined by a double articulation to the Ulna; for above, the Head of the Radius is received into the small Sigmoid Cavity of the Ulna, while the under end of the Ulna is received into the small Semi- lunar Cavity of the Radius ; in consequence of which connexion, the Radius accompanies the Ulna in the flexion and extension of the Fore-arm, while it moves round its own axis above; but, at the lower end, it turns upon the round Head of the Ulna, carrying the Hand with it. The turning of the Radius with the Hand is termed Supination and Pronation ; when the Palm is turned upwards, it is in a state of supination, and in pronation when in a contrary direction. The Radius gives Origin to part of the Flexor Digi- torum Sublimis, Flexor Longus, et Extensor Ossis Me- tacarpi Pollicis.—Insertion to the Biceps Flexor Cubi- ti, Supinatores Longus et Brevis, Pronatores Teres et Quadrat us. In a Foetus, the extremities of the Bones of the Fore-arm are Cartilaginous ; they afterwards become Epiphyses, before they are united to the Bodies of the Bones,138 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. HAND. The Hand, composed of the Bones of the Carpus, Metacarpus, and Fingers. The posterior Surface of the Hand, convex, which gives it a greater degree of strength. The anterior Surface of the Hand, concave, for grasping and holding substances. Caepus, or Wrist. The Carpus is composed of eight Bones, disposed in two Rows; each Bone being broader on its posterior than anterior Surface, they form an Arch convex be- hind, by which it gives security and strength ; and con- cave before, for containing the Muscles, Vessels, and Nerves, which run to the Fingers. The ends of the Arch on the Palm-side of the Wrist, form projecting Points, between which the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare is stretched, which confines the Mus- cles in their places. The posterior or convex Surface of the Carpus, marl^- ed by the numerous Ligaments attached to it. The anterior or hollow Surface, also marked by Li- gaments. The Bones of the Carpus are articulated with each other, or with the neighbouring Bones, and all their articular Surfaces are covered with Cartilage, to facili- tate the motion of the Joints.139 Part I.] OF THE BONES. In the First Row of Carpal Bones are, The Ossa Scaphoides, Lunare^ Cunei/brme, Pisiforme. In the Second Row, The Ossa Trapezium, Trapezoides, Magnum, Unci- forme. The Os ScAPHOiDEs, vel Naviculare, or Boat-like Bone, placed at the outer and upper part of the Car- pus. The upper Surface, convex, and articulated with the Radius. The under and outer Surface also convex, to be arti- culated with the Trapezium and Trapezoides. Between the upper and under Cartilaginous Surfaces, a rough Fossa for the insertion of the Capsular Liga- ment. The anterior and inner Surface, having an oval Ca- vity which gives name to the Bone, where it is articu- lated with the Os Magnum. A Process upon the outer end of the Bone, for the attachment of part of the anterior Transverse Liga- ment of the Wrist. The Os LuNARE, vel Semilunare, situated upon the inner side of the former Bone. The upper Surface, convex, for its articulation with the Radius. The outer Edge, in form of a Crescent, from which the Bone is named, articulated with the Os Scaphoides. The under Surface, hollow, for its articulation with the Os Magnum.140 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet I. The inner Surface of the Bone, articulated with the Os Cuneiforme. The Os Cuneiforme, or Wedge-shaped Bone, or Os Teiquetrum, less than the former Bone, and si- tuated on its inner side. The anterior Edge, tliin, in form of a wedge. The upper and outer Surface, articulated with the Os Lunare. The upper part forms a sliglit convexity, which is included in the Joint of the Wrist. Here the move- able Cartilage already taken notice of, is interposed be- tween this Bone and the Ulna. The under and outer Surface, articulated with tlie Os Unciforme. The anterior and inner Surface, forming a slight coii^ nexity for its articulation with the Os Pisiforme. The three first Bones of the Carpus form an oval convexity, by which they are articulated with the lower end of the Bones of the Fore-arm ; the Ossa Scaphoides and Lunare being received in the Socket formed by the Radius, while the Os Cuneiforme is opposed to the Car- tilaginous end of the Ulna. By this kind of articidation, extensive motion is allow- ed forwards and backwards, and to each side ; and by a succession of these motions, the Hand is made to move in a circle ; but no motion is performed by the Carpus round its own axis, except what it has along with the Radius in the Supination and Pronation of the Hand. The Os Pisiforme, vel Orbiculare, the least of the Carpal Bones, placed upon the anterior and inner Sur-Part I ] OF THE BONES. 141 face of the Os Cuneiforme, forming a Prominence which is readily felt in the Wrist, and which gives attachment to strong Tendons and Ligaments, particularly to part of the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare. The Os Pisiforme gives Origin to part of the Ab- ductor Minimi Digiti,—and Insertion to the Flexor Ulnaris, and to part of the Pal maris Brevis. The Os Trapezium, named from the four unequal Edges of its posterior Surface. The Situation of this Bone, at the Root of the Me- tacarpal Bone of the Thumb. The upper part of the Bone, forming a smooth Pit, to be articulated with the Os Scaphoides. The inner side, hollow, and articulated with the Os Trapezoides. The under Surface, forming a Pulley, on which the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb moves. The anterior Surface, sending out a Process, which is prominent in the Palm, and marked by the Trans- verse Ligament of the Wrist, by the Flexor Carpi Ra- dialis, and Flexors of the Thumb. The Os Trapezium gives Origin to part of the Op- ponens et Abductor Pollicis, Abductor Indicis,—and Insertion to the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. The Os Trapezoides, so named from its being some- what like the former Bone, though considerably smaller. The Situation of the Os Trapezoides, at the inner side of the Os Trapezium. The upper Surface, hollow where it joins tlie Sca- phoides.U2 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The outer Surface, cmivex^ and articulated with the Trapezium. The inner Surface, articulated with the Os Magnum. The under Surface, formed into a sort of Pulley, to be articulated with the Metacarpal Bone of the Fore- finger. The Os Trapezoides gives Origin to part of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis. The Os Magnum, vel Capitatum, or largest Bone of the Carpus, placed at the inner side of the former Bone, and consisting of four oblong sides, with a round head, and triangular end. The Head or Ball of the Bone, received into the hollow Surfaces of the Scaphoides and Lunare, like ball and socket. The under part of the outer side, joined to the Os Trapezoides. The inner side, to the Os Unciforme. The under end, opposed to the Metacarpal Bone of the Middle Finger. The Os Magnum gives Origin to part of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis. The Os Unciforme, placed in the under and inner part of the Wrist. The upper and vnner Surface, articulated with the Os Cuneiforme. The outer Surface, articulated with the Os Magnum. The inferior Surface, opposed to the Metacarpal Bones of the Ring and Little Fingers.OF THE BONES. Part I.] 143 The anterior Surface, sending out the Unciform Process, which gives name to the Bone. The Unciform, or Hook-like Process^ curved for the passage of the Flexor Muscles of the Fingers. The Os Unciforme gives Origin to part of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis, Flexor Parvus Minimi Digiti, and Ad- ductor Minimi Digiti. The substance of the Carpal Bones is spongy, but strong in proportion to their size. The articulation between the first and second Row of Carpal Bones allows motion to each side, but chiefly forwards and backwards ; the motion, however, is less extensive than that between the Fore-arm and Wrist. The connexion between the difi'erent Bones in each Row of the Carpus, is of such a nature as not to ad- mit of any sensible motion among themselves. The Carpus serves as a Base to the Hand, protects its Tendons, &c. and affords free and extensive motion. In a Foetus, the Bones of the Carpus are in a Car- tilaginous state. Metacarpus. The Metacarpus, or Bones beyond the Wrist, con- sisting of four Bones for supporting the Fingers, and one for the Thumb. Metacarpal Bones of the Fingers. Their Bodies^ long and round behind, forming part of the convexity of the Hand ; before, giving hollow-- ness to the Palm,144 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The extremities of these Bones, considerably larger than their Bodies, in consequence of which they leave spaces for the Interossei. The upper Ends or Bases, flat, where they are arti^ culated with the Bones of the Carpus. Round the edges of the Cartilaginous Surfaces, at the upper ends, the Depressions where the Capsular ] ligaments are fixed. The sides of the upper ends flat, and drawn close together, where they are articulated with each other. Their Bodies diverging towards their under extremi- ties, by which they regulate the motions of the Fingers. A Ridge at the upper and back part of their Bodies, with a Depression on each side of it, formed by the Interossei. The under and back part of their Bodiesj-made flat, by the motion of the Tendons of the Extensors of the Fingers. The anterior Surface of their Bodies concave, and and renderedat the sides, by the Interossei. The lower Ends, or Heads, formed into Balls, which are flattened at their sides, by their motions upon each other. At the fore part of each side of the Heads, a little Prominence, for the attachment of the Ligaments which fix these Bones to each other. Round the Heads, a Depression, for the insertion of the Capsular Ligaments. The Metacarpal Bones are joined by their Bases to the Carpus, and to each other by nearly plain Sur- faces ; in consequence of which, and the strength ofPart I.] OF THE BONES. 145 their connecting Ligaments, their motions here are in- considerable. The Bones of the Metacarpus in general give Origin to the Interossei. The Metacarpal Bone of, the Fore-finger^ commonly the longest of the Bones of the Metacarpus. The Base of the Metacarpal Bone of the Fore- finger, opposed to, and corresponding with, the Os Trapezoides, and partly with the Os Trapezium. The inner part of the Base, forming a Ridge, which is articulated with the Os Magnum, and with the next Metacarpal Bone. The connexion of the Base is so firm, that it has little or no motion. The Metacarpal Bone of the Fore-finger gives In- sertion to the Flexor Carpi Radialis, and Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior. The Metacarpal Bone of the Mid-^finger, commonly the second in length. The Base of the Bone generally slanting inwards and downwards, opposed to the Os Magnum. The outer and back part of the Base projecting, and forming a sort of Process, the external Surface of which is connected with the Ridge of the former Bone. The motion of this Bone little more than that of the former one. It gives Origin to the Adductor Pollicis,—and In- sertion to the Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. The Metacarpal Bone of the Ringfi^nger, shorter than the former Bone. Its Base, semicircular where it is opposed to the Os Unciforme. VOL. I, K146 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The motion is something greater than that of the former Bone. The Metacarpal Bone of the Little-finger^ the small- est of the four. The Base, which slants downwards and outwards, opposed to the under and inner part of the Os Unci- forme. The inner part of the Base destitute of a smooth surface, not being contiguous to any other Bone. From the nature of the Joint, the looseness of the Ligaments, and from the existence of a proper Muscle here, this Bone possesses a larger share of motion than any of the rest. It has inserted into it the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, and Adductor Minimi Digiti. Metaxarpal Bone of the Thumb, The Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb^ having the ge- neral resemblance of those of the Fingers, but differ- ing from them in being placed obliquely with respect to them, and in some measure opposing them. This Bone thicker and stronger, but shorter than any of those of the Fingers. The Base of this Bone articulated with the Pulley formed by the Trapezium, the Bone appearing to admit of flexion and extension only; but, from the looseness of the Ligaments, possessing the same kind of motion with Joints formed after the manner of Ball and Socket. The ififerior extremity of the Bone considerably flat- ter than those of the other' Metacarpal Bones. This Bone gives Origin to part of the Abductor In>Part I.] OF THE BONES. 147 dicis ;—Insertion to the Opponens Pollicis, and to part of the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. Bones of the Fingers. The Fingers, composed each of three Bones; the three Rows of Bones, taken transversely, termed Phalanges. The different Phalanges, tapering a little as they de- scend, and their Bases larger than their inferior extre- mities. The posterior Surfaces convex, and covered chiefly by the Tendinous Expansions of the Extensors of the Fingers. Their anterior Surfaces flat, and in some parts con- cave, for lodging the Tendons of the Flexor Muscles. Ridges at the side of their anterior Surfaces, for the attachment of the retaining Ligaments of the Tendons of the Flexor Muscles. The Phalanges, in general, have inserted into them the Extensor Digitorum Communis. The first or Metacarpal Phalanx, longer than the second or middle, and the second than the third. The Bases or upper ends of the first Phalanx form- ed into Sockets, to receive the Balls of the Metacarpal Bones, and to allow motion to all sides. The lower ends of this Phalanx, consisting of late- ral Prominences, and middle Cavities or Pulleys, the Cartilaginous Surfaces of which reach considerably farther up in the fore than in the back part. The first Phalanx, by means of the Extensor Digi- torum Communis, gives Insertion to the Lumbricales and Interossei, K 2148 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part L The Bases of the second Phalanx, with lateral Ca- vities and middle Ridges, corresponding with the Pul- leys of the first Phalanx, and admitting of flexion and extension only. The lozver ends of this Phalanx similar to those of the first. To this Phalanx the Flexor Digitorum Sublimis is fixed. The Bases of the third PJialanx, or Phalanx Un- guium, or Nail Phalanx, like those of the second, and the motions also similar. The under ends of the third Phalanx rough, where the Pulpy, Vascular, and Nervous Substance of the points of the Fingers is situated. To this Phalanx the Flexor Digitorum Profundus is inserted. The peculiarities of the Bones of the Finojers con- sist only in their size. The Bones of the Mid-finger the largest and longest. Those of the Ring-finger next in length. The Bones of the Fore-finger next to those of the Ring-finger in length, and of the Mid-finger in thick- ness. They have inserted into them the Indicator, and Abductor Indicis. Those of the Fourth Finger the smallest. They have fixed to them the Flexor Parvus, and Abductor Minimi Digiti. Bones of llie Thumb. The Thumb, consisting only of tzvo Bones.Part I.] OF THE BONES. U9 The Jirst Bone like the Bones of the first Phalanx of the Fingers, but thicker and stronger. The Cavity at the Base of the Bone, longer from " one side to the other, and shallower than the Cavities of the corresponding Bones of the Fingers, but, like them, forming a Socket for the Metacarpal Bone. From the flatness of the Joint, however, and strength of the lateral Ligaments, the motions here are confined to flexion and extension only. The lower end of the first Bone of the Thumb like that of the first of the Fingers. It gives Insertion to the Extensor Primi Internodii, Abductor et Adductor Pollicis,—and to part of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis. The second Bone of the Thumb like the third of the Fingers, but broader. The Base of this Bone, like that of the second and third Bones of the Fingers, and like their Joints also, admitting of flexion and extension only. It has inserted into it the Flexor Longus, et Exten- sor Secundi Internodii Pollicis. The substance of the Bones of the Metacarpus, and of those of the Fingers and Thumb, is the same with that of the long Bones. In a Foetus, both extremities of the Metacarpal Bones, and of the first and second Phalanx of the Fingers, and first Bone of the Thumb, are in a state of Cartilage ; as are also the upper ends of the third Phalanx of the Fingers, and second Bone of the Thumb.150 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pari I. INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. Obseeve here, Each of the Inferior Extremitiesy composed of the Thigh, Leg, and Foot. THIGH. The Thigh, consisting of a single Bone, viz. Os Femoris. The Os Femoris, or Thigh-bone, the largest and longest of the Body, and thickest and strongest of the Cylindrical Bones. The Situation of the Bone, at the under and outer part of the Pelvis. The oblique situation of the Bod?/ of the Bone; the under end being considerably nearer than the upper one to its fellow, which is favourable for the passages at the bottom of the Pelvis, for the origin of Muscles, and for walking. The Ball or Head of the Thigh-bone, smooth, cover- ed with Cartilage, and forming almost two-thirds of a Sphere, which is received into the deep Socket formed by the Acetabulum of the Os Innominatum.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 151 The Edge of the Cartilaginous Surface, having an undulated appearance, corresponding with that of the Brim of the Acetabulum. A rough Pit at the inner part of the Ball, a little below its middle^ and destitute of Cartilage, for the attachment of the Ligamentum Rotundum, which is fixed by its other end to the bottom of the Acetabulum. The CervioCy or Neck, much longer than that of any other Bone, passing obliquely downwards and outwards from the Ball, to allow the free motion of the Body of the Bone in different directions. Numerous Holes in the Cervix, for the Insertion of the Fibres of the Ligament reflected from the Capsu- lar one. The Trochanter Major, placed at the outer part of the Neck, and upper end of the Body of the Bone, for the Insertion of the Extensor, Abductor, and Rotator Muscles of the Thigh ; these, performing the oflice of rolling or running, give rise to the name Trochanter. Two rough Surfaces upon the upper and fore part of the large Trochanter, for the Insertion of the Glutei Medius et Minimus. A Cavity, termed Fossa Trochanteria, placed at the inner side of the Root of the large Trochanter, for the Insertion of the Rotator Muscles of the Thigh. The Trochanter Minor, at the under and inner part of the Cervix, for the Insertion of the Flexor Muscles of the Thigh. The Trochanter Minor is small and pointed, and, in a Subject, is so much covered by Muscles, as to be out of the reach of the Finger. A rough Li7ie on the fore part of the Bone, extend-152 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. ing obliquely between the two Trochanters, for the Insertion of the Capsular Ligament. A rough Line between the Trochanters, on the hack part of the Bone, for the Insertion of the Capsular Ligament, and of the Quadratus Femoris. The Body of the Thigh-bone hent forwards, and a little outwards, of a roundish form above, but somewhat triangular about its middle. The Jhre part of the Bone, Jlat, where it is covered by the Crureus. The Sides of the Bone flattened at its middle and lower part by the two Vasti. The Linea Aspera, or Ragged Ridge, on the back part of the Bone, extending from the Trochanters, but chiefly from the large one, to the lower part of the Bone, and giving attachment to numerous Muscles which pass from the Pelvis to the Thigh, or from the Thigh to the Leg. The Linea Aspera, forked at both its extremities ; extending above to the Trochanters, while below the two lines into which it divides terminate in the Con- dyles. The Canal for the Medullary Vessels, slanting up- wards, on the posterior part of the Bone, a little below its middle height. The under and hack part of the Bone flat, where the Popliteal Vessels and Nerves are placed. The lower End of the Bone becoming gradually lar- ger, and perforated by many Holes, for the Insertion of the Capsular Ligament of the Knee, and for the passage of the Nutritious Vessels of the Bone.Part I.] OF THE BONES. IBS The lower end, also marked by the insertion of seve- ral Muscles. The Cartilaginous Trochlea at the under and fore part of the Bone, placed obliquely, with its outer Sur- face larger and higher than its inner one, to be adapt- ed to the Knee-bone which moves upon it. The eocternal and internal Condyles^ continued back from the Trochlea, and also covered with Cartilage, for the motion of the Tibia. The internal Condyle, larger and deeper than the ex- ternal, to compensate for the obliquity of the Thigh, and to give less obliquity to the Leg. A Notch between the back part of the Condyles, for lodging the Popliteal Vessels and Nerves. A semilunar rough Notch, deeper and lower than the former one, for the attachment of the Crucial or inter- nal Ligaments of the Knee. The inner substance of this Bone, like that of other long Bones, consists of a fibrous reticular texture in the middle, and lamellated Cancelli at the extremities. The Body of this Bone has remarkably thick and strong solid sides; but these, towards the ends, become al- most as thin as a piece of paper. The Thigh-bone is articulated above with the Os In- nominatum, which allows the free motion of the Body - of the Bone in all directions. It is restrained, however, in its motion outwards by the Ligamentum Rotundum, and the high Brim of the Acetabulum. The Head and Neck of the Bone can move round their own axis, though its Body possesses little rotatory motion. In consequence of the oblique situation of the154 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part X. Head and Neck, when the Ball rolls, the Body of the Bone is brought only forwards or backwards. The Thigh-bone gives Origin to the Vasti Externus €t Internus, Crureus, short Head of the Biceps Flexor Cruris, Gastrocnemius Externus, Plantaris, and Popli- teus—Insertion to the Iliacus Internus and Psoas Mag- gus, Glutei Maximus, Medius, et Minimus, Pyrifor- mis, Gemini, Obturatores Externus et Internus, Qua- dratus Femoris, Pectinalis, and Triceps Adductor Fe- moris. In a Foetus, the Body of the Bone is ossified, the different Processes are Cartilaginous, and afterwards form large Epiphyses. LEG. Composed of two Bones, the Tibia and Fibula,—to which may be added the Patella. Tibia. " The Tibia, or Bone compared to an ancient musical Pipe, situated at the inner part of the Leg, and by much the largest of the two Bones. The upper End of the Tibia, forming a large Head, divided above into two superficial Cavities, for receiving the Cartilaginous part of the Condyles of the Thigh- bone. A rough Protuberance projecting between the articu- lating Cavities, and received in the space between the Condyles. It is pitted on its fore and back parts, forPart I.] OF THE BONES. 155 the insertion of the anterior and posterior Crucial Li- gaments. The articulating Surfaces at the upper end of the Ti- bia, are rendered deeper in a Subject by ths addition of two semilunar Cartilages placed upon their edge. The circumference of the Head of the Bone, rough and porous^ for the insertion of the Capsular Ligament. A Tubercle at the upper and fore part of the Bone, for the insertion of the lower Tendon or Ligament of the Patella. A Cartilaginous Surface under the outer Edge of the Head of the Bone, for the articulation with the up- per end of the Fibula. The Body of the Bone of a triangular form^ with the sharpest Angle placed anteriorly. The anterior Angle^ called Spine, or SMn^ a little waved, and extending from the Tubercle to the inner Ankle. The anterior and inner Surface of the Bone, smooth, being covered with skin only. The internal Angle, for the attachment of part of the Aponeurosis of the Leg. The anterior and outer Surface, hollowed by the Ti- bialis Anticus, and by the long Extensors of the Toes. The external Angle, or that at the outer and bach part of the Bone, giving attachment to the Interosseous Li- gament. The middle of the posterior Surface, also hollowed by Muscles which assist in extending the foot, and in bending the Toes. A Ridge extending obliquely downwards from the upper and outer part of the Bone, posteriorly, to its in-156 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. ner angle, and giving origin to part of the Muscles which extend the Foot and bend the Toes. A fiat Surface above the Ridge and under the head of the Tibia, indicating the situation of the Popliteus. The Canal for the Medullary Vessels, slanting down- wards at the inner and back part of the Bone, a little above its middle height. The under end of the Tibia smaller than the upper one, and its inferior surface hollow^ and covered with Cartilage, for the Articulation with the Astragalus. The Malleolus Internus^ or Mallet-like process, or Inner AnTde^ produced from the inner and fore part of the under end, and covered also with Cartilage where the Astragalus plays. A Pit in the point of the Malleolus Internus, for the attachment of the internal Lateral Ligament, and a Groove behind, where the Tendon of the Tibialis Pos- ticus is placed. The semicircular Cavity, at the under and outer side of the Tibia, for receiving the under end of the Fi- bula. Round the edge of the articular Cavity, the Bone, marTced by the insertion of the Capsular Ligament. The Tibia has a strong external Table, with a con- siderable quantity of spongy substance. The Articulation of the upper part of the Tibia with the Os Femoris, is of such a nature as to allow flexion to a great degree, but the numerous Ligaments fixed here prevent it from being extended beyond a straight line with the Thigh ; and then there is no rotation nor lateral motion, though, when the Joint is bent, the Li- gaments are so much relaxed that the Leg may be madePart L] OF THE BONES. 157 in a small degree to roll, or to turn a little to each side. The Tibia gives Origin to the Tibialis Anticus, and Flexor Longus Digitorum,—to part of the Extensor Longus Digitorum, Soleus, and Tibialis Posticus. In- sertion to the Sartorius, Gracilis, Semi-tendinosus, Se- mi-membranosus, Popliteus, and through the medium of the Patella, to the Extensors of the Leg. The Extremities of the Tibia are Cartilaginous in a Foetus, and become afterwards Epiphyses. Fibula, vel Os Perone. The Fibula, placed at the outer side of the Tibia, where the Fibula, or Clasp, was formerly used, by much the smaller of the two Bones, being the most slender, in proportion to its length, of any in the Body. The upper end of the Fibula, formed into a large Head, with a Superficial smooth Cavity towards its in- ner side, to be articulated with the Tibia, where it is tied by Ligaments of such strength as to allow very little motion. The Head of the Fibula, irregular and rough ex- ternally, for the insertion of the Biceps Flexor Cruris, and of the External Lateral Ligament of the Knee. The Body of the Bone bent a little inwards and backwards, and unequall}^ triangular above, but some- what quadrangular below, with the Surfaces between the Angles marked by the Muscles which arise from it, or are placed upon it. A Ridge at the inner side of the Fibula, opposed to158 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. one at the outer part of the Tibia, for the insertion of the Interosseous Ligament. A Canal on the back part of the Bone, slanting ob- liquely downwards, a little above its middle, for the passage of the Medullary Vessels. ^ The under End of the Fibula, broad and Jlaty to be received by the Semilunar Cavity of the Tibia. The under end of the Bone forming the Malleolus Externus^ or outer Ankle, which is larger, longer, lower, and farther back than the inner Ankle, the ob- liquity of the two Malleoli in some measure corre- sponding with the obliquity of the Foot. A convex smooth Surface on the inner side of the Malleolus Externus, opposed to the outer side of the Astragalus, which moves upon it. The Coronoid Process, sent down from the Malleo- lus Externus, from which Ligaments go to the Bones at the outer side of the Foot. A Furrow upon the back of the Malleolus Exter- nus, for lodging part of the Tendons of the Peronei. The Substance of the Fibula is like that in other long Bones. The Fibula being articulated with the Tibia at its superior extremity by almost plain surfaces, and tied to it by strong and short Ligaments, only a very little motion is allowed. At the under end it is joined so firmly by strong Li- gaments, that no sensible motion appears in the Sub- ject ; though in this Joint, as in several others, where the Bones are firmly fixed by short Ligaments, there may be an elastic yielding in the living Body. In old people, these two Bones aire not unfrequentlyPart I.] OF THE BONES. 15^ joined at their under extremities by a union of sub- stance. * The Fibula affords attachment to Muscles; assists in securing the articulation of the Foot; adds. to the form and strength of the Leg; and, by the head of the Bone being fixed to that of the Tibia, it widen» the space for the Interosseous Ligament. The Fibula gives origin to the Peronei Longus, Brevis, et Tertius, Extensor Proprius Pollicis, and Flexor Longus Pollicis,—to part of the Extensor Lon- gus Digitorum, of the Soleus, and Tibialis Posticus, —Insertion to the Biceps Flexor Cruris. In a Foetus, the extremities of the Fibula are Car- tilaginous, and afterwards become Epiphyses, previous- ly to being united to the Body of the Bone. Patella, vel Rotula, or Knee-]^n. The Patella, placed at the fore part of the Joint of the Knee, and in some jespects bearing the same rela- tion to the Tibia as the Olecranon does to the Ukia. The shape of the Patella, triangular or fiat, or of the Figure of a Heart as painted upon playing-cards, and having its point downwards. The anterior Surface of the Bone, convex, and per- forated by numerous Holes for the insertion of Ten- dons and Ligaments which cover it. posterior Surface, which corresponds with the Trochlea of the Os Femoris, smooth, covered with Car- tilage, and divided by a longitudinal prominent Ridge into two unequal-sized Cavities, of which the external is the largest, like the Trochlea, to which it is adapted.160 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The circumference of the Articular Surface, marJced by a rough Line, into which the Capsular Ligament of the Joint is fixed. The Base, or upper part of the Bone, horizontal^ and marked by the insertion of the Tendons of the ' Extensors of the Leg. The back part of the Apex rough and depressed, for the attachment of the Ligament which passes from the Patella to the Tubercle of the Tibia. The Patella has a thin, though firm external Table. Its internal substance is Cellular, but the Cells are small, and have so much Osseous Matter employed in their formation, as to give the Bone a considerable de- gree of strength. The structure of this Bone, the toughness of the Ligaments which cover it, and the free motion it is allowed, are found to enable it better to resist any common force applied to it, than if it had been a pro- cess continued from the Tibia, as the Olecranon is from the Ulna. The Ligaments of the Patella allow it to be moved upwards and downwards; and when the Leg is ex- tended, they admit of its motion to either side, or to be rolled. When the Leg is extended, the Patella is lodged in the Trochlea of the Os Femoris; when the Limb is bent, the Patella is pulled down by the Tibia, and lodged in a hollow at the fore part of the Knee. The Patella defends the fore part of the Knee, in- creases the Anale of insertion of the Muscles fixed to o it, and serves as a pulley or lever, by enabling the Mus- cles to act with greater advantage in extending the Leg.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 161 It gives attachment to the Rectus, Cruralis, Vasti Externus et Inte^pius. It is entirely Cartilaginous at Birth, and is later in ossifying than most of the Epiphyses; the points of Ossification commonly not appearing till after the fifth or sixth year. FOOT. The Foot, composed of Tarsus, Metatarsus, and Toes. Tarsus. The Tarsus, or Instep, composed of seven Bones, viz, the Astragalus, Ossa Calcis, Naviculare, Cunei- forme Internum, Cuneiforme Medium, Cunei/brme Ex- ternum, et Cuboides. The upper part of the Tarsus convex, the under part concave. In the Concavity, numerous Muscles, Vessels, and Nerves are lodged, belonging to the Sole.' y The different Bones of the Tarsus have their rough Surfaces joined together hy strong Ligaments, and their parts of articulation covered with Cartilage, in such a manner as to form part of a strong and elastic Arch, for supporting the weight of the Body, and lessening the shock it would otherwise undergo in its different motions. The Astragalus, or Bone compared in shape to that of an Ancient Die, placed directly under the Tibia. VOL. T. L162 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. The upper part of the Astragalus, formed into a large Head, resembling a Pulley, which is smooth on its up- per part and sides, to be articulated with the under end of the Leg-bones. Each of the Cartilaginous Surfaces of the Head of this Bone, depressed in its middle, to correspond with the parts of the Leg-bones with which it is articulated. Round the inferior edge of the articulating Surfaces, a rough Fossa for the insertion of the Capsular Liga- ment ; and at the sides of this Surface, the Bone mark- ed by the lateral Ligaments. The under part of the Bone, consisting of a deep Fossa, or sinuous Cavity, which divides it into an an- terior and posterior articulating surface. The Fossa in the under Surface, narrower at the inner part of the Bone, and becoming gradually wider as it goes outwards and forwards. The posterior articulating Surface, large and concave for its articulation with the upper and middle part of the Os Calcis. ^^jm^ym^ The anterior articulating Surface, irregular and Con- 'vex, where it plays upon two smooth Cavities at the inner and fore part of the Os Calcis, and upon a Car- tilaginous Ligament extended between the Os Calcis and Os Naviculare. - v.iio^ ij^maoo noiifiifjadUi lo aJ'f;^;. A large oblong smooth Head, at the fore part of the Bone, for its articulation with the Os Nayiculare. The Joint between the Astragalus and Leg-bones forms a complete Hinge, which, together with the above- mentioned Ligaments, allows the Foot to bend and ex- tend jipon the Leg, but admits of no lateral; nor rota- .'<'iT . _ : .... .,k. iij^-io J ri.L 2 / Faet I.] OF THE BONES. 163 tory motion, except in the extended state, when there is a little of each. In a Foetus, a considerable portion of this Bone is ossified. The Os Calcis, vel Calcaneus, or Heel-bone, the largest of the Tarsal Bones, situated under the Astra- galus, and in the back part of the Foot. A large rough Tuberosity^ or Knob, projecting be- hind to form the Heel, and to make one end of the Arch of the Foot. A Superjicial Cavity in the upper and back part of this Knob, for the insertion of the Tendo Achillis. A smooth Convexity on the upper part of the Bone, for its articulation with the under and back part of the Astragalus. A Fossa or Sinuous Cavity at the fore part of this articulating Surface, running forwards and outwards, and giving origin to strong Ligaments which are in- serted into the corresponding Fossa of the Astragalus. Two Prominences at the inner and fore part of ,the Bone, concave, and smooth above, with a Pit between them, for the articulation with the under and fore part of the Astragalus. ;« From the Posterior Prominence, the Cartilaginous Ligament arises, which is fixed to the Os Naviculars. A large Cavity or Arch at the inner side of the Bone, between the posterior of the two last mentioned Pro- cesses and Projection of the Heel, for lodging the Ten- dons of the long Flexors of the Toes, together with the Vessels and Nerves of the Sole. A Depression in the external Surface of the Bone,164 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. near its fore part, where the Tendon of the Peroneus Longus runs, in its way to the Sole. The under and back part of the Bone, forming two Prominences, where it gives origin to the Aponeurosis, and to several Muscles of the Sole; and before the Prominences, the Bone concave, where it lodges part of these Muscles. The anterior Surface concave, and somewhat in form of a pulley placed obliquely, for its articulation with the Os Cuboides. The Os Calcis is articulated with the Astragalus by Ligaments of such strength, that this part of the Foot, upon which the Body rests, is rendered firm and se- cure, but enjoys very little motion. It gives Origin to the Extensor Brevis Digitorum, Flexor Brevis Digitorum, Flexor Accessorius, and Ab- ductor Pollicis—to part of the Adductor Pollicis, of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis, and Abductor Minimi Di- giti;—Insertion to the Gastrocnemii Externus et In- ternus, and Plantaris. In a Foetus, a large proportion of this Bone is ossi- fied, and the Projection forming the Heel is for some time afterwards an Epiphysis. The Os Naviculare, or boat-like Bone, situated at the fore part of the Astragalus, and inner part of the Foot. The posterior Surface^ forming a Cavity somewhat like that of a Boat, for receiving the Head of the As- tragalus in the manner of Ball and Socket. A Prominence at the inner side of the Bone, for the insertion of Tendons, Muscles, and strong Ligaments,165 Part I.] OF THE BONES. particularly for the Ligament stretched between this Bone and the Os Calcis, for the support of the Astra- galus. The fore part of the Bone convex, and divided into three articular Surfaces, for the articulation with the Ossa Cuneiformia. Between the Os Naviculare and Astragalus, the foot has its principal lateral and rotatory motions, though each of the other Joints of the Tarsus contributes a little. The Os Naviculare gives insertion to part of the Ti- bialis Posticus. The three Ossa Cuneiformia, or Wedge-shaped Bones, situated at the fore part of the Tarsus, and inner side of the Os Cuboides, and applied to each other like the stones of an Arch. The upper part of these Bones, flat, where they are covered with Ligaments. The under part irregular, for the attachment of Muscles and strong Ligaments lying in the Sole. The posterior Surface, fiat, and covered with Carti- lage, to be articulated with the Os Naviculare. The anterior Surface, also fiat, for the articulation with the Metatarsal Bones. The Os Cuneforme Internum, vel Maximum, vel Primum, the largest of the Cuneiform Bones, and placed obliquely, with its anterior Surface opposed to the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe. The sharp Edge of this Bone turned upwards, while that of the other two Bones is in the opposite direction. It gives Origin to the short Head of the Abductor160 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. Pollicis ;—Insertion to part of the Tibialis Anticus et Posticus, and Peroneus Longus. The Os Cimeiforme Medium, vel Minimum, vel Se- cundum, the least of the three, and articulated at its inner side with the former Bone, and anteriorly with the second Metatarsal Bone. The Os Cuneiforme Eocternum, vel Tertium, some- times called Medium, as being of ja middle size between the two former, opposed to the Metatarsal of the third Toe.—The inner side of this Bone articulated with the former Bone. This Bone gives Origin to part of the Flexor Brevis and Adductor Pollicis. The Os CuBoiDEs, or Cube-like Bone, placed at the fore and outer part of the Tarsus, The posterior Surface of this Bone, smooth, co7ivex at its inner, and concave at its outer part, correspond- ing with the anterior extremity of the Os Calcis. The inner side articulated with the Os Naviculare and external Os Cuneiforme. Its under Surface, irregular where it gives attachment to strong Ligaments, and to the Adductor Pollicis. A deep Fossa in the outer and under part of the Bone, for lodging the Tendon of the Peroneus Longus, where it crosses the Sole. The a^iterior Extremity, divided into a small in- ner, and large outer plain Surface, to be articulated with the fourth and fifth Metatarsal Bones. The Os Cuboides gives Origin to part of the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti,—and Insertion to part of the Tibialis Posticus and Adductor Pollicis.Part I.] OF THE BONES. 167 The Os NavicularOssa Cuneiformia, and Os Cn- boidesy are almost Cartilaginous at Birth. Metatabsus. The Metatarsus, or Bones beyond the Tarsus, com- posed of Jive pieces, which answer to the general cha- racters given to the Metacarpal Bones. Their Bodies long, arched upwards, and tapering towards their anterior Extremities. The Extremities, large in proportion to their Bodies, and the posterior much larger than the anterior. The Bases, or posterior Extremities, Jlat, or a very little Jiollowed, to be articulated with the fore part of the Tarsal Bones. From the flatness of their Bases, and the strength of the Ligaments which fix these Bones to those of the Tarsus, very little motion is allowed to this part of the Foot. Round the Bases, rough Surfaces for the attachment of Ligaments. The sides of the Bases, Jlat where they are articu- lated with each other. A Ridge above, and a Jlat Surface at each side of their Bodies, for the Origin of the Interossei. The Jlat Surfaces turned obliquely outwards, and the obliquity increasing the more externally the Bones are placed. The anterior Extremities forming Balls, to be arti- culated with the Toes;—the Balls much longer from above downwards, than from one side to the other. ^> • I168 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part I. Round the Heads distinct Impressions, where the Capsular Ligaments are fixed. The Metatarsal Bones in general give Origin to the Interossei. The Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe, by much the thickest and strongest, but shortest of the Metatarsus. The articulating Cavity of its Base, deeper than the rest. The anterior Extremity, bearing a greater proportion to the Base than the rest, having a much larger share of the weight of the Body to sustain here, and formed into a middle Prominence, with tivo lateral Depressions, where the Bones termed Ossa Sesamoidea move. It gives Origin to part of the Transversalis Pedis.— Insertion to part of the Tibialis Anticus, of the Pero- neus Longus, and Adductor Pollicis. The Metatarsal Bone of the first of the Smxill Toes, the longest of the five. The Metatarsal Bone of the Middle Toe, the second in length, with a Base like that of the former Bone, triangular, but a little larger, to be articulated with the Os Cuneiforme Externum. The Metatarsal Bone of the third of the Small Toes, nearly of the same length as the former, but distin- guished from it by its Base being thicker below, and its Cartilaginous Surface being more of a square form, corresponding with the anterior and inner part of the Os Cuboides, with which it is articulated. The Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe, the shortest of those of the Small Toes, with flat Surfaces facing upwards and downwards. It gives Insertion to the Peronei Brevis et Tertius,Part I.] OF THE BONES. 169 Transversalis Pedis, and to part of the Flexor Brevis Minimi Diglti. The Base which rests on the Os Cuboides, project- ing outwards into a large Tuberosity, which gives Ori- gin to Muscles, and forms one of the points on which the Body rests in standing. The Bones of the Metatarsus, with those of the Tar- sus, form an irregular Arch for supporting the JBody, one end of the Arch being formed by the projection of the Heel, the other by the anterior Extremity of the Metatarsal Bones. The different pieces composing this Arch are bound by Ligaments of such strength, as to give security to the whole. Toes. The Bones of the Toes, the same in number with those of the Fingers, viz. two to the Great Toe, and three to each of the smaller Toes; and the different Bones here, as in the Fingers, disposed in Ranks or Phalanges. The Two Bones of the Great Toe like those of the Thumb, but stronger, and placed in the same row with the Bones of the smaller Toes, for the purpose of walking, and assisting in supporting the Body. The first Bone of the Great Toe gives insertion to part of the Extensor Brevis Digitorum, of the Exten- sor Proprius, Flexor Brevis, Abductor et Adductor PoUicis. The second Bone of the great Toe gives insertion to the Flexor Longus Pollicis,—and to part of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis.170 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOxMY. [Part I. The Bones of the Smaller Toes, every way less than those of the Fingers. Their under Surface depressed, where the Tendons of their Flexor Muscles are lodged. The Bases of the first Phalanx, as in the Fingers, forming Sockets to receive the Balls or Heads of the Metatarsal Bones. 'or:o?T ^ The Joints between the first and second Phalanx, and also between the second and third, as in the Fin- gers, forming Hinges, and the motion similar, but more confined. Of the Bones of the small Toes, the first, or that next the Great Toe, the largest, the rest becoming smaller the more externally they are placed. The structure of the Bones of the Foot is nearly si- milar to that of the Bones of the Hand. The Phalanges of the small Toes, in general, give Insertion to the Extensor Longus, and also to the Ex- tensor Brevis, with the exception of the Little Toe. The first Phalanx has inserted into it the Lumbricales and Interossei, the second Phalanx the Flexor Brevis, and the third Phalanx the Flexor Longus. To the Little Toe are inserted, besides the Tendons of the general Flexors and Extensors, the Abductor et Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. The Bones of the Toes allow a free and easy motion in Children, and a considerable degree of it also in people whose feet have not been confined in shoes. In others, especially in advanced life, the Toes are fre- quently found squeezed together, and some of the smallest Bones, as the two last of the little one, have the pieces which originally composed them joined to- gether by a union of substance.Part I.] OF THE BONES. HI In a Foetus, the Bones of the Metatarus and Toes are in the same condition as those of the Metacarpus and Fingers. OssA Sesamoidea, Or Bones resembling the Seeds of the Sesamunty or Oily-gram, Their size, situation, and number, vary in different persons. Those always present are placed in pairs at the roots of the Thumb and Great Toe, between the Tendons of their Flexor Muscles and Joints. They are also occasionally found single at the roots of the Fingers and Small Toes, at the second Joint of the Thumb, and at the corresponding one of the Great Toe; between the Condyles of the Os F^moris and Gastrocnemius Muscle; between the Tendons of the Peroneus Longus and Os Cuboides, &c. They are convex on their outer Surface, where they are inclosed by the Tendons and Muscles fixed to them. And concave^ and lined with Cartilage next the Joints, where they play upon the Bones with which they are articulated. They are considered by Anatomists as serving the same general purpose with the Patella, which is look- ed upon by some Authors as the largest of the Sesa- moid Bones. They give insertion to the Flexor Brevis Pollicis Manus, and to the Flexor Brevis, Abductor et Adduc- tor Pollicis Pedis, ,i sm COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part L PRINCIPAL DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE MALE AND FEMALE SKELETONS. The Female Skeleton is observed, in general, to be smaller and more slender throughout than that of the Male. The Bone of an Adult Female, of the same size with that of a Male, is usually distinguished by the Ridges, Depressions, rough Surfaces, and other Ine- qualities, being less conspicuous in the former. The Circumference of a Female Skull is said by SoEMMERRTNG to be larger. The Os Frontis is found to be more frequently di- vided by a continuation of the Sagittal Suture. The Frontal Sinuses are observed to be narrower ; All the Bones of the face more delicate; The Bodies of the Vertebrae longer, and the Verte- bral Canal, according to the Author quoted above, larger; The Intervertebral Substances deeper or thicker ; The Cartilages of the True Ribs longer in propor- tion to the Osseous part, and broader and flatter to support the Breasts ;Part I.] OF THE BONES. 173 The Sternum more raised, and the whole Thorax shorter, deeper from before backwards, and more dis- tant from the Pelvis ; The length of the Sternum less, and terminating below on a line nearly opposite to the Plane of the Fourth Pair of Ribs, but in a Male Skeleton termi- nating opposite to that of the Fifth Pair; The Cartilago Ensiformis oftener perforated in the middle, or bifurcated ; The length of the Loins greater ; The Pelvis wider in all its dimensions; The Spines and Processes of the Ossa Innominata farther distant from each other ; The Os Sacrum broader, and turned more back- wards, to enlarge the Cavity of the Pelvis ; The Os Coccygis more slender, also turned more backwards, and having a greater degree of motion; The Ossa Ilia flatter, and more reflected outwards, by which the under part of the Abdomen is rendered more capacious, and the impregnated Uterus better supported; The Notches of the Ossa Ilia wider, and the conjoined Surfaces of the Ossa Innominata and Os Sacrum less ; The space between the Ossa Pubis shorter from above downwards, but larger taken in a transverse direction, especially in Women who have born children; of course, the Ligamentous Cartilage of the Symphysis thicker; The Angle formed by the Crura of the Ossa Pubis with the Symphysis Pubis much larger; that of a Male being from 70 to 80, while in a Female the Angle extends from 80 to 90 degrees;174 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part L The Tuberosities of the Ossa Ischia flatter, and at a greater distance from each other; The Brim of the Pelvis wider, and of an oval form, corresponding with the Head of the Child, and the longest Diameter extending between the Ossa Ilia. In a Male, the Brim of the Pelvis observed to have more of a circular appearance, and to have the great- est extent between the Ossa Pubis and Os Sacrum. The Opening at the under part of the Pelvis, in a Female, much wider, and of an oval form; but the oval the reverse of that at the Brim. The Foramina Ovalia wider. All the Openings at the under part of the Pelvis being wider, leave a large passage for the Birth of the Child. The Acetabula farther distant from each other, in consequence of which. Women who are very broad at this part of the Body waggle when they walk. The Ossa Femorum more curved ; the Neck of the Thigh-bone forming a greater Angle at its Body ; the Body of the Thigh-bone placed more obliquely ; the internal Condyle larger. The Feet smaller; The Clavicles less crooked ; The Scapulae smaller, placed more backwards, but closer to the Thorax; of course, the breadth of the Shoulders less ; - - o The Superior ExtreiriiiiSs shorter; The Hands smaller; The'Ossa^ Carpi narrower ; ahd^ The Fingers more tapering towards their Extre- mities.ITABLE L Repeesents a Feont View of a Male Skeleton, with some of the Caetilages and Ligaments which connect the Bones to each other. Head and Neck. A, The frontal bone* B, The parietal bone. C, Temporal process of the sphenoid bone. D, Squamous part of the temporal bone. E, Mastoid process of that bone. F, The malar, or cheek-bone. G-, The nasal bone, behind which is the nasal process of H, The superior maxillary bone. I, The lower jaw. K, The cervical vertebrae, with their intermediate car- tilages and transverse processes. Teunk. A, The sternum. B, The seventh, or last true rib. C, The cartilages of the ribs. D, The twelfth, or last false rib, E, The lumbar vertebrae, with their intervertebral cartilages and transverse processes. F, The OS sacrum. G, The OS innominatum, composed of, a, The os ilium, 6, The OS pubis, c, The OS ischium. /TABLE I. CONTINUED. Upper Extremity. A, The clavicle. B, Inner surface of the scapula. a, The acromion of the scapula. b, The coracoid process of that bone. C, The OS humeri. c, The head or ball of the os humeri, articulated with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. c?, Internal tubercle of the os humeri, and farther out, the groove for lodging the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle. e, The inner, and, The outer condyle of the os humeri. Between e and ^ the hollow for lodging the coronoid process of the ulna in the flexion of the fore-arm. D, The radius. The head of the radius. E, The ulna. Jiy The coronoid process of the ulna. F, The bones of the carpus. G, The metacarpal bone of the thumb. H, The metacarpal bones of the fingers. I, The two bones of the thumb. K, The three phalanges of the fingers. Under Extremity. A, The OS femoris. The ball, or head of this bone, lodged in the ace- tabulum. c, The cervix of the bone.TABLE I. CONTINIJEB. The large trochanter. The small trochanter. The inner condyle. The outer condyle. B, The patella, placed upon the trochlea of the os fe- moris. C, The tibia. At, The head of the tibia, between which and the con- dyles of the OS femoris, the semilunar cartilages ap- pear. X The tubercle of the tibia. m. The malleolus internusl D, The fibula, the upper end of which is connected with the tibia. w, The malleolus externus. E, The bones of the tarsus. 0, The projection of the os calcis. F, The metatarsal bones. • G, The phalanges of the toes. \TABLE 11. Represents a Back View of a Male Skeleton-, with some of the Cahtilages and Ligaments which connect the BoNESvto each other. Head and Trunk. A, The parietal bone. a. The sagittal suture, and parietal hole. B, The occipital bone. h, b, The lambdoid suture. C, The joining of the temporal and parietal bones, D, The cheek-bone. E, F, The inner or back part of the jaws, with the teeth. G, The first cervical vertebra. H, The second cervical vertebra. I, The seventh cervical vertebra. c, The spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae. K, The first dorsal vertebra. L, The twelfth dorsal vertebra. d, The spinous processes of the dorsal vertebra, e, Their transverse processes. M, The first lumbar vertebra. N, The fifth lumbar vertebra. J] Their spinous, and, g-. Their transverse processes.TABLE II. CONTINUED. 1, Cavity for lodging the olecranon of the ulna. 0, The OS sacrum. The uppermost spinous process. Farther out are seen the superior oblique processes of this bone, joined to the inferior oblique of the last lumbar vertebra. i, The lateral parts of the os sacrum, joined to the ossa innominata. Between i and O, the posterior foramina of the os sacrum. Jc, An opening in the under and back part of this bone, covered in the subject by a ligamentous membrane. P, The OS coccygis, joined by its shoulders to the os sacrum at the lower part of the opening Jc. Q, The OS ilium. R, The OS pubis. S, The OS ischium. T, U, The seven true ribs. V, V, The five false ribs. SUPERIOE Ex^TREMITY. A, The clavicle. B, The dorsum scapulae. a, The spine of the scapula. ' b, The acromion of the scapula. c, A fossa for lodging the supra-spinatus muscle. cZ, An irregular surface, occupied by the infra-spina- tus muscle. C, The OS humeri. The ball of the os humeri. y, The external tubercle of the bone. g-, The external-condyle. The internal condyle.TABLE II. CONTINUED. D, The radius^ A% The head of the radius, articulated with the troch- lea of the OS humeri, /, The under end of the radius, grooved by the ten- dons of muscles, E, The ulna. The olecranon of the ulna. Tiy The under end of the ulna, with its styloid process. F, The bones of the carpus. G, The metacarpal bone of the thumb. H, The metacarpal bones of the fingers. I, The two bones of the thumb. K, The three phalanges of the fingers. ^ Inferior Extremity. A, The OS femoris. a, Part of the ball of the os femoris. b, The cervix of the bone. c, The trochanter major. The trochanter minor. e, The cavity for lodging the popliteal vessels and nerves. ^ The external condyle. The internal condyle. ^5 The semilunar cartilages. B, The tibia. i, The head of the tibia. Tc, The malleolus internus. C, The fibula. I, The head of the fibula, w, Thtt malleolus externus.TABLE II. CONTINUE©. F, The phalanges of the toes. D, The bones of the tarsus. The astragalus. o, The OS calcis. The fore-part of the tarsus, E, The bones of the metatarsus.TABLE III. Views of the different Bones of the Cranium. FIG. 1. The Outer Surface of ^/^e Frontal Bone. a. The middle and convex part of the bone. Part of the temporal fossa. c, c, The angular processes. d, The nasal process. Eminences and cavities to which the nasal and max- illary bones are fixed. y,jr, The superciliary arches. g", The superciliary holes. h, ?i, The orbitar plates^ i, i. The lacrymal fossae. ^, Jc, The internal orbitar foramina. /, I, Inequalities which unite this bone to the os sphe- noides, FIG. 2. The Inner Surface of the Frontal Bone. a. The concave part of the bone. &5 The cavity which lodges the anterior lobes of thebrain. c. The frontal spine. The furrow where the falx is fixed, and the superior longitudinal sinus is lodged. ^5 The ragged edge of the bone, which assists in form- ing the coronal suture. f^f^ Other inequalities, which join the frontal to the sphenoid bone. g^ g, g, Inner surface of the angular processes. hg The posterior surface of the nasal process, t, i, Other inequalities, near the nasal process.TABLE III. CONTINUED. Jc, The orbitar plates. I, I, The lacrymal fossae. m, m, Cells which correspond with those of the ethmoid bone. n, The passages from the frontal sinuses. o, The foramen caecum. The opening which receives the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. q, q. Furrows which lodge the blood-vessels of the dura mater. FIG. 3. External Surface of the Right Parietal Bone. a, The middle convex part of the bone. 6, 5, The upper ragged edge of the bone, which, when joined to its fellow, forms the sagittal suture. The anterior edge, which assists in forming the co- ronal suture. The posterior edge, which joins the occipital bone, and forms the lambdoid suture. ^, The inferior semilunar edge, which joins the squa- mous part of the temporal bone. f The parietal hole. An arched ridge, which gives origin to a large share of the temporal muscle. A, h^ h, A, The angles of the bone. FIG. 4. Internal Surface of the same Paeietal Bone. «, The middle concave part. 6, The inner surface of the upper edge of the bone, where the indentations are more apparent than those of the outer side.TABLE III. CONTINUED. c, The parietal hole. d, The anterior serrated edge of the bone. The posterior edge, more indented than the anterior one. ^ J] The superior angles. The inferior anterior angle, where the beginning of the furrow is seen, which lodges the trunk of the principal artery of the dura mater. A, A, The ramifications of that furrow, i, i, The small furrows which lodge other arteries of the dura mater. Jc, A depression which lodges part of the lateral sinus. /, The inferior edge of the bone, considerably thinner than the rest. FIG. 5. View of the External Surface of the Occipital Bone. «, The superior angle of the bone. 5, 6, The ragged edge, which assists in forming the lambdoid suture. c, c, The irregularities at the lateral and inferior parts of the bone, where it is joined to the ossa temporum. d, d. The large transverse arched ridge, or spine. e, e. The muscular prints upon the transverse ridge. ^ The perpendicular spine. g, The smaller arched ridge, crossing the perpendicu- lar spine. h, h, The muscular prints above. i, The foramen magnum. Jc, The occipital condyles, I, The posterior condyloid foramina.TABLE III. CONTINUED. m. The inner side of the left, and outer side of the right anterior condyloid foramen. 71, The nitches which assist in forming the holes common to the occipital and temporal bones. 0, The cuneiform process, marked by the attachment of muscles. FIG. 6. Internal Surface of the Occipital Bone. a, The superior angle of the bone. 5, The middle or lateral angles. c, The eminences and cavities which assist in form- ing the lambdoid suture. a(, dy The superior occipital fossae, which lodge a share of the posterior lobes of the brain. ^, ^, The inferior occipital fossae, which contain part of the cerebellum. f f. The upper limb of the perpendicular spine, which receives the superior longitudinal sinus, and has the falx fixed to it. The lower limb of that spine, to which the falx minor is fixed. The fossae, which contain the lateral sinuses, and have the tentorium fixed to their edges. 1, iy The openings which form part of the foramina la- cera, common to this bone and the os temporis. Jc, k, The small processes which assist in forming the foramina lacera. I, Z, The posterior condyloid holes. m, The anterior condyloid hole of the right side. The concave surface of the cuneiform process.CONTINUED. TABLE III. 0, The inequalities of the cuneiform process, by which it is united with the sphenoid bone. The foramen magnum. F I G. 7. The Outer Surface of the Temporal Bone of the Right Side. a, The upper and squamous part of the bone. b, The under part, which lodges a portion of the tem- poral muscle. c, That part of the bone which assists in forming the additamentum of the squamous suture. The zygomatic process. e, The transverse, or articular process. J] The mastoid process. g, The small holes, for transmitting vessels to the bone, or to the dura mater. 7^, The meatus auditorius externus, surrounded by a rough margin. 1, The glenoid, or articular cavity. k, The glenoid fissure, for the attachment of part of the articular ligament. I, The vaginal process. • m, Part of the mastoid groove. n, The styloid process, o. The foramen mastoideum. jt7, The base, or upper part of the mastoid process. q, The inferior and anterior part of the bone, which joins the os sphenoides. r, A small portion of the.Eustachian tube. s, The point of the pars petrosa.TABLE III. CONTINUED. F I G. 8. The Inner Surface of the Temporal Bone. fl, The upper edge of the squamous process. 6, The middle of that process, marked by the convo- lutions of the brain. c, A part of the bone which joins the os sphenoides. The nitch which receives the under and back part of the parietal bone. e. The upper part of the pars petrosa. f A groove which lodges the superior petrosal sinus. ^5 The fossa which lodges part of the lateral sinus. ^, The meatus auditorius internus. % The nitch which assists in forming the foramen lacerum. A;, Part of the fossa which lodges the beginning of the internal jugular vein. The posterior part of the bone which joins the os occipitis. 772, The foramen mastoideum. A portion of the mastoid process. o, The mastoid groove. j9, The styloid process. The inner extremity of the pars petrosa divided in- to two portions. FIG. 9. The upper and Inner Surface of the Ethmoid Bone. a, The anterior extremity of the bone, terminating in a small flat process. Z>, The crista Galli. c, c. The cribriform plate, for the passage of the olfac- tory nerves. dy d, The postmor ethmoid cells.TABLE III. CONTINUED. ^, The back part of the nasal plate, which forms part of the septum narium. f^f^ The posterior margin of the bone. The OS planum of the left side. A, The sphenoid cornua, or triangular bones, which join the body of the sphenoid bone ; their fore parts being fixed to the ethmoid one. FIG. 10. The Under and Outer Surface of the Ethmoid Bone. a, The nasal plate, which forms the upper part of the septum narium. 5, 6, The ossa spongiosa superiora, convex towards the septum of the nose, and concave outwards. Between the ossa spongiosa and nasal plate deep chinks are seen, which separate these processes from each oth er. c, c. Inequalities by which this bone is joined to the frontal one. J, d^ The sphenoid cornua. FIG. 11. The Inner and Upper Surface of the Sphenoid Bone , The fore-part of the bone, which joins the under and back part of the frontal one. 6, 6, The temporal plates or processes, r, c, The transverse processes. A small anterior process, which unites with the eth- moid bone. ^, The processus olivaris.TABLE III. CONTINUED. f^f^ The foramina optica. g-i g-, The anterior clinoid processes. A, A, The posterior clinoid processes, i, Part of the foramina lacera. ^5 Impressions made by the internal carotid arteries. Z, The sella Turcica. wi, The temporal fossae, which receive the lateral lobes of the brain. 71, The foramina rotunda, o, o, the foramina ovalia. j?5 The foramina spinalia. 5', Ragged end of the bone which assists in forming the sphenoid suture, r, The back part of the body of the bone, which joins the cuneiform process of the occipital one. ^, ^, Part of the spinous, and, ^, Part of the pterygoid processes. FIG. \% The Outer or Inner Surface of the Sphenoid Bone. a, The processus azygos. b, b, The sphenoid cornua. c, Cy The opening of the sphenoid sinuses. dy d, The foramina lacera. e. The fore-part of the body of the bone. Jljtl The outer surface of the transverse processes. g, g. The orbitar plates. hy h, The temporal processes. iy i. The asperities by which this bone is joined to the ossa malarum.4 TABLE III. CONTINUED. k; Gutters, which lodge branches of the fifth pair of nerves. I, I, The foramina rotunda. m wz. The foramina pterygoidea. Anterior openings, which assist in forming the sphenoid fissures. o, o. The foramina ovalia. ^, ^, The spinous processes. q. The roots of the pterygoid processes. r, r. The internal plates of the pterygoid processes. s, Hook-like processes at the extremities of the in- ternal plates. t, t, The external plates of the pterygoid processes. u, u, Parts of the bone adapted to the ossa palati. V, V, Posterior openings, common to the occipital and temporal bones, over which the internal carotid ar-- teries pass.TABLE IV. Represents the different Bones of the Face, a Sec- tion of the Nose, the Inner and Under Sides of the Skull, with the Small Bone termed Os Hyoides. FIG. 1. The Outer Surface of the Ossa Nasi. a, The upper part, which is joined to the frontal bone. h, b. The lower ragged end, to which the cartilage of the nose is fixed. The black points represent holes penetrating the bones. FIG. 2. TTie Inner Surface of the Ossa Nasi. a, a, The inner edge of each, thick and strong, where it joins its fellow, and sends a spine backwards, to be fixed to the partition of the nose. 5, b, The cavity which forms part of the arch of the nose. F I G. 3. The Outer Surface of the Left Os Unguis. a, The lacrymal process, perforated by numerous holes. b, The orbitar process. c, The ridge which separates the processes. FIG. 4. The Inner Side of the Os Unguis, xvith Emmences and Cavities which belong to the Ethmoid Cells.TABLE IV. CONTINUED. FIG. 5. The Outer Surfme of the Right Os MaLjE. a, The superior orbitar process. 5, The inferior orbitar process. The internal orbitar plate c?5 The maxillary process. ^5 The zygomatic process. The external orbitar hole. ^ The under and outer edge of the orbit. h^ Part of the inner rough surface of the maxillary process. The zygomatic nitch. F I G. 6. The Inner Surface of the same. c, d, e, as in Fig. 5. f, The internal fossa, and situation of the external or- bitar hole. g, g, The rough edge which joins the os malas to the su- perior maxillary bone at the external orbitar suture. F I G. - 7. The Outer Side of the Right Superior Maxillary Bone, with a small Portion of the Os Palati. The maxillary fossa. The nasal process of the maxillary bone. c, Inequalities, by which it is joined to the os frontis. d, The angle which is joined to the under end of the os nasi, and to tlie cartilage of the nose. e, The orbitar plate. f The edge of the orbit.TABLE IV. CONTINUED. A groove which belongs to the infra-orbitar canal. h, The malar process. h, k, The alveolar process. I, The maxillary tuberosity. my A small portion of the os palati. n, n, Small holes which penetrate the bone. 0, The fore part of the nostril. p, The nasal spine, forming part of the partition of the nose. q, The palate-plate, r, The foramen infra-orbitarium, Sy s, The two dentes incisores. The dens caninus. ' ^ Uy The five dentes molares. FIG. 8. The Inner Surface of the Superior Maxillary, and of the Palate Bones. , a. The nasal process, or upper angle. 5, The middle angle at the base of the nasal process. c, Inequalities, where the fore part of the os spongio- sum inferius is fixed. dy The palate process. The alveolar process. Jy The irregular surface of die palate process, which joins its fellow of the opposite side. gy The maxillary sinus. hy Small cells in the upper part of the bone. The lacrymal fossa. h. The palate fissure, which assists in forming the fora- men incisivum.TABLE IT. CONTINUED., The suture which unites this bone to the os palati^ The part of the bone which forms the largest share of the nasal fossa, w, The nasal spine. o, A rough surface, wh^re the fore part of the bone joins its fellow. The palate bone. 5', The small sinus commonly found in this bone, r, The nasal lamella of the palate bone, forming part of the maxillary sinus, and of the cavity of the nostril. s. An eminence, where this bone is connected to the inferior spongy one. The rough surface, where the two palate bones unite, w, The hole proper to this bone. The foramen gustativum, vel palatinum posterius. The pterygoid process. X, The teeth. FIG. 9. The Posterior and almost the whole of the Exterior Surface of the Left Os Palati. a, The palate plate. h. The pterygoid process, c, The nasal plate, df, The orbitar process. e, A small sinus, corresponding with thbse of the eth- moid bone. ^ The notch which forms part of the foramen spheno- palatinum. A small hole which penetrates the bone.TABLE IV. CONTINUED. A, Part of the groove which helps to form the foramen gustativum. FIG. 10. The Anterior, and almost all the External Surface of the same Palate Bone. a, A notch which assists in forming the foramen gusta- tivum. 6, The orbitar process. The palate plate. The nasal plate. The groove which helps to form the foramen gusta- tivum. J] The pterygoid process. F I G. 11. The External Concave Surface of the Os Spongiosum Inferius of the Left Side, «, The under edge of the bone turning outwards. 5, The upper edge, sending down a hook-like plate, to cover a portion of the maxillary sinus, c. The broad anterior extremity, where the connexion is chiefly made with the superior maxillary bone. dy The posterior extremity, narrow and irregular in its surface. The external surface, with numerous small holes, which mark its porosity. The part which joins the os unguis, to form a share of the lacrimal groove.TABLE. IV. CONTINUED. ) F I G. 12. The Inner Convene Surface of the same Os Spongiosum Inferius, which, like the Eocternal Surface, is also of a Spongy Texture. FIG. 13. The Left Side of the Vomer. a, The hollow surface, which receives the processus azygos of the sphenoid bone. h, The anterior and upper edge, which is connected to the nasal plate of the ethmoid bone, and middle car- tilage of the nose. c, The inferior edge, which is connected i6 the palate plates of the superior maxillary and palate bones. d, A ridge upon the side of the vomer. FIG. 14. The Lower Jaw, viewedfrom the Right Side. a. The symphysis of the jaw. h, b. Muscular prints. c, Another depression, which marks the middle of the chin. d, The base of the jaw. e, The angle of the right side. f, The inner surface of the angle of the left side. g, The ascending plate, with muscular prints, h, h, The coronoid, and, i, i, The condyloid processes. A^, Ic, The cervix on each side. I, I, Semilunar notches between the processes.TABLE IV. CONTINUED. m, The posterior maxillary foramen. The anterior maxillary foramen, o, The alveoli of the teeth. The two dentes incisores of the right side. The dens caninus. The five dentes molares. FIG. 15. The Teeth. A fore and back view of the incisores of the under jaw. 1. The base or body of a tooth, covered with enamel. 2. The root, or fang, destitute of enamel. 3. The neck, or collar. Z>, Sections of two teeth, to she\<^ the extent of the ena- mel, with the direction of its fibres.—The fibrous and lamellated structure of the osseous part.—The internal cavity for containing the pulp. The second b shews a fore and back view of the inci- sores of the upper jaw. €, A fore and back view of the dentes canini. The two small molares. , e, The three large molares. FIG. 16. The Left Portion of the Base of the Skull, dividedfrom the Septum Narium, by a perpendicular Section, pro- ceeding in a straight line from before bobckwards. a, Part of the frontal bone. ^ , 5, The posterior lamina, called vitrea. c. The frontal sinus. d, Part of the transverse suture, dividing the frontal from the superior maxillary bone.TABLE IV. CONTINUED. 5, The middle passage of the nostril. Part of the frontal bone, contiguous to the os €th- moides. The upper part of the ethmoid bone. g. The cells of the ethmoid bone, the anterior of which are entire, the rest laid open. ^, The openings of the ethmoid cells into the nose. The uppermost passage of the nostril. , The left anterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone, I, The posterior clinoid process, 771, The sella Turcica. 71, The sphenoid sinus. o, The part where the sinus opens into the upper and back part of the nose. P, A section of the body of the sphenoid, and of the cuneiform process of the occipital bone. q. The spinous process of the sphenoid bone. r. The internal pterygoid plate. 5, The fore part of the meatus auditorius. if. The superior condyloid foramen. u, The mastoid process of the temporal bone. The inner side of the occipital bone. The cut edge of that bone. ocy The under and outer part of that bone. ^, The nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. ^, The inner side of that bone, forming the middle pas- sage of the nostril. 1, Part of the same bone, which forms the beginning of the lowfer passage of the nostril. 2, A section of the alveolar process. 3, A section of the osseous palate. 4, The OS spongiosum superius.TABLE IV. CONTINUED. 6, The opening of the antrum maxillare. 7, The OS spongiosum inferius. 8, That part of the inferior spongy bone which lies over the opening of the lacrymal duct. 9, The lowest passage of the nostril. FIG. 17. A view of the Inner Surface of the Base of the Cra- nium. See also TAB. V. a, The zygoma. The mastoid process of the temporal bone. c, The external surface of the occipital bone. dy d, The frontal fossae marked by the brain. e, Part of the frontal spine. jfl The foramen caecum, placed at the bottom of the frontal spine. g, The cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. h, The crista galli of this bone. iy The sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. , Ar, Jc, The anterior clinoid process< I, The posterior clinoid process. m, A small process of the sphenoid bone, fixed to the ethmoid one. n, Part of the sphenoid suture. 0, The processus semi-olivaris. The temporal fossae. The transverse spinous processes r, r, The foramina optica. s, 5, A small portion of the foramina lacera, t, t, The foramina rotunda. ?<5 u, The foramina ovalia,TABLE IV. CONTINUED. V, V, The foramina spinalia. w, w. Impressions made by the internal carotid arteries. zr, {V, Points of the partes petrosas of the temporal bones, and, before these, irregular openings, which in a subject are filled, partly by bone, and partly by a ligamentous substance. «/, Suture common to the sphenoid and temporal bones. 1, 1, Squamous parts of the temporal bones, which complete, 2, 2, The temporal fossae for the lateral lobes of the brain. 3, 3, The ridge of the pars petrosa on each side, to which the tentorium is fixed. 4, 4, The posterior surface'of the pars petrosa on each side, which is opposed to the cerebellum. 5, The foramen innominatum. 6, The groove which lodges the superior petrosal sinus. 7, 7, The meatus auditorii interni. 8, 8, The foramina lacera common to the temporal and occipital bones. 9, 9, The fossae for lodging the lateral sinuses. 10, The cuneiform process of the occipital bone. 11, 11, The anterior condyloid foramina of that bone. 12, The foramen magnum. 13, 13, The inferior occipital fossae, which lodge the corresponding lobes of the cerebellum. 14, The inferior limb of the cruciform spine, to which the falx minor is fixed. 15, Part of the lambdoid suture. ^ 16, 16, The fossae for the inferior petrosal sinuses. 17, 17, The cut edge of the skull.TABLE IV. CONTINITED. FIG. 18. Represents the Outer and under Surface of the Skull, turned a little to the Left Side. a, The parietal bone. . 6, The lambdoid suture. c, c, The large transverse arched ridge of the occipital bone. d^ dy The smaller transverse ridge, with muscular prints on each side of it. e, The spinous tuberosity, seen in some skulls only. ^ The perpendicular spine. The foramen magnum. h, The cuneiform process. i, i. The articular or condyloid processes. A;, Jc, The posterior condyloid foramina. Z, The squamous portion of the temporal bone. The squamous suture. n, n, The mastoid processes. o, 0, The mastoid fissures. p, The foramen mastoideum. 5', The zygoma and zygomatic suture. r, The glenoid cavity at the root of the zygoma, for the articulation of the lower jaw. 5, s, The styloid processes, behind the roots of which the foramina stylo-mastoidea are concealed, jf. The meatus auditorius externus. u, u, The foramina carotica. V, V, The jugular fossae. w, w, The pterygoid fossae, at the sides of which are the pterygoid plates. A', The temporal process of the sphenoid bone. y, The spinous process and spinous hole of that bone.1 TABLE IV. CONTINUED. \ ^5 z, The osseous mouths of the Eustachian tubes. ; I, 1, The foramina ovalia. >| % % !Passages common to the occipital, temporal, and i sphenoid bones. j 3, 3, The foramina pterygoidea. ) 4, The inferior orbitar fissure. ! 5, The under part of the tube or bulge of the superior | maxillary bone. j 6, 6, The inner sides of the ossa malarum. . . . . ' I 7, 7, The superior and inferior spongy bones, with a 1 view of the back part of the nostrils. ] 8, The posterior edge of the vomer. \ 9, 9, The palate plates of the superior maxillary . bones, with the longitudinal palate suture. 1 10, 10, The palate plates of the palate bones, with the 'i transverse, and continuation of the longitudinal pa- ; late sutures. \ II, 11, The foramina gustativa, or posterior palate holes. \ 12, The foramen incisivum, or anterior palate hole. \ 13, 13, The teeth, divided into two incisores, one ca- \ ninus, two small molares, and three large molares \ on each side. ! FIG. 19. 1 I The Os YiYoiTt^^ seenJrom the Upper and Fore Part. . a. The body of the os hyoides. \ b, 5, Its cornua. I Cy c. Its appendices. j TABLE V. I The different parts of this Figure are the same with | those of TAB. IV. Fig. 17. but of the natural size. , I :< • • .:! 'HTab. 6.I I J i I 1 i ! 'i ] i 'i I I 1 1PART II. OF THE MUSCLES.VOL. I. M OF THE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. The muscles serve for the motion of the diffe- rent parts of the Body, and derive their general name from their power of contracting. Of Muscles in general^ the following things are to he attended to. The Cellular Substance, which surrounds the Mus- cles, and allows them to move upon each other, and upon the adjacent parts. The Cellular Substance, condensed in certain parts of the Body, and giving an appearance of Membrane, formerly called Tunica Propria Musculorum. The Division of a Muscle into The Origin, or Head;—or that extremity of a Mus- cle which arises from the most fixed part, and towards which the contraction is made;178 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II, The Belly, or thickest part, which swells when a Muscle is in action ; The Insertion, or Termination, or that extremity which is implanted into the part to be moved, and which is commonly smaller than the Origin. The Division of a Muscle into Fleshy and Tendi- nous parts. The Fleshy part distinguished by being soft, sen- sible, generally of a red colour,—from the great quan- tity of Blood in it,—and possessing contractility. The fleshy part, composed of a collection of some- what elastic semi-pellucid Fibres, of different sizes, run- ning frequently in a parallel direction, but often con- verging towards one of the extremities of the Muscle. The Fibres are intermixed with Blood-vessels, Lym- phatics, and Nerves, with some Cellular Substance and Fat. The size of the Fibres varies in different parts of the Body ; they increase as a person advances towards maturity, and they become firmer and stronger by fre- quent exertion. The larger Fibres may be divided into smaller, and these into still smaller, till at length they escape the observation of the naked Eye» The ultimate Fibres of Muscles have been consi- dered by some as a collection of solid Cords, by many as hollow Tubes, while several have described them as being composed of a chain of little Vesicles. The Muscular Fibres consist chiefly of Fibrin, with a small quantity of Gelatin, Albumen, ^nd Saline Mat- ter. The Division of Muscles into Rectilineal, as in thePart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 179 Sartorius ;—Simple Penniform, as in the Peroneus Longus;—Complete Penniform., as in the Rectus Fe- moris ;—Compound Penniform, as in the fore part of the Soleus;—Radiated, as in the Pectoralis Major ;— Holloxio, as in the Heart, Intestines, Bladder of Urine, &c. The particular Names of Muscles are taken from their shape, size, situation, direction, composition, use^ and attachment. The Names adopted by the Author are those in common use, being in general as expressive as any yet contrived. Those of Chaussier are added, which are taken from the attachments of the Muscles, but, in many cases, a number of principal attachments are ex- cluded ; besides, several of his names consist of so many syllables, as to become burdensome to the me- mory. Muscles are supplied with Blood-vessels, which are so numerous, that when a good Injection is thrown into them, they acquire the same colour with that of the injected matter. They are also abundantly supplied with Absorbents, which, however, are rather seen in the Cellular Tex- ture of their Interstices, than in their Substance the Valves preventing an Injection from passing from their Trunks to their small Extremities. The Nerves of Muscles are likewise very numerous; but although the Muscles were called by some Au- thors, among others Dr Cullen, the moving extremi- ties of the Nerves, the latter bear a very small propor- tion to the former, and the Muscles appear to be quite of a different nature from the Nerves. M 9.180 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. The Nerves of voluntary Muscles have been de- scribed by some Writers as being much larger than those of the involuntary kind, as the Heart; but this circumstance has been exaggerated. In various parts of the Body, the Muscles receive their Nerves from different origins, and many antago- nist Muscles receive Nerves from the same source. The Tendon, like the Fleshy part of the Muscle, is of a Fibrous nature, but is not merely Muscle harden- ed by pressure, as was formerly by some Authors sup- posed ; for, in many instances. Tendons have a differ- ent direction from the Muscles to which they belong. Tendon is distinguished from the Flesh by being ge- nerally smallery firmer, stronger;—of a white glistening colour, having no contractility, and little or no sensibi- lity in the sound state. From long boiling, it is ob- served to afford a large portion of Gelatin. Tendons, like Muscles, vary considerably in their form, as round, fiat, annular^ &c. Tendons have very few Blood-vessels, and no evident Nerves. Tendons in general connect Muscles to Bones. In some places they unite Cartilages or Bones to each other. In others, they bind down and fortify parts over which they pass, and, by the smallness of their size compared to the Belly of the Muscle, preserve the elegance and symmetry of the parts on which they are placed. Besides the parts of Muscles already taken notice of, they have the following Appendages, viz. Aponeuroses, or FascicB, which are the Tendons ex- panded upon a wide Surface, serving to give InsertionPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 181 to Muscular Fibres, to keep them in their proper si- tuation, and to brace them in their action. Annular Ligaments^ to keep Tendons from starting. Trochlece^ or Pulleys, to alter the direction of Ten- dons. BurscE MucoscB, placed where Tendons play over hard Substances, serving to contain Synovia, and pre- vent Abrasion, MUSCLES OF THE INTEGUMENTS of the CRANIUM, AND of the EYE-LIDS. " Occipito-Frontalis, Vel Occipitalis et Frontalis, vel Epicranius, &c. Origin: Fleshy from near the middle of the upper arched Ridge of the Occipital Bone, and Tendinous from the extremity of that Ridge, where it joins the Temporal Bone.—It arises after the same manner on the other side. From the Fleshy Origins, and also from between them, a Tendinous expansion is extended along the upper part of the Cranium, adhering firmly to the Skin, and but loosely to the Pericranium. At the upper part of the Forehead it becomes Fleshy^ and descends with straight Fibres, the under part of the Muscle laying hold of, or taking its Origin from, the Frontal Bone, at the inner part of the Orbits.182 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Insertion : Into the Skin and parts under it belong- ing to the Eye-bro\rs. Action : To move all that pai't of the Skin wliich covers it, and particularly the Skin of the Brow and the Eye-brows. From the under and middle part of the Muscle, a Slij^, termed by Chaussier Fronto-Nasalis, is conti- nued down upon the Root of the Nose, to be connected with the Compressor Naris, and Levator Labii Supe- rioris Ala^que Nasi. This slip may either assist the Nasal Muscles con- nected with it, or antagonize the Occipito-frontalis. COERUGATOE SuPERCILII, By Chaussier, Fronto-Superciliaris. Origin : From the internal Angular Process of the Os Frontis, above the joining of that Bone with the Os Nasi. From thence it rmis upwards and outwards^ under a tapering form, in the direction of the Superci- liary Ridge, and behind the inferior part of the Occi- pito-fi'ontalis. Ins£7-tion: Into the inner part of the Occipito-fron- talis, and Orbicularis Palpebrarum, where these two Muscles join each other, as far out as the middle of the Superciliaiy Ridge. Action: To assist its fellow in drawing the Eye-brows downwards and inwards, and corrugating or wrinkling the Skin between them into longitudinal folds,183 Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Oebicularis Oculi, vel Orb. Palpebrarum, Yel NasO'palpehralis. Origin: From the Orbitar Process of the Superior Maxillary Bone; from the internal angular Process of the Frontal Bone; and, by a small round Tendon, from the Nasal Process of the superior Maxillary Bone. From these Origins the Muscle passes outwards, un- der the Skin of the Eye-lids, surrounding the Orbit in a circular manner ; extending somewhat beyond it, and covering the upper part of the Cheek. Insertion : Into the Skin of the Eye-lids, its upper and inner Edge being intimately connected with the Frontal and Corrugator Muscles. Action : To close the Eye by bringing the Eye-lids together, to press the Ball of the Eye inwards, and act upon the Lacrymal Organs, so as to assist them in the production and direction of the Tears. That part of the Orbicularis Oculi which covers the Cartilages of the Eye-lids, and which is remarkably thin, is the Musculus Ciliaris of some Authors. A Fleshy Slip frequently passes down from the un- der and outer part of the Orbicularis, to join the Le- vator Labii Superioris Alaeque Nasi. When present, it may draw a little towards each other those parts to which it is attached.184 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II, Levator PAtPESRiE Superioris, Vel Orhito-Palpehralis. ' Origin: From the upper margin of the Foramen Opticum of the Sphenoid Bone. It runs forwards within the Orbit over the Levator Oculi, where it be- comes gradually broader, its anterior extremity passing under the Orbicularis Oculi. Insertion : By a broad thin Tendon, into nearly the whole length of the Cartilage of the upper Eye-lid. Action: To open the eye by raising the upper Eye- lid. MUSCLES COMMON TO THE HEAD and EXTER» NAL EAR. Attolens Aurem, Vel Superior AuriSy vel Temporo-auricularis. Origin : By a broad Tendinous Expansion, from the Tendon of the Occipito-frontalis. It goes down over the Aponeurosis of the Temporalis. In its passage, it forms a thin Fleshy Slip, which becomes gradually nar- rower. Insertion: Into the upper part of the Root of the Cartilage of the Ear.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 185 Action: To give tension to the part into which it is inserted, and, in some persons, to raise the Ear. Anteeioe Aueis, vel Zygomato-auricularis. Origin: Thin and Membranous, near the posterior part of the Zygoma; the middle portion being mixed with Fleshy Fibres. Insertion: By a narrow Tendon into the back part of the beginning of the Helix. Action : To stretch that part of the Ear to which it is fixed. Retrahentes Aurem, Vel Posteriores Auris, vel Mastoido-auricularis. Origin: By two, and sometimes by three distinct Muscles, from the upper and outer parts of the Mas- toid Process. ' Insertion: By small Tendons into the back part of the Concha. Action: To stretch the Concha, and, in some per- sons, to draw back the Ear.186 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part IL MUSCLES OF THE NOSE and MOUTH. \ Compressor Naris, vel Super-maxillo-nasalis. \ Origin : By a narrow beginning from the root of the Ala Nasi, where it is connected with the Levator Labii ■ Superioris Alasque Nasi, and the slip which descends from the Frontal Muscle. It spreads into a number of thin scattered Fibres, which cross the Ala Nasi, and | run towards the Dorsum of the Nose. It arises also ' from the anterior extremity of the Nasal Bone. , Insertion : Into its fellow of the opposite side, over ■ the anterior Nasal Suture. | Action : To press the Ala towards the Septum, as ; in smelling; or if the Fibres of the Frontal Muscle, j which are connected to it, act, they pull the Ala out- j wards. It also corrugates the skin of the Nose, and j assists in expressing certain passions. ; ■ i } Levator Labii Superioris Al^que Nasi, ] Vel Super^maxillo-lahlalis Major et Medius, j Origin: By two thin Fleshy Slips; the first from the 1 external part of the Orbitar Process,—the second from \ the upper part of the Nasal Process of the Superior j Maxillary Bone. ; Insertion of the first part of the Muscle into the Up- i per Lip, and of the second into the Upper Lip and ] outer part of the Wing of the Nose. IPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 187 Action: To raise the Upper Lip in opening the Mouth, and the Ala Nasi in dilating the Nostril. Under this Muscle a few scattered Fibres are no- ticed by SoEMMERRiNG, and Termed Musculus Anoma- lus MaxillcB Superioris. Depressor Labii Superioris Al^eque Nasi. Origin: Thin and Fleshy, from the Alveoli of the Dentes Incisivi et Caninus of the Upper Jaw; running upwards, at the side of the Furrow of the Lip. Insertion: Into the Upper Lip, and root of the Ala Nasi. Action: To draw the Upper Lip and Ala Nasi downwards. Levator Anguli Oris, Vel Levator Labiorum Communis, vel Caninus, vel Super-maxillO'labialis Minor, Origin: Thin and Fleshy, from the superior Max=- illary Bone, immediately under the Foramen Infra-or- bitarium ;—running deeper down and farther out than the Levator Labii Superioris. Insertion : Into the Angle of the Mouth, and to the Cheek, where it joins its Antagonist, Action: To raise the corner of the Mouth as in expressing joy.188 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II, Depressor Labii Inferioris, Vel Quadratm GencB, vel Mento-ldbialis. Origin: Broad and Fleshy, from the under part of the Lower Jaw, at the side of the Chin; from thence it runs obliquely upwards and inwards, of an oblong form, till it becomes contiguous to its fellow in the middle of the Lip. Its origin is concealed by the Depressor Anguli Oris. Insertion : Into one half of the Edge of the Under Lip. Action : To assist in opening the Mouth, by depress- ing the Under Lip, and pulling it a little outwards. Levator Labii Inferioris, vel Levator Menti. Origin: From the Roots of the Alveoli of the Den- tes Incisores and Dens Caninus of the Lower Jaw. Insertion: Into the Upper Lip and Skin of the Chin. Action: To raise the parts into which it is inserted. It may also assist in inverting the Upper Lip. Depressor Anguli Oris, Vel Triangularis Oris, vel Maxillo-lahialis Iinferior. Origin * Broad and Fleshy, from the under edge of the Lower Jaw, at the side of the Chin.—It runs over the Origin of the Depressor Labii Inferioris, becoming gradually narrower.Paet II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 189 Insertion: Into the Angle of the Mouth, where it intermixes with the Levator Anguli Oris. Action : To depress the corner of the Mouth ;—as in expressing Anger, and in crying. Zygomaticus Major, vel Zygomato-labialis Major. Origin : Fleshy from the Os Malae, near the Zygo- matic Suture.—Descending obliquely forwards. Insertion : Into the Angle of the Mouth, its Fibres intermixing with those of the Depressor Anguli Oris and Orbicularis Oris. Action: To raise the Angle of the Mouth, in the direction of the Fibres, and to make the Cheek promi- nent ;—as in laughing Zygomaticus Minor, vel Zygomato-lahialis Minor. Origin: Higher on the Os Malae than the former Muscle. It is situated before it, and takes the same course, but is much more slender. Insertion : Into the upper Lip, along with the Le- vator Anguli Oris. Action : To assist the former Muscle in raising the Corner of the Mouth, and drawing it obliquely out- wards. This Muscle is often wanting. By the frequent action of the Muscles which raise the Corners of the Mouth and Upper Lip, that Fur- row is formed which extends between the outer Corner of the Nose and Mouth, and which is so conspicuous in the Face of a person advanced in life.190 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Buccinator, Vel Retractor Anguli Oris, vel Bucco-lahmlis. Origin: From a Ridge extending between the last Dens Molaris and Coronoid Process of the lower Jaw ; and from the Upper Jaw, between the last Dens Mola- ris and Pterygoid Process of the Sphenoid Bone, from the extremity of which it has also part of its origin. Thence going forward with straight Fibres, it covers and adheres closely to the Membrane which lines the Cheek. Insertion : Into the corner of the Mouth, along with the Orbicularis Oris. Action : To draw the Angle of the Mouth backwards and outwards, and to contract its Cavity by pressing the Cheek inwards, in consequence of which the Food is thrust between the Teeth in Manducation.—It is like- wise active in expelling Substances from the Mouth, and in blowing Wind-instruments, as a Trumpet, from which last circumstance its name is derived. Orbicularis Oris, Vel Sphincter Labiorum, vel Labialis. This is a complete Sphincter surrounding the Mouth, and composing the principal part of the Lips, and is in a great measure formed by the Muscles which termi- nate in it.—At the corners of the Mouth the Fibres de- cussate each other, so as to make it resemble two semi- circular Muscles, from which it has been named by somePart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 191 Authors, Semi-orhicularis Superior and Semi-orbicula- ?is Iriferior. Action : To shut the mouth,—to enable the Lips to embrace any substance placed between them, and to counteract the different Muscles inserted into them. Nasalis Labii Superioris of Albinus,—part of the former Muscle, running up to be connected to the Sep- tum Nasi, and serving as a Levator of the Upper Lip, or a Depressor of the under part of the Nose. Of the Muscles described above, the Nostrils are compressed by the Compressores Narium and Depres- spres Labii Superioris Alarumque Nasi;—opened by the Levatores Labii Superioris Alarumque Nasi, and Fronto-nasalis. The Septum Nasi is pulled down by the Nasalis Labii Superioris, and raised by its own Elasticity. The Mouth is opened by the Levatores Labii Supe- rioris Alarumque Nasi, Levatores Angulorum Oris, Zygomatici Majores et Minores, Depressores Labii In- ferioris, and Depressores Angulorum Oris ;—shut by the Orbicularis Oris, Depressores Labii Superioris Alarumque Nasi, Levatores Labii Inferioris,—and moved laterally by the Buccinatores. The Corners of the Mouth are raised by the Leva- tores Angulorum Oris, Zygomatici Majores et Mino- res, and depressedhy the Depressores Angulorum Oris.19S COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. MUSCLES OF THE LOWER JAW. Aponeurosis Temporalis. This is a strong Tendinous Membrane, proper to be taken notice of before describing the Temporalis. It arises from the Bones which give origin to the upper semicircular part of the Temporal Muscle, and, de- scending over it, is fixed to the whole upper edge of the Zygoma. Use : To brace the whole, and to give origin to part of the Temporal Muscle. Temporalis, vel Temporo^maxillaris. Origin: Semicircular and fleshy, from the lower half of the Parietal Bone, and Temporal Fossa of the Frontal and Cheek Bones; and from the Squamous part of the Temporal, and Temporal Plate of the Sphe- noid Bones.—It arises likewise from the Aponeurosis covering it.—From these Origins the Fibres descend like Radii, and the Muscle sends off" a strong Tendon, which passes under the Zygoma. Insertion: Into the whole of the Coronoid Process of the Lower J aw, which it incloses as in a sheath, and is continued to near the last Dens Molaris. Action: To pull the Lower Jaw upwards, and a little backwards against the Upper Jaw.19S Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. VOL. I. N Masseteb, vel Zygomato-mcLxillaris. Origin: By strong Tendinous and Fleshy Fibres from the Superior Maxillary Bone, where it joins the Os Malae, and from the whole length of the under and inner Edge of the Zygoma; the outer part of the Muscle slanting backwards, the inner part forwards, and in some measure decussating the other. In its de- scent, it covers the Coronoid Process of the Lower Jaw, and under end of the Temporal Muscle. Insertion: Into the outer side of the Angle of the Lower Jaw, and from that upwards to the outside of the Coronoid Process. Action: To assist the Temporalis in the elevation of the Lower J aw, and to pull it a little forwards or backwards, according to the direction of the Fibres of the Muscle* Pteeygoideus Externejs, vel Majm^^ Vel Pterygo-maxillaris Major. Origin: From the Fossa Pterygoidea of the Sphe- noid and Palate Bones; passing downwards and out- wards. Insertiofi: Into the inner side of the Angle of the Lower Jaw, and continued as far as the Groove for the inferior Maxillary Nerve. Action : To raise the Jaw, and draw it obliquely towards the opposite side.194 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pakt II. Pterygoideus Externus, vel Minor, Vel Pterygo-maxillaris Minor. Origin : From the outer side of the Pterygoid Pro cess of the Sphenoid Bone; from the Tuberosity of the superior Maxillary Bone; and from the root of the Temporal Process of the Sphenoid Bone. From these Origins it passes almost horizontally outwards, and a little backwards. Insertion : Into the Cervix and Capsular Ligament of the Lower J aw. Action: To pull the Lower Jaw to the opposite side, and, if both Muscles act, to bring it forwards, so as to make the Fore-Teeth project beyond those of the Up- per Jaw. The Muscle, in its different motions, acts also upon the Inter-articular Cartilage. The lower Jaw is raised by the Temporalis, Masse- teres, and Pterygoidei Interni;—depressed by the Di- gastrici, Platysmae Myoides, Mylo-hyoidei, and Genio- hyo-glossi; moved forwards by the Masseteres, Ptery- goidei Externi, and Mylo-hyoidei;—hac'k'wards by the Temporales, Masseteres, Digastrici, Genio-hyoidei, and Genio-hyo-glossi;—and laterally^ by the Pterygoidei Externus et Intern us, acting upon one side or the other alternately.—By a succession of the above mo- tions grinding is performed.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES 195 MUSCLES ON THE FORE and LATERAL PART OF THE NECK. Platysma Myoides, vel Cutaneus, vel Thoraco- facialis. Origm: By a number of separate Fleshy Slips, from the Cellular Substance, which covers the upper parts of the Pectoral and Deltoid Muscles.—In their ascent, they unite to form a thin Muscular Expansion, which runs obliquely upwards along the fore and lateral part of the Neck, adhering to the Skin, and is similar to the Cutaneous Muscle of Quadrupeds. Insertion : Into the side of the Lower Jaw and the Depressor Anguli Oris, and into the Skin which covers the under parts of the Masseter, and Parotid Gland. Action : To assist in depressing the Lower Jaw, the Corner of the Mouth, and the Skin of the Cheek ;— when the Jaws are shut, to raise all that part of the Skin connected with it under the Lower Jaw. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus, vel Sterno-mastoideus. Origin : From the top of the Sternum, and the an- terior end of the Clavicle, by two distinct Heads ; the first of which is round, tendinous, and a little fleshy ; the other broad and fleshy. A little above the Cla- vicle, the two Heads unite to form a strong Muscle, which runs obliquely upwards and outwards; the great- er part of it being covered by the Platysma Myoides. N 2196 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Insertion : By a thick strong Tendon, into the Mas- j toid Process, which it surrounds ; and becoming thin- 1 ner, the Insertion extends as far back as the outer end 1 of the great transverse Arch of the Occipital Bone. j Action : To turn the Head to one side, and assist in ] rolling it. When both Muscles act, they bow the ! Head. But if the Head be pulled back, by the Mus- i cles upon the posterior part of the Neck, till the Inser- \ tion of this Muscle gets behind the centre of motion, | it then becomes a Flexor backwards. i MUSCLES SITUATED BETWEEN THE OS HYOIDES AND TRUNK. Sterno-Hyoideus. Origin : From the inner Edge of the upper Bone of \ the Sternum, and from the adjacent parts of the Cla- j Vicle and Cartilage of the first Rib ascending upon j the Trachea and following Muscle. ' Insertion : Into the Base of thje Os Hyoides. I Action : To depress the Os Hyoides. ^ I Sterno-Thyroideus. \ Origin : From the upper and inner part of the Ster- ;' num, and partly from the Cartilage of the first Rib ; I running along the fore part and side of the Trachea : and Thyroid Gland. I Insertion : Into the under and lateral part of the 1 Thyroid Cartilage. i Action : To depress the Larynx. |197 Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Thyeo-Hyoideus, vel Hyo-thyroideu$. Origin : From the Thyroid Cartilage, where the former Muscle terminates, having the appearance of being continued from it. Insertion : Into part of the Base, and almost all the Cornu of the Os Hyoides. Action: To depress the Os Hyoides, or to raise the Thyroid Cartilage. Crico-Thyroideus. Origin : From the side and fore part of the Cricoid Cartilage ; running obliquely upwards and outwards. Insertion : By two portions ; the one into the under part of the Wing of the Thyroid Cartilage, the other into its inferior Cornu. Action : To depress and pull forwards the Thyroid Cartilage, or to raise and draw backwards the Cricoid Cartilage, Omo-Hyoideus, Origin : From the Superior Costa of the Scapula, near the Semilunar Notch. It goes obliquely upwards and forwards, and is of a very slender form. It crosses under the Sterno-mastoideus, and there grows Tendi- nous. Higher than this Muscle, it again becomes Fleshy. Insertion: Into the Base of the Os Hyoides, at the side of the Sterno-Hyoideus.198 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. i Action : To depress the Os Hyoides, and pull it to 1 one side; or, when both Muscles act, to draw it direct- ly downwards. j MUSCLES SITUATED BETWEEN THE LOWER JAW \ AND OS HYOIDES. 1 J ;i ;i DiGASTRICUS, I Vel Bive7iter MaooillcB Iriferioris^ vel Mastoido-mentalis. . Origin : By a Fleshy Belly, from the Groove at the j Root of the Mastoid Process of the Temporal Bone. | It runs downwards and forwards, and forms a strong j round Tendon, which passes through the Stylo-hyoi- ' deus; it is then fixed by a Ligament to the Os Hyoides, i and, having received an addition of Tendinous and \ Muscular Fibres from that Bone, it runs obliquely < upwards and forwards, forming another Fleshy Belly. Insertion: Into a rough Sinuosity at the under part ' of the Symphysis of the Lower Jaw. ] Action : To open the Mouth, by pulling the Lower i Jaw downwards and backwards ; and when the Jaws ) are shut, to raise the Os Hyoides, and of course the j Throat,—as in swallowing. When^the Lower Jaw is j fixed, this Muscle, according to Soemmeriiing, can 1 extend the Head, and thereby open the Mouth, by ele- i vating the Upper Jaw. This he thinks he has ob- j served in a child sucking. \199 Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Mylo-Hyoideus, vel Maocillo-hyoideus, Origin: Fleshy, broad, and thin, from the inside of the Lower J aw, between the last Dens Molaris and the middle of the Chin, where it joins its fellow ; running downwards and forwards behind the anterior Belly of the Digastricus. Insertion : Into the lower edge of the Body of the Os Hyoides, and joined to its fellow by the interven- tion of a white Tendinous Line. Action : To pull the Os Hyoides forwards, upwards, and to a side, or, when that Bone is fixed, to assist in the depression of the Jaw. Genio-Hyoideus. Origin: From a Tubercle on the under and inner part of the Symphysis of the Lower Jaw, by a slender beginning, from which it goes obliquely downwards and backwards on the inner side of the former Muscles. Insertion: Into the Body of the Os Hyoides. Action : To draw the Os Hyoides towards the Chin, when the Jaws are shut; or the Chin towards the Os Hyoides, when the latter is fixed by the Muscles which come from the Sternum. Genio-Hyo-Glossus. Origin : From the same Tubercle with the former Muscle ; its Fibres spreading out like a Fan.SOO COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Insertion: Into the whole length of the Tongue, and into the Base of the Os Hyoides. Action: According to the direction of its Fibres,— to draw the Tongue forwards or backwards^—to pull it downwards, and render its Dorsum concave,—and when the Jaws are shut, to make the Os Hyoides ad- vance towards the Chin. Hyo-Glossus. Origin: From one of the Cornua, and half of the Base of the Os Hyoides ; running upwards and a little outwards. Insertion : Into the side of the Tongue, near the Stylo-glossus. Action: To depress the edge of the Tongue, and thereby render its upper Surface convex. LiNGUALlS. Origin : From the root of the Tongue, laterally. Ct advances between the Genio-hyo-giossus and Hyo-glos- sus, with the Fibres of both of which it intermixes. Insertion : Into the point of the Tongue. Action : To raise the point of the Tongue, to con- tract the substance of the latter, and bring it back- wards. Stylo-Glossus. Origin : From the Styloid Process of the Temporal Bone, and from the Ligament which connects that Pro-Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 201 cess to the Angle of the Lower Jaw. It goes down- wards and forwards, and is of a slender form. Insertion: Into the root of the Tongue, near the Hyo-glossus ; and running along its side, it is insen- sibly lost towards the Apex. Action: To draw the Tongue upwards and back- wards, and to move it laterally. The Tongue is raised^ anteriorly, by the Linguales, and posteriorly, and pressed against the Palate, by the Stylo-glossi;—depressed, and turned down anteriorly, by the Genio-hyo-glossi;—carriedjbrwards, and length- ened, by the Genio-hyo-glossi;—backwards, and short- ened, by the Linguales, Stylo-glossi, and Genio-hyo- glossi ;—moved laterally by the Stylo-glossi acting al- ternately •,—rendered co7icave above, and convex below, by the Genio-hyo-glossi; and made narrower, convex above, and concave below, by the Hyo-glossi. Stylo-Hyoideus. Origin: From the under half of the Styloid Pro- cess. It goes downwards and forwards, splitting for the passage of the Digastricus. Insertion: Into the Os Hyoides, at the junction of the Base and Cornu. Action: To pull the Os Hyoides to one side, and a little upwards. Stylo-Hyoideus Alter. When present, it is a more slender Muscle than the202 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. former, but, like it, has nearly the same Origin, Inser- tion, and Action. Stylo-Pharyngeus. Origin : From the root of the Styloid Process ;—it goes downwards and forwards. Insertion: Into the side of the Pharynx, along which it expands.—It is also fixed to the back part of the Thyroid Cartilage. Action: To dilate and raise the Pharynx, and there- by prepare it to receive the Food from the Mouth. It at the same time elevates the Thyroid Cartilage. ' CiRCUMFLEXUS PaLATI, Vel Tensor Palati, vel Pterygo-palailnus. Origin : From the Spinous Process of the Sphenoid Bone, from the Osseous and Cartilaginous parts of the Eustachian Tube, and from the root of the Internal Pterygoid Process. It runs along the Pterygoideus In- ternus, passes over the Hook of the internal Plate of the Pterygoid Process ; and playing on it by a round Tendon, as on a Pulley, it spreads out into a broad Membrane. Insertion: Into the Velum Palati, and semilunar edge of the Os Palati, extending as far as the Suture which joins the two Bones. Generally some of its pos- terior Fibres join the Constrictor Pharyngis Superior and Palato-pharyngeus. Actio7i: To depress and stretch the Velum laterallyPart II.] 0¥ THE MUSCLES. Levator Palati, Vel Levator Palati Mollis^ vel Petro-palatinus, ' Origin: From the point of the Pars Petrosa of the Temporal Bone, and also from the Membranous Por- tion of the Eustachian Tube. From these parts it descends. Insertion: By a broad Expansion, into the Velum Palati, extending as far as the root of the Uvula, and united with its fellow. Action: To raise the Velum in the time of Swallow- ing, and prevent the food or drink from passing into the Nose, by pressing the Velum against the back part of the Nostrils. Constrictor Isthmi Faucium, Vel Glosso-palatinus. Origiii: From the side of the root of the Tongue. It consists of a few thin Fibres, which run in the doub- ling of the Skin that forms the anterior Arch of the Palate. Insertion : Into the middle of the Velum Palati, at the root of the Uvula, where it is connected with its fellow. Action: To draw the Palate and root of the Tongue towards each other, and thereby shut the Opening into the Fauces.COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Palato-Pharyngeus, vel Pharyngo-palatinus. Origin; From the middle of the Velum Palati, at the root of the Uvula ; and from the Insertion of the Constrictor Isthmi Faucium and Circumflexus Palati. The Muscle consists of a thin Stratum of Fibres, which proceed with the posterior Arch of the Palate, and run to the upper and lateral part of the Pharynx, where they spread, and mix with those of the Stylo- Pharyngeus. Insertion: Into the edge of the upper and back part of the Thyroid Cartilage; some of its Fibres being lost between the Membrane and inferior Constrictors of the Pharynx, Action : To draw the Velum and Uvula downwards, the Larynx and Pharynx being at the same time rais- ed ; along with the Constrictor Pharyngis Superior and Tongue, to assist in shutting the passage into the Nos- trils ; and, in swallowing, to convey the Food from the Fauces into the Pharynx. The Salpikgo-Phanyngeus of Albincjs is com- posed of a small portion of this Muscle, which arises from the Eustachian Tube, and which, when acting, may affect it. AzYGos UvuL^, vel PalatO'UVularis. Origin : From the posterior extremity of the longi- tudinal Palate Suture. It runs in the middle of thje Velum Palati, and goes through the whole length ofPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 205 the Uvula, inclosed in the Membrane covering that Body, and adheres in its passage to the Circumflexi. Irisertion: Into the point of the Uvula. Action : To shorten the Uvula. MUSCLES SITUATED UPON THE BACK PART OF THE PHARYNX. Constrictor Pharyngeus Inferior, Vel Laryngo-'pharyngeuSi Origin : From the sides of the Thyroid and Cricoid Cartilages. The superior Fibres, running obliquely upwards, cover the under part of the following Mus- cle, and terminate in a point; the inferior Fibres run more transversely, and cover the beginning of the Esophagus. Insertion : Into its fellow, by the medium of a lon- gitudinal Tendinous line in the middle of the back part of the Pharynx. Action : To compress the lower part of the PharynXy and to draw it and the Larynx a little upwards. Constrictor Pharyngis Medius, Vel Hyo-pharyngeus. Origin: From the Appendix and Cornu of the Os Hyoides, and also from the Ligament which connects1206 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. the Cornu to the Thyroid Cartilage. In its passage it spreads out, and terminates in a point both above and below ; the upper part covering the following Muscle, and laying hold of, or taking its Origin from, the Cu- neiform Process of the Occipital Bone, before the Fo- ramen Magnum. Insertion: Into its fellow on the opposite side by a Tendinous Line, in a similar manner to the former Muscle. Action: To compress the middle and upper part of the Pharynx. Constrictor Pharyngis Superior, Vel Cephalo-Pharyngeus. Origin : From the Cuneiform Process of the Occipi- tal Bone, before the Foramen Magnum ; from the Pte- rygoid Process of the Sphenoid Bone, and from both Jaws, near the last Dentes Molares: It is likewise con- nected with the Buccinator, and with the root of the Tongue and Palate. From these Origins, it runs al- most horizontally. Insertion: Into its fellow, by the intervention of a Tendinous line, as in the former Muscle. Action : To compress the upper part of the Pharynx, and, with the assistance of the other Constrictors, to thrust the Food down into the Esophagus. The Os Hyoides, Larynx, and Pharynx, being intimately connected together, follow each other, less or more, in their different motions. They are elevated by the Mylo-hyoidei, Genio-hyoidei, Genio-hyo-glossi,Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 207 Stylo-hyoidei, Digastrici, and Constrictores Pharyngis; —depressed by the Sterno-hyoidei, Thyro-hyoidei, and Omo-hyoidei;—moved laterally, by the above Muscles of the right and left sides acting alternately ;—carried obliquely, and in every other direction, according to the situation and course of the different Muscles fixed to them. MUSCLES OF THE GLOTTIS Crico-Arytenoideus Posticus. Origin: Broad and Fleshy from the back part of the Cricoid Cartilage. Insertion: By a narrow extremity, into the back part of the Base of the Arytenoid Cartilage. Action : To pull back the Arytenoid Cartilage, by which the Ligament of the Glottis is made tense, and the Glottis itself longer. Crico-Arytenoideus Lateralis. Origin ; From the side of the Cricoid Cartilage, where it is covered by the Thyroid. Insertion : Into the side of the Base of the Aryte- noid Cartilage. Action : To open the Glottis, by separating the Ary- tenoid Cartilages, and, with them, the Ligaments of the Glottis.m COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Thyro-Arytenoideus. Origin: From the under and back part of the mid- dle of the Thyroid Cartilages, from which it runs back- wards and a little upwards, in a double order of Fi- bres, upon the side of the Glottis and Ventricle of the Larynx. Insertion : Into the fore part of the Arytenoid Car- tilage. Action: To pull the Arytenoid Cartilage outwards and forwards, and thereby to widen the Glottis, and shorten and relax its Ligaments. It may also affect the Ventricle of the Larynx* A small Slip, termed by Albinus Thyreo-Arytenoi- deus Alter Minor, arises from the upper and back part of the middle of the Thyroid Cartilage, and is inserted into the Arytenoid Cartilage, above the Insertion of the Crico-Arytenoideus Lateralis. Use : To assist the for- mer in shortening and relaxing the Ligaments of the Glottis. Arytenoideus OsLiauus, vel Minor, Origin : From the root of one of the Arytenoid Car- tilages ; crossing its fellow obliquely^ Insertion: Near the- point of the other Arytenoid Cartilage. Action : To draw the Arytenoid Cartilages towards each other, and assist in closing the Aperture of the Glottis.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. S09 Frequently one of the oblique Arytenoid Muscles is wanting. Arytenoideu s Trans versus, vel Major. Origin : From almost the whole length of the back part of one of the Arytenoid Cartilages, running trans- versely. Insertion: In a similar manner, into the other Ary- tenoid Cartilage. Action : To act with the Obliqui in closing the Glot- tis, by drawing together the two Arytenoid Cartilages and the Ligaments of the Glottis. Thyro-Epiglottideds. Origin : By a few scattered Fibres from the Thy- roid Cartilage. Insertion : Into the side of the Epiglottis. Action : To assist its Fellow, in drawing the Epi- glottis towards the Glottis. Arytenq-Epiglottideus. Origin : By a number of small Fibres from the Ary^ tenoid Cartilage. It runs along the outer side of the external Opening of the Glottis. Insertion : Into the Epiglottis, along with the for- mer Muscle. Action: To assist its fellow, in drawing the Epi- glottis directly down upon the Glottis, in the time of Swallowing. - VOL. T. o210 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pakt II. The two last-mentioned Muscles are obscurely seen, excepting in robust Bodies. By the Crico-arytenoidei Postici, and Arytenoidei Transversus et Obliqui, the Glottis is made longer^ its Ligaments rendered tense and brought together, as in forming acute sounds.^^y the Crico-arytenoidei Laterales, and Thyro-arytenoidei, the Glottis is open- ed^ its Ligaments sJiortened and relaxed^ as in forming grave sounds,-—By the Thyro-epiglottidei, and Ary- teno-epiglottidei, assisted by the pressure of the Root of the Tongue, the Epiglottis is made to cover and completely shut up the Glottis, in the time of Swal- lowing ; after Deglutition, the Epiglottis rises again by its own elasticity, the Tongue at the same time be- ing carried forwards. MUSCLES situated on the ANTEHIOR and LATERAL PARTS of the ABDOMEN. Previous to the description of the Abdominal Mus- cles, it is proper to take notice of certain Expansions or Fasciae covering the first of these. Over the Tendon of the Muscle called External Ob- lique, there is a thin Expansion, termed Superficial Fascia^ consisting chiefly of Transverse Fibres. This can also be traced down upon the fore part of the Thigh. It adheres to the whole length of the Crural Arch, and part of it is fixed to Ligaments about the root of the Penis and Clitoris. It sends also a SheathPart ILj OF THE MUSCLES. ^11 o 2 along the Spermatic Cord as far as the Scrotutti, the rest of it spreading over the Inguinal Glands, and va- nishing in the Fat of the Thigh. The whole of this Fascia is frequently so thin, as to appear little else than Cellular Substance! condensed. In the inflamed state, however, it sometimes becomes remarkably thick. It forms the outer, or Superficial Fascia, in Inguinal and Crural Hernias. Under the Superficial Fascia, on the Thigh, there is a thick and strong Aponeurosis, which arises from the fore part of the Spine of the Ilium, from the whole iinder edge of the Crural Arch, and from the upper and fore part of the Os Pubis. This forms a portion of the Fascia Lata Femoris, (to be afterwards taken notice of), which incloses the Muscles, Vessels, and Nerves of the Thigh. The part arising from the Ilium and Crural Arch is termed Ilial^ and that from the Pubis, Puhalportion of the Fascia Lata. The Ilial and Pubal portions are united behind the upper end of the Vein termed So- phena Major, and form a considerable Angle at the inner side of the Femoral Vessels, and between the Muscles on the fore and those on the inner side of the Thigh, The upper and inner part of the Ilial portions, forms a Semilunar Edge, which is concave towards the inner part of the Thigh, and is described by Me Buens, in the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal for 1806, under the name of Falciform Process. The upper and inner part of this Process is twisted in, where it is fixed to the Os Pubis, and forms the Femoral LigO* ment of Me Hey.COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 11. j i The Falciform Process leaves a large Opening, where the Vena Saphena Major, ascending upon the \ Pubal Portion of the Fascia Lata, terminates in the ] Femoral Vein. | This Process covers the great Femoral Blood-ves- ' sels, and anterior Crural Nerves, directly after their i exit from the Abdomen. ; At the edge of the Falciform Process, there is some \ Fat and Cellular Substance; here also a Gland is com- | monly placed, and sometimes two, through which se- \ veral of the Superficial Lymphatics of the Thigh pass 1 in their course towards the Abdomen. At this part of ! the Thigh, the portion of the Bowels passing through I the Crural Ring, protrudes in Femoral Hernia. Frequently the Semilunar Edge of the Fascia Lata { is indistinct, the Ilial and Pubal portions being then i confusedly united by an intermixture of Tendinous \ and Cellular Substance. i Behind the Great Vessels and Nerves of the Thigh, I part of the Pubal portion of the Fascia is continued I down, to be fixed to the Os Femoris, as far as the ' place where the Femoral Artery perforates the Triceps j Muscle, j 3 OsLTauus Descendens Externus, j Vel Obliquus Eocternus Abdominis, vel Coslo-Abdo^ \ mifialis. | Origin : In a serrated manner, from the lower edge \ of the eight inferior Ribs, near their Cartilages. The ; Serrae intermix with the Indentations of the Serratus^ < .)Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. SIS Major Anticus, and the Muscle is commonly connect- ed with the Pectoralis Major, Intercostales, and La- tissimus Dorsi; the last of which covers the edge of a portion of it, extending from the twelfth Rib to the Spine of the Os Ilium, from the anterior half of which it has also part of its origin. From these attachments the Fibres of the Muscle run obliquely downwards and forwards, and terminate (sometimes by distinct Indentations) in a broad Ten- don, or Aponeurosis, which, near its margin, is firmly connected with the Tendon of the two following Mus- cles, where it forms a curved line, called Linea Semi- lunaris. From this the Tendinous Fibres are con- tinued in the same direction with the Fleshy Fibres, to the middle of the Abdomen. Insertion: Into its fellow of the opposite side, by the medium of ,a Tendinous Line, which extends from the Cartilago Ensiformis to the Pubis, and is known by the name of Linea Alba. The Linea Alba is formed by the meeting of the Ten- dons of the Oblique and Transverse Muscles of the op- posite sides of the Abdomen, and is perforated in the middle by the Umbilicus, originally a passage for the Umbilical Cord, and now formed into a Cicatrix. _ The Tendon of this Muscle is strengthened by other • Tendons of a more delicate nature, lying upon its outer surface. These decussate it, in a curved direction, upwards and inwards, and are intimately connected with, or take their origin from, the under end of the Tendon of the Muscle. The under part of the Tendon, thicker and stronger than the rest of it, extends from the Superior-anteriorn4s COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pakt It Spinous Process of the Os Ilium, over the Flexor Mus- cle^ and great Vessels and Nerves of tlie Thigh, to the upper part of the Os Pubis, to which it is fixed. This part of the Tendon, which was formerly de- scribed by the name of Poupart's or Fallopius's, or Inguinal Ligament, forms a curve behind, but more especially over the Blood-vessels, and therefore is now known by the name of Crural Arch. Somewhat higher, and farther out, than the Symphy^ sis Pubis, or about an inch and a half in a full-sized Adult, PouPART^s Ligament divides into an upper and under column. The upper column is fixed to the Ligament of the Symphysis Pubis, and to the Os Pubis of the opposite side. The under one is twisted or doubled in, and in- serted into the upper part of the Os Pubis, and Pubal portion of the Linea Ilio-pectinea, from the Femoral Vessels, as far as the Crest or Tuberosity of the Bone, and forms a firm sharp line towards the Abdomen, which constitutes the posterior edge of the Crural Arch, or forms the Crural Ring of Gimbernat, of late so frequently mentioned by Surgeons. The posterior edge of the Crural Arch is quite tense, when the Limb is extended ; but when the Thigh is much bent, the edge of the Arch is relaxed, so as to favour* the return of the Bowels in the reduction of Crural Hernia. The under column is looser and more slender in a Female than in a Male; and the space between the Femoral Vessels and the insertion of this part of the Ligament is larger ; in consequence of which, Protru-Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. S15 sions of the Bowek happen here more frequently in Women. Where the cc^umns separate, a space is left, of an bval form^ or rather like the barrel of a Quill cut ob- liquely, with thes kfge end of the opening outermost. It is about an inch in length in a Male, but less in a Female, the direction running upwards and out- wards, or somewhat in a line between the Pubis and Spine of the Ilium. This is the Ring- of the EocUrnal Oblique Muscle, or Under Abdominaly or Spermatic, or Supra-pubial Ring, for the transmission of the Sper- matic Cord in a Male, and round Ligament of the Uterus in a Female, and where the Bowels protrude in Inguinal Hernia. Surrounding the exit of the Cord, or the round Li- gament from the Ring,, there is a quantity of Cellular Substance, and some Tendinous Fibres, which assist in filling up that opening, and in preventing any com- munication between the outer and inner parts. The place where the columns separate to form the Ring varies in different Subjects. In some, the separa- tion is considerably farther out than the part already described, though more generally the division is direct- ly at the outer part of the Ring. At this end of the Ring, the columns are joined by Tendinous Fibres, which arise from the Os Ilium, and from Poupart's Ligament; and are part of the Fibres mentioned above, as decussating the Tendon of the External Oblique Muscle. Through the Abdominal Ring, there is no direct opening into the Cavity of the Abdomen; the passage216 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet II. being shut by the Obliquus Internus and Transversa- lis Abdominis, and by the Fascia Transversalis. Action of the Obliquus Externus: To support and compress the Peritoneum and Bowels of the Abdomen; to assist in the evacuation of the Faeces and Urine, and in the exclusion of the Foetus; to thrust the Diaphragm upwards, and draw down the Ribs in Expiration; to bend the Body obliquely to one side when a single Muscle acts, and directly forwards when both act; and to raise the Pelvis when the Thorax is fixed. Obliquus Ascendens Internus, Vel Obliquus Internus Abdominis^ vel Ilio-abdominalis. Origin : From the back part of the Os Sacrum ;— from the Spinous Processes of the three lowest Lumbar Vertebrae, by a Tendon common to it and the Serratus Posticus Inferior and Latissimus Dorsi;—from the whole length of the Spine of the Os Ilium ;—and from the inside of Poupartes Ligament, at the middle of which it sends off the Cremaster. From these Origins the Fibres are disposed in a radiated manner ; but the greater part of them run in a slanting direction upwards. At the Linea Semilunaris, the Muscle becomes Ten- dinous, and adheres firmly to the Tendon of the Obli- quus Externus. Here its Tendon divides into two. Layers: the anterior Layer, with the greater part of the inferior portion of the posterior Layer, joins the Ten- don of the External Oblique, and goes over the Rectus,, to be inserted into the Linea Alba. The posterior Layer joins the Tendon of the Transversalis, and goes , behind the Rectus; and this union is continued down.PaetII.J of the muscles. 21T till it reaches about half way between the Umbilicus and Os Pubis. Lower than this, only a few scattered Fibres of the posterior Layer are to be found behind the Rectus; the principal part of it passing before that Muscle, to be inserted into the Linea Alba. Insertion : Into the Cartilages of all the False Ribs ; into the Cartilago Ensiformis, and whole length of the Linea Alba. Action : To assist the former Muscle. It bends the Body, however, in the same direction with the Obliquus Externus of the opposite side. So that these two may, in some respects, be considered as forming a double- beUied Muscle. Transversalis, Vel Transversus Abdominis^ vel Lumho-abdominalis. Origin : Fleshy from the inner Surface of the Car- tilages of the six or seven Lower Ribs, where it inter- mixes with the Digitations of the Diaphragm, and with the Intercostal Muscles; from the Transverse Processes of the twelfth Dorsal and four superior Lumbar Verte- brae ; from the whole inner edge of the Spine of the Os Ilium ; and anterior to this, it is connected to the under edge of the Obliquus Externus. At the Linea Semilu- naris, the Muscle changes into a Tendon, which is con- tinued across, adhering to the Obliquus Internus in the manner already mentioned. Insertion : Into the Cartilago Ensiformis and Linea Alba. Action : To support, and immediately to compress, the Abdominal Bowels.ns COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PARtll, From the inside of the Crural Arch, and from the Spine of the Ilium, a Tendinous Apoueurosis, termed Iliac Fascia^ is sent off, which is reflected over the Ilia- cus Internus, and Psoas Magnus, which it braces and protects. It descends afterwards between the Psoas and External Iliac Vessels, to give a lining to the Bones, Muscles, and Ligaments, at the inner side of the Pelvis. It is firmly attached to the Linea Ilio-pectinea, and be- hind the Origin of the Crural Vessels, is incorporated with the Pubal part of the Fascia Lata, in such a man- ner, that the one may in a great measure be considered as a continuation of the other. From the Crural Arch, from the Iliac Portion of the Linea Ilio-pectinea, and reflected also from the under part of the expansion covering the Iliacus Internus, an- other Aponeurotic Expansion, of a thin and delicate na- ture, the Fascia Transversalis of Sir Astley Cooper, is sent upwards, which lines the under part of the in- ner side of the Transversalis, lies between it and the Pe- ritoneum, and vanishes in its ascent in the Abdomen. The Angle of reflection between these two Expan- sions being formed of strong Tendinous Fibres, the Abdomen at this place is fortified, and the Bowels are prevented from protruding between the Spine of the Ilium and Iliac Blood-vessels^ Besides these Expansions, others are mentioned by late Authors, as being sent down to inclose the Femo- ral Vessels at the upper part of the Thigh, so as to form what is called the Crural Sheath. The beginning of the Crural Sheath, or that part next the Cavity of the Pelvis, is formed anteriorly by The Fascia Transversalis, Crural Arch, and CellularPaet II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 219 Substance blended together, posteriorly by the con- joined Fascia Iliaca, Pubal part of the Fascia Lata, and Cellular Substance. The anterior and posterior portions of the Fascia uniting together at the sides of the Blood-Vessels, from the lateral parts of the Sheath. Lower than the Crural Arch, and extending as far as the Perforation in the Tendon of the great Adduc- tor Muscle of the Thigh, the Artery is covered before by the Fascia Lata, behind by the deep part, or Pu- bal portion of that Fascia, and laterally by the two^ Fascia conjoined by Cellular Substance^ The Sheath and Vessels it incloses, at the upper part of the Thigh, and the External Iliac Vessels also at the inner part of the Pelvis, are strengthened by some Tendinous Slips, which run between, and also at the sides of the Vessels, uniting them together, to the Cru- ral Arch before, and to the Bones behind, over which they pass. Within the Fasciae, the Vessels are closely connected together, as the Great Vessels in the Neck are, by a Vagina of Cellular Substance condensed, and which may be considered as the proper Sheath of the Great Vessels situated in the Thigh. Between the inner part of the External Iliac Vein, and the Insertion of the under column of Poupart's Ligament into the Os Pubis, and having the Os Pubis behind, covered by its Ligament, a triangular space i& left, at the outer part of which there is a small Aper- ture, which forms the Crural Foramen of Gimbernat, The triangular Cavity and Aperture are more consi- derable in a Female than in a Male, on account of the greater width of the Pelvis, Through this ForamenCOMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. the Bowels protrude in Femoral Hernia. In a Male the opening is more filled up, in consequence of the greater thickness of the Flexor Muscles of the Thigh, and the breadth of the surrounding Ligaments. The Crural Foramen is at the beginning of the Cru^ ral Sheath, and situated within it, and is commonly occupied by Absorbent Glands ; or sometimes by the Trunks of the Absorbents themselves, coming from the Thigh; or now and then by a cross Stratum of Liga- mentous Matter ; in consequence of which, when the parts are prepared, there may be either a Foramen, or a Cribiform appearance, or an Impervious Septum in the Crural Ring. In this last case, the Absorbents are found to creep along the Coats of the Blood-vessels, in their course to the Abdomen. Half way between the Spine of the Ilium and Sym- physis Pubis, the Fascia Transversalis leaves an open- ing for the passage of the Spermatic Cord, or for the round Ligament of the Uterus; the beginning of which passage may be considered as the Internal or Superior Abdominal Ring. The under part of this opening is formed by Pou- part''s Ligament, the upper by the Transverse and In- ternal Oblique Muscles. From this opening there is no direct passage out- wards, the part being shut by the Tendon of the Obli- quus Externus. The inner Ring is of the same form and size with the outer Ring, and is directed in the same mariner with it. Between the Internal and External Abdominal Rings,Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. m the passage is oblique, and is about an inch in length. It has also a quantity of Cellular Substance, which is considered by some Authors as forming a distinct Ca- nal under the name of Abdominal or Inguinal. The Cellular Substance surrounds the Cord, or the round Ligament, and assists these in complet^y filling the whole of this passage. Rectus, vel PuMo-sternalis, vel Sterno-PuhiaUs. Origin : Tendinous from the fore and upper part of the Symphysis Pubis. It soon becomes Fleshy, and runs upwards in form of a flat Band, the whole length of, and parallel to, the Linea Alba. Between its up- per Extremity and the Umbilicus, it is divided in- to three nearly equal portions, by as many transverse Tendinous Intersections, and there is generally a half Intersection some way below the Umbilicus. These seldom penetrate through the whole thickness of its Substance. They adhere firmly to the anterior part of the Sheath which incloses the Muscle, so as to ren- der its separation difficult, but slightly to the poste- rior Layer. Insertion : Into the Cartilages of the three inferior True Ribs, and extremity of the Sternum. It frequent-- ly intermixes with the under edge of the Pectoralis Major. Action: To compress the fore part of the Abdomen ; to draw down the Ribs in Expiration; and to bend the Body forwards, or to raise the Pelvis. By means of its Sheath and Tendinous intersections, it is kept in its. place, and allowed to act more equally.COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II Fyyamidalis, vel Pubiosub-umbUicalis. Origin: By a broad Base, from the Crest of the Os Pubis, and from the upper part of the Symphysis Pu- bis. It runs upwards within the same Sheath with the Rectus, tapering to a point in its ascent. Insertion: Into the Linea Alba and inner edge of the Rectus, less than half-way between the Pubis and Umbilicus. Action: To assist the under part of the Rectus in drawing down the Ribs, or to compress the under part of the Abdomen. It is frequently wanting in both sides, and then the under end of the Rectus is larger, thus in some mea- sure supplying its place. MUSCLES OF THE MALE PARTS of GENERA- TION, AND of the ANUS. CremASTER, vel Musculus Testis vel Scroti. Origin: From the under edge of the Obliquus In- ternus Abdominis. Passing through the Ring of the Obliquus Externus, it surrounds the Spermatic Cord as far as the Testicle, where the Fibres separate and expand.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Insertion: Into the Tunica Vaginalis Testis and Cel- lular Substance of the Scrotum. Action: To contract the Scrotum, to suspend and elevate, and to compress and evacuate the Testicle. ' ERECTdU Penis, Vel Ischio'CavernosuSy vel Suh-peniatis. Origin : Tendinous from the inner side of the Tube- rosity of the Os Ischium.—It runs upwards, Fleshy, increasing in breadth, and embracing the whole inner part of the Crus Penis. Insertion : By a thin Tendon into the elastic Mem- brane which covers the Corpora Cavernosa Penis, as far as the union of the Crura. Action: To compress the Crus Penis, by which means the Blood is pushed from it into the fore part of the Corpora Cavernosa, and the Penis thereby more com- pletely distended. In the distension of the Penis, the Erector is assisted by the Levator Ani, Sphincter Ani, and Transversus Perinei. ACCELEBATOR UrIN^, Vel Ejaculator SeminiSy vel Bulbo-urethralis. Origin : Fleshy from the Sphincter Ani, and mem- branous part of the Urethra; and Tendinous from the Crus and beginning of the Corpus Cavernosum Penis. —In its course it forms a thin Fleshy Layer, the infe- rior Fibres of which run more transversely than the superior, which descend in an oblique direction; theCOMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Muscles on the opposite sides completely inclosing the Bulb of the Urethra. Insertion : Into its fellow by a Tendinous line run- ning longitudinally on the middle of the Bulb. Action: To propel the Urine or Semen forwards, and, by compressing the Bulb, to push the Blood into, and thereby distend, the Corpus Cavernosum Urethras and Glans Penis. ^Transversus Perinei, Vel Transversalis UretJircB, \e\ Ischio-perinealis. Origin : From the inside of the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium, close to the Erector Penis ; running trans- versely, though sometimes in an oblique direction up- wards. Insertion: Into the back part of the Accelerator Urinae, and adjoining part of the Sphincter Ani. Action: To dilate the Bulb of the Urethra for the reception of the Semen or Urine ; and to assist the Le- vator Ani in retracting the Anus, after the discharge of the Faeces. There is frequently another Muscle, termed Trans^ versatis Perinei Alter, running along with the fotmer, and having nearly the same Origin, Insertion, and Ac- tion, but going more obliquely upwards. Sphincter Ani. Origin : By a Ligamentous Substance, from the ex- tremity of the Os Coccygis; running forwards within thePart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Skin and Fat which cover the verge of the Anus, and in its passage forming a broad, flat, oval Muscle, which surrounds the extremity of the Intestinum Rectum. Insertion: By a narrow point, into the Accelerato- res Urinse and Transversi Perinei. Action : To shut the Anus, and thereby retain the contents of the Rectum, and also to pull down the Bulb of the Urethra, by which it assists in ejecting the Urine and Semen. It is assisted by the Sphincter Internus of some Authors, which is merely the circular Muscu- lar Coat of the end of the Rectum. Levator Ani, vel Suh-pubio-coccygeus. Origin : By a semicircular edge, from the Os Pubis, within the Pelvis, at the upper edge of the Foramen Thyroideum, the fore part coming off near the under end of the Synchondrosis; from the Aponeurosis which covers the Obturator Internus and Coccygeus ; and from the Spinous Process of the Os Ischium. From these Origins it is continued down, occupying the under and inner portion of the Pelvis. Its fibres descend like Radii from a circumference, to meet those of its fellow, and with it to form a kind of inverted Funnel. Insertion : Into the Sphincter Ani, Accelerator Uri- ns, and under and fore part of the Os Coccygis.—It surrounds the extremity of the Ilectum, Neck of the Bladder, Membranous Portion of the Urethra, Pro- state Gland, and part of the Vesiculse Semiriales. Action : To support the contents of the Pelvis; to retract the end of the Rectum, after the evacuation of VOL. T. pm COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet II. the Faeces ; and to assist in the evacuation of the Rec- tum, Bladder, Vesiculae Seminales, and Prostate Gland.—It is likewise considered by some as a prin- cipal agent in the distension of the Penis, by pressing upon its Veins. Part of the Levator Ani, which arises from the Os Pubis, between the lower parts of the Symphysis and the upper part of the Foramen Ovale, and assists in inclosing the Prostate Gland, is called by Soemmer- BiNG Compressor Prostatce, Between the Membranous part of the Urethra, and that portion of the Muscle which arises from the inner side of the Symphysis Pubis, there is a reddish Cellu- lar, and very Vascular Substance, but apparently with- out any distinct Muscular Fibres, closely surrounding this Canal, which has been described by Mb Wilson, in the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions of London for 1809, as a distinct Compressor Urethrce. MUSCLES OF THE FEMALE PARTS op GE- NERATION, AND OF THE ANUS. Erector Clitoridis, vel IscMo-suh-clitorideus. Origin: As in the Erector Penis in the Male, but the Muscle smaller. Insertion: Into the Crus and Body of the Clitoris.Part II.] 0¥ THE MUSCLES. 227 Action; To draw the Clitoris downwards and back- wards; and by pushing the Blood into it from its €rus, the Muscle may .render the Body of the Clitoris rnore tense. Sphincter Vagina, vel Perineo-clitorideus. Origin: From the Sphincter Ani, and, near the Pe- rineum, from the posterior side of the Vagina. It passes along the outer end of the Vagina, covers the Corpus Cavernosum Vaginae ; going behind the Nymphae, Insertion : Into the union of the Crura Clitoridis. Action: To contract the external Orifice of the Va- gina, by compressing its Corpus Cavernosum, from which it likewise pushes the Blood into the Nymphae and Clitoris. Transversus Perinei. Origin : As in a Male. Insertion : Into the upper part of the Sphincter Ani, the adjacent parts of the Sphincter Vaginae, and into a tough white Substance in the Perineum. Action: Upon the Perineum and Anus, as in a Male. When a Transversus Perinei Alter is present, it ha» the same relation to the former Muscle as in a Male., Sphincter Ani. Origin and course as in a Male. ^fim COMPExNDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pabt II. Insertion : Into the Sphincter Vaginae, and tough white Substance in the Perineum. Action: To shut the Anus, and by pulling down the Perineum, to assist in contracting the external Ori- fice of the Vagina. Levator Ani. Origin : As in a Male. In its descent it embraces the inferior parts of the Vagina, Urethra, and Rectum. Insertion: Into the Perineum, Sphincter Ani, ex- tremity of the Vagina and Rectum. Action: Upon the Bladder, Urethra, and Rectum, as in a Male.—It also assists in supporting and con- tracting the Vagina, and may, by pressing upon the Veins, contribute to the distension of the Cells of the Clitoris and Corpus Cavernosum Vaginae. • MUSCLES OF THE OS COCCYGIS. ^ CoccYGEUs, vel Isckio-coccygeus. Origin: By a narrow point, from the Spinous Pro- cess of the Os Ischium.—In its passage, it gradually expands, and covers the inside of the posterior Sacro- ischiatic Ligament.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Insertion: Into the whole length of the side of the Os Coccjgis, Action: To move the Os Coccygis forwards, bj which it assists the Levator Ani in supporting or rais- ing the end of the Rectum. CuRVATOR Coccygis, vel Sacro-Coccygeus, Origin: From the under and fore part of the Os Sacrum. Insertion: Into the fore and under part of the Os Coccygis. Action: To assist the Coccygeus in bending the Os Coccygis.* The Curvator Coccygis was formerly considered as part of the Coccygeus. MUSCLES SITUATED WITHIN THE CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. Diaphragm. The Diaphragm forms a Fleshy and Tendinous par- tition, which separates the Cavity of the Abdomen from that of the Thorax, and is perforated by several Holes, for the passage of Vessels and Nerves which go into, or come out from the Abdomen. It is concave below,S30 COMPENDIIJM of anatomy. [Part II. ^nd convex above ; the middle of it reaching as high within the Thorax as the fourth pair of Ribs. Above, it is covered by the Pleura, and below, by the Peri- toneum ; and is commonly divided into two portions, called Superior or Larger, and Inferior or Smaller Muscles of the Diaphragm Superior, or Greater Muscle of the Diaphragm. Origin : By Fleshy Indentations, from the Gartila- go Ensiformis, and from the Cartilages of the Seventh, and of all the inferior Ribs on both sides. From these different Origins, the Fibres run in a radiated manner. Insertion : Into a Cordiform Tendon, placed in the middle of the Diaphragm, in which the Fibres of the opposite sides are interlaced.—Towards the right side, the Tendon is perforated by a triangular Hole for the passage of the Vena Cava Inferior; and to the upper convex part of it, the Pericardium and Mediastinum are connected. Inferior, or Lesser Muscle, or Appendix of the Diaphragm. Origin: By four pair of Heads, of which one Pair in the middle, commonly called its Long, or Tendinous Crura, is the longest. The long Crura arise from the fore part of the fourth Lumbar Vertebra, and adhere to the Bodies of all the Vertebrae of the Loins above this, by the intervention of the Ligamentum Commune Aiit^Bai Cbveringj these Bones. In their ascent, they leaVe oviil opening for the p£issage of the Aorta andPart II.1 of the muscles. 231 Thoracic Duct. The other Heads arise from the third, and also from the second Lumbar Vertebra, and are placed farther out. From the different Heads the; Muscular Fibres run upwards, and form, in the mid- dle, two Fleshy Columns, or Crura, which decussate, and leave an Opening for the passage of the Esopha- gus. Insertion : By strong Fleshy Fibres, into the poste- rior Edge of the Cordiform, or middle Tendon. Action of the Diaphragm : To enlarge the Cavity of the Thorax during Inspiration, by its Fleshy part con- tracting, and bringing its two sides down from a con-, vex to a plain Surface; the Abdominal Muscles at the same time yielding, but the Tendinous part of the Dia- phragm remaining nearly in the same situation. In Ex- piration, the Diaphragm is replaced, chiefly by the ac- tion of the Abdominal Muscles. It is the Antagonist of the Abdominal Muscles in Inspiration, but acts in concert with them in Dejection and in Vomiting ; though, with respect to this last circumstance, the ac- tion begins in the Diaphragm. QuADRATus LuMBoRUM, vel Ilio-Costalis. Origin: Broad, Tendinous, and Fleshy, from the posterior half of the Spine of the Os Ilium, and from a Ligament extended between it and the Transverse Pro- cess of the last Lumbar Vertebra. Insertion: Into the Transvere Processes of all the Lumbar Vertebrae; into the last Rib, near the Spine ; and, by a small Tendon, into the side of the Last Dor- sal Vertebra.^2 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Action : To moye the Loins to one side, to pull down the last Kib in laborious Expiration, and, when both act, to bend the Loins forwards. Psoas Parvus, vel Prelumbo-jpubialis. Origin: Fleshy, from the side of the last Vertebra of the Back, and from that of one or two of the upper Vertebrae of the Loins. It sends off a slender Ten- don, which runs down by the inner side of the Psoas Magnus, and an Aponeurosis, which expands upon the neighbouring Muscles. Insertion : Into the Linea Ilio-pectinea of the Pubis, at the joining of that Bone with the Ilium. Action: To assist in bending the Spine upon the Pelvis, and, in particular positions, in raising the Pelvis. This Muscle is frequently wanting. Psoas MAG^'us, vel Prelumho-trocJiantineus. Oi'igin : From the side of the Bodies, and from the Transverse processes of the last Dorsal, and of all the Lumbar Vertebrae, by an equal number of Fleshy Slips, which uniting, form a thick strong Muscle, that bounds the upper part of the side of the Pelvis ; passing down over the Os Pubis, behind Poupart's Ligament. Insertion: Tendinous and Fleshy, into the Trochan- ter Minor, and part of the Body of the Os Femoris. Action : To bend the Thigh, and turn it a little out- wards, or, when the Inferior Extremity is fixed, to as- sist in bending the Body.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Iliacus Internus, vel Ilio-trochantineus. Origin : Fleshy, from the Transverse Process of the last Lumbar Vertebra ; from all the inner Edge of the Spine of the Os Ilium ; from the Edge of that Bone, between its anterior-superior Spinous Process and the Acetabulum ; from the most hollow part of the Os Ilium, and also from the Aponeurosis termed Iliac Fascia^ which covers the Muscle. It joins the Psoas Magnus, where that Muscle begins to become Tendir nous, on the Os Pubis. Insertion: Along with the Psoas Magnus. Action: To assist the Psoas in bending the Thigh. MUSCLES SITUATED UPON THE ANTERIOR and LATERAL PARTS of the THORAX. Pectoralis Major, vel Pectoralis, vel Sterna- Humeralis. Origin : From the Sternal half of the Clavicle; from the fore part of the edge of almost the whole length of the upper and middle Bone of the Sternum, the Mus- cle is connected with its fellow; and from the Carti- lages of the fifth and sixth Ribs, where it mixes with the Obliqvius Externus. The Fibres from thence con-COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. verge towards the Axilla, where they decussate, and send ofF a flat twisted Tendon. Insertion: Into the Ridge at the outer edge of the Groove for lodging the Tendon of the long Head of the Biceps. Action : To draw the Arm downwards and forwards, or in a direction towards the Sternum. Between the Portions of the Muscle arising from the Clavicle and Sternum, there is a slight separation, in consequence of which these Portions have been consi- dered by some Authors as two distinct Muscles. Pectoralis Minor, Vel Serratus Minor Antictis, vel Costo-coracoidalis. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, in a serrated man- ner from the third, fourth, and fifth Bibs, near their Cartilages. Passing obliquely outwards, it becomes gradually narrower. Insertion : Tendinous, into the point of the Coracoid Process of the Scapula. Action : To bring the Scapula downwards and for- wards, or, in laborious Inspiration, to raise the Bibs. SuBCLAvius, vel Costo-clavicularis. Origin : Tendinous, from the Cartilage of the first Hib. It soon becomes Fleshy, and runs outwards, un- der the Clavicle, increasing in breadth. Imeriion: Into the under Surface of the Clavicle,Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 235 from near its Head, extending outwards as far as the Coracoid Process of the Scapula. Jetton: To pull the Clavicle, and with it the Sca- pula, downwards and forwards. Serratus Magnus, Vel Serratus Major Anticus^ vel Costo-scapularis, Origin: From the nine superior Ribs, by an equal number of Fleshy Digitations. It runs obliquely up- wards and backwards upon the side of the Thorax, and between it and the Subscapulars. Insertion : Fleshy, into the whole length of the Base of the Scapula, and in a manner folded round it, be- tween the Insertion of the Rhomboideus and the Origin of the Subscapularis. Action: To move the Scapula forwards or down- wards, according to the direction of its different Digi- tations ; and when the Scapula is forcibly raised, as in violent Inspiration, to assist in dilating the Thorax, by elevating the Ribs ; or if the Scapula be much depress- ed, the Serratus may then become a Muscle of Expira- tion.ne COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. MUSCLES SITUATED BETWEEN THE RIBS, AND WITHIN THE THORAX. Intercostales Externi. Origin: From the under Edges of each Rib, except- ing the Twelfth. They run obliquely downwards and forwards from the Spine to the joining of the Ribs with their Cartilages, from which, to the Sternum, they are discontinued; that place being occupied by an Apo- neurosis. Insertion : Into the upper Edge of each Rib, imme- diately below that from which they take their respec- tive Origins. Portions of the Intercostales Externi, which arise from the Transverse Processes of the Vertebra?, and terminate in the Ribs immediately below, are termed by Albinus, Levatores Costarum Breviores. Other portions, which arise in the same manner, but pass over one Rib, and terminate in the next below it, are named by the same Author, Levatores Costarum Longiores. Intercostales Interni. Origin: The same with that of the Externi; but they begin at the Sternum, and run downwards and backwards, decussating the former Muscles like the strokes of the letter X, and continuing as far as thePart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. m Angles of the Ribs, from which to the Spine they are wanting. Insertion : In the same manner as the Externi. Portions of the Intercostales Interni, near the under part of the Thorax, which pass over one Rib, and ter- minate in the next below it, are called by Douglas, Costarum Depressores Proprii Cowperi. Action of the Intercostales Interni, as well as of the Externi: To enlarge the Cavity of the Thorax, by elevating the Ribs in the time of Inspiration ; and the obliquity of the one set, balancing that of the other, allows them to be raised more directly upwards. From the obliquity of their Fibres, they are found to possess a greater power in raising the Ribs, than Fibres going in a perpendicular direction. The Intercostales Externi end near the Sternum, and the Interni near the Spine, to admit the ready motion of the Ribs; for, Jiad the former been conti- nued to the Sternum, and the latter to the Spine, the parts of these Muscles supposed to be thus fixed, would of course have become Antagonists to the rest. The portions called Levatores, and Depressores Cos- tarum^ assist in raising the Ribs, in the same manner as the rest of the Intercostales. Sterno-Costalis, vel Triangularis Sterni, Origin : From the Edges of the Cartilage Ensifor- mis, and lower half of the middle Bone of the Ster- num within the Thorax. It runs upwards and out- wards, behind the Cartilages of the Ribs. Insertion : Generally by three Angular Tormina-^8 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet II. : tions into the Cartilages of the third, fourth, and fifth | Ribs, and ometimes also by a fourth termination into \ the corresponding part of the Cartilage of the second ' or sixth Kib, near the union of the Cartilaginous with the Osseous part of the Ribs. ! Action: To depress the Ribs into which they are 1 fixed, and, of course, to assist in contracting the Ca- i vity of the Thorax during Expiration. j Muscles used in dilating the Thorax during In- | SPIRATION.—Diaphragma, Intercostales Externi et In- ; terni. In violent Inspiration, the Serrati Postici Su- \ periores, Pectorales Minores, Scaleni Antici, Medii, et Postici, and Serrati Magni, are also brought into ac- tion. : Muscles used in contracting the Thorax during Ex- ] piRATiON.—Obliqui Externi, Obliqui Interni, Trans- ] versalis. Recti et Pyramidales Abdominis, Sterno-Cos- tales, Serrati Postici Inferiores. In violent Expira- tion, the above are assisted by the Sacro-Lumbales, Longissimi Dorsi, and Quadrati Lumborum. ! ^ i \ MUSCLES CONTIGUOUS to the ANTERIOR PART | OF the vertebrae of the NECK. j »^ LoNGUs Colli, vel Predorso-atloideus. | Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from the side of \ the Bodies of the three superior Vertebrae of the Back, jPakt II.] OF THE MUSCLES. m and from the Transverse Processes of the four inferior Vertebrae of the Neck. Insertion : Into the fore part of the Bodies of all the Vertebrae of the Neck, by as many small Tendons, which are covered with Flesh. Action: To bend the Neck forwards, and to one side, or, when both Muscles act, to bend the Neck di- rectly forwards. Rectus Capitis Anterior Major, Vel Rectus Anterior Long-us, vel Trachelo-occipitalis Major. Origin: From the fore part of the Transverse Pro- cesses of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth Vertebrae of the Neck. It runs upwards, and a little inwards, covering the outer edge of the Longus Colli. Insertion: Into the Cuneiform Process of the Occi- pital Bone, near its joining with the Os Sphenoides. Action : To bend the Head forwards. Rectus Capitis Anterior Minor, Vel Rectus Anterior minor, vel Trachelo-sub-occipitalis Minor. Origin: From the fore part of the Atlas, opposite to its superior Oblique Process. It runs obliquely in- wards behind, and a little to the outside of the former Muscle. Insertion : Into the Cuneiform Process of the Occi- pital Bone, immediately before the Condyles. Action: To assist the Rectus Major.S40 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Rectus Capitis Lateralis, vel Atloido-suh- occipitalis. Origin: From the anterior part of the Transverse Process of the Atlas.—It goes obliquely outwards. Insertion : Into the Occipital Bone at the outside of the Condyle, and directly behind the Jugular Fossa. Action : To incline the Head a little to one side. MUSCLES situated upon the POSTERIOR PART OF THE TRUNK. Trapezius, vel Cucullai'ls, vel Dorso-super-acromialis. Origin i From the middle of the great arched Ridge of the Occipital Bone; from its fellow over the Spi-^ nous Processes of the Cervical Vertebrae, by the inter- vention of a strong Tendon, called Ligamenlum Nu^ chcB, vel Colli ; from the Spinous Processes of the two Inferior Vertebrae of the Neck, and from all those of the Back, adhering Tendinous to its fellow the whole length of its Origin. Insertion : Fleshy, into the Scapulary half of tjie Clavicle; Tendinous and Fleshy, into the Acromion, and Spine of the Scapula.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 241 Action: To move the Clavicle and Scapula, accord- ing to the directions of its different Fibres. The su- perior Fibres descending, raise the shoulder; the middle running transversely, pull it backwards ; and the inferior Fibres descending, depress it. The whole acting together, bring it directly back. When the Scapula is fixed, the Muscle assists in moving the Head backwards, Latissimus'Borsi, vel Lumho-humeralis, Origin : By a broad Tendinous Expansion, from the posterior part of the Spine of the Os Ilium ; from all the Spinous Processes of the Vertebrae extending be- tween the under end of the Os Sacrum and sixth Dor- sal Vertebra, and, by three or four Tendinous or Fleshy Slips, from an equal number of inferior Ribs. The Tendon by degrees changes into a Muscle of great breadth, the inferior Fibres of which run upwards and outwards, and the superior transversely over the under Angle of the Scapula, receiving a small Slip from that Bone in their way to the Axilla, where the Fibres of the Muscle in general are collected, twisted, and fold- ed, like those of the Pectoralis Major. Insertion: By a strong thin Tendon, into the inner Edge of the Groove for lodging the Tendon of the long Head of the Biceps. Action: To pull the Arm downwards and backwards, and to roll the Os Humeri inwards, by which the Palm of the Hand is made to face backwards. When the Pectoralis Major acts at the same time with this Muscle, the Arm is brought directly down towards the Trunk. VOL. I. QCOMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Ba^t II. The Latissimus Dorsi and Pectoralis Major form the Axilla, in which the great Vessels and Nerves, and likewise the Glands lie, which belong to the Arm. Serratus Posticus Inferior, vel LumbO'Costalis. Origin : By the same common Tendon with the La- tissimus Dorsi, from the two inferior Dorsal, and from the three superior Lumbar Vertebrae. Insertion : By four Fleshy Slips, into the same num- ber of inferior Ribs, near their Cartilages. Action : To depress the Ribs into which it is insert- ed, and thereby, during Expiration, to assist in con- tracting the Cavity of the Thorax. Rhomboideus, vel Dorso-scapularis. Origin : Tendinous, from the Spinous Processes of the four or five superior Dorsal, and of the three Infe- rior Cervical Vertebrae, and from the Ligamentum Nuchas; descending obliquely. Insertiofi: Into the whole length of the Base of the Scapula. Action: To draw the Scapula upwards and back- wards. This Muscle is frequently divided by an indistinct Line into two unequal portions: The part arising from the Dorsal Vertebrae, and fixed to the Base of the Sca- pula under the Spine, is commonly called Rhomboides Major, and the other part of the Muscle, Rhomboides Minor.Pabt II ] of the MUSCLJIS. Splenius, Vel Cervico-mastoideus et Dbrso-cervicalis. Origiii: Tendinous, from the Spinous Processes of the four superior Dorsal; and Tendinous and Fleshy, from those of the five inferior Cervical Vertebrae. It adheres firmly to the Ligamentum Nuchae, and at the third Cervical Vertebra it recedes from its fellow, so that part of the Complexus is seen. Insertion : By as many Tendons into the five supe- rior Transverse Processes of the Cervical Vertebras, and by a Tendinous and Fleshy Portion, into the posterior part of the Mastoid Process, and into the Os Occipitis, where it joins with that Process. Action: To antagonize the Sterno-mastoideus, by bringing the Head, and upper Cervical Vertebrae, ob- liquely backwards and to one side. When the Splenii act together, they draw the Head directly backwards. This Muscle is divided by Albinus into Splenius Capitis, or that which arises from the Neck, and goes to the Head; and Splenius Colli, or that which arises from the Back, and is fixed to the Neck. Serratus Posticus Superior, vel Dorso-costalis. Origin: By a broad thin Tendon, from the Liga- mentum Nuchae, over the Spinous Processes of the three last Cervical, and two uppermost Dorsal Verte- brae ; going obliquely downwards. Insertion: By four Fleshy Slips, into the second, Q 2^44 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. third, fourth, and fifth Ribs, under the upper and back part of the Scapula. Action : To elevate the Kibs, and thus to dilate the Thorax in violent Inspiration. Sacro-Lumbalis, vel Sacro-costalis. Origin: In common with the Longissimus Dorsi, Tendinous without, and Fleshy within, from the side and all the Spinous Processes of the Os Sacrum; from the posterior part of the Spine of the Os Ilium; and from all the Spinous and Transverse Processes of the Lumbar Vertebrae. The common Head fills up the space between the Os Ilium and Os Sacrum, and also the Hollow of the Loins. At the under part of the Thorax, the Muscle begins to send off Tendons, which are of considerable length, and lie flat upon the Ribs. Insertion: Into the angles of all the Ribs, by an equal number of Tendons. From six or eight of the Lower Ribs arise an equal number of Fleshy Portions, which terminate in the inner side of this Muscle, and get the name of Musculi Accessoriif vel Additamentum ad Sacro-lumhalem. Action: To assist in raising and keeping the Trunk of the Body erect. It also assists the Serratus Infe- rior, and Quadratus Lumborum, in depressing the Ribs during laborious Expiration. From the upper part of this Muscle, a Fleshy Slip, called Cervicalis Descendens, runs up to be fixed to the Transverse Processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth Cervical Vertebrae, by three distinct Tendons. It turns the Neck obliquely backwards to one side.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 245 LoNGissiMUs DoBsi, vel Sacro-spinalis. Origin: In common with the Sacro-lumbalis. It forms a large, thick, and strong Muscle, which fills the hollow between the Spine, and angles of the Ribs} becoming gradually smaller in its ascent. Insertion : Into the Transverse Processes of all the Dorsal Vertebrae, chiefly by small double Tendons; and, by a Tendinous and Fleshy Slip, into the lower Edge of each of the Ribs, excepting the two inferior, near their Tubercles. Action : To extend the Trunk, and keep it erect; the outer part may assist in depressing the Ribs dur- ing laborious Expiration. From the upper part of this Muscle, a round Fleshy Slip runs up to join the Cervicalis Descendens. Spinalis Dorsi. Origin : By five Tendinous Slips, from the Spinous Processes of the two upper Lumbar, and the three lower Dorsal Vertebras. In its ascent, it is incorpo- rated with the Longissimus Dor si. Insertion: Into the Spinous Processes of the eight or nine uppermost Dorsal Vertebrae, excepting the first, by as many Tendons. Action : To fix the Vertebrae, and to assist in extend- ing the Trunk, and in keeping it erect.U6 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part CoMPLEXus, vel Trachelo-occipitalis. Origin: By distinct Tendons, from the Transverse Processes of the seven superior Dorsal, and four infe- rior Cervical Vertebras, and, by a Fleshy Slip, from the Spinous Process of the first Dorsal Vertebra. In its passage upwards, it is intermixed with Tendinous and Fleshy parts. Insertion : Into a Depression, under the middle of the large arched Ridge of the Occipital Bone. Action : To draw the Head backwards, and to one side; and when both act, to draw" the Head directly backwards. The long Portion of the Muscle, which lies next the Spinous Processes, is more loose than the rest, and has a roundish Tendon in the middle of it, with a Fleshy Belly at each end, on which account it is called by Albinus, Biventer Cervicis. Trachelo-Mastoideus, Vel Complexus Minor, vel Mastoideus Lateralis. Origin: From the Transverse Processes of the three uppermost Dorsal, and five lowest Cervical Vertebras^ where it is connected to the TransversaUs Cervicis, by as many thin Tendons, which unite into a slender Belly, and run up under the Splenius. Insertion : Into the superior Margin of the Mastoid Process of the Temporal Bone, by a thin Tendon.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. S4T Action : To assist the Complexus ; but pulling the Head more laterally. Levatoh Scapula, t Vel Levator Proprius, vel Muscultcs Patientice, vel TrachelO'Scapularis. Origin: From the Transverse Processes of the five superior Cervical Vertebrae, by the same number of distinct Heads, which soon unite to form a flat Mus- cle, running downwards and outwards. Insertion : Into the superior Angle of the Scapula. Action : To pull the Scapula upwards, and a little forwards, as in shrugging the Shoulderand when the Scapula is fixed, to pull the Neck a little to one side. Semi-Spinalis Dorsi, vel Transverso-spi^ialis Dorsi. Origin : From the Transverse Processes of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth Dorsal Vertebrae, by as many distinct Tendons, which soon grow Fleshy, and then again become Tendinous. Insertion: Into the Spinous Processes of the six or seven uppermost Dorsal, and two lowest Cervical Ver- tebrae, by as many Tendons. Action: To extend the Spine obliquely backwards.S48 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. MULTIFIDUS SpIN^5 Formerly described as three distinct Muscles, viz. Transverso-splnalis Lumborum, Transverso-spinalis Dorsi, and Transverso-spinalls Colli. Origin: From the side of the Spinous Processes of the Os Sacrum, and from that part of the Os Ilium which joins with the Sacrum; from all the Oblique and all the Transverse Processes of the Dorsal, and of the four inferior Cervical Vertebrae, by as many dis- tinct Tendons, which soon become Fleshy, and run obliquely upwards and inwards. Insertion: By distinct Tendons, into all the Spi- nous Processes of the Lumbar, Dorsal, and Cervical Vertebras, excepting the Atlas. Action : To extend the Spine obliquely, and pull it to a side. W^hen both Muscles act, they draw the Spine directly backwards. Semi-Spinalis Colli, Vel Transmrso-spinalis Colli. Origin : From the Transverse Processes of the six uppermost Dorsal Vertebrae, by an equal number of distinct Tendons, which run obliquely under the Com- plexus. Insertion: Into the Spinous Processes of all the Cervical Vertebrae, except the first and last. Action I To extend the Neck obliquely backwards, and to a side.249 Paet II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Transversalis Colli. Origin : From the Transverse Processes of the five uppermost Dorsal Vertebrae, by the same number of Tendinous and Fleshy Slips. It runs between the Trachelo-mastoideus, Splenius Colli, and Cervicalis Descendens. Insertion: Into the Transverse Processes of all the Cervical Vertebrae, except the first and last. Action : To turn the Neck obliquely backwards, and a little to one side. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor, YelMectus Minor, vel Atloido-occipitalis. Origin : Tendinous, close to its fellow, from a small Protuberance which is instead of the Spinous Process of the first Cervical Vertebra; spreading out in its ascent. Insertion: Fleshy, into a Depression between the middle of the smaller Arch and Foramen Magnum of the Occipital Bone. Action : *To assist the following Muscle in drawing the Head backwards. » Rectus Capitis Posticus Major, Vel Rectus Mc0or, vel Aocoido-occijpitalis. Origin: Fleshy, from the external part of the Spi- nous Process of the second Cervical Vertebra. It be»250 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part IL comes gradually broader, and goes obliquely upwards and outwards. Insertion : Tendinous and Fleshy, into the Os Occi- pitis, at the outside of the Insertion of the Rectus Minor, part of which it covers. Action: To pull the Head backwards, and to assist a little in its rotation. Obliquus Capitis Inferior, vel Aocoldo-atloideus. Origin: Fleshy, from the Spinous Process of the second Cervical Vertebra, at the outside of the Rectus Major. It forms a thick Belly, which runs upwards and outwards. Insertion : Into the Transverse Process of the first Cervical Vertebra. Action: To roll the Head. Obliquus Capitis Superior, Vel Atloido-suh-mastoideus. Origin: From the Transverse Process of the first Cervical Vertebra, passing upwards and ^ little in- wards. Insertion : Into the Occipital Bone, at the outer part of the Insertion of the Rectus Major. Action : To assist in drawing the Head backwards, and a little to one side.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 2dl Scalenus Anticus, vel Costo-cervicalis Amicus. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from the upper part of the first Rib, near its Cartilage. Insertion: Into the Transverse Processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth Cervical Vertebrae, by as many Tendons. Scalenus Medius, vel Costo-cervicalis Medius. Origin: From the upper and outer part of the first Rib, from its Root to near its Cartilage. Insertion: Into the Transverse Processes of all the Cervical Vertebrae, by as many strong Tendons. The Subclavian Artery, and the Nerves which form the Brachial Plexus, pass between this and the former Muscle. Scalenus Posticus, vel Costo-cervicalis Posticus. Origin: From the upper edge of the second Rib, near the Spine. Insertion: Into the Transverse Processes of the fifth and sixth Cervical Vertebrae. Action of the three Scaleni: To bend the Neck to one side; or, when the Neck is fixed, to raise the Ribs^ and assist in dilating the Thorax, as in violent Inspira- tion.252 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II, Interspinales Colli. The spaces between the Spinous Processes of the Cervical Vertebrae, most of which are forked, are oc- cupied by double Fleshy Portions. Origin : From the upper part of each Spinous Pro- cess. Insertion : Into the under part of each Spinous Pro- cess, immediately above that from which the Muscle takes its origin. miction: To draw these Processes nearer to each other, and of course the Neck a little backwards. Intertransversales Colli. The spaces between all the Transverse Processes of the Cervical Vertebrae, which are also forked, are filled up in like manner with double Fleshy Portions. Action : To draw these Processes towards each other, and turn the neck a little to one side. Interspinales et Intertransversales Dorsi. These are rather small Tendons than Muscles, serv- ing to connect to each other the Spinous and likewise the Transverse Processes. Interspinales Lumborum. They are of the same nature with the Interspinales and Intertransversales Dorsi.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. ^53 Intertransversales Lumborum. These are five distinct Muscles, which occupy the Spaces between the Transverse Processes of the last Dorsal, and of all the Lumbar Vertebrae, and serve to draw them a little towards each other. * Motions of the Head and Truhk. The Head is moved upon the Atlas,—^rrmrJ.y, by the Recti Capitis Anteriores Minores, and Recti Capi- tis Laterales ;—hachzvards, by the Recti Capitis Posti- ci Minores, and Obliqui Capitis Superiores;—laterally, by the Anterior and Posterior Muscles of the corre- sponding side. The Head and Neck are moved together,--;;/or- wards, partly through the medium of the Lower Jaw, by the Platysmse Myoides, Digastrici, Mylo-hyoidei, Genio-hyoidei, Genio-hyo-glossi ;—directly Jhrwards, by the Sterno-mastoidei, Recti Capitis Anteriores Ma- jores \—forwards^ through the Medium of the Larynx, by the Omo-hyoidei, Sterno-hyoidei, Sterno-thyroidei, and Thyro-hyoidei;—backwards, by the upper portion of the Trapezii, the Splenii Capitis, Complexi, Recti Capitis Postici Majores, and Trachelo-mastoidei;—la- terally, by the Opponent, or Anterior and Posterior Muscles of the corresponding side acting together. By a succession of these motions, the Head is enabled to describe a circle. The Rotation of the Head, or of the Atlas, upon the Vertebra Dentata, is performed by the followingg54 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Muscles, acting exclusively of their fellows; viz. the Sterno-mastoideus, upper portion of the Trapezius, the Platysma Myoides, upper part of the Splenius, the Trachelo-mastoideus, Complexus, Obliquus Inferior, and Rectus Posticus Major. The Neck, from the Vertebra Dentata downwards, is mo\edi—forwards, by the Longi Colli;—hackwards, by the Rhomboidei Minores, Serrati Postici Superiores, Splenii Colli, Cervicales Descendentes, Transversales, Semi-spinales et Interspinales Colli, and upper part of the Multifidi Spinse;—laterally^ by the Muscles upon the anterior and posterior parts of the Neck acting on one side, and these assisted by the following, which are chiefly situated upon the lateral parts of the Neck, viz. the Levator Scapulae, Scaleni Anticus, Medius, et Pos- ticus, and Inter transversales Colli. The Trunk is moved, and chiefly at the Loins,— Jbrwards^ by the Psoae Magnae et Parvi, Quadrati Lum- borum, by the Recti, Pyramidales, Obliqui Externi, Obliqui Interni, et Transversales Abdominis ;—hack- wards, by the Sacro-lumbales, Longissimi, Spinales et Semi-spinales Dorsi, Multifidi Spinae, Interspinales Lumborum ;—laterally^ by the Muscles mentioned a^ bove, upon the anterior and posterior parts of the Trunk acting upon one side, and these assisted by the Quadra- tus et Intertransversales Lumborum ;—twisted, by the Obliquus Externus Abdominis, Serratus Posticus In- ferior, Semi-spinalis Dorsi, by the Dorsal and Lumbar part of the Multifidus Spinae, on one side assisted by the Obliquus Internus Abdominis, Sacro-lumbalis, and liOnEgissimus Dorsi of the other side;—kept erect, by theFae'tII.] of the muscles:. C5MO 255 Muscles upon the fore and back parts of the Trunk, acting as antagonists to each other. By making the Head, or the upper part of the Trunk, the fixed point, the same motions may be per- formed, and by the same Muscles, as when the Pelvis is fixed, or when the lower part of the Trunk is in its natural situation ; but the Muscles draw the moveable parts in direct opposition to those formerly moveable ; and the Muscles which in the natural situation rolled the Head, with the Atlas, on the Vertebra Dentata, or twisted the other parts of the Spine, act now also in a contrary direction. The same circumstances hold good with respect to the Extremities.256 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. MUSCLES OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. Pectoralis Major, see p. 233.—Pectoralis Minor, see p. 234.—Subclavius, see p. 234.—Serratus Magnus, see p. 235.—Trapezius, see p. 240.—Latissimus Dorsi, see p. 241.—Rhomboideus, see p. 242.—Levator Sca- pulae, see p. 247. Motions of the Scapula. The Scapula is moved—upwards^ by the Trapezius, Levator Scapulae, Rhomboideus, and Omo-hyoideus; —downwards^ by the Trapezius, Serratus Magnus, Pectoralis Minor, Subclavius, and occasionally through the medium of the Humerus, by the Latissimus Dorsi, and Pectoralis Major forwards aud downwards, by the Serratus Magnus, Pectoralis Minor, Subclavius, and occasionally by the Pectoralis Major;—hacTiwards, by the Trapezius, Rhomboideus, and occasionally the Latissimus Dorsi;—moved obliquely upwards or down- wards, by the above Muscles, according to their diffe- rent situations.—By a succession of these motions, the257 Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Scapula is rolled, as in a Circle, upon the Thorax, through the medium of the Clavicle ;—or it can roll in a manner upon an aocis put through its middle, its upper end going forwards and downwards, chiefly by means of the Pectoralis Minor, the under end at the same time moving upwards and backwards, principal- ly by the Rhomboides Major; or .the reverse of this motion is produced by the upper part of the Trape- zius and the under portion of the Serratus Magnus acting together. MUSCLES AEISING FBOM THE SCAPULA. Supra-Spinatus, Vel Super-scapulo-trochitereus Parvus. Origin: Fleshy, from the whole Fossa Supra-Spi- nata, and from the Spine and Superior Costa of the Scapula; passing under the Acromion, and adhering to the Capsular Ligament of the Joint. Insertion : Tendinous, into the fore part of the large Tubercle on the Head of the Os Humeri. Action: To raise the Arm, and at the same time to pull the Capsular Ligament from between the Bones, so as to prevent it from being pinched. VOL. I. . E258 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pari II. Infra-Spinatus, Vel Super-scapulO'trochitereus Magnus, Origin: Fleshy, from all that part of the Dorsum Scapulae which is below its Spine ; and from the Spine itself as far as the Cervix Scapulas. The Fibres run obliquely towards a Tendon in the middle of the Mus- cle, which goes forwards, and adheres to the Capsular Ligament. ,^ Insertion: By a flat thick Tendon, into the upper and outer part of the large Protuberance of the Head of the Os Humeri. Action : To roll the Os Humeri outwards ; to assist in raising, and in supporting it when raised; and to pull the Ligament from between the Bones. These two Muscles are covered by an Aponeurosis, which extends between the Costag and edges of the Spine of the Scapula, and gives rise to many of the Muscular Fibres. Teres Minor, Vel Sufper-scapulo-trocMtereus Minimus. Origin : Fleshy^ from the Inferior Costa of the Sca- pula. It ascends along the under edge of the Infra- spinatus, and adheres to the Capsular Ligament. Insertion : Tendinous into the back part of the large Protuberance on the Head of the Os Humeri, a little below the Infra-spinatusPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. U9 Action : To toll the Os Humeri outwards, to draw it backwards, and to prevent the Ligament from being pinched between the Bones. Teres Major, vel Scapulo-liumeralis. Origin : Fleshy, from the Dorsal side of the infe- rior Angle of the Scapula, and from a small part of its inferior Costa. It is situated at the under part of the Teres Minor, and sends off a broad flat Tendon, which accompanies that of the Latissimus Dorsi. Insertion: Along with the Latissimus Dorsi, into the Ridge at the inner side of the Groove for lodging the Tendon of the Long Head of the Biceps. Action : To roll the Humerus inwards, and to draw it backwards and downwards. Deltoides, vel Suh-acromio-humeralis. Origin : Fleshy, from all the outer part of the Cla- vicle unoccupied by the Petoralis Major, from which it is separated by a small Fissure; Tendinous and Fleshy, from the Acromion and lower Margin of al- most the whole Spine of the Scapula, opposite to the Insertion of the Trapezius. From these Origins it runs under the appearance of three Muscles going in different directions, and sepa- rated from each other by slight Fissures; viz. from the Clavicle outwards, «from the Acromion downwards, and from the Spine of the Scapula forwards; and is composed of a number of Fasciculi, forming a strong R 2S60 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part IL Fleshy Muscle, which covers the joint of the Os Hu- meri. Insertion : Below that of the Pectoralis Major, by a short and strong Tendon, into a rough surface, on the outer side of the Os Humeri, near its middle, where the Fibres of this Muscle intermix with part of the Brachialis Externus. Action : To pull the Arm directly outwards and up- wards, and a little forwards or backwards, according to the different directions of its Fibres. Coiiaco-Brachialis, vel Coraco-humeralis. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from the fore part of the Coracoid Process of the Scapula, in common with the short Head of the Biceps, to which it adheres through the greater part of its length. Insertion : Tendinous and Fleshy, into the internal part of the Os Humeri, near its middle, where it sends down an Aponeurosis to the internal Condyle of that Bone. Action: To bring the Arm obliquely upwards and forwards. SuBSCAPULARis, vcl Sub-scapulo-trocMneus, Origin: Fleshy, from the three Costse and whole inner Surface of the Scapula. It is composed of a number of Tendinous and Fleshy portions, which run in a radiated manner, and make prints on the Bone. In its passage outwards it goes over the joint, adher- ing to its Capsular Ligament.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 261 Insertion: Tendinous, into the upper part of the internal Protuberance at the Head of the Os Humeri. Action : To roll the Arm inwards, to draw it to the side of the Body, and to prevent the Capsular Liga- ment from being pinched. The Humerus is raised by the Deltoides, Supra- Spinatus, Coraco-Brachialis, Biceps Flexor Cubiti;— and these assisted by the Infra-Spinatus, Subscapula- risj and upper portion of the Pectoralis Major, in ele- vating the Arm to its utmost extent;—depressed, by the Pectoralis Major, Latissimus Dorsi, and Teres Major acting together, and assisted by the under Por- tion of the Subscapularis, anterior and posterior parts of the Deltoidei, Teres Minor, and long Head of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti;—drawn forwards, by the Pectoralis Major, anterior Portion of the Deltoides, Coraco-Brachialis, and Biceps Flexor Cubiti;—pulled bachwards, by the Latissimu^ Dorsi, Teretes Major et Minor, posterior Portion of the Deltoides, and long Head of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti; by a succession of these motions, it is made to move in a circle;— 7'olled round its axis inwards, by the Subscapularis, anterior Portion of the Deltoides, Latissimus Dorsi, Teres Major, and occasionally by the Pectoralis Ma- jor ;—rolled outwai^ds by the Infra-Spinatus, Teres Minor, posterior Portion of the Deltoides, and occa- sionally by the Coraco-Brachialis.COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pakt H. MUSCLES SITUATED CHIEFLY ON THE ARM, SERV- ING FOE THE MOTION OF THE FORE-ARM. Aponeurosis of the Superior Extremity. The greater part of the Superior Extremity is co- vered by a Tendinous Membrane or Aponeurosis, which arises from the Muscles, and from the different Processes of the Bone of the Shoulder. It covers the two Spinati Muscl'es on the back part of the Scapula, as already mentioned. On the Humerus, it incloses the Flexor and Exten- sor Muscles of the Fore-arm, and is connected to the Ridges and Condyles at the under end of the Os Hu- meri. At the bending of the Elbow, it is attached to the ends of the Radius and Ulna, and receives considera- ble additions from the Tendons of the Biceps and Tri- ceps of the Fore-arm, where the Fibres from the op- posite sides decussate each other. It becomes thicker and stronger on the Fore-arm, and forms a firm covering to the Muscles there. In its descent, it gives origin to many Muscular Fi- bres, and sends off among the Muscles, partitions which are fixed to the Radius and UJna. The Mem- brane is at length lost insensibly upon the Hand. It is thicker and stronger on the back than upon the fore side of the Extremity, particularly on the Fore- arm, at the under and back part of which it forms aPaet II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 263 thick and strong Band, that, running transversely, gets the name of Ligamentum Carpi Annulare Pos- terius. The use of this Aponeurosis, like that in other parts of the Body, is to form a kind of Bandage to brace the Muscles, and keep them in their proper place while in action, and to give Origin to many of the Muscular Fibres which lie immediately under it. Biceps Flexor Cubiti, Vel Biceps, vel Scapulo-radiaUs. Origin : By two Heads : The outer one, called its Long Head, begins by a slender Tendon from the up- per edge of the Glenoid Cavity of the Scapula, passes over the Ball of the Os Humeri within the Joint, and in its descent without the Joint, is inclosed in a Groove upon the upper and fore part of the Bone, by a Liga- ment which proceeds from the Capsular one and adja- cent Tendons : The inner one, called it^ Short Head, arises, Tendinous and Fleshy, from the Coracoid Pro- cess of the Scapula, in common with the Coraco-Bra- chialis. A little below the middle of the fore part of the Os Humeri, the two Heads unite, and form a thick Fleshy Belly, Insertion: By a strong roundish Tendon, in the Tubercle at the upper and inner part of the Radius, and by a Tendinous Expansion, into the Apon-eurosis of the Fore-arm, which it likewise assists in forming. Action: To bend the Fore-Arm, and to assist the Su- pinator Muscles in rolling the Radius outwards, and ofCOMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. course, to turn the Palm of the Hand upwards. It also assists in stretching the Aponeurosis. Sometimes this Muscle has a third Head, which it derives from the Os Humeri. Beachialis Internus, vel Humero-cubitalis. Origin: Fleshy, from the middle of the Os Humeri, at each side of the Insertion of the Deltoides, covering all, and attached to most, of the under and fore part of the Bone. It runs over the Joint, adhering firmly to the capsular Ligament. Insertion : By a strong short Tendon, into the Co- ronoid Process of the Ulna. Action: To bend the Fore-Arm, and to prevent the Ligament of the Joint from being pinched. Trtcets Extensor Cdbiti, Vel Scapulo-humero-olecraneus. Origin: By three Heads : The first, or long Head, broad and Tendinous, from the inferior Costa of the Scapula, near its Cervix : The second, or 0fm'f4 Head,^ acute, Tendinous, and Fleshy, from the outer and back part of the Os Humeri, a little below its upper extre- mity : The third, formerly called Brachialis ExternuSy arises by an acute beginning, from the inner and back part of the Os Humeri, near the insertion of the Teres Major. The three Heads unite about the middle of the Humerus, and cover the whole posterior part of that Bone, adhering to it in their descent. Insertion: Into the upper and outer part of the Ole-Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 265 cranon of the Uina, and partly into the Condyles of the Os Humeri, adhering closely to the Ligament. Action : To extend the Fore-arm. Anconeus, vel Epicondilo-cubitalis. Origin : Tendinous, from the posterior part of the external Condyle of the Os Humeri. It descends un- der a triangular form, soon becomes Fleshy, and part of its Flesh is likewise continued from the third Head of the Triceps. Insertion: Fleshy and thin, into a Ridge on the outer and back part of the Ulna, a little below the Olecranon. Action : To assist the Triceps in extending the Fore- arm. MUSCLES ON THE FORE-ARM and HAND, serv- ing FOR THE MOTION OF THE HAND AND FINGERS. To prevent confusion in the application of the terms Outer and Inner, when the Muscles are described in the prone state of the Hand,—the Arm is here sup- posed to be placed by the side of the Body, with the Hand in a state of supination ; so that the Radius and Thumb are upon the outer, and the Ulna and Little Finger upon the inner side.266 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY [Part IL Palmaeis Longus, vel Epitrochlo-palmaris. Origin: Tendinous, from the Internal Condyle of the Os Humeri; soon becoming Fleshy, and sending off a long slender Tendon. Insertion: Into the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare Anterius, and into the Aponeurosis Palmaris. Action : To stretch the Aponeurosis Palmaris, and assist in bending the Hand. This Muscle is frequently wanting, but the Aponeu- rosis is always present. Aponeurosis Palmaris, This Tendinous Expansion is situated directly under the Integuments of the Palm of the Hand. It begins at the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare Anterius; and, after spreading out and covering the greater part of the Palm, is fixed to the Roots of all the Fingers by an equal number of double slips. It binds down and braces the Muscles in the Palm, and protects the Blood-vessels and Nerves in their course to the Fingers. Palmaris Brevis, vel Palmaro-cutaneus. Origin : By small Bundles of Fleshy Fibres, from the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare Anterius, and Apo- neurosis Palmaris ; and passing across, it has its Insertion into the Skin and Fat which cover the Ab- | ductor Minimi Digiti, and into the Os Pisiforme.Paet II.] OF THE MUSCLES. ^7 Action: To assist in contracting the Palm of the Hand. Flexor Carpi Radialis^ Vel Radialis Internus, vel EpitrocMo-metacarpeus. Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from the inner Con- dyle of the Os Humeri, and from the fore and upper part of the Ulna, between the Pronator Kadii Teres and Flexor Sublimis, to which it firmly adheres. It forms a long Tendon, which passes down near the Ra- dius, goes through a Fossa in the Os Trapezium, and becomes flat at its inferior extremity. Insertion: Into the fore and upper part of the Me- tacarpal Bone which sustains the Fore-finger. Action : To bend the Wrist, and to assist in the pro- nation of the Hand. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, Vel Ulnaris Internus, vel Cubito-carpeus, Origin : Tendinous, from the Internal Condyle of the Os Humeri; and, by a small Fleshy beginning, from the corresponding side of the Olecranon. It passes along the inner side of the Ulna, from which also it derives part of its origin for a considerable way down. A number of its Fleshy Fibres likewise arise from the Aponeurosis of the Fore-arm. Insertion: By a strong Tendon, into the Os Pisi- forme, which serves as a Pulley to the Muscle.S68 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part IX Action: To assist the former muscle in bending the Wrist. Extensor Carpi Kadialis Longior, Vel Radialis Externus Longior^ vel Humero-super- metacarpeus. Origin : Broad, thin, and Fleshy, directly below the Supinator Longus, from the lower part of the Ridge of the Os Humeri, above its external Condyle. It sends off a long flat Tendon, which passes down, first upon the outer, and then upon the back part of the Radius, descending in a Groove there, and going under the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare Posterius. Insertion : Into the upper, back, and outer part of the Metacarpal Bone of the Fore-Finger. Action: To extend the Wrist, and bring the Hand backwards. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior, Vel Radialis Extensor Brevior, vel Epicondilo-super- metacarpeus. Origin : Tendinous, in common with the Extensor Longior, but further down; from the External Con- dyle of the Os Humeri, and from the Ligament which connects the Radius to it.—Passing down upon the back part of the Radius, its Tendon goes under the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare Posterius, in the same channel with the Tendon of the Extensor Longior.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. S69 Insertion: Into the upper and back part of the Me- tacarpal Bone of the Middle Finger. Action: To assist the former Muscle in extending the Wrist; or with it and the Flexor Carpi Radialis, to draw the Hand to the side next the Thumb. - ■ ■ Extensor Carpi Radialis, ' ■ Vel Ulnaris Ewternus, vel Cuhito-super-metacarpeus. Origin: Tendinous, from the external Condyle of the Os Humeri; and in its progress Fleshy, from the middle of the Ulna, where it passes over that Bone. Its round Tendon is inclosed by a Membranous Sheath, in a Groove at the back part of the extremity of the Ulna. Insertion: Into the posterior and upper part of the Metacarpal Bone of the Little Finger. Action: To assist the two former Muscles in extend- ing the Wrist; or, with the assistance of the Flexor Ulnaris, to draw the Hand towards the side next the Little Finger. Flexor Digitorum Sublimis, vel Perforatus, Vel Epitrochlo-phalangeus Communis. Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from the internal Condyle of the Os Humeri; Tendinous, from the Root of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna; and Membra- nous and Fleshy, from the middle of the fore part of the Radius. Its Fleshy Belly sends off four round270 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. ; i Tendons before it passes under the Ligamentum Carpi \ Annulare Anterius. In their course, they are connect- | ed to those of the following Muscle by fine Membra- j nous Webs, and upon the Fingers are inclosed in strong j Tendinous Sheaths. | Insertion : Into the anterior and upper part of the \ second Phalanx of the Fingers, being, near the under i part of the first Phalanx, split and twisted to form a | passage, and at the same time a kind of Sheath, for j the Tendons of the Flexor Profundus. \ Action : To bend the second, and then the first Pha- j lanx of the Fingers. | Flexor Dig-itorum Profundus, vel Perforans, i Vel Cuhito-phalangeus Communis. j , j Origin: Fleshy, from the external side and upper \ part of the Ulna, for some way down ; and from a large | share of the Interosseous Ligament. It descends be- ; hind the Flexor Sublimis, and, like it, splits into four i Tendons, a little before it passes under the Ligamen- [ tum Annulare, and these go through the Slits in the j Tendons of the Flexor Sublimis. i Insertion: Into the anterior and upper part of the j third Phalanx of the Fingers. | Action: To bend the last Joint of the Fingers, and, J with the assistance of the former Muscles, to make the | Fingers approach each other.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. LuMBRiCALEs, vel Pdlmo-pholangei. These consist of four small Muscles somewhat re- sembling Earth-worms, from which they derive their name. Origin : Thin and fleshy, from the outside of the Tendons of the Flexor Profundus, a little above the lower edge of the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare. At the under ends of the Metacarpal Bones, each sends off a slender Tendon. Insertion: Into the outer sides of the broad Ten- dons of the Interossei Muscles, about the middle of the first Phalanx. Action : To bend the first Phalanx, and increase the Flexion of the Fingers, while the long Flexors are in full action, and to assist the Radial Interossei in draw- ing the Fingers outwards. Extensor Digitorum Communis, Vel Epicondilo-super-phcLlangeus Communis. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from the external Condyle of the Os Humeri, where it adheres to the Su- pinator Radii Brevis. It passes down upon the back part of the Fore-arm, and before it goes under the Li- gamentum Carpi Annulare Posterius, it splits into three or Four Tendons, some of which may be subdivided. Upon the back of the Metacarpal Bones, the Tendons become broad and flat, and, near the Heads of these Bones, send Aponeurotic Expansions to each other. Inserti on: Into the posterior part of all the Bon^sI ^1% COMPENDITJm OF ANATOMY. [Part II. of the four Fingers, by a Tendinous Expansion, which is thick and strong at the sides of the Joints, but thin at their back part to facilitate their motions. Action: To extend all the Joints of the Fingers, and to assist in making them diverge from each other. A Slip of this Muscle going to the Little Finger, is called by some Authors Extensor Proprius Minimi Di~ giti. Supinator Radii Longus, vel Humero-super-radialis. Origin: By an acute Fleshy beginning, from the Ridge of the Os Humeri, above the external Condyle, nearly as high as the middle of the Bone. It forms a thick Fleshy Belly, which covers the upper part of the Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior; and about the middle of the Fore-arm sends a tapering Tendon along the edge of the Radius. Insertion : Into the outer side of the under end of the Radius. Action: To roll the Radius outwards, and, of course, to turn the Palm forwards. Supinator Radii Brevis, vel Epicondilo-radialis. Origin: Tendinous from the external Condyle of the Os Humeri, and Tendinous and Fleshy from the outer and upper part of the Ulna, and from the Inter- osseous Ligament. It passes over the external edge of the Radius. Insertion: Into the upper and back part of the Ra- dius' Action: To assist the Supinator Longus.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 273 VOL. I. s - Pronator Radii Teres, vel EpitrocJdo-radialis. Origin: Fleshy from the internal Condyle of the Os Humeri, and Tendinous from the Coronoid Process of the Ulna. It goes obliquely across the upper end of the Flexor Muscles of the Wrist, and is of a taper- ing form. Insertion: Thin, Tendinous, and Fleshy, into the middle of the posterior part of the Radius. Action: To roll the Radius inwards, by which it turns the Palm of the Hand backwards. Pronator Radii Quadratus, vel Cuhito-radialis. Origin : Broad, Tendinous, and Fleshy, from the under and inner part of the Ulna. The Fibres run- ning transversely, the Muscle has its Insertion into the under and fore part of the Ra- dius. Action : To assist the Pronator Teres. Flexor Longus Pollicis Manus, Vel Flexor Tertii Internodii, vel Radio-phalangeus Pollicis. Origin : By an acute, Fleshy beginning, from the fore part of the Radius and Interosseous Ligament, the Origin extending from the Tubercle of the Bone, as far as the Pronator Quadratus. It has frequentlyg74 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. another Origin, by a distinct Fleshy Slip, from the in- ternal Condyle of the Os Humeri. Insertion : Into the last Joint of the Thumb, after its Tendon has passed under the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare Anterius. Action : To bend the last Joint of the Thumb. Flexor Brevis Pollicis, Vel Flexor Secundi Internodii, vel Carpo-phalangeus Pollicis. Origin: From the Ossa Trapezoides, Magnum, et Unciforme. It is divided into two portions, which form a Groove for the Tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis. Insertion : Into the Ossa Sesamoidea, and base of the first Bone of the Thumb. Action : To bend the first Joint of the ThurSS. Opponens Pollicis, Vel Flexor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis^ vel Flexor Primi Internodii, vel Carpo-Metacarpeus Pollicis. ■i Origin : Fleshy, from the Os Trapezium and Liga- mentum Carpi Annulare Anterius. It lies immediate- ly under the Abductor Pollicis. Insertion : Tendinous and Fleshy, into tlie under and fore part of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb. Action: To bring the Thumb inwards, so as toPart II.] OF THE kUSCLES. m make it oppose the Fingers ; from which circumstance it has derived its name. Extensor Ossis Metacari*! Pollicis, Vel Cuhito-super-metacarpeus Pollicis. Origin : Fleshy, from the middle of the posterior parts of the Ulna, Radius, and Interosseous Ligament. It runs obliquely over the Radius, sending one, or more frequently two Tendons, through an Annular Sheath. Insertion : Into the Os Trapezium, and upper and back part of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb. Action : To extend the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb, and draw it from the Fingers. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis, Vel Extensor Minor, vel Cuhito-^uper-phalangeus Pri- mus Pollicis. Origin : Fleshy, from the back part of the Ulna, and from the Interosseous Ligament, near the former Muscle, by the side of which it runs. Insertion : Tendinous, into the posterior part of the first Bone of the Thumb. A portion of it may be traced as far as the second Bone. Action : To extend the first Joint of the Thumb, s SS76 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Extensor Secundi Internodii, Vel Extensor Major, vel Cubito-super-phalangeus Secundus Pollicis. Origin: By an acute, Tendinous, and Fleshy begin- ning, from the middle of the back part of the Ulna, and from the Interosseous Ligament. Its Tendon runs through a small Groove at the under, inner, and back part of the Radius. Insertion : Into the last Bone of the Thumb. Action : To extend the last Joint of the Thumb. Abductor Pollicis, Vel Carpo-super-phalangeus Pollicis, Origin: Broad, Tendinous, and Fleshy, from the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare, and from the Os Trape- zium. It lies immediately under the Skin, and over the Opponens Pollicis. Insertion : Tendinous, into the outer side of the root of the first Bone of the Thumb. Action: To draw the Thumb from the Fingers. A particular portion on the inner side of this Mus- cle is called by Albinus, Abductor Brevis Alter, Adductor Pollicis, vel Metacarpo-Phalangeus Pol- licis. Origin: Fleshy, from almost the whole length of the Metacarpal Bone of the Middle Finger; goingPart II.J OF THE MUSCLES. across the Metacarpal Bone of the Fore Finger, its Fibres converge, and send off a strong Tendon. Insertion: Into the inner part of the Root of the first Bone of the Thumb. Action: To pull the Thumb towards the Fingers. Indicator, Vel Extensor Indicis Proprius, vel Cuhito-super-pha- langeus Primus Indicis. Origin : By an acute Fleshy beginning, from the middle of the posterior part of the Ulna, at the inner side of the Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis. Its Tendon passes under the same Ligament with the Ex- tensor Digitorum Communis. Insertion : Along with part of the Extensor Digito- rum Communis, into the posterior part of the Fore Finger. Action: To assist the Extensor Communis in ex- tending all the joints of this Finger, as in pointing at any thing, hence called Indicator, Abductor Indicis. Origin : From the Os Trapezium, and from the up- per part and inner side of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb. Insertion : By a short Tendon, into the outer and back part of the first Bone of the Fore Finger. Action: To bring the Fore Finger towards the Thumb.m COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Flexob Parvus Minimi Digiti, Vel Carpo-phalangeus Secundus. Origin: From the Uncus of the Os Unciforme, and adjacent part of the Annular Ligament. It passes ob- liquely over the under end of the following Muscle. Insertion: By a roundish Tendon, into the inner part of the Base of the first Bone of the Little Finger. Action : To bend the Little Finger, and assist the Adductor. Abductor Minimi Digiti, Vel Carpo-phalangeiis Minimi Digiti. Origin: Fleshy from the Os Pisiforme, and from that part of the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare Anterius next it; going nearly straight down at the inner side of the Hand. Insertion: Tendinous, into the inner side of the Base of the first Bone of the Little Finger. Action: To draw the Little Finger from the rest. Adductor Minimi Digiti, Vel Metacarpeus, vel Carpo-metacarpeus Minimi Digiti. Origin: Fleshy from the edge of the Hook-like Process of the Os Unciforme, and from that part of the Ligamentum Carpi Annulare next it. Insertion : Tendinous into the inner side, and ante- rior or under extremity, of the Metacarpal Bone of the Little Finger,Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 379 Action: To bend the Metacarpal Bone, and bring this Finger towards the rest. INTEROSSEI, Vel MetacarpO'phcdangei Later ales. Origin: From the sides of the Metacarpal Bones. They fill up the spaces between these, and are some- thing similar to the Lumbricales, but larger. Insertion : By slender Tendons, along with those of the Lumbricales, into the sides of the Tendinous Ex- pansions of the Extensor Digitorum Communis. Action: To give the Fingers their lateral motions, and to assist a little, according to the situations into which they may be brought by the other Muscles, in bending or extending the first Phalanx of the Fingers. Of the Interossei, four, seen in the Palm of the Hand, arise with single Heads, and are called Interni vel Palmares; and three on the back of the Hand, with double Heads, termed Externi^ yel Bicipites, vel Dor- sales. Part of the Externi, however, are also seen in the Palm of the Hand. INTEROSSEI INTERNI. Prior Indicis. Origifi: From the outer or Radial side of the Me- tacarpal Bone of the Fore Finger. Insertion: Into the outside of the Tendon on the back of the Fore Finger. Action: To draw the Finger outwards, towards the Thumb.S80 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet II. POSTERIOE InDICIS. Origin : From the Inner or Ulnar side of the Me- tacarpal Bone of the Fore Finger. Insertion : Into the inside of the Tendon on the back of the Fore Finger. Action : To draw the Fore Finger inwards. Prior Annularis. Origin : From the outside of the Metacarpal Bone of the Ring Finger. Insertion: Into the outside of the Tendon on the back of the Ring Finger. Action: to draw the Ring Finger outwards. Interosseus Auricularis. Origin : From the outside of the Metacarpal Bone of the Little Finger. Insertion : Into the outside of the Tendon on the back of the Little Finger. Action: To draw the Little Finger outwards. INTEROSSEI EXTERNI, Vel Prior Medii Digiti. Origin: From the corresponding sides of the Meta- carpal Bones of the Fore and Middle Fingers. Insertion: Into the outside of the Tendon on the back of the Middle Finger,Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 281 Action: To draw the Middle Finger outwards. POSTERIOE MeDII DiGITI. Origin : From the corresponding sides of the Meta- carpal Bones of the Middle and Ring Fingers. Insertion: Into the inside of the Tendon on the back of the Middle Finger. Action : To draw the Middle Finger inwards. Posterior Annularis. Origin : From the corresponding sides of the Meta- carpal Bones of the Ring and Little Fingers. Insertion: Into the inside of the Tendon on the back of the Ring Finger. Action: To draw the Ring Finger inwards. The Fore-arm is bent by the Biceps Flexor Cubiti and Brachialis Internus, the following Muscles, on ac- count of their attachments to the under end of the Os Humeri, assisting, though only in a small degree, viz. Palmaris Longus, Flexor Carpi Radialis, Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, Flexor Digitorum Sublimis, Supinator Radii Longus, et Pronator Radii Teres;—contended, by the Triceps Extensor Cubiti, and Anconeus. The Hand, which is here supposed to be placed by the side of the Body, with the Palm forwards, is bent by the Flexores Carpi Radialis et Ulnaris, assisted by the Palmaris Longus, Flexores Digitorum Sublimis et Profundus, and Flexor Longus Pollicis ;—moved bacJc- wards, by the Extensores Carpi Radialis Longior et Brevior, Digitorum Communis, et Secundi Internodiig82 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II PoUicis, and Indicator ;—moved laterally outwards, by the Flexor Carpi Radialis, Extensores Carpi Radialis Longior et Brevior, assisted by the Extensores Primi et Secundi Internodii "2oMici^'^—momdlaterally inwards, by the Flexor et Extensor Carpi Ulnaris, assisted by the Flexores Digitorum Sublimis et Profundus, and Extensor Digitorum Communis. By a succession of the above motions, the hand can move in a Circle. The Supination of the Hand is performed by the Su- pinator Radii Brevis, and Biceps Flexor Cubiti, assist- ed by the Supinator Radii Longus, and Extensor Se- cundi Internodii Pollicis ; and the Pronation by the Pronatores Radii Teres et Quadratus, assisted by the Palmaris Longus, Flexor Carpi Radialis, et Flexor Digitorum Sublimis. The Fingers are bent, at the First Joint, by the Lumbricales, Interossei, Flexores Digitorum Sublimis et Profundus, et Brevis Minimi Digiti;—at the Second Joint, by the Flexor Digitorum Sublimis, and in the Little Finger, by the Flexor Minimi Digiti;-—at the Third Joint, by the Flexor Digitorum Profundus.— Extended in all the Joints, by the Extensor Digitorum Communis, assisted in the Index by the Indicator; and when the Fingers are moved beyond a straight line with the Metacarpal Bones, the Interossei and Lumbricales then act with the common Extensor ;—moved laterally, by the Interossei, assisted in the Index by the Abductor Indicis, and in the Little Finger by the Abductor Mi- nimi Digiti;—moved in a Circle, at the first Joint, by a succession of the above motions. The Thumb, at the Root of the Metacarpal Bone, is brought towards the Middle of the Palm, by the Op poPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 283 nens Pollicis \-^rom the Palm, by the Extensores Os- sis Metacarpi, et Primi Internodii Pollicis;—moved towards the Fore Finger by the Adductor,—and in the contrary direction, by the Abductor Pollicis. By a succession of the above motions, the Thumb performs, at this Joint, its Rotation, At the first Joint, the Thumb is bent by the Flexor Brevis Pollicis ;—extended, by the Extensor Primi In- ternodii Pollicis. At the second Joint, hent by the Flexor Longus Pollicis ;—and extended by the Exten- sor Secu;idi Internodii Pollicis.284 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pabi 11. MUSCLES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES, MUSCLES ON THE PELVIS and THIGH, serv- ing FOR THE MOTION OF THE THIGH AND LEG. Aponeurosis of the Inferior Extremity. Previous to the description of the Muscles of the Inferior Extremity, it is proper to take notice of the Fascia Lata^ or Tendinous Expansion, -which, as in the Superior Extremity, forms a general Covering to the Muscles, and sends off Partitions between them, to be connected to the Ridges and Processes of the Bones. It is thick and strong on the outside of the Thigh and Leg, but towards the inner side of both, particu- larly on the former, it gradually becomes thinner, and has rather the appearance of Cellular Membrane. It descends from the Processes and other Projections on the outside of the Bones of the Pelvis, but more especially from the Tendons of the external Layers of the Muscles of the Loins and Abdomen,—See the de- scription of the upper part of this Fascia in p. 211.Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 285 A little below the Trochanter Major, it is intimately connected to the Linea Aspera. At the Joint of the Knee it receives additions from the Tendons of the Ex- tensors of the Leg, and is there connected with the outer and inner sides of the Heads of the Tibia and Fi- bula. In the Leg, it is firmly fixed to the Spines or Ridges of these Bones, and at the under end, to those of the Ankle, where part of it, thicker and stronger than the rest, is extended anteriorly from the Malleo- lus Internus and Os Naviculare, to the Malleolus Ex- ternus, and adjacent part of the Os Calcis, to form the Ligamentum Tarsi Annulare. It vanishes at last upon the Foot. It serves the same general purposes with the Aponeu- rosis of the Superior Extremities. Psoas Magnus, see p. 9S% Iliacus Internus, see p. 233. ' Pectinalis, vel Pectineiis, vel Super-pubio^emoralis, Origin : Broad and Fleshy, from the upper and fore part of the Os Pectinis vel Pubis, between the upper part of the Foramen Thyroideum and Brim of the Pel- vis. It runs downwards and outwards at the inner side of the Psoas Magnus. Insertion; By a flat and short Tendon, into the Linea Aspera of the Os Femoris, a little below the Trochanter Minor. Action: To pull the Thigh upwards and inwards, and to give it, and of course the Foot, a degree of ro- tation outwards.S86 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pakt II. Triceps Adductor Femoris. Under this appellation are comprehended these dis- tinct Muscles, viz. Adductor Longus^ Adductor Brevis, and Adductor Magnus. Adductor Longus, vel Pubio-femoralis, Origin : By a strong roundish Tendon, from the up- per and fore part of the Os Pubis, and Ligament of the Synchondrosis, at the inner side of the Pectinalis: It runs downwards and outwards. Insertion : By a broad flat Tendon, into the middle of the Linea Aspera. Adductor Brevis, vel Suh-pubio-fimoralis. Origin : Tendinous from the Os Pubis, at the side of its Symphysis, below and behind the former Muscle; it runs obliquely outwards. Insertion : By a short flat Tendon, into the ilmer and upper part of the Linea Aspera, from a little below the Trochanter Minor, to the beginning of the Inser- tion of the Adductor Longus. Adductor Magnus^ vel Ischio-^emoralis. Origin : From the side of the Symphysis Pubis, a little lower than the former. The Origin is continued downwards along the Crus and Tuberosity of the Os Ischium. The Fibres run outwards and downwards,Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 287 spreading out and forming a Muscle of great magni- tude. Insertion : Into the whole length of the Linea As-^ pera; the under part of the Muscle extending along the Ridge which leads to the inner Condyle of the Os Femoris. It is also fixed by a roundish Tendon, into the upper part of the Condyle, a little above which, the Femoral Artery, in its course towards the Ham, passes between the Tendon of this Muscle and the Bone. Action of the three Adductors : To bring the Thigh inwards and upwards, according to the different di- rections of their Fibres, and to assist a little in rolling it outwards. Obturator Externus, Vel Suh-puMo-trochantereus Eocternus. Origin : On the outer side of the Pelvis, by a semi- circular Margin, from the Parts of the Ossa Pubis and Ischium, which form the anterior half of the Foramen Thyroideum, and from the Membrane which fills up that Foramen. The Fibres run like rays towards a centre, and pass outwards over the back part of the Cervix of the Os Femoris. Insertion: By a strong round Tendon into the Cavity at the inner and back part of the Root of the Trochan- ter Major, adhering in its course to the Capsular Liga- ment of the Thigh-bone. Action : To roll the Thigh-bone obliquely outwards, and to prevent the Capsular Ligament from being pinched.S88 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Gluteus Maximus, vel Sacro-femoralis. Origin : Fleshy, from the back part of the Spine of the Os Ilium ; from the under and outer part of the Os Sacrum; from the Os Coccygis; and from the posterior Sacro-sciatic Ligament, over which part of the infe- rior edge hangs in a Flap. The Fibres are collected into coarse Fasciculi, which run obliquely forwards and a little downwards. The upper part of it covers almost the whole of the Trochanter Major, and it is intimately connected with the broad Tendon of the Tensor Vagi- nae Femoris. This Muscle is the largest of the Body, and composes the principal part of the Buttock. Insertion : By a strong, thick, and broad Tendon, into the upper and outer part of the Linea Aspera, along which it is continued for some way down. Action : To extend the Thigh, and pull it backwards and a little outwards. It extends also the Pelvis on the Thigh in standing ; and, assisted by the other Glutei, maintains the equilibrium of the Body on the lower Extremity, which rests on the ground, while the other is carried forwards, as in walking. Gluteus Medius, vel Ilio-trochantereus Magnus. Origin: Fleshy, from all that part of the Spine of the Os Ilium which is unoccupied by the Gluteus Maxi- mus; from the upper part of the Dorsum of that Bone; and from an Aponeurosis which covers the Muscle, and joins the Fascia of the Thigh. It sends off a broad Tendon, which has itsPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. ^9 Insertion: Into the outer and back part of the Tro- chanter Major. Action: To pull the Thigh outwards, and a little backwards. The fore part of the Muscle assists in roll- ing it inwards. Gluteus Minimus, vel Ilio-trochantereus Parvus, Origin : Fleshy, from the lower part of the Dorsum of the Os Ilium, Its Origin is continued from the su- perior-anterior Spinous Process, along a rising of the Bone, as far as the great Sciatic Notch ; and the Mus- cle runs in a radiated manner to a strong flat Tendon. Insertion : Into the fore and upper part of the Tro- chanter Major. Action: To assist the former in pulling the Thigh outwards, and a little backwards ; and, along with other Muscles, in rolling it inwards. Pyriformis, vel Sacro-trochantereus. Origin: By three Tendinous and Fleshy Heads, from the anterior Surface of the second, third, and fourth pieces of the Os Sacrum ; and, becoming round and tapering, it passes out of the Pelvis, along with the Sciatic Nerve, through the great Notch of the Ilium, from which it receives the addition of a few Fleshy Fi- bres. Insertion: By a roundish Tendon, into the upper part of the Cavity at the inner side of the root of the Trochanter Major. VOL. I, T290 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Action: To assist in the abduction of the Thigh, and in its rotation outwards. Gemini, vel Gemelli, vel Ischio-trochantereus. Origin: By two distinct Heads ; the superior from the Spinous Process, and the inferior from the Tube- rosity of the Os Ischium, and from the Sacro-sciatic Ligament. The two Heads are united by a Tendi- nous and Fleshy Membrane, and form a Sheath for the reception of the Tendon of the Obturator Internus. Insertion: Tendinous and Fleshy, into the Cavity at the inner side of the root of the Trochanter Major, on each side of the Tendon of the Obturator Internus, to which they firmly adhere. Action : To roll the Thigh outwards, and to prevent the Tendon of the Obturator Internus from starting out of its place while the Muscle is in action. Obturator Internus, Vel Marsupialis, vel Sub-pubio-trochantereus Internus. Origin : Within the Pelvis, by a semicircular Fleshy Margin, from the anterior half of the Foramen Thy- roideum, and, in part, from the Obturator Ligament. Its Fibres converge, and send off a round Tendon, which passes over the Os Ischium, between the Spine and Tuber of that Bone, as a rope passes over a pulley. ^Where it goes over the Capsular Ligament of the Thigh-bone, it is inclosed in the Sheath of the Gemini. Insertion : By a round Tendon, along with the Ge-Part 11.] OF THE MUSCLES. ^91 mini, into the large Pit at the root of the Trochanter Major. Action : To roll the Thigh obliquely outwards. QuADEATirs Femoris, vel Ischiosub'trochantereus, Origin: Tendinous and Fleshy, from the outer side of the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium; running trans- versely outwards. Insertion: Fleshy, into a rough Kidge continued from the root of the great to that of the small Tro- chanter. Action : To roll the Thig-^h outwards. This Muscle is occasionally wanting. The Pyriformis, Gemini, Quadratus, and Obturato- res, which are the Rotators of the Thigh when it is in a line with the Body, become its Abductors when it is in the bended state. Tensor Vaginae Femoris, Vel Ilio-aponeuroso-femoris. Origin: By a narrow. Tendinous, and Fleshy be- ginning, from the external part of the anterior-superior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium. It goes downwards, and a little backwards, forming a thick Fleshy Belly, which is inclosed in a doubling of the Aponeurosis or Vagina of the Thigh. Insertion : A little below the Trochanter Major, in- to the inner Surface of the Aponeurosis which covers the outside of the Thigh. . T S^92 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Action: To stretch the Aponeurosis, and to assist n the Abduction of the Thigh, and in its rotation in- wards. Sartorius, vel Ilio-pretibialis. Origin : Tendinous, from the superior-anterior Spi- nous Process of the Os Ilium, at the inner side of the Tensor Vaginae Femoris. It soon becomes Fleshy, runs obliquely downwards over the Muscles situated upon the fore and inner side of the Thigh, and is the long- est Muscle of the Body. Insertion: By a broad and thin Tendon, into the inner side of the Tibia, near the inferior part of its Tubercle. Action: To bend the Knee, and bring one Leg ob- liquely inwards across the other, as tailors do at their work, from which circumstance the Muscle obtains its name. Gracilis, vel Rectus Internus, vel Sub-puhio-pre- tihialis. Origin : By a thin Tendon, from the Os Pubis, near the Symphysis; soon becoming Fleshy, and descend- ing in a direct course by the inside of the Thigh. Insertion: Tendinous, into the Tibia, lower than the Sartorius. Action: To assist the Sartorius in making the full Flexion of the knee, after it has been bent to a certain degree by the Flexors on the back part of the Thigh.293 JPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Rfxtus, vel Gracilis Anterior^ vel Ilio-rotuleus. Origin : Fleshy, from the inferior-anterior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium; and Tendinous, from the Dorsum of that Bone, a little above the Acetabulum. It runs down over the anterior part of the Capsular Li- gament which incloses the Cervix of the Os Femoris, and, in its passage along the fore part of the Thigh, becomes gradually larger as far as its middle, after which it decreases towards its lower extremity. In the middle of the fore part of the Muscle, there is a lon- gitudinal Tendinous Line, from which Fleshy Fibres run off like the plumage of a feather ; the Tendon it- self being most conspicuous behind. Insertion: Tendinous, into the upper part of the Patella. Action : To extend the Leg. Cruralis, vel Crureus, or Middle of the Tri-femoro- rotuleus. Origin : Fleshy, from between the two Trochanters of the Os Femoris, but nearer the Minor ; and from the fore part of the Thigh-bone to near its under extremity. Its sides are intimately connected to both Vasti Mus- cles ; anteriorly, it is covered by the Rectus, the Ten- don of which it joins near the lower part of the Thigh, Insertion : Into the upper and back part of the Pa- tella, behind the Rectus. Action : To assist in the extension of the Leg.^94 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY, [Part II. Vastus Exteenus, Or Outer Part of the Tri-femoro-rotuleus. Origin: Broad, Tendinous, and Fleshy, from the outer part of the Root of the Trochanter Major. Its Origin is continued from the Trochanter, along the whole outer side of the Linea Aspera, to near the ex- ternal Condyle of the Os Femoris, by Fleshy Fibres, which form the principal part of the outer portion of the Thigh, and run obliquely forwards to a middle Tendon, where they terminate. Insertion : Into the upper and outer part of the Pa- tella, at the edge of the Tendon of the Rectus, with which it is connected. Part of it ends in an Aponeu- rosis, which is fixed to the Head of the Tibia, and af- terwards is continued to the Leg. Action : To extend the Leg. Vastus Internus, Or Inner part of the Tri-femoro-rotuleus. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from between the fore part of the Os Femoris, and root of the Trochanter Minor. The Origin is also continued along the whole inside of the Linea Aspera, by Fibres running oblique- ly forwards and downwards, which occupy the under and inner side of the Thigh. Insertion: Tendinous at the side of the Crureus, with which it is connected, into the upper and inner edge of the Patella, continuing Fleshy lower than the Vastuspaet ii.j of the muscles. m Externus. Part of it likewise ends in an Aponeurosis which is fixed to the Head of the Tibia, and afterwards is continued to the Leg. Action: To assist the three former Muscles in ex- tending the Leg; then the Patella, fixed to the Tu- bercle of the Tibia by a strong Ligament, supplies the office of a pulley. Semitendinosus, vel Ischio-jpretibialis. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, in common with the long Head of the Biceps, from the posterior part of the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium. Its Fleshy Belly runs down the back part of the Thigh, and sends off a long roundish Tendon, which, passing by the inner side of the Knee, afterwards becomes flat. Insertion : Into the inside of the Kidgeof the Tibia, a little below the Tubercle, and connected to the under edge of the Gracilis. Action : To bend the Leg, and, when bent, to roU it inwards. Semimembeanosus, vel Ischio-jpoplito-tibialis. Origi7i: By a broad flat Tendon, from the upper and back part of the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium. It is situated behind the Semitendinosus. The Fibres composing its Fleshy Belly form a semi-penniform Muscle, by running in an oblique direction towards a flat Tendon at its inner and under part. Insertion : Into the under and back part of the Head of the Tibia.296 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part 11. Action: To bend the Leg, and bring it directly backwards. Biceps Flexor Cruris, Vel Iscliio-femoro-peronedlis, Origin : By two distinct Heads. The first, or Long Head, arises in common with the Semitendinosus, from the upper and back part of the Tuberosity of the Os Ischium. The second, or Short Head, arises from the Linea Aspera, a little below the termination of the Gluteus Maximus, by a Fleshy acute beginning, which soon grows broader, as it descends to join the First Head a little above the external Condyle of the Os Femoris. Insertion : By a strong Tendon, into the upper and outer part of the Head of the Fibula. Action: To bend the Leg, and, when the Leg is bent, to roll it outwards. The Semitendinosus and Semimembranosus 'form the inner Ham-String, and the Biceps the outer Ham- String ; between these are situated the great Vessels and Nerves which run to the Leg. PoPLiTEUS, vel Femoro-poplito-tibialis. Origin: By a small round Tendon, from the outer and under part of the External Condyle of the Os Fe- moris, and from the back part of the Capsular Liga- ment of the Joint. In passing the Joint, it becomes Fleshy, and spreads out, the Fibres running obliquelyPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 297 inwards and downwards, covered by a Tendinous Mem- brane. Insertion: Thin and Fleshy, into a Ridge at the upper and inner part of the Tibia, a little below its Head. Action : To assist in bending the Leg, and, when the Leg is bent, to roll it inwards. The Muscle also pre- vents the Capsular Ligaments from being pinched. MOTIOKS OF THE ThIGH AKD LeG. The Thigh is movedJbrzmrds, by the Psoas Magnus and Iliacus Internus, assisted by the Pectinalis, Adduc- tor Longus, Adductor Brevis, and upper Portion of the Adductor Magnus Femoris, by the Tensor Vaginae Fe- moris, Sartorius, Gracilis, and Rectus Femoris;—back- wards, by the Glutei Maximus, Medius, et Minimus, under Portion of the Triceps Adductor Magnus, by the Semitendinosus, Semimembranosus, and long Head of the Biceps Flexor Cruris;—inwards, by the Psoas Mag- nus, Iliacus Internus, Pectinalis, Triceps Adductor Fe- moris, Sartorius, Gracilis, Semitendinosus, Semimem- branosus, Quadratus Femoris, Obturatores Externus et Internus;—outwards, hj the Glutei Maximus, Medius, et Minimus, and Tensor Vaginae Femoris. In the bent state, the Pyriformis, Gemini, Obturatores Externus et Internus, and Quadratus Femoris, become Abductors, By a succession of the motions mentioned above, the Knee can move in a Circle.—The Thigh is rolled in- wards, by the fore part of the Gluteus Medius, Gluteus Minimus, Tensor Vaginae Femoris, Sartorius, Gracilis, and Semitendinosus;—and rolled outwards, by the Py-m COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Past II. riformis, Gemini, Obturatores Externus et Internus, and Quadratus Femoris, assisted by the Psoas Magnus, Iliacus Internus, and Gluteus Minimus. In the bent state, the Muscles which were formerly the Abductors, now become the Rotators outwards. When the Leg is made the fixed point, the different Muscles which formerly moved the Thigh, now move the Trunk and Pelvis upon the Thigh. The Leg is bent, by the Semitendinosus, Semimem- branosus, Biceps Flexor Cruris, and Popliteus^ assist- ed by the Sartorius, Gracilis, Gastrocnemius Externus, and Plantaris;—extended^ by the Rectus Femoris, Cru- ralis, Vasti Externus et Internus. The Gluteus Maxi- mus, and Tensor Vaginae Femoris, from their connex- ions with the Fascia Lata Femoris, assist a little both in the flexion and extension of the Knee. In the bended state of the Leg, the Semitendinosus, Semimembrano- sus, Gracilis, and Popliteus, perform rotation inwards^ —and the Biceps Flexor Cruris, rotation outwards. MUSCLES SITUATED ON THE LEG AND FOOT, SERVING FOR THE MOTION OF THE FOOT AND TOES. Gastrocnemius Externus, vel Gemellus, vel Bifemo- ro-calcaneus. Origin: By two distinct Heads; one from the upper and back part of the internal Condyle of the Os Feme-Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 299 ris, and from a little above the Condyle, by two sepa- rate beginnings: The other, Tendinous, from the upper and back part of the external Condyle. A little below the Joint, their Fleshy Bellies meet in a middle Ten- don, the union behind giving the appearance of a lon- gitudinal Raphe. Below the middle of the Tibia, the Muscle sends off a broad thin Tendon, which, becom- ing gradually narrower, joins that of the Gastrocne- mius Internus, a little above the Ankle. Gastrocnemius Internum, Vel Soleus, vel Tibio-calcaneus. Origin : By two Heads. The first from the back of the Head, and upper and back part of the Body of the Fibula: The other from the back of the Ti- bia, running inwards along the under edge of the Popliteus, towards the inner part of the Bone, from which it receives Fleshy Fibres for some way down, and forms a Muscle, which is of the compound Penni- form kind. This is covered by the Tendon of the Gas- trocnemius Externus, and descends. Fleshy, nearly as far as the extremity of the Tibia, a little above which, the Tendons of both Gastrocnemii unite, and form a strong round Cord, cBlled Tendo Achillis, or simply Heel Tendon. Insertion : Into the upper and back part of the Os Calcis, by the projection of which the Tendo Achillis is enabled to act more powerfully upon the Foot. Action: To extend the Foot by raising the Heel. By the Bellies of the two Gastrocnemii, but particu- larly of the Externus, the Calf of the Leg is formed.300 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II/ Plantaris, vel Femoro-calcaneus Parvus. ' Origin : Thin and Fleshy, from the upper and back part of the external Condyle of the Os Femoris, and from the Capsular Ligament of the Joint. A little be- low the Head of the Fibula, it sends off a slender Ten- don, the longest of the Body, which descends obliquely inwards, between the inner Heads of the Gastrocnemii, and afterwards runs along the inner edge of the Tendo AcHiLLis, to which it is so closely connected, as to be sometimes overlooked. Insertion : Into the inside of the posterior part of the Os Calcis, below the Tendo Achillis. Action: To assist the Gastrocnemii, though in a small degree only, and to pull the Capsular Ligament of the Knee from between the Bones. It likewise agitates a Fatty substance belonging to the Bursa Mucosa, at the insertion of the Tendo Achillis. This muscle is sometimes, though very rarely, want- ing. Tibialis Anticus, vel Tihio-super-tarseus. Origin : Tendinous, from the upper and fore part of the Tibia, between its Tubercle and Articulation with the Fibula. It then runs down, Fleshy, on the outside of the Tibia, adhering to it and to the upper part of the Interosseous Ligament. Towards the inferior part of the Leg, it sends off a strong round Tendon, which passes under the Ligamentum Tarsi Annulare, nearPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 301 the inner Ankle, and, running over the Astragalus and Os Naviculare, it has its Insertion: Tendinous, into the middle of the Os Cuneiforme Internum and Base of the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe. Action : To bend the Foot. Tibialis Posticus, vel Tihio-suh-tarseus. Origin: Fleshy, from the upper and fore part of the Tibia, under the process which joins it to the Fi- bula ; then, passing through a Fissure in the upper part of the Interosseous Ligament, it continues its Origin from the back part of the Fibula, next the Ti- bia, and from near one half of the upper part of the last-named Bone, as also from the Interosseous Liga- ment. The Fibres run towards a middle Tendon, which, in its descent, becomes round, and passes in a Groove behind the Malleolus Internus. Insertion: Tendinous, chiefly into the upper and inner part of the Os Naviculare, and partly into the under Surface of the Tarsal Bones, by separate Slips, the last of which goes to the root of the Metatarsal Bone of the Middle Toe. Action : To extend the Foot, and, with the assist- ance of the Tibialis Anticus, to turn the Toes inwards, and the outer edge of the Foot downwards.S09. COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet II. Peroneus Longus, Vel Primus, vel Peroneo-suh-tarseus. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from the fore part of the Head of the Fibula; and Fleshy, from the outer part of that Bone, down to within a hand-breadth of the Ankle. The Fibres run in a penniform manner towards a long Tendon, which becomes round, and, in- closed in a Sheath, passes through a channel behind the Malleolus Externus. It is then reflected to the Sinuosity of the Os Calcis, runs along a Oroove in the Os Cuboides, and goes obliquely across the Bones in the middle of the Sole. Insertion: Tendinous, into the outside of the root of the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe, and partly into the Os Cuneiforme Internum. Action: To extend the Foot a little, to draw it out- Wards, and to turn the inner edge of it downwards. Peroneus Brevis, Vel Secundus, vel Peroneo-metatarseus Magnus. Origin : Fleshy, from the outer part of the Fibula, beginning some way above the middle height of the Bone, and continuing its adhesion as far as the Malleo- lus Externus. The Fibres run, like those of the former Muscle, to an external Tendon, which becomes round, passes behind the outer Ankle, where it is included in the same Sheath with the Tendon of the precedingPart II.] OF THE MUSCLES. SQS Muscle, and there crossing behind that Tendon, runs forward in a Sheath proper to itself. Insertion: Tendinous, into the root and external part of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. Action : To assist the former Muscle in pulling the Foot outwards, its outer edge upwards, and to extend it in a small degree. Extensor Longus Digitorum, Vel Peroneo-super-phalangeus Communis. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from the upper and outer part of the Head of the Tibia, and from the Head, and almost the whole length of the anterior Spine of the Fibula. It arises, also. Fleshy, from the Aponeurosis which covers the upper and outer part of the Leg, and from the Interosseous Ligament. Under the Ligamentum Tarsi Annulare, it splits into four round Tendons, which pass along the upper part of the Foot. Insertion: Into the Base of the First Phalanx of the four small Toes, by flat Tendons, which are afterwards expanded over the upper side of the Toes as far ah the root of the last Phalanx. Action : To extend all the Joints of the four small Toes, and to assist in the flexion of the Ankle.804 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Peroneus Tertius o/*Albinus, Vel Peroneo-metatarseus Minor^ Is a Portion of the Former Muscle. Origin: From the middle of the Fibula, in common with the Extensor Longus Digitorum. It continues down to near the Malleolus Externus, and sends its Fleshy Fibres forwards to a Tendon which passes under the Ligamentum Annulare. Insertion: Into the root of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. Action : To assist in bending the Foot. Extensor Brevis Digitorum, Vel Calco-super-phalangeus Communis. Origin: Fleshy and Tendinous, from the outer and fore part of the Os Calcis ; soon forming a Fleshy Belly, which is divided into four Portions. These send off an equal number of Tendons, which pass over the upper part of the Foot, crossing under those of the former Muscle. Insertion: By four slender Tendons, into the Great Toe, and Tendinous Expansion continued from the Long Extensors of all the Small Toes, excepting the little one. Action : To assist in the extension of the Toes.305 Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. Aponeurosis Plantaris. This, like the Aponeurosis Palmaris, is a strong Tendinous Expansion, which covers the Muscles, Ves- sels, and Nerves of the Sole. It arises from the Tuberosity at the under and back part of the Os Calcis, and is divided into three Por- tions, which run forwards, to be connected to the Heads of the Metatarsal Bones of all the Toes. The middle Portion is subdivided into five Slips, which split at the roots of the Toes, and embrace the Tendons of the Flexor Muscles. Besides serving the general purpose of Aponeuroses, it performs the office of a Ligament, by binding the two ends of the Arch of the Foot together. Flexor Brevis Digitorum, Vel Flexor Sublimis, vel Flexor Perforans^ vel Calco- suh-flialangeus Communis. Origin : Narrow and Fleshy, from the inferior-ante^ rior part of the Tuberosity of the Os Calcis, and from the Aponeurosis Plantaris. It forms a thick Fleshy Belly, which sends off four small Tendons, that split for the passage of the Tendons of the Flexor Longus. Insertion : Into the second Phalanx of the four small Toes. Action: To bend the first and second Joints of the Toes, but particularly the second. The Tendon of the Little Toe is frequently wanting. VOL I. u806 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Fart Flexor Longus Digitorum, Vel Flexor Profundus, vel Flexor Perjbrans, vel Tibio- phalangeus Communis. Origin: By an acute Tendon, which soon becomes Fieshy, from the back part of the Tibia, at the under edge of the Popliteus; and this Origin is continued down the inner edge of the Bone, by short Fleshy Fi- bres ending in a large Tendon. It arises also by 'I'en- dinous and Fleshy Fibres, from the outer edge of the Tibia; and between this double order of Fibres, ihq Tibialis Posticus lies inclosed. After going under two Annular Ligaments behind the inner Ankle, it passes, through a Sinuosity at the inside of the Os Calcis; and about the middle of the Sole, receives a Tendon from the Flexor Longus Pollicis. It then divides into four Tendons, which run through the slits of the Per- foratus. Insertion : Into the Base of the third Phalanx of the four smaller Toes; the Tendons of this, as well as of the Flexor Brevis, being inclosed upon the Toes by Annular Ligaments. Action: To bend the different Joints, particularly the last one of the Toes. Flexor Digitorum Accessorius, Vel Massa Carnea Jacobi Sylvii. Origin: By two Portions; the inner Fleshy, from the Sinuosity of the Os Calcis; the outer Tendinous,Paet Il.j OF THE MUSCLES. 807 but soon becoming Fleshy, from the fore and outer part of that Bone. Insertion: Into the Tendon of the Flexor Longus Digitorum, before it divides into smaller Tendons. Action : To assist the Flexor Longus. LuMBRiCALEs, vel Planto-suh-pholangeus, Origin : By four Tendinous and Fleshy beginnings, from the Tendon of the Flexor Profundus, just before its division. They run forwards, under the same ge- neral appearance with those in the Hand, but are some- what smaller. Insertion : By four slender Tendons, at the inside of the first Joint of the four small Toes, into the Tendi- nous Expansion sent from the Extensors to cover the upper part of the Toes. Action: To increase the flexion of the Toes, and to draw them inwards. Extensor PKornius Pollicis, Vel Extensor Longus^ vel Peroneo-super^pJialangeus Pollicis. Origin: By an acute, Tendinous, and Fleshy be- ginning, from the fore part of the Fibula, some way below its Head. It continues the Origin from the same Bone to near the outer Ankle, by Fleshy Fibres which descend obliquely towards a Tendon. Insertion: Tendinous, into the posterior part of both the Bones of the Great Toe. , u 2308 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Action: To extend the Great Toe, and assist in bending the Ankle., Flexor Longus Pollicis, Vel Peroneo-suh-phalangeus Pollicis. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from the back part of the Fibula, some way below its Head; being con- tinued below the same Bone, almost to its under end, by a double order of oblique Fleshy Fibres. Its Ten- don passes under an Annular Ligament behind the inner Ankle, and then through a Fossa in the Astra- galus. Insertion: Into the last Joint of the Great Toe. Action : To bend the Great Toe, particularly the last Joint. / Flexor Brevis Pollicis, Vel Tarso-suh-phalangeus Pollicis. Origin: Tendinous, from the under and fore part of the Os Calcis, and from the Os Cuneiforme Exter- num. It is inseparably united with the Abductor and Adductor Pollicis. Insertion : Into the external Os Sesamoideum, and root of the First Bone of the Great Toe. Action : To bend the first Joint of the Great Toe. Abductor Pollicis, vel Calco-sub-phalangeus Pollicis. Origin : Fleshy, from the anterior and inner part of the Protuberance of the Os Calcis, and Tendinous from the same Bone, where it joins with the Os Naviculare.Paet II.] OF THE MUSCLES. 309 * Insertion : Tendinous, into the internal Os Sesamoi- deum, and root of the first Bone of the Great Toe. Action : To pull the Great Toe from the rest. Adductoe Pollicis, Vel Metatarso-suh-phalangeus Pollicis. Origin: By a long thin Tendon, from the under part of the Os Calcis, from the Os Cuboides, from the Os Cuneiforme Externum, and from the root of the Meta- tarsal Bone of the Second Toe. The Muscle is divid- ed into two Fleshy Portions. Insertio7i: Into the external Os Sesamoideum, and root of the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe. Action: To pull the Great Toe towards the rest. Abductor Minimi Digiti, Vel Calco-sub-phalangeus Minimi Digiti. Origin : Tendinous and Fleshy, from the edge of a Cavity on the under part of the Protuberance of the Os Calcis, and from the root of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. Insertion : Into the outer part of the root of the first Bone of the Little Toe. Action: To draw the Little Toe outwards.310 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Flexor Brevis Minii^^i Digiti, Vel Tarso-suh-plialangeus Minimi Digitu Origin : Tendinous, from the Os Cuboides, near the Groove for lodging the Tendon of the Peroneus Lon- gus ; and Fleshy, from the outer and back part of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. Insertion : Into the anterior extremity of the Meta- tarsal Bone, and root of the first Bone of the Little Toe. Action : To bend this Toe. Transversalis, Vel Metatarsosuh-phalangeus Transversalis Pollicia, Origin : Tendinous, from the under and fore part of the Metatarsal Bone of the Great Toe, and from the external Os Sesamoideum of the first Joint. It forms a Fleshy Belly, which runs transversely between the Metatarsal Bones and Flexor Muscles of the four Small Toes. Insertion : Tendinous^ into the under and outer part of the anterior extremity of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe, and Ligament of the Toe next it. Action: To contract the Foot, by bringing the roots of the outer and inner Toes towards each other.^1 i>AET li.] OF THE muscle! INTEROSSEI, Vel Metatarso-phalangei Laterales. The Interossei arise Tendinous and Fleshy from the Metatarsal Bones, and fill the spaces between them. Three, called Interni, vel Plantares, arise with single Heads, and are placed in the Sole ; and four, termed Externi^ vel Bicipites, vel Dor sales, arise with double Heads, and appear on both sides of the Foot. The Insertion of all the Interossei is, by slender Tendons, into the Expansion sent off from the Tendons of the Lumbricales, and of the Extensor Muscles of the Toes. INTEl^OSSEI INTERNI. Prior, vel Abductor Medii Digiti. Origin: From the inside of the Metatarsal Bone of the Middle Toe. Ifisertion: Into the inside of the root of the first Bone of the Middle Toe. Action : To pull the Middle Toe inwards, or towards' the inner side of the Foot. Prior, vel Abductor Tertii Digiti. Origin: From the inner and under part of the Me- tatarsal Bone of the third of the small Toes. Insertion: Into the inside of the root of the first Bone of the third of the small Toes. Action : To pull the third of the small Toes inwards.312 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part II. Prior, vel Adductor Minimi Digiti. Origin : From the inside of the Metatarsal Bone of the Little Toe. Insertion: Into the inside of the root of the first Bone of the Little Toe. Action: To pull the Little Toe inwards. INTEROSSEI EXTERNI, vel Bicipites. Prior, vel Abductor Indicis. 0?'igin: From the contiguous sides of the Metatar- sal Bones of the Great and Fore Toes. Insertion: Into the inside of the root of the first Bone of the Fore Toe. Action : To pull the Fore Toe inwards. Posterior, vel Adductor Indicis. Origin : From the contiguous sides of the Metatarsal Bones of the Fore Toe, and second of the small Toes. Insertion: Into the outside of the root of the first Bone of the Fore Toe. Action : To pull the Fore Toe outwards. Posterior, vel Adductor Medii Digiti. Origin : From the contiguous sides of the Metatar- sal Bones of the second and third of the small Toes, 4Part II.] OF THE MUSCLES. SIS Insertion: Into the outside of the root of the first Bone of the second of the small Toes. Action : To pull this Toe outwards. Posterior, vel Adductor Tertii Digiti. Origin : From the contiguous sides of the Metatar- sal Bones of the third and fourth of the small Toes. Insertion: Into the outside of the root of the first Bone of the third of the small Toes. Action : To pull this Toe outwards. Motions of the Foot and Toes. The Foot is bent, or its fore part raised, by the Ti- bialis Anticus, Extensor Digitorum Longus, Perdneus Tertius, and Extensor Proprius Pollicis;—extended, by the Gastrocnemii Externus et Internus, and Plantaris, assisted by the Tibialis Posticus, Peronei Longus etBre- vis, Flexores Longus Digitorum et Pollicis ;—the fore part turned inwards, by the Tibialis Anticus et Posti- cus, assisted by the Extensor Pollicis Proprius, Flexo- res Longus Digitorum et Pollicis ;—turned outwards, by the Peronei Longus, Brevis, et Tertius, and Ex- tensor Longus Digitorum. The inner edge turned upwards, by the Tibiales Anticus et Posticus;—the outer edge raised, by the Peronei Longus et Brevis. By being bent, extended, and moved laterally, the Foot performs its circular motion. The Toes are bent at the first Joint, by the Lumbri- cales, Interossei, Flexores Digitorum Brevis et Longus, assisted, in the Little Toe, by the Flexor Brevis, etni4 COMPENDIUM OF ANATdMY. [^a^t it. Abductor Minimi Digiti; extended, by the Exten- sores Longus et Brevis Digitorum ; and when the Toes are moved beyond a straight line with the Metatarsal Bones, the Lumbricales and Interossei assist the Ex- tensors;—moved laterally, by the Interossei, according as they happen to be placed upon the Tibial or Fibu- lar side of the Toes, and these assisted in the Little Toe by the Abductor Minimi Digiti; hent at the se- cond Joint, by the Flexor Brevis, and at the third Joint, by the Flexores Profundus et Accessorius Digitorum; —extended, by the Extensores Longus et Brevis Digi- torum. The Great Toe is hent, by the Flexores Lon- gus et Brevis PoUicis, assisted occasionally by the Adductor and Abductor;—extended, by the Exten- sores Proprius Pollicis et Brevis Digitorum;—moved inwards, by the Abductor,—and outwards, by the Ad- ductor Pollicis, and Transversalis Pedis.PART III. OF THE BURS^ MUCOSA; AND OF THE LIGAMENTS AND OTHER PARTS OF THE JOINTS.OF THE BURSJE MUCOSA IN GENERAL. 1 HE BuRSiE Mucosae belong chiefly to the Extremi- ties, though a few exist also in other parts of the Body. The greater number of them are constant, some are met with only occasionally. They are found between parts exposed to friction, as between Tendons and Bones, where these play upon each other, as at the insertion of the Biceps Flexor Cubiti. Or between Tendon and Cartilage, as where the Pe- roneus Longus crosses the Sole : Or completely surrounding the Tendons, and lining their Sheaths, as around the Tendons of the Flexores Digitorum : Or where Tendons rub on each other, as between those of the Extensores Carpi Radiales and Extensores Pollicis: Or between Tendons and External Parts, as over the Tendons of the Flexores Digitorum in the Palm of the Hand : Or between Tendons and Ligaments of the Joints, as between the Tendons of the Flexores Digitorum and Ligamentum Carpi Capsulare. They are found in a few places where Processes of Bone play upon Ligaments, as between the Acromion Scapulae and Capsular Ligament of the Humerus :318 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. Or where the Bones play on each other, as between the Clavicle and Coracoid Process of the Scapula. Some of the Bursas of contiguous Tendons commu- nicate with each other, as between the Extensor Carpi Radialis and Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis. Others communicate, not only in Adults, but often also in Children, with the Cavity of the Joints, as be- hind the Tendon of the Extensors of the Leg ; though this is more frequently the case in advanced age. The Bursas in general are either of a roundish or oval form, from which they have been arranged under two classes, viz. the Spherical and Vaginal. Their structure is the same with that of the inner Layer of the Capsular Ligament of the Joints. Like that, they are formed of a thin Pellucid Serous Membrane, possessing little sensibility in the sound state, and joined to the surrounding parts by Cellular Substance, which, in many places, is intermixed with Fat. Like the Capsule of the Joint, they have commonly a thin Layer of Cartilage, or of tough Membrane, be- tween them and the Bone. Like it, they have reddish-coloured Masses of Fat, projecting into their Cavities, from the edges of which Fringes are sent off; as behind the Ligament of the Patella, or at the insertion of the Tendo Achillis. Like it also, the inside of the Bursas is remarkably smooth, being lubricated with the same kind of Gelati- nous Fluid which is found in the Cavities of the Joints, and which serves the same general purpose with that of the Joints, viz. to lessen friction, and prevent the consequences which would otherwise result from it.Part III.] OF THE BURSJE MUCQSm 319 BURSiE MUCOSJE THE HEAD AND NECK. The Bursas of the Head and Neck are small when compared with those of the Extremities. The follow- ing have been lately described by Authors, viz. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Superior Obrp lique Muscle of the Eye and its Trochlea. A Bursa belonging to the Tendon of the Digastric^ Muscle, where it is fixed to the Os Hyoides. A Bursa belonging to the Tendon of the Circum-: flexus Palati, where it plays upon the inner Plate of the Pterygoid Process of the Sphenoid Bone. A Bursa under the Masseter. A Bursa under the upper end of the Sterno-hyoi^ deus.320 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. BURS^ MUCOSAE OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. BuRs^ about the Joint of the Shoulder. A SMALL Bursa sometimes found between the Ten- don of the Subclavius and Cartilage of the first Rib. A Bursa under the Clavicle, where it plays upon the Coracoid Process of the Scapula. A large Bursa between the Acromion Scapulas and Ligament joining it to the Coracoid Process, and the Capsular Ligament of the Humerus. A small Bursa between the Point of the Coracoid Process and Capsular Ligament of the Humerus. This is sometimes wanting. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Subscapularis Muscle and Capsular Ligament of the Humerus, which frequently communicates with the Cavity of the Joint. A small Bursa under the Tendon of the Infra-Spi- natus. A Bursa, not constant, between the Origin of the Co-Part III.] OF THE BURS^ MUCOSAE. 3^1 raco-brachialis and short Head of the Biceps Flexor Cubiti, and Capsular Ligament of the Humerus. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Teres Major and the Os Humeri, and upper part of the Tendon of the Latissimus Dorsi. A small Bursa between the Tendon of the Latissi- mus Dorsi and Os Humeri. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Long Head of the Biceps Muscle and Body of the Humerus. BuKS-E about the Joint of the Elbow. A Bursa, with a Peloton or Mass of Fat, between the Tendon of the Biceps, and a Cartilage which in- crusts the Tubercle of the Radius. A small Bursa between the Tendon common to the Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior, Extensor Digitorum Communis, and Round Head of the Radius. A small Bursa, not very constant, between the TenT don of the Triceps Extensor Cubiti and Olecranon. A small Bursa between the Head of the Radius and Anconeus. Between the Integuments of the Elbow, and Olecra- non of the Ulna, a Sac is found, especially in an old person, which is sometimes filled with a Glairy Fluid. BuRSiE upon the Under part of the Fore-Arm and the Hand. A very large Bursa surrounding the Tendon of the Flexor Pollicis Longus. VOL. I. Xm COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. Four long Bursas lining the Sheaths which inclose the Tendons of the Flexors upon the Fingers. Four Short Bursas on the fore part of the Tendons of the Flexor Digitorum Sublimis in the Palm of the Hand. A large Bursa between the Tendon of the Flexor PoUicis Longus and the fore part of the Radius, and between the Capsular Ligament of the Wrist and Os Trapezium. A large Bursa between the Tendons of the Flexor Digitorum Profundus, and the fore part of the end of the Radius and Capsular Ligament of the Wrist. These two last-mentioned Bursae are sometimes found to communicate with each other. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Radialis and Os Trapezium. An inconstant Bursa between the Tendon of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris and Os Pisiforme. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi PoUicis and Radius. A large Bursa common to the Extensores Carpi Ra- diales, where they cross behind the Extensor Ossis Me- tacarpi PoUicis. Another Bursa common to the Extensores Carpi Ra- diales, where they cross behind the Extensor Secundi Internodii PoUicis. A third Bursa at the In^^rtion of the Tendon of the Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. A Bursa for the Tendon of the Extensor Secundi Internodii PoUicis, which communicates with the second Bursa common to the Extensores Carpi Radiales. Another Bursa between the Tendon of the ExtensorPart III.] OF THE BURSiE MUCOSiE, S^S Secundi Internodii Pollicis and Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb. A Bursa between the Tendons of the Extensor of the Fore, Middle, and Ring Fingers, and Ligament of tFe Wrist. A Bursa for the Tendons of the Extensor of the Little Finger. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Extensor Car- pi Ulnaris. Sometimes minute Bursae are found between the Tendons of the Lumbricales and Interossei, at the Roots of the Fingers.324 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. BURS^ MUCOS-^ OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. BuRs^ upon the Pelvis and upper Part of the Thigh, A VERY large Bursa between the Iliacus Internus and Psoas Magnus, and Capsular Ligament of the Thigh- bone. This is sometimes found communicating with the Cavity of the Joint, particularly in an old person. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Pectinalis and Thigh-bone, and sometimes, A small Bursa between the Tendon of the Psoas Magnus, Iliacus Internus, and Trochanter Minor. A small Bursa between the Gluteus Medius and Tro- chanter Major, and before the Insertion of the Tendon of the Pyriformis. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Gluteus Mini- mus and Trochanter Major. A small Bursa between the Obturator Internus, Ge- minus Inferior, and Gluteus Maximus. A large Bursa between the Gluteus Maximus and Vastus Externus.Part III.] OF THE BURS^ MUCOSAE. 3^5 A Bursa between the Gluteus Medius and Pyriformis. A Bursa between the Obturator Internus and Os Ischium. An oblong Bursa continued a considerable way be- ween the Obturator Internus and Gemini, and Capsu- lar Ligament of the Thigh-bone. A small Bursa at the Head of the Semimembranosus an Biceps Flexor Cruris. A small Bursa between the Origin of the Semiten- dinosus and that of the two former Muscles. A large Bursa between the Tendon of the Gluteus Maximus and root of the Trochanter Major. Two small Bursas between the Tendon of the Glu- teus Maximus and Thigh-bone. BuRs^ about the Joint of the Knee. A superficial Bursa frequently found between the Periosteum covering the fore part of the Patella, and the Tendinous Expansion over it. A large Bursa behind the Tendon of the Extensors of the Leg. This, in young Subjects, is separated from the Cavity of the Joint by a thin Partition, con- sisting of the Capsular Ligament and the Bursa inti- mately connected ; but, in old people, it very frequent- ly communicates with the Joint by a large Opening. A Bursa behind the Ligament which joins the Pa- tella to the Tibia, in the upper part of the Cavity of which a Fatty Substance projects. A large Bursa between the Tendons of the Sartorius, Gracilis, Semitendinosus, and Tibia. A Bursa between the Tendons of the Semimembra-S26 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part IIL nosus, Gastrocnemius Externus, and Ligament of the Knee. This Bursa contains a small one within it, from which there is a passage leading into the Cavity of the Joint. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Semimembra- nosus and the internal Lateral Ligament of the Knee, from which also there is a passage leading into the Joint. A Bursa under the Popliteus, likewise communicat- ing with the Cavity of the Knee-joint. BuRs.E aho^it the Ankle. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Tibialis Anticus and under part of the Tibia and Ligament of the Ankle. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Extensor Pro- prius Pollicis Pedis, and the Tibia, and Capsular Li- gament of the Ankle. A Bursa between the Tendons of the Extensor Di- gitorum Longus and Ligament of the Ankle. A large Bursa common to the Tendons of the Pe- ronei Muscles. A Bursa proper to the Tendon of the Peroneus Brevis. A Bursa between the Tendo Achillis and Os Cal- cis, into the Cavity of which a Peloton of Fat projects. A Bursa between the Os Calcis and Flexor Pollicis Longus. A Bursa between the Flexor Digitorum Longus, and the Tibia and Os Calcis. A Bursa between the Tendon of the Tibialis Posti- cus, and the Tibia and Astragalus.Paet III.] OF THE BURSiE MUCOSAE. m BuRS^ in the Sole of the Foot. A second Bursa for the Tendon of the Peroneus Longus, with an oblong Peloton of Fat within it. A Bursa common to the Tendon of the Flexor Pol- licis Longus, and that of the Flexor Digitorum Pro- fundus, at the upper end of which a Fatty substance projects. A Bursa for the Tendon of the Tibialis Posticus. A Bursa lining the Sheath of each of the Tendons of the Flexors upon the Toes.S28 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part IIL OF THE LIGAMENTS, &c. OF THE JOINTS. Ligaments are wJiitey strong, Jlexible Substances, of an intermediate firmness to Cartilage and common Membrane. They are composed of Fibres variously disposed; the greater part of them, however, running in a longi- tudinal direction. The Ligaments of moveable Joints arise, for the most part, at the junction of the Bodies of the Bones with their Epiphyses, from the Cervioj, and beyond the edges of the articulating Cartilage of one Bone, and are fixed, in a similar manner, into the correspond- ing parts of the Bone adjoining. The Ligaments thus fixed are called Capsular, from their forming a Purse or Bag, which includes the Joint. Where variety of motion is allowed, the Capsular Ligament is nearly of equal strength round the wholePart III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. circumference of the Joint; but, where the Joint is of the nature of a Hinge, the Ligaments are strongest at the sides of that Hinge, or are there strengthened by the addition of Ligamentous Slips, termed Lateral Li- gaments, which assist in regulating the motion of the Joints. The outer part of the Capsular Ligament is formed of a continuation of the Periosteum, which is connected ~ to the surrounding parts by Cellular Substance; while the inner Layer,—remarkably thick and dense,—is re- flected over the Bones and Cartilages which the Liga- ment includes; one part of it thus forming Periosteum^ and the other Perichondrium. In certain parts of the Body, besides the Ligaments mentioned above, there are others for the firm con- nexion of the Bones, or for confining the motion to one particular side ; as the Round Ligament of the Thigh, or Crucial or Lateral Ligaments of the Knee. Wherever the Ligaments are few, long, and weak, the motions are more extensive ; and, on the contrary, where the Ligaments are numerous, short, and strong, the motions are more limited. Ligaments have numerous Blood-vessels, which can be readily injected. Upon the inner Surface of the Capsular Ligaments, their Arteries secrete a Liquor which assists in the lu- brication of the Joints. The Nerves of Ligaments are very minute, but in some parts can be easily traced upon their Surface. The Sensibility of Ligaments, in the sound state, is inconsiderable ; when in a state of inflammation, how- ever, they are found to occasion extreme pain.330 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. Use : The Capsular Ligaments connect Bones toge- ther, assist in the Secretion of the Synovia which they contain, and prevent the other parts in the Joint from being pinched. The other Ligaments join Bones together, and pre- serve them in their proper situation. In many parts, the Ligaments give attachment to Tendons, and in some they supply the place of Bone, and give Origin to Muscles, as in the Foramina Thy- roidea of the Pelvis, and between the Bones ^ of the Fore-Arms and Legs. In some parts, they assist in connecting immoveable Bones, as at the Os Sacrum and Os Innominatum: In others, they form a Socket in which moveable Bones play, as where part of the Astragalus moves on the Ligament stretched between the Os Calcis and Os Sea- phoides. Synovial Organs, Commonly called Glands of the Joints. These are Masses of Fat found in the greater num- ber of the Joints, covered with a continuation of the inner Layer of the Capsular Ligament, and projecting in such a manner as to be gently pressed, but not bruised, by the motions of the Joint; and, in propor- tion as these motions are more or less frequent, the li- quor which they secrete is discharged in a greater or smaller quantity. In some Joints, they have the same appearance with the Common Fat of the Body ; in others, they are of aPart III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 331 redder colour, from the numerous Blood-vessels dis- persed upon them. They have been generally considered as Glands lodg- ed within masses of Fat; but, upon a minute inspec- tion, no knotty or Glandular Bodies are to be found in them; nor have they the appearance of Glands farther than in being secreting Substances; which circumstance alone assimilates them to the nature of Glands. From the edges of these Fatty Bodies, there are pen- dulous Fimbrice, which convey a lubricating Liquor, called Synovia^ into the Cavity of the Joints. From the extremities of these Fringes, the Liquor can be readily squeezed out by pressure ; but their Ca- vities and Orifices are so minute, or are otherwise of such a nature, as to have hitherto eluded discovery. The Fimbriae have been generally considered as Ex- cretory Ducts of Glands within the Joints. Dr Monro, however, in his Work upon the Bursas Mucosae, sup- poses them to be of the nature of the Follicles of the Urethra, which prepare a Mucilaginous Liquor, with- out the assistance of any knotty or Glandular Organ. The Arteries which supply these Bodies with Blood for their Secretion, and the Veins which return the Blood after the Secretion has been performed, can be readily seen; but no Nerves can be traced in them; nor does it appear that they possess a higher degree of Sen- sibility than the other parts of the Joints already de- scribed, although, when they inflame and suppurate, they have in some instances been observed to occasion the most excruciating pain. The Synovia, which is a thin Mucilaginous Liquor resembling the glair of an egg, appears to be furnishedCOMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pabt IIL not only by the substances already mentioned, but also by the extremities of Arteries on the inner Surface of the Capsular Ligaments in general, and serves for the lubrication of the Joints ; for which purpose it is well adapted, being remarkably slippery to the touch. Synovia is found to be composed of Water, mixed with a small proportion of Gelatin, Mucilage, Albu- men, and common Salt. LIGAMENTS of the HEAD and TRUNK. Ligaments of the Lower Jaw. The Capsular Ligament on each side, which arises from the whole Margin of the Articular Cavity of the Temporal Bone, and is inserted, first into the edge of the Interarticular Cartilage, formerly taken notice of, and afterwards round the Cervix of the Lower Jaw. This Ligament, like others which belong to Joints of the hinge kind, is thickest and strongest at the sides of the Joint, to confine the lateral motion of the Jaw. By it the Jaw is allowed to move upwards, down- wards, or a little forwards or backwards, or to either side ; and the motions are rendered easier by the inter- vention of the Interarticular Cartilage, which follows the Condyle in its different motions. The Suspensory Ligament of the Stylo-glossus, which is attached by one end to the Styloid Process, and to a Ligament running from that Process to the Os Hyoides, and by the other end to the Angle of the Lower Jaw;—Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 333 serving to support the Stylo-glossus, and to give origin to part of it. The Lateral Ligament, which arises from the Margin of the Articular Cavity of the Temporal Bone, and is inserted into the inner Surface of the Angle of the Lower Jaw, near its posterior Foramen ;—assisting to keep the Jaw in situ, and to prevent the inferior Maxil- lary Vessels and Nerve from being injured by the ac- tion of the Pterygoid Muscle. Ligaments connecting the Head with the first and se- cond Vertebra of the Neck, and these two Verte- BRiE with each other. The two Capsular Ligaments, which arise from the margin of the superior articulating Processes of the Atlas, and are inserted into the Base of the Condyles of the Occipital Bone, where the Head has its flexion and extension without rotation. The Circular Ligament, which arises from the edge of the Spinal Hole of the first Vertebra, is connected with the Capsular Ligaments of the superior articu- lating Processes of the Atlas, and is inserted into the edge of the Foramen Magnum of the Occipital Bone. The two Capsular Ligaments, which fix the inferior oblique Processes of the Atlas to the superior oblique of the Vertebra Dentata, and admit of the rotation of the Head, with a small degree of flexion to either side. The Perpendicular Ligament, which fixes the Pro- cessus Dentatus of the Second Vertebra to the edge of the anterior part of the Foramen Magnum, between8S4 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. the Condyloid Processes, and which is twisted in the rotation of the Head. The Two Lateral, or Moderator Ligaments, which arise each from the side of the Processus Dentatus, and run outwards and upwards, to be fixed to the inner part of the side of the Atlas, and to the inner edge of the Foramen Magnum at the fore part of the Condyles. They are short, but of great strength, and prevent the Head from turning too far round. The Transverse Ligament, which arises from the inner side of the Atlas, and going across behind the Processus Dentatus, is fixed to the opposite side of the Atlas. The edges of this Ligament extend upwards and downwards, and form two Processes, called its Appen- dices, which are fixed to the Foramen Magnum and Processus Dentatus. The middle of the Ligament is remarkably firm where that Process plays upon it. It keeps the Processus Dentatus in its place, and prevents it from injuring the Spinal Marrow in the different motions of the Head. In persons who suffer Death from suspension by the Neck, this Ligament, and some of the others near it, are sometimes so much ruptured, as to allow a partial dislocation to take place, or the Processus Dentatus to be thrust back upon the Spinal Marrow; but this is not a common occurrence. Ligaments of the other Vertebr.e. The Anterior common Ligament of the Vertebrae, which is a strong Tendinous band, extending along thePart III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 835 convex or outer part of the Vertebrae, from the upper to the under region of the Spine. It begins at the se- cond Cervical Vertebra, and descends as far as the Os Sacrum, where it spreads out, becomes thinner, and vanishes about the under part of this Bone. It is much thicker upon the fore part than on the sides of the Vertebrae, by which the Bones are more firmly united anteriorly^ and is thinnest in the Neck and Loins, where the motions of the Spine are greatest. Internally it is blended with the Periosteum, and,. through its whole course, it sends off small Processes to be fixed to the Bodies of the Vertebrae, by which their connexion is made more secure. While it assists in binding the Vertebrae together, it prevents the Spine from being stretched too much backwards. The Crucial Intervertebral Ligaments, which are numerous and short, but strong, situated behind the Ligamentum Commune Anterius, crossing each other obliquely. They join the Bodies of the Vertebrae to- gether, upon the outer edges of the Intervertebral Substances, to which also they firmly adhere. The Intervertebral Substances, (already described along with the Bones), which join the Bodies of the Vertebrae together, and allow an yielding motion in all directions. These Substances are so compressible as to yield to the weight of the upper part of the Body ; so that, after having been in an erect posture through the course of the day, the height of a person of middle stature, and in the prime of life, is diminished from half an inch to an inch in the evening; but, after a night's rest in the usual attitude, it is completely restored.366 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. The Ligaments which run from the edge of the Bony Arch and Spinous Process of one Vertebra to that of the next, so as to assist in filling up the Interstices, and in fixing the Vertebrse together. A Ligamentous Cord which fixes the Points of the Spinous Processes together. The Cervical Ligament, termed Ligamentum Nuchce, vel Colli, which arises from the perpendicular Spine of the Occipital Bone, and descends on the back part of the Neck, adhering to the Spinous Processes of the Cervical Vertebrae, and giving Origin to part of the Trapezius. Ligaments between the Transverse Processes of the Vertebrae of the Back, fixing these Processes to each other. The Capsular Ligaments, which join the articulat- ing Processes to each other. The Posterior or Internal Common Ligament of the Vertebras, somewhat similar to the anterior one. It begins at the anterior edge of the Foramen Mag- num, and passes along the inner or concave part of the Bodies of the Vertebrae, becoming broader over each of the Intervertebral Substances. It adheres firmly to the upper and under edges of the Bones, and ter- minates at the lower part of the Os Sacrum. It pre- vents the Spine from being too much bent forwards. Ligaments of the Ribs. The Capsular Ligaments of the Heads of the Ribs, which arise from these Heads, and are fixed to the Cir- cumference of the Pits in the sides of the Bodies of thePaet III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 887 Vertebrae and Intervertebral Cartilages, The outer part of each Ligament sends off, or is connected with, radiated Fibres which are spread out upon the sides of the Vertebrae. The Capsular Ligaments of the Tubercles oftheMihs, which arise round the Articular Pits on the points of the Transverse Processes of the Vertebrae of the Back, and are fixed round the Tubercles of the Ribs. The Internal Ligaments of the bach of the Ribs, call- ed Ligamenta Transversaria Interna^ which arise from the inferior Surfaces of the Transverse Processes, and are fixed to the superior Margins of the Necks of the nearest Ribs. The External Ligaments of the Necks of the Ribs, called Ligamenta Transversaria Externa. They arise from the points of the Transverse Processes externally, and are fixed to the back part of the Neck of the Ribs. Ligamenta Cervicis Costarum Externa, or External Ligaments of the Necks of the Ribs, which arise from the external Margin of the inferior oblique Processes, and descend obliquely outwards, to be fixed to the upper and outer part of the Necks of all the Ribs. The Ligaments at this end of the Ribs, together with the situation of the Transverse Processes, admit of their motion upwards and downwards, but prevent them from moving in any other direction. Short Ligamentous Fibres^ which run from the Mar- gins of the anterior extremities of the Ribs to the Mar- gins of their corresponding Cartilages ; the Cartilages and Ribs, which these Fibres inclose, being joined by a union of Substance. Radiated Ligaments, which go from the Sternal ex- VOL. I. YS38 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. tremities of the Cartilages of the Ribs, over the exter- nal Surface of the Sternum. Many of the Fibres of these Ligaments intermix with their fellows on the opposite side. The Capsular Ligaments of the Cartilages of the Ribs, which arise from the Margins of the Articular Cavities of the Sternum, within the Radiated Ligaments, and are fixed round the extremities of the Cartilages of the seven True Ribs. Within the Capsular Ligaments, the concave part of the Pits on the edges of the Ster- num are connected to the ends of the Cartilages of the Ribs, by fine Cellular Substance, which allows the Cartilages to roll upon the Sternum. The Membrane proper to the Sternum, which is a firm Expansion, composed of Tendinous Fibres run- ning in different directions, but chiefly in the longitu- dinal one, and covering the anterior and posterior Sur- faces of the Bone, the Membrane itself being confound- ed with the Periosteum. Ligaments of the Cartilago JEnsifbrmis, which are part of the proper Membrane of the Sternum, divided into strong Bands running obliquely from the under and fore part of the second Bone of the Sternum, and from the Cartilages of the seventh Pair of Ribs, to be fixed to the Cartilago Ensiformis.—The Ligaments co- vering the Sternum serve considerably to strengthen it. Thin Tendinous Expansions, which run over the Intercostales at the fore part of the Thorax, and con- nect the Cartilages of the Ribs to each other. They are chiefly seated in the spaces occupied by the Inter- costales Externi.Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. $39 LIGAMENTS t OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS. The two Transverse Ligaments of the Pelvis, whicK arise from the posterior part of the Spine of the Os Ilium, and run transversely. The one is superior, and is fixed to the Transverse Process of the last Vertebra of the Loins; the other inferior, and is connected to the first Transverse Process of the Os Sacrum. The Ilio-sacral Ligaments, which arise from the pos- terior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium, descend ob- liquely, and are fixed to the first, third, and fourth spurious Transverse Processes of the Os Sacrum. These, with two Transverse Ligaments^ assist in binding the Bones together to which they are con- nected. The Capsular Ligament of the Symphysis of the Os Ilium and Sacrum, which surrounds the Joint, and as- sists in connecting the two Bones to each other. A very thin Cartilage within this Joint, which cements the two Bones strongly together, and which constantly adheres to the Os Sacrum when the Joint is opened. A Ligamentous and Cellular Substance, containing Y ^S40 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. Mucus, which forms the back part of this Joint, also assisting to fix the two Bones to each other, in such a manner as to allow no motion; the Joint, however, a- long with its fellow, and that between the Ossa Pubis, being useful in diminishing the effects which might result from concussion. The two SacrO'ischiatic Ligaments, situated in the under and back part of the Pelvis. They arise in com- mon from the Transverse Processes of the Os Sacrum, from the under and lateral part of that Bone, and from the upper part of the Os Coccygis. The first of these Ligaments, called the Large Ex- ternal, or Posterior Sacro-ischiatic Ligament, descends obliquely to be fixed to the Tuberosity of the Os Is- chium. The other, called the Small Internal, or An- terior Sacro-ischiatic Ligament, runs transversely to be fixed to the Spinous Process of the Os Ischium. These two Ligaments assist in binding the Bones of the Pelvis, in supporting its contents, and in giving Origin to part of its Muscles. By the External, the Notch of the Ilium is formed into a Hole for the pas- sage of the Pyriform Muscle, the Sciatic Nerve, and the Blood-vessels which belong to the outside of the Pelvis. Between the two Sacro-sciatic Ligaments, an Opening is left for the passage of the Obturator Inter- nus, and the Pudic Vessels and Nerves. The two Membranous Productions which are connect- ed with the large Sacro-ischiatic Ligament, termed by Weitbrecht the Superior and Inferior Appendices of the large Sacro-ischiatic Ligament. The Superior Appendix, which is Tendinous, arises from the back part of the Spine of the Os Ilium, andPaet III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 3^1 is fixed along the outer edge of the Ligament, which it increases in breadth. The Inferior or Falciform Appendix is situated with- in the Cavity of the Pelvis ; the back part of it is con- nected with the middle of the large External Ligament, and the remainder is extended round the Curvature of the Os Ischium. These two Productions assist the large Sacro-ischia- tic Ligament in furnishing a more commodious situa- tion for, and attachment to, part of the Gluteus Maxi- mus and Obturator Internus. Besides the Ilio-sacral, and Sacro-ischiatic Liga- ments, several other Slips are observed upon the back of the Os Sacrum, which descend in an irregular man- ner, and strengthen the connexion between that Bone and the Ossa Ilia. The large Holes upon the back part of the Os Sa- crum are also surrounded with various Ligamentous Expansions projecting from one Tubercle to another, and giving Origin to Muscular Fibres, and protection to small Vessels and Nerves which creep under them. A General Covering sent down frx^m the Ligaments of the Os Sacrum, which spreads over and connects the different pieces of the Os Coccygis together, allowing considerable motion, as already mentioned in the de- scription of this Bone. Longitudinal Ligaments of the Os Coccygis, which descend from those of the Dorsum of the Os Sacrum, to be fixed to the back part of the Os Coccygis. The Ligaments of this Bone prevent it from being pulled too much forwards, by the action of the Coccygeug ;$4^ COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [pAa'r III. and they restore the Bone to its natural situation, after that Muscle has ceased to act. The Inguinal, or Poupaet"'s5 or Fallopius"'s Liga- ment, or Crural Arch, which runs transversely from the anterior-superior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium to the Crest or angle of the Os Pubis. It has been al- ready described as the inferior Margin of the Tendon of the External Oblique Muscle of the Abdomen. A strong Ligamentous Tendon covering the upper part of the Os Pubis, projecting above the Linea Ilio- pectinea, and having part of the Ligament of Poupart fixed to it. The Capsular Ligament of the Symphysis of the Ossa Pubis, which joins the two Bones to each other exter- nally. The Ligamentous Cartilage which unites the two Ossa Pubis so firmly together as to admit of no motion, excepting in the state of Pregnancy, when it is fre- quently found to be so much thickened, as to be ca- pable of yielding a little in the time of Delivery. The Obturator Membrane, or Ligament of the Fora- men Thyroideum, which adheres to the Margin of the Foramen Thyroideum, and fills the whole of that Open- ing, excepting the Oblique Notch at its upper part for the passage of the Obturator Vessels and Nerve. It assists in supporting the contents of the Pelvis, and in giving origin to the Obturatores. By yielding a little in the time of Labour, it contributes in a small degree to an easier Delivery.Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 243 LIGAMENTS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITIES. Ligaments of the Clavicle. The Radiated Ligaments^ which arise from the outer Surface of the inner end of the Clavicle, and are fixed round the edge of the corresponding Articular Cavity of the Sternum. The Capsular Ligament, which lies within the former. The Inter-articular Cartilage, which divides the Joint into two distinct Cavities, and accommodates the arti- culating Surfaces of the Clavicle and Sternum. The Inter-clavicular Ligament, joining the Clavicles together behind the top of the Sternum, and partly- formed by a continuation of the Radiated Ligaments. By the Ligaments of this Joint, with the assistance of the intervening Cartilage, the Shoulder is allowed to move in different directions, as upon a centre. The Ligamentum Rhomboideum, which arises from the inferior rough Surface at the anterior extremity ofS44 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [PabtIII. the Clavicle, and is fixed to the Cartilage of the first Rib. The Ligaments which join the posterior extremity of the Clavicle to the Acromion, having a Capsular Li- gament within, and sometimes an Inter-articular Car- tilage. The Ligamentum Conoideum, which arises from the root of the Coracoid Process, and is fixed to the Tu- bercle at the outer end of the Clavicle. The Ligamentum Trapezoideum, which arises from the point of the Coracoid Process, and is fixed to the under edge of the Clavicle. A thin Ligamentous Slip, which comes from the Ten- don of the Subclavius, or from the Clavicle, and joins the Trapezoid Ligament. The Ligaments fixing the Clavicle to the Scapula are of such strength, as to allow only a small degree of motion, and that chiefly of a rolling or twisting nature. Ligaments proper to the Scapula. The Proper Anterior Triangular Ligament of the Scapula, which arises broad from the External Surface of the Coracoid Process, and becomes narrower where it is fixed to the posterior margin of the Acromion. This Ligament forms one continued Surface. It is thickest, however, on each side, and these thicker parts are united by a thin intermediate Ligamentous Mem- brane, which, when removed, gives to the Ligament the appearance of being double. It confines the Tendon of the Supra-spinatus, andPakt III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 345 assists in protecting the upper and inner part of the Joint of the Humerus. The Proper Posterior Ligament of the Scapula^ which is sometimes double, and is stretched across the Semi- lunar Notch of the Bone, forming that Notch into one or two Holes for the passage of the superior-posterior Scapulary Vessels and Nerve. Ligaments, &c. of the Joint of the Shoulder. The Capsular Ligament, which arises from the Cer- vix of the Scapula, behind the Margin of the Glenoid Cavity, and is fixed round the Neck of the Os Hume- ri, loosely inclosing the Ball of the Bone. A small Fimbriated Organ within the Capsular Li- gament, for the Secretion of part of the Synovia. A Sheath sent down from the fore part of the Cap- sular Ligament, between the Tuberosities of the Os Humeri, which incloses the Tendon of the long Head of the Biceps Flexor Cubiti, and prevents it from start- ing out of its place. Additional Ligamentous Bands of the Capsular Li- gament, which adhere to its anterior Surface. What gives most strength to this Joint, as well as to several other Joints of the Body, is the covering from the surrounding Muscles. From the shallowness of the Glenoid Cavity, from the extent and looseness of the Capsular Ligament, and from the structure of the other parts of the Joint, more extensive motion is allowed to the Os Humeri than to any other Bone of the Body; as it can not only movo346 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III, freely to every side, but also possesses a considerable degree of motion upon its own axis. Ligaments, &c. of the Joint of the Elbow. The Capsular Ligament, which arises round the Margin of the Articular Surface, at the lower end of the Os Humeri, and is fixed about the edge of the Ar- ticular Surface of the Ulna, and also to the Coronary Ligament of the Radius. The sides of the Elbow-Joint are strengthened by two Ligamentous Bands, which adhere so firmly to the outer Surface of the Capsular Ligament, that they ap- pear to be part of its Substance, viz. The Brachio-Ulnar, or Internal Lateral Ligament, which arises from the fore part of the inner Condyle of the Os Humeri, and spreads out, in a radiated man- ner, to be fixed to the inside of the Coronoid Process of the Ulna, The Brachio-Radial, or External Lateral Ligament, which is like the former, but larger. It arises from the External Condyle of the Os Humeri, and is ex- panded upon the Coronary Ligament, into which it is inserted. The Coronary, Annular, or Orbicular Ligament of the Radius, which approaches to the firmness of Carti- lage. It arises from one side of the small Semilunar Ca- vity of the Ulna, and after surrounding the Neck of the Radius, is fixed to the other side of that Cavity. The upper edge of it is incorporated with, and may be con- sidered as a part of the Capsular Ligament, while itsPart III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 347 under edge is fixed round the Neck of the Radius, al- lowing that Bone to move freely round its own axis, upon the Articular Surface of the Os Humeri, and in a smaller Semilunar Cavity of the Ulna. Besides the Ligaments already described, there are others which run in various directions upon the fore and back parts of the Joint, contributing to its strength, and having the names of Anterior and Posterior Acces^ sory Ligaments, There are also two Tendinous Substances, termed Inter-muscular Ligaments of the Os Humeri, which ex- tend along the under and lateral parts of the Bone, giving Origin to a portion of the Muscles situated at this part of the Arm. The Ligaments and Bones of the Joint of the Elbow form a complete Hinge, which allows the Fore-arm to have free flexion and extension upon the Os Humeri, but no rotation when the Arm is in the extended state, though a small degree of it is perceptible when the Joint is moderately bent, and the Ligaments thereby relaxed. Within the Capsular Ligament, and chiefly in the upper part of the Pit of the Os Humeri in which the Olecranon plays, the Fatty Substance is lodged for the lubrication of the Joint. A similar Substance, but much smaller, is also found in the Depression in which the Coronoid Process of the Ulna moves. IM8 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet III. Ligaments between the Bodies^ and between the Under Ends, of the Radius and Ulna. The Interosseous Ligament, which extends between the sharp Ridges of the Radius and Ulna, filling up the greater part of the space between the two Bones. It is broadest in the middle, in consequence of these Bones being largest at their extremities, and is composed of small Fasciculi, which run obliquely downwards and inwards. Two or three of these Slips, however, go in the opposite direction; and one of them, termed Oblique Ligament, and Chorda Transversalis Cubiti, is stretched between the Tubercle of the Ulna and under part of the Tubercle of the Radius. In different parts of the Interosseous Ligament, there are Perforations for the passage of Blood-vessels from the fore to the back part of the Fore-arm, and a large Opening is found at the upper edge of it, which is occupied by Muscles. This Ligament assists in binding the Ulna and Ra- dius together, prevents the Radius from rolling too much outwards, and furnishes a commodious~attach- ment for Muscles. The Capsular, or Sacciform Ligament, which arises from the edges of the Semilunar Cavity at the under end of the Radius, and surrounds the Head of the Ulna, allowing the Radius to turn upon the Ulna, in performing the different motions of the Pronation and Supination of the Hand.Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. S49 Ligaments, &c. between the Fore-arm and Wrist. The Capsular Ligament^ which arises from the Mar- gin of the Glenoid or Navicular Cavity of the Radius, and from the edge of the moveable Cartilage at the Head of the Ulna, and is fixed to the Cartilaginous edges of the three first Bones of the Carpus. The Inter-articular Cartilage, placed between the Head of the Ulna and Os Cuneiforme, and which is a continuation of the Cartilage covering the end of the Radius. It is concave above and below, and is connect- ed loosely to the end of the Styloid Processes of the Ulna. The two Lateral Ligaments, one of which arises from the Styloid Process at the under end of the Radius, and is fixed to the Os Naviculare; and the other from the Styloid Process of the Ulna, and is fixed to the Cunei- form and Pisiform Bones. The Ligaments of this Joint allow extensive motion forwards and backwards, and a considerable degree of it to either side. The Mucous Ligament, which lies within the Joint, and extends from the Groove between the two first Bones of the Carpus, to the corresponding part of the Radius. It is supposed to regulate the Mucous Or- gan connected with it. Ligaments of the Carpus. The Anterior, Annular, or Transverse Ligament, which is stretched across from the projecting Points of the Ossa Pisiforme and Unciforme, to the Scaphoides350 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. and Trapezium, and forms an Arch which covers and preserves in their places the Tendons of the Flexor Muscles of the Fingers. The Capsular Ligament^ which arises from the Carti- laginous Edge of the upper Row of the Carpus, and is fixed in a similar manner to that of the under Row, chiefly admitting of flexion and extension, and that in a smaller degree than in the former Joint. The SJiort Ligaments of the Bones of the Carpus, which are small Slips running in various directions, joining the diffierent bones of the Carpus,—first of the same Row, then of the two Rows together. They are termed Oblique^ Transverse, Capsular, and Proper Li- gaments of the Wrist, and admit only of a small de- gi^ee of yielding between the diff*erent Bones in the same Row. Ligaments between the Carpal and Metacarpal Bones. The Articular Ligajnents, which arise from the Mar- gin of the second Row of the Carpal Bones, and are fixed to the Margins of the adjoining Bones of the Me- tacarpus. Other Ligaments run in a radiated manner from the Carpal to the Metacarpal Bones; the whole getting the names of Articular, Lateral, Straight, Per- pendicular, &c. according to their different directions. From the flatness of the Articular Surfaces, and streiigth of the connecting Ligaments, very little mo- tion is allowed between the Carpus and Metacarpus.Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 351 Ligaments beUveen the Extremities of the Meta- carpal Bones. The Interosseous Ligaments at the Bases of the Me- tacarpal Bones. They are short Slips, which run transversely, and join these Bones to each other, ob- taining the names of Dorsal^ Lateral, or Palmar, ac- cording to their different situations. The Interosseous Ligaments at the Heads of the Me- tacarpal Bones, which run transversely in the Palm, and connect the Heads of these Bones to each other. Ligaments at the Base of the Metacarpal Bone of the Thumb, and at the First Joint of the Fingers. These consist of the Capsular Ligaments, which in- close the Joints, and the Lateral Ligaments, which are situated at the sides of these, adhering to and strength- ening them; the whole admitting of flexion, extension, and lateral motion. Ligaments of the First and Second Joints of the Thumb, and Second and Third Joints of the Fin- gers. The Capsular Ligaments inclosing the Joints. The Lateral Ligaments placed at the sides of the Joints, and adhering to the Capsular Ligaments, con- fining the motion to flexion and extension.552 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Paet III. Ligaments retaining' the Tendons of the Muscles of the Hand and Fingers in situ. The Anterior, Transverse, or Annular Ligament of the Wrist—already described. The Vagi7ial Ligaments of the Flexor Tendons, which are fine Membranous Webs connecting the Ten- dons of the Sublimis, first to each other, then to those of the Profundus, and forming, at the same time, Bur- sas Mucosae, which surround these Tendons. The Vaginal or Crucial Ligaments of the Phalanges, which arise from the Ridges on the concave side of the Phalanges, and run over the Tendons of the Flexor Muscles of the Fingers. Upon the Body of the Pha- langes, they are thick and strong, to bind down the Tendons while their Muscles are in action ; but over the Joints they are thin, and have, in some parts, a Crucial appearance, to allow the ready motion of the Joints. The Accessory Ligaments of the Flexor Tendons of the Fingers, which are small Tendinous FrcBna, arising from the first and second Phalanges of the Fingers. They run obliquely forwards within the Vaginal Liga- ments, terminate in the Tendons of the Two Flexor Muscles of the Fingers, and assist in keeping them in their places. The External Transverse, ov Posterior Annular Liga- ment of the Wrist, which is part of the Aponeurosis of the Fore-arm extending across the back of the Wrist, from the inner side of the extremity of the Ulna and Os Pisiforrae, to the outer end of the extremity of the Ra-Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. S53 dius. It is connected with the small Annular Liga- ments which tie down the Tendons of the Extensores Ossis Metacarpi et Primi Internodii Pollicis, and the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. The Vaginal Ligaments^ which adhere to the former Ligaments, and serve as Sheaths and Bursse Mucosas to the Extensor Tendons of the Hand and Fingers. The Transverse Ligaments oi the Extensor Tendons, which are Aponeurotic Slips running between the Ten^ dons of the Extensor Digitorum Communis near the Heads of the Metacarpal Bones, and retaining the Tendons in their places. VOL. I, 7r354 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Pakt III. LIGAMENTS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITIES. Ligaments, &c. comvccting the Os Femofts with the Os Innominatum. This. Capmlar Ligament, the largest and strongest of the Articular Ligaments. It arises round the out- side of the Brim of the Acetabulum, embraces the Head of the Thigh-bone, and incloses the whole of the Cervix as far as the root or outer extremity, round which it is firmly connected. The outer part of the Capsular Ligament is extend- ed farther down than the inner, which is reflected back upon the Neck of the Bone, and in certaiB parts forms Retinacula. It is not every where of the same strength. It is thickest at its anterior and outer part; thinner wherePart III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 855 it is covered by the Iliacus Internus ; and thinnest pos- teriorly, where the adjacent Quadratus is opposed to it. It is strengthened on its outer Surface by various Jc- cessory or Additional SUps^ which run down from the Fascia Lata and surrounding Muscles ; but the strong- est of these Slips arises with diverging Fibres from the inferior-anterior Spinous Process of the Os Ilium. The Capsular Ligament allows the Thigh-^bone to be moved to every side ; and when its Body is brought forwards or backwards, a small degree of rotation is performed by the Cervix of the Bone, round its own axis. The Internal^ commonly called the Round Ligament, which arises by a broad flat beginning from the under and inner part of the Cavity of the Acetabulum, and is connected with the Substance termed Gland of the Joint. From this it runs backwards and a little up- wards, becoming gradually narrower and rounder, to be fixed to the Pit upon the inner Surface of the Ball of the Os Femoris. The Round Ligament prevents the Bone from being dislocated upwards or inwards, and assists in agitating the Mucous Substance within the Joint. A Cartilaginous Ligament surrounding the Brim of the Acetabulum, and thereby increasing the depth of the Cavity for the reception of the Head of the Thigh- bone. A Double Cartilaginous Ligament, stretched from one end of the Breach in the under and fore part of the Acetabulum to the other, but leaving a Hole behind it for containing part of the Substance called Glmid of356 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part IIL tJie Joint, and for the passage of the Vessels of that Substance. This Ligament allows the Thigh-Bone to be moved inwards, and the Glandular-looking Substance to be agitated with safety. The Substance called Gland of the Joint, covered with a Vascular Membrane, and lying flat in a Depres- sion in the under and inner part of the Acetabulum. At the edges of this Substance Fringes are sent out^ which furnish part of the Synovia for the lubrication of the Joint. The edges of this Substance are fixed to those of the Pit in the Acetabulum, by small Ligamentous Bridles, termed Ligamenta Mucosa, vel Ligamentula Masses A- diposo-glandulosce. Ligaments, &c. of the Joint of the Knee. The Lateral Ligaments, which lie at the side of the Joint, and adhere to the outer Surface of the Capsular Ligament. The Internal Lateral Ligament, which is of consi- derable breadth, arising from the upper part and Tu- bercle of the Internal Condyle of the Os Femoris, and inserted into the upper and inner part of the Tibia ; the Fibres passing obliquely forwards, till they have reached a little below the Head of the Bone. The Long External Lateral Ligament, v/hich is nar- rower, but thicker and stronger than the former, aris- ing from the Tubercle above the External Condvle o£Part III ] OF THE LIGAMENTS. S57 the Os Femoris, and fixed to the Fibula, a little below its Head. Behind the long external Lateral Ligament, there is an Eocpansmn attached nearl}^ in the same manner as this Ligament, which has been termed the External Short Lateral Ligament. These Ligaments prevent the lateral and rotatory motions of the Leg in the extended state, but admit of a small degree of both when the Limb is bent. The Posterior Ligament of Winslow, formed of ir- regular Bands, which arise from the upper and back part of the external Condyle of the Os Femoris, and descend obliquely over the Capsular Ligament, to be fixed to the Tibia under the inner and back part of its Head. It prevents the Leg from being pulled farther forwards than to a straight line with .the Thigh, and also furnishes a convenient situation for the beginnings of the Gastrocnemius and Plantaris Muscles. When this Ligament is wanting, which is some- times the case, its place is supplied by a Membranous Expansion. The Ligament of the Patella., which arises from a Depression behind the Apex of that Bone, and is fixed to the Tuberosity of the upper and fore part of the Tibia. By the intervention of this Ligament, the Muscles inserted into the Patella are enabled to extend the Leg. The Capsular Ligament^ which arises from the whole circumference of the under end of the Thigh-bone, some way above the Margin of the Articulating Carti- lage, and above the posterior part of the great Notch between tlie Condyles. From this it descends to be358 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. fixed round the Head of the Tibia, and into the whole Margin of the Articulating Surface of the Patella, in such a manner that the Patella forms part of the Cap- sule of the Joint. The Capsular Ligament is of itself remarkably thin, but so covered by the Ligaments already mentioned, by the general Aponeurosis of the Limb, and by the Tendons of Muscles which surround the Joint, as to acquire a considerable degree of strength. The Capsular, with the other' Ligaments of this Joint, admit of the flexion and extension of the Leg, but of no lateral nor rotatory motion in the extended state, though of a small degree of each when the Limb is fully bent. The Ligamentum Alare, Mqjus et Minits, which are Folds of the Capsular Ligament, running like Wings at the sides of tlio Patella, to which, and to the Fatty Substance of the Joint, they are attached. The Ligamentum Mucosiim, continued from the join- ing of the Ligamenta Alaria to the Os Femoris, im- mediately above the Anterior Crucial Ligament. It preserves the Synovial Substance in its proper place, during the various motions of the Joint. The two Cmicial or Internal Ligaments, which arise from the Semilunar Notch between the Condyles of the Os Femoris, and decussate each other within the Cavity of the Joint. The Antejior Crucial Ligament runs downwards and forwards, to be fixed to a Pit before the rough Protu- berance in the middle of the Articulating Surface of the Head of the Tibia. The Postei'ior Crucial Ligament descends to be fixedPabt III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 359 to a Pit behind the above-mentioned rough Protube- rance. These Ligaments, in the extended state of the Leg, prevent it from going forward beyond a straight line with the Thigh. When the Knee is bent, they allow the Foot to be turned outwards, but not in a contrary direction. The two inter-articular Cartilages, called Semilunar from their shape like a Crescent, placed upon the top of the Tibia. The outer convex edge of each of these Cartilages is thick, while the inner concave edge becomes thin and sharp like a knife or sickle ; and being concave above, the Sockets for the Condyles of the Os Femoris are rendered deeper, and this Bone and the Tibia are more accurately adapted to each other. Each of these Cartilages is broad in the middle, their extremities becoming narrower and thinner as they ap- proach one another. Each covers about two-thirds of the Superficial Cavity,of the Top of the Tibia, leaving one-third bare in the middle. The extremities are termed Cornua, and are fixed by Ligaments to the Protuberance of the Tibia. The anterior Cornua are joined to each other by a Trans'verse Ligament. The convex edge of these Cartilages is fixed to the Capsular and other Ligaments, in such a manner as to allow the Cartilages to play a little upon the Cartila- ginous Surface of the Tibia, by which the motions of that Bone upon the Condyles of the Os Femoris are facilitated. The Mucous or Fatty Suhstanccs of this tToint, which306 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. are the largest of any in the Body, are situated in the different interstices of the Joint, but chiefly round the edges of the Patella, and especially at its under end. They are covered by a fine Membrane reflected from the inner Surface of the Capsular Ligament. F'lmhricB project from the edges of these Fatty Sub- stances, which discharge Synovia for the lubrication of the Joint, Ligaments connecting the Fibula to the Tibia. The Capsular Ligament of the superior extremity of the Fibula, which ties it to the outer part of the Head of the Tibia, and which is strengthened by the exter- nal lateral Ligament of the Knee, and by the Tendon of the Biceps which is fixed to the Fibula. The Interosseous Ligament, one edge of which is fix- ed to the Ridge or Angle at the outer and back part of the Tibia, the other to the corresponding Ridge at the inner side of the Fibula. It fills the space between the Tibia and Fibula, like the Interosseous Ligament of the Fore-arm, and is of a similar structure, being formed of oblique Fibres, and perforated in various places for the passage of Vessels and Nerves. At its upper part there is a large Opening, where the Muscles of the opposite sides are in contact, and where Blood-vessels pass to the fore part of the Leg. It serves chiefly for the Origin of part of the Mus- cles which belong to the Foot, and thereby supplies the place of Bone. The Ligaments of the inferior extremity of the Fi^361 Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. bula, which are called Anterior-Superior^ and Poste- rior-Superior, according to their situations, arising from the edges of the Semilunar Cavity of the Tibia, and fixed to the Malleolus Externus of the Fibula. The Ligaments between the ends of the Tibia and Fibula join the two Bones so firmly together, as to ad- mit of no sensible motion. Ligaments connecting the Bones of the Tarsus with those of the Leg. The Anterior Ligament of the Fibula^ which arises from the anterior part of the Malleolus Externus, and passes obliquely forwards, to be fixed to the upper and outer part of the Astragalus. The Middle, or Perpendicular Ligament of the Fi- bula, which arises from the point of the Malleolus Ex- ternus, and descends almost perpendicularly, to be in- serted into the outside of the Os Calcis. The Posterior Ligament of the Fibula, which arises from the under and back part of the Malleolus Exter- nus, and runs backwards, to be joined to the outer and posterior part of the Astragalus. The Ligamentum Deltoides of the Tibia, which arises from the Malleolus Internus, and descends in a radiated form, to be attached to the Astragalus, Os Calcis, and Os Naviculare. The Capsular Ligament, which lies within the former Ligaments, and is remarkably thin, especially before and behind, for the readier motion of the Joint. It arises from the Margin of the Articular Cavity of the^62 COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. Tibia and Fibula, and is fixed round the edge of the Articular Surface of the Astragalus. The Ligaments and the other constituent parts of the Ankle-joint form it into a complete Hinge, which allows flexion and extension, but no rotation nor late- ral motion in the bended state of the Foot, though a small degree of each when it is fully extended. Ligaments of the Tarsus. The Capsular Ligament^ which joins the Articular Surface of the Os Calcis to that of the Astragalus. A number of Sliort Ligaments, lying in the Fossa of the Astragalus and of the Os Calcis, and forming the Ligamentous Apparatus of the Sinuous Cavity, which assists in fixing the two Bones strongly together. The Capsular^ the Broad Superior, and the Internal Lateral Ligaments, connecting the Astragalus to the Os Naviculare, and admitting of the lateral and rota- tory motions of the Foot. 1 he Superior, the Lateral, and the Inferior Liga- ments, fixing the Os Calcis to the Os Cuboides, where a small degree of motion is allowed to every side. The inferior Ligaments consist of a Long, an Oblique, and SiRliomhoiclLigament, v/hich are the longest and strong- est of the Sole. The Superior Superjicial, the Interosseous, and the hferior Transverse Ligaments, whicli fix the Os Navi- culare and Os Cuboides to each other. The Superior Lateral, and the Plantar Ligaments, vvhich fix the Os Naviculare to the Os CuxieiformG.Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 36^ The Superior Superficial, and the Plantar Liga- ments, which connect the Os Cuboides to the Os Cu- neiforme Externum. The Dorsal and the Plantar Ligaments, which unite the Ossa Cuneiformia to each other. Besides the Capsular Ligaments of the Tarsus already mentioned, each of the other Joints of these Bones is furnished with its proper Capsular Ligament. From the plainness of the Articulating Surfaces of the Bones of the Tarsus, and from the strength of the Ligaments which unite them to each other, no more motion is allowed than to prevent the effects of con- cussion in walking, leaping, &c. Ligaments hetioeen the Tarsus and Metatarsus. The Bones of the Metatarsus are fixed to those of the Tarsus by Capsular, and numerous other Ligaments, which are called Dorsal, Plantar, and Lateral, accord- ing to their situations ;—and Sti^aight, Oblique, or Transverse, according to their directions. The nature of this Joint is the same as that between the Carpus and Metacarpus. ^ ^ i>tu Ligaments connectifig the Metatarsal Bones to each other. The Dorsal, Plantar, and Lateral Uigaments, which connect the Bases of the Metatarsal Bones with each other. '1 he Transverse Ligaments v^^liich join the Heads of these Bones together.m COMPENDIUM OF ANATOMY. [Part III. Ligaments of the Phalanges of the Toes. The Capsular and Lateral Ligaments ;—resembling those of the Fingers. LiiGAMENTs and Sheaths retaining the Tendons of the Muscles of the Foot and Toes, in situ. The Annular Ligament of the Tarsus, which is a thickened part of the Aponeu-rosis of the Leg, splitting into superior and inferior portions, which bind down the Tendons of the Extensors of the Toes upon the fore part of the Ankle. The Vaginal Ligament of the Tendons of the Peronei, which, behind the Ankle, is common to both, but at the outer part of the Foot forms a Sheath for each Tendon, preserving it in its proper place, and forming the Bursa of that Tendon. The Laciniated Ligament^ which arises from the in- ner Ankle, and spreads in a radiated manner, to be fixed, partly in the Cellular Substance and Fat, and partly to the Os Calcis, at the inner side of the Heel. It incloses the Tibialis Posticus and Flexor Digitorum Longus. T^heVaginal Ligament of the Tendo7i of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis, which runs in a Crucial direction. The Vaginal Ligament of the Tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis^ which surrounds this Tendon in the hollow of the Os Calcis. The Vaginal and Crucial L gaments of the Tendons of the Flexors of the Toes, which inclose these Ten-Part III.] OF THE LIGAMENTS. 365 dons on the Surfaces of the Phalanges, and form their Bursae Mucosas. The Accessory Ligaments of the Flexor Tendons of the Toes, which, as in the Fingers, arise from the Pha- langes, and are included in the Sheaths of the Tendons in which they terminate. The Transverse Ligaments of the Extensor Tendons, which run between these Tendons, and preserve them in their places behind the roots of the Toes. END OF VOLUME FIRST. Edinburgh : Printed by John Pjllans, James's Court.Fc^. .5.TABLE VI. Represents the Muscles situated on the Fore Part of the Head and Neck. FIG. 1. • The First Order of Muscles on the Fore Part of the Head and Neck, after the Integuments - have been removed* a, The frontal part of the occipito-frontalis. 6, The tendon of that muscle. c, A fleshy slip descending from the occipito-frontalis over the root of the nose. d. The attoUens aurem. The anterior auris. The orbicularis palpebrarum. The ciliary part of the orbicularis. h, The compressor naris. i, The levator labii superioris alaequfe nasi. Ar, The zygomaticus minor. Z, The zygomaticus major, m, The levator anguli oris. The cartilage of the nose, o, The depressor anguli oris, jp, The depressor labii inferioris. gf, The buccinator.TABLE VI. CONTINUED. r. The orbicularis oris. ^5 The masseter. The platysma myoides, its upper end passing over the jaw. The sterno-cleido-mastoideus. FIG. 2. The Second Order o/* Muscles on the Fore Part of the Head ^wc/.Neck. The corrugator supercilii. The levator palpebrae superioris. c, The temporalis, the tendon of which is seen passing under the zygoma. d, The masseter. The levator anguli oris. The buccinator. g. The orbicularis oris. ' h^ The nasalis labii superioris, at the upper side of which is a portion of the depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi. i. The depressor labii inferioris. h. The sterno-cleido-mastoideus. Z, The sterno-hyoideus. m, Part of the trachea. n, The omo-hyoideus. o, The hyo-thyroideus. The OS hyoides. / The levator scapulae 'T, The scalenus medius.TABLE VI. CONTINUED. FIG. 3. The Third Order of Muscles on the Fore Part of the Head and Neck. The insertion of the abductor oculi. 5, The adductor oculi of the right side. ^ c, The insertion of the levator oculi. £?, The trochlea, and part of the tendon of the obli- quus superior. e, The obliquus inferior. J] The depressor labii superioris alaeque nasi. The orbicularis oris. h, The buccinator. The levator labii inferioris. A;, Part of the pterygoideus externus. Z, Part of the pterygoideus internus. 77^5 The sterno-hyoideus. Uy The thyro-hyoideus. o, The OS hyoides. The thyroid cartilage. The cricoid cartilage, with the two crico-thyroid muscles arising from it. r. The trachea. Sy Part of the pleura. The scalenus anticus. w, The scalenus medius. Vy A portion of the trachelo-mastoideus. The rectus capitis anterior major. Xy The longus colli. «/, The constrictor pharyngis inferior.TABLE VI. CONTINUED. FIG. 4. The Fourth Order Muscles on the Fore Part Head and Neck. a, The levator plapebrae sup^rioris. h. The levator oculi. The adductor oculi< ^ d. The abductor oculi. The depressor oculi. J'y The obliquus superior. The obliquus inferior. v h, The pterygoideus internus. The obliquus superior capitis. Z;, The scalenus medius. Z, The longus colli. w. The intertransversales colli.TABLE VII. Represents the Muscles situated about the Throat. FIG. 1. Paft of the Muscles of the Os Hyoides. a, Part of the masseter. 5, The posterior head of the digastricus. Its anterior head. The stylo-hyoideus, with the tendon of the digastric passing through it. e, The sterno-hyoidei. The omo-hyoideus. The pharynx. A, The submaxillary gland. FIG. 2. Muscles deeper seated than the former. Uy a. The mylo-hyoidei. hy The hyo-glossus. e. The sterno-thyroideus. dy The thyro-hyoideus. ^, The submaxillary gland, raised from its place be- hind the angle of the lower jaw. f The stylo-glossus, supported by a ligament. The stylo-pharyngeus. hy The pharynx.TABLE VII. CONTINUED. FIG. 3. Muscles deeper seated than the former. ^' The genio-hyoideus. 6, The genio-byo-glossus. c. The stylo-glossus, with its supporting ligament. d^ The stylo-pharyngeus. The submaxillary gland, raised, by which its duct is seen advancing towards its termination at the side of the fraenum linguae. f The sublingual gland. The OS hyoides. ^, The thyroid cartilage. i, The cricoid cartilage, with the crico-thyroid muscles. A:, The thyroid gland. Z, The trachea, w. The pharynx. F I G. 4. Muscles of the Palate, viewed on the under side. a. The levator palati. 6, c. The circumflexus palati; c, Its tendon passing over the hook-like process of the pterygoid plate. fZ, The membrane of the palate. ^, e. The mouths of the Eustachian tubes. fyfif The circumference from which the membrane of the palate is cut oif. FIG. 5. A lateral View of the Muscles seated under the Head and before the VertebrcE of the Neck. a. The pterygoideus externus.TABLE VII. cojiTiNUED. c 2 5, The pterygoideus internus. Cy The mylo-hyoideus, dy The stylo-hyoideus. fy The digastricus. hy The hyo-glossus. i, The OS hyoides. liy The thyro-hyoideus. Z, The thyroid cartilage. The crico-thyroideus. The cricoid cartilage. 0, A section of the esophagus. The constrictor pharyngis inferior. ^, The constrictor pharyngis medius. r, The constrictor pharyngis superior. FIG. 6. A hack 'view of the Pharynx, with the Under Part of the Bones of the Head, to which the Pharynx is fixed. «, The upper point of the constrictor pharyngis inferior. 5, The upper end of the pharynx, and inner transverse fibres of the esophagus. c, c. The outer fibres of the esophagus, descending ob- liquely backwards on each side. d, A section of the esophagus. e, e, A section of the trachea. Jy f The extremities of the cornua of the os hyoides, with the ligaments which join them to the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage. gy gy The constrictor pharyngis medius, on each side, h, h, The constrictor pharyngis superior, on each side. 1, The naked membrane of the pharynx,TABLE VII. coNTiNUEt). 9 The stylo-pharyngeus, on each side. Z, The styloid process of the temporal bones. m, The pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone^ n, The backmost tooth of the upper and under jaws, on each side. F I G. 7. The Mj}sci.t^^ lying immediately under the Membrane of the Pharynx, which, with the Esophagus and Trachea, are removed. a. The levator palati. h. The azygos uvulae. c, The pa;lato-pharyngeus. d, That part of it which passes under the levator palati. e, That part of it called by Albinus Salpingo-pharyn- geus. J', Part of the common end of the palato-pharyngeus and stylo-pharyngeus. g. The posterior edge of the vel um palati. A, The uvula. t. The tonsil, projecting before the palato-pharyngeus muscle. ^, The tongue. Z, The epiglottis. m, m, The points of the arytenoid cartilages. Tiy The arytengidei obliqui. o, o, The arytenoideus transversus. ^, The crico-arytenoideus posticus. q. The cricoid cartilage. r, r. The posterior edges of the thyroid cartilage, which conceal the two small muscles on each side, termed Crico-arytenoideus Lateralis and Thyro-arytenoideus.TABLE VIII. Hepeesents the Muscles situated on the Back Part of the Head and Neck. FIG. 1. The First Order o/* Muscles on the Back Part of the Head and Neck, after the Integuments have been re- moved. a, The occipital part of the occipito-frontalis muscle. 5, The fleshy, and. The tendinous part of this muscle. d^ A tendinous membrane, joining the opposite sideis of the muscle. Part of the tendinous membrane, covering the up- per part of the temporal muscle. The attoUens aurem. g. The anterior auris. A, A small portion of the retrahentes aurem. i, The back part of the orbicularis palpebrarum^ Ar, The zygomaticus major. I, The masseter. m, The pterygoideus internus. w, The platsyma myoides. o, The sterno-cleido-mastoideus. ^, The upper end of the trapezius. The tendinous portion of that muscle, in the nape of the neck, called Ligamentum Nuchce.TABLE VIII. CONTINUED. FIG. 2. The Second Order o/^Muscles on the Bach Part of the Head and Neck. a, The temporalis, the aponeurosis being removed. 5, The tendon of the temporal muscle, passing under the zygoma. c. The pterygoideus internus. d. The masseter. e. The mylo-hyoideus. J\ The levator scapulae. The splenius. h, Tl^e upper end of the complex us. i, A portion of the rhomboides major. At, Part of the rhomboides minor. The upper end of the serratus posticus superior. F I G. 3. The Third Order o/^ Muscles on the Bach Part of the Head and Neck. a, The back part of the buccinator. h, The pterygoideus internus. c. The mylo-hyoideus. d, e,ff The complexus ; J\ A fleshy slip from the spi- nous process of the first dorsal vertebra. The trachelo-mastoideus. h. The scalenus medius. The scalenus posticus. ^5 The semi-spinalis colli. Z, The interspinales colli. The obliquus capitis superior.TABLE VIII. CONTINUED. The'transversalis colli, o. The upper end of the longissimus dorsi, joining the trachelo-mastoideus, and, TJie fleshy slip from the sacro-lumbalis, called Cer- vicalis Descendens. FIG, 4 The Fourth Order of Muscles on the Back part of the Head and Neck. «, The rectus capitis posterior minor. ' The rectus capitis posterior major. c, The obliquus capitis superior. d, The obliquus capitis inferior. e, The scalenus medius. The upper end of the multifidus spinae. The interspinals colli. hy h, The intertransversales colli. The semi-spinales colli.TABLE IX. Represents Muscles on the fore part of the Trunk of the'Body. On the Right Side, the Muscles are exposed which lie immediately under the Common Integuments.—On the Left Side, the Muscles are seen which are placed under the former. Thorax. a, The under end of the platysma myoides. b, The pectoralis major, with the deltoides at the outer side of it. c, c, Part of the serratus magnus. (i, The edge of the latissimus dorsi. By The subclavius. J\ The pectoralis minor. The serratus magnus. Farther out, the subsca- pularis is seen. K^h, The intercostales interni, the tendinous fascia being removed. Abdomen, i, The obliquus descendens externus. A:, The beginning of the tendon of that muscle. ly The obliquus internus, shining through the tendon of the obliquus externus. m, m, The linea semilunaris. 71, The rectus abdominis, also shining through the tendon of the obliquus externus.TABLE IX. CONTI^vIUED. O5 0, The tendinous intersections of the rectus, p, The linea alba. The umbilicus, r, The pyramidales. The ring of the external oblique muscle, transmit-, ting the spermatic cord. The cremaster muscle, covering the spermatic cord. u. The lower edge of the external oblique muscle, termed Ligament of POUPART, The obliquus internus ascendens. The tendon of the obliquus internus, part of which is left covering the outer side of the rectus muscle.—Between the two the tendon splits into two layers, which inclose the rectus. From the lower IV to the pubis, the whole of the tendon goes before the rectus. The rectus abdominis. y\ The tendinous intersections of the rectus^ The cremaster testis.TABLE X. Represents the Third Layer of Muscles on theRight, and the Fourth Layer of Muscles on the Left Side of the Anterior Part of the Trunk of the Body. F I G. 1. Thorax. a, The intercostales externi. 6, 65 65 5, The intercostales interni. c. The convex or thoracic side of the diaphragm. d, Its middle tendon. Cyjlg, h, The fleshy origins of the diaphragm, sepa- rated from the inferior margin of the thorax. Abdomen. i, The transversalis abdominis. Jc, That portion of the tendons of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, which lies behind the rectus. The remains of the tendons of the oblique and trans- verse muscles, forming the linea alba. m, The spermatic vessels, passing under the edge of the transverse muscle. n, The peritoneum, marked by one of the umbilical arteries and the urachus. o. The tendinous crura of the inferior muscle of the diaphragm. p, The passage for the aorta, between the crura. q, q, The fleshy heads of the small muscle of the dia- phragm. r. The part where the fibres of the fleshy heads of the opposite sides cross each other to form,Tab.. -.X.TABLE X. CONTINUED. 5, The passage of the esophagus. The origin of the diaphragm from the twelfth rib. The psoas parvus. V, The psoas magnus. The iliacus internus. A section of the penis, in which the corpora caver- nosa appear. FIG. % A view of the Inner Surface of the Sterno-Costalis Muscle. a, a, The tendinous origin, from the cartilago ensifor- mis,and under half of the middle bone of the sternum. 5, The tendinous insertion into the third, fourth, and fifth ribs. c, Part of the sterno-costalis, passing between the se- cond and third ribs, and which is found in some subjects only. FIG. 3. Muscles about the root of the Penis, and Under End of the Intestinum Rectum,—in a Child. a, a, The sphincter ani. . b, The levator ani. c, The transversalis perinei. d, The erector penis. The accelerator urinae. jfy The corpus cavernosum penis. g, The corpus spongiosum urethras. h, The scrotum turned up. i, Part of the thigh. k, The cut edge of the integuments.TABLE XI. Represents the First Layer of Muscles on the Right, and Second Layer of Muscles on the Left Side of the Back Part of the Trunk of the Body. Right Side. a, a. The thoracic portion of the trapezius. by h, Its insertion into the spine of the scapula. The ligamentum nuchse. d, The latissimus dorsi. e, Its tendinous origin. ^ Part of the obliquus externus abdominis. g'y Part of the rhomboideus. Left Side. h, The rhomboides major, and, i, The rhomboides minor, covering the serratus posti- cus superior. A;*, A portion of the serratus posticus superior, the rest of it extending as far under the rhomboides as the dotted line at A. Z, The part from which the latissimus dorsi was cut. m, The under part of the serratus magnus. n, The tendons of the sacro-lumbalis. o, A portion of the longissimus dorsi. ; p, Part of the semi-spinalis dorsi. q, The spinalis dorsi. r. The broad tendon common to the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior.•w, The sphincter ani. TABLE XI. CONTINUED. The back part of the obliquus internus abdominis. t, t, The intercostales externi. u, The coccygeus. The levator ani.TABLE XII. Represents the Third Layer of Muscles on the Right, and Fourth Layer of Muscles on the Left Side of the Back Part of the Trunk of the Body. Right Side. tty ttf a, The spinalis dorsi. 5, 5, Part of the semi-spinalis dorsi. c, The longissimus dorsi. d, d. The tendons of the sacro-lumbalis. e, The common fleshy head of the longissimus dorsi and sacro-lumbalis. ^ The tendon covering and partly giving origin to this fleshy head. gy Part of this tendon upon the longissimus dorsi. h, The transversalis abdominis. i, i, The intercostales externi. Jc, Jc, Portions of the intercostales externi, called by Albinus Levatores Costarum. Left Side." a, The semi-spinalis dorsi. 5, 5, The multifidus spinae. c, c, The intercostales interni.i, i, The interspinales lumborum. TABLE XII. CONTINUED. d, The pleura. e. The intertransversales dorsi. The interspinales dorsi. The quadratus lumborum. The intertransversales lumborum.TABLE XIII. This Plate contains the Anatomy of the Parts about the Geoin in both Sexes, or of the Parts concerned in Inguinal and Crural Hernia.—All the Figures, excepting the Third, belong to the Left Side of the Body.—Fig. 5. 6. are taken by the Author from Nature.—Fig 1. 3. 4. 7- 8. are Sketches from the highly finished Work of Mr Cooper on Hernia. F I G. 1. Shews the Formation of the Abdominal Rings in a Male, the Course of the Spermatic Cord through these, and the Form and Situation of some of the Fasciae. a, The external abdominal ring. 5, The upper column of the tendon which assists in the formation of this ring. c, The under column of this tendon, extending from, d, The crural arch, or ligament of Poupart, to be fixed to the pubis. e, The ilial, and, The pubal portion of the fascia lata femoris. g, The vena saphena perforating the fascia lata, to terminate in the femoral vein, h, The tendon of the external oblique muscle, cut and reflected, to shew parts deeper seated. i, The lower edge of the internal oblique muscle, cut from the crural arch, and also reflected. Ar, The transversalis, the lower edge of which is cut and turned up. I, The transverse fascia, running up from the crural arch to line the back part of the transverse muscleTABLE XIII. CONTINUED. and its tendon, thereby preventing crural hernia from happening between the external iliac blood-vessels and the superior-anterior spinous process of the os ilium. m. The internal abdominal ring. fly The epigastric blood-vessels, passing first at the in- ner side of, and then behind the spermatic cord. o, The spermatic cord, descending through the abdo- minal ring, shewing at the same time the length of the inguinal canal, and the course the bowels take in inguinal hernia. jp, The spermatic cord, in its descent to the testicle. FIG. 2. Exhibits a Portion of the Tendinous Fasciae about the Groiriy in a Female. a, The superficial fascia, which covers the tendon of ' the external oblique muscles of the abdomen, cut from the ligament of Poupart, and turned up. 6, That part of the superficial fascia, which covers the fascia lata femoris at the upper part of the thigh, . cut and turned outwards. c, The under end of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, forming the ligament of Poupart. c?. The round ligament of the uterus, passing through the external abdominal ring. The fascia lata femoris, descending from the under edge of Poupart's ligament, y; The crescentic or falciform edge of this fascia. g. The vena saphena, passing through a notch in the fascia, to terminate in the femoral vein. BTABLE XIII. CONTINUED. A vein descending from the integuments of the ab- domen, also to terminate in this vein. 2, % Some lymphatic glands situated in the notch at the side of the vena saphena, where crural herniae happen. FIG. 3. Represents the External Abdominal Ring; and the Fal- ciform Ligament^ or Semilunar Edge of the Fascia Lata Femoris^ in a Fe^nale. j . a, The symphysis of the pubis. . / '\ 6, The external abdominal ring, with the upper and under columns by which it is formed, c. The crural arch. dy ey The fascia lata of the thigh ; the ilial; and e^ the pubal portion of this fascia. fy The semilunar or falciform edge of the fascia. gy The crural sheath. h^ The vena saphena. i. The place where the boWels protrude in. femoral hernia. " J jiiq j^i! PIG. 4. ntfelfib^: Shews the Insertions of the Tendon of the Exter^iat Ob- lique Muscle into the Os Pubis; the Iliac Fascia, and the Orifice of the Crural Sheath, in a Female. a. The pubis. 5, The external abdominal ring, with two orifices in it, which happens occasionally, c, The anterior surface of the crural arch; above the letter is seen the direction of the fibres of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, and curved tendinous lines decussating that tendon.TABLE XIII. CONTINUED. dy The third insertion of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, or that part of the tendon which is fixed to the upper part and spine of the pubis. e, The ligament covering the os pubis, into which the third insertion of this tendon is fixed. A portion of the fascia transversalis, and tendon of the rectus, passing behind the insertion of the exter- nal oblique muscle. g, The fascia iliaca, passing from the crural arch over the internal iliac muscle. h, The orifice of the crural sheath, for the passage of the femoral blood-vessels and absorbents. F I G. 5. Gives a View of the Inner Side of the Crural Arch, and of the Passage of the Blood-Vessels xvhich go under it, in a Male. a, a, The abdominal muscles reflected. 6, c, The posterior, or inner part of the crural arch ; A portion of this arch, forming the third insertion of the external oblique muscle, and which is broader than in a female. e. The iliac fascia, covering the internal iliac muscle. J\ Part of the large psoas muscle. *The external iliac artery, sending off, hy The internal circumflex artery of the os ilium, and, i, The epigastric artery. The external iliac vein, receiving the circumflex and epigastric veins.—The circumflex artery and vein are seen in this place, where the iliac joins the trans- verse fascia. The crural ring, where femoral hernise occur. D 2TABLE Xni. CONTINUED. The spermatic blood-vessels. n, The vas deferens, departing from the blood-vessels, to get into the pelvis, FIG. 6. View of the Inside of the Crural Arch in a Female,, and Parts somewhat corresponding with those seen in the former Figure. fl, The symphysis of the pubis. ^5 The brim of the pelvis. c?5 The crural arch, or ligament of Poupart. The letter d is placed on that part of the ligament that is recommended by Gimbernat to be cut in crural hernia. The iliac fascia covering the internal iliac muscle. The large psoas muscle, with a branch of the lum- bar nerves running along it to the thigh. g^ h, i. The round ligament of the uterus ; h, the place where it passes through the fascia transversalis; the ligament descending towards the groin. Ic, The external iliac artery. I, The epigastric artery. m^ The circumflex artery of the os ilium. n, The obturator artery, in this subject arising from the external iliac. o, The external iliac vein, receiving branches corre- sponding with those sent off from the iliac artery. The crural ring. q, The third insertion of Poupart's ligament.TABLE XIII. CONTINUED. FIG. 7. SJcetch of the Inner Side of that Part of the Parietes of the Abdomen^ which separates this Cavity from the Thigh, and of the Iliac Blood-vessels passing through the Crural Ring, in a Female, a, a. The symphysis of the pubis. 5, The rectus abdominis, inserted into the symphysis of the pubis. The fascia iliaca. d, e. The fascia transversalis ; e, that part of it which passes from the pubis to join the tendon of the rectus. f The round ligament of the uterus, passing through the fascia transversalis, to get into the inguinal canal. g. The iliac artery. h, The beginning of the epigastric artery, with its as- sociate vein. The circumflex artery. Jc, The iliac vein. I, The crural space or ring, through which femoral herniae descend. FIG. 8. The Semicircular Insertion o^Poupart's Ligament in- to the Pubis, forming a Portion of the Crural Ring, in a Male. a. That part of Poupart's ligament which forms the crural ring. b. The tendon of the transversalis inserted into the pu- bis behind the external abdominal ring, and pre- venting that opening from being seen.TABLE XIII. CONTINUED. c, c, The fascia transversalis, which here separates, to form the internal abdominal ring. d, The fascia iliaca. e, The place where the two fasciae meet, and shut up the under end of the abdomen. jf, The external iliac artery. g, The epigastric artery, with the corresponding \ein. h, The external iliac vein. i, T£e spermatic artery and vein. Jc, The vas deferens. ft , ,TABLE XIV. Represents the Muscles situated on the fore part of the SUPEEIOE EXTEEMITY. FIG 1. A view of the First Layer o/'Muscles on the Fore Part of the Superior Extremity, the Integuments and Aponeurosis being removed, a, The deltoides. 6, The insertion of the pectoralis major. Cy The biceps flexor cubiti. dy The aponeurosis of the biceps cut off. ey The round tendon of the biceps cut off; f. The long head of the triceps extensor cubiti. gy g. The brachialis internus. hy The third head of the triceps, called Brachialis Externus. i, The. supinator radii longus. k, The pronator radii teres. . r;^ Z, The flexor carpi radialis. m. The palmaris longus. Uy Part of the flexor digitorum sublimis. o. The under end of the flexor carpi ulnaris. Part of the flexor longus pollicis. q, The tendons of the extensores ossis metacarpi et primi internodii pollicis, with their annular ligament, r. The abductor pollicis, at the outer, edge of which is a small portion of the flexor ossis metacarpi poUicis- s, That portion of the abductor pollicis^ CjaUed by^ Al- BiNus AbduQtqr Bffvis Alter. mifT^Mti 9f{*rTABLE XIV. coi^TmuED. The tendon of the flexor longus poUicis, bound by a ligament. u, The ligamentum carpi annulare anterius. V, The aponeurosis palmaris, extending from the annu- lar ligament of the wrist to the transverse ligaments at the roots of the fingers, and the adjacent edges of the metacarpal bones. w, The palmaris brevis, covering part of the abductor, and flexor parvus minimi digiti. Upon the fingers are seen the annular ligaments retain- ing the tendons of the flexor sublimis, and flexor profundus, in their places. FIG. 2. The Second Layer o/Muscles on the Fore Part of the Superior Extremity. «, The biceps flexor cubiti. Z>, Its long head. c. Its short head. d, A section of the aponeurotic tendon of the biceps. e^ The round tendon of the biceps. /, Part of the coraco-brachialis. g, The subscapularis. h^ The teres major. i. The long head of the triceps extensor cubiti. Tc, Its short head. Z, The brachialis externus of the triceps. m, w. The brachialis internus. 71, The extensor carpi radialis longior. 0, The extensor carpi radialis brevior. p, The supinator radii brevis. gr. The insertion of the flexor carpi ulnaris.TABLE XIV. CONTINUED. r, The flexor digitorum sublimis; its tendons dividing near their insertion in the second phalanx of the bones of the fingers, for the passage of the tendons of the flexor profundus. s. The extensor ossis metacarpi, and extensor primi internodii pollicis. Part of the flexor pollicis longus ; Uf Its tendon. V, The ligamentum carpi annulare. w, The flexor ossis metacai'pi pollicis. X, The abductor pollicis brevis alter of Albinus. 1/, Part of the flexor brevis pollicis. z, Part of the adductor pollicis. 1, The abductor indicis. The adductor minimi digiti. The flexor parvus minimi digiti. 4, 4, The four lumbricales. FIG. 3. The Third Layer o/^Muscles on the Fore Part of the SuPERioE Extremity. «, The subscapularis; Its tendon, c, The teres major ; J, Its tendon. The coraco-brachialis. The brachialis internus. The brachialis externus of the triceps. h^ The extensor carpi radialis longior. Part of the extensor carpi radialis brevior. A:, The supinator radii brevis.T ABLE XIV. CONTINUED. Z, The flexor digitorum profundus. The tendons of that muscle passing under the li- gamentum carpi annulare, to be inserted into the third phalanx of the fingers. The ligamentum carpi annulare. O5 o, The four lumbricales. The flexor longus pollicis. A slip which it sometimes receives from the inner condyle of the os humeri, r, The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis inserted into the last joint of the thumb. 5, The flexor brevis pollicis. The interosseous muscl^ of the fore finger. The adductor minimi digiti. F I Q 4. The Fourth Layer 0^Muscles the Fore Fart of'the Superior Extremity. a, The subscapularis. The supinator radii brevis. c, The pronator radii quadratus. d, The flexor brevis pollicis, with it^ ins^ertiqri into ithe ossa sesamoidea. e, The adductor pollicis. /, f, The seven interossei,—the first placed at the outer side of the metacarpal, bone of the for^-finger, —the rest of them betweeij tj^.n^eta^af|);^. Ijoiju^ ^ ^ .loignoi silRihnt iq-isfS loanoixo sdT i79id iib^'c loiJiffiqua sdTTABLE XV. Represents the Muscles on the back part of the SuPEEioR Extremity. FIG. 1. A View of the First Layer of Muscles on\ the Ba^k Par^ o/*^^^ Superior Extremity. The deltoides, with its insertion into the os humeri. 6, The infra-spinatus. c, The teres minor. . The teres major. The triceps extensor cubiti. f The long, and. The short head of the triceps. The third headj called'jE^^^r/»w5i i, The common tendon of the three heads. k. Part of the brachialis internus. Z, Part of the anconeus. The supinator radii longus. The extensor carpi radialis longior. o, The extensor carpi radialis brevior^ p, Part of the flexor profundus, whichj cpnaes from the ulna. , , q^f Part of thepalma,ris longus. r. Part of the flexor digitorum sublimis' ,9, The flexor carpi ulnaris. t, The extensor carpi ulnaris. u, The extensor digitorum communis, in whiqh areseen^^ Its passage und^r v^, the ligamentum car|>i annulare posterius; ^ . The portion which sends it to the little finger;TABLE XV. CONTINUED. Its flat tendons, running along the metacarpal bones; The aponeurotic slips, which join these tendons toge- ther near the first joint of the fingers ; The tendons upon the back of the fingers, forming broad expansions which cover and adhere to the first and second, and are inserted into the base of the third phalanges ; and The splitting and rejoining of the tendons, between the first and second phalanges, for facilitating the motion of the joints. oc, The extensor ossis metacarpi, and, The extensor primi intemodii poUicis, with their annular ligament. The tendon of the extensor secundi intemodii poUicis. FIG. % The Second Layer o/*Muscles on the Back Part of the Superior Extremity. a, The supra-spinatus. hy The infra-spinatus. c, The teres minor. d, The teres major, ^, The triceps extensor cubiti. J] Its long head. Its short head. hy Part of the third head, named Brachialis Externus, iy The common tendon of the triceps inserted into the olecranon. Tcy Part of the brachialis internus. Z, The anconeus. The extensor carpi radialis longior. n, The extensor carpi radialis brevior.TABLE XV. CONTINUED. 0, The supinator radii brevis. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. The extensor primi internodii pollicis. The extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The conjoined tendons of the three extensors of the thumb, jf. The indicator. Uy The flexor digitorum profundus, f. The flexor carpi ulnaris. Wy A small portion of the flexor sublimis. Wy OCy The cut tendons of the extensor digitorum com- munis. 2/, 2/, The tendinous slips of the extensor communis, fixed to the second phalanx. The adductor pollicis. 1, The abductor indicis. % The abductor minimi digiti. 3, 4, 5, The posterior interossei, consisting of, 3, The prior medii digiti, 4, The posterior medii digiti, and, 5, the posterior annularis. FIG. 3. Tlie Third Layer o;^ Muscles wpon the hack part of the Superior Extremity. «, The teres major. 5, Part of the subscapularis. Cy Part of the coraco-brachialis. J, Part of the brachialis internus. e. The brachialis externus. fy The extensor carpi radialis longior. gy The extensor carpi radialis brevior.TABLE XV. CONTIRITED. h, The flexor profundus perforans. i, The supinator radii brevis. Ar, Part of the flexor longus pollicis. Z, The pronator radii quadratus. The cut tendons of the extensor digitoram. n, The flexor brevis pollicis. o, The adductor pollicis. p, p, The interossei interni, with portions of the inter- ossei externi, the rest of: the'interossei €xterni being cut off. ;5 Tozsli o[h \q aoiiioq 1 • At the lateraLpart of the roots of the fingers, in this and the two former figures, are seen the joining of the tendons of the extensor digitorum, and of the lumbricales and interossei. FIG. 4. The Fourth Layer o/^MtrsctEs on the Back Part of the ! Superior Extremity. a, *the subscapularis. 6, The supinator radii brevis. c, The pronator radii quadratus. The flexor brevis pollicis. - The adductor jwllitis. : ' HfiifloBid odT , 'oi-n^^ol aikibiji asJx^ adT a1 1 I I ITABLE XTI. Repeesents the Muscles on the Fore Part of the Inferioe Extremity. FIG. 1. The First Layer of Muscles on the Fore Part of the Inferior Extremity. a, The tensor vaginas femoris. h. The anterior edge of the gluteus medius. The under end of the iliacus internus, and of, dy The psoas magniis. The pectinalis. J\ The adductor longus femoris, ^5 The gracilis. The sartorius. The rectus femoris. Ar, The vastus externus. The vastus internus. The ligament common to the extensors of the leg^^ fixed to the patella. ?i, The ligament fixing the patella to the tibia, o. The tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi- membranosus. The under end of the biceps flexor cruris. The tibialis anticus. r. Its tendon. 5, The peroneus longus. t. The extensor longus digitoruni'pedis. The tendons of the extensor Wiigus,TABLE XVI. CONTINUED. V, The extensor proprius poUicis. The gastrocnemius externus. The gastrocnemius internus. 2/, The flexor longus digitorum pedis. The tibialis posticus. 1, The tendo Achillis, and tendon of the plantaris. % The upper and under portions of the ligamentum tarsi annulare. 3, Ligaments retaining the tendons at the inner ankle. 4, The abductor pollicis. FIG. 2. The Second Layer o/* Muscles on the Fore Part of the Inferior Extremity, a. The under end of the iliacus internus. h. The under end of the psoas magnus. The pectinalis. The cut end of the rectus femoris. e, The anterior edge of the gluteus medius. The gluteus minimus. The cruralis, with its tendinous fascia. h, The vastus internus. i, The vastus externus. Ar, The cut edge of the rectus fixed to the patella. Z, The adductor longus femoris. A small portion of the adductor magnus. The gracilis. 0, The tendons of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus. The tendon of the biceps flexor cruris, gr, The peroneus longus. r, The peroneus brevis.TABLE XVI. CONTINUED. The extensor longus digitorum pedis ; tf The tendons of that muscle. Uy The peroneus tertius. Vy The extensor proprius poUicis. zv, Its tendon. a;, A branch of that tendon not constant. t/y t/, The edges of the gastrocnemius internus. ^, The edge of the flexor longus digitorum pedis. 1, The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor lon- gus digitorum. 2, Part of the flexor brevis digitorum. FIG. 3. The Third Layer of Muscles wpcm the Fore Part of the Superior Extremity. The gluteus minimus. by The iliacus internus. c, The psoas magnus. dy The obturator externus. The adductor brevis. fyfy The adductor magnus. gy The gracilis. hy The semi-membranosus, with its insertion in the tibia, f. The short head of the biceps flexor cruris. A;, The peroneus longus. Z, The peroneus brevis. my my The tibialis posticus, the interosseous ligament being removed. fly The flexor longus digitorum pedis, o, The tendon of the tibialis posticus. j9, The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum.TABLE XVI. CONTINUED. The tendon of the flexor longus poUicis pedis. r. The extensor brevis digitorum pedis. FIG. 4. The Fourth Layer o/Muscles on the Fore Part of the Inferior Extremity. «, The psoas magnus. 6, The iliacus internus. c, The obturator externus. J, £?, The adductor magnus. e^ The tibialis posticus ; J] Its tendon. ^5 The peroneus brevis. ^, The interossei externi.TABLE XVII Represents the Muscles situated on the Back Part of the Inferior Extremity. FIG. 1. A view of the First Layer o/* Muscles on the Back Part of the Inferior Extremity. / a. The gluteus maximus. if^^ b. Part of the gluteus medius. c. The vastus externus. Part of the adductor magnus femoris. e. The gracilis. f Part of the sartorius. The long head of the biceps flexor cruris ; h. Its short head. i. The semi-tendinosus. A;, The semi-membranosus. Part of the vastus internus. m. The edge of the plantaris. The gastrocnemius externus. o, o, The edge of the gastrocnemius internus. The tendo Achillis. The peroneus longus. r, The peroneus brevis. The flexor longus pollicis pedis. t^ The tendon of the peroneus. The tendon of the peroneus longus, in its passage to the sole. E 2TABLE XVII. CONTINUED. t}, The tendons of the extensor longus digitorum pedis. The tendon of the peroneus tertius. iv. The abductor minimi digiti pedis. 2/, A ligament common to the long and short peronei muscles, and one proper to each of them. z, The ligamentum tarsi annulare. FIG. 2. The Second Layer o/'Muscles on the Back Part of the Inferior Extremity. a, The gluteus medius. b, The pyriformis. c, The gemini. d, The tendon of the obturator internus passing be- tween the gemini. Cy The quadratus femoris. f, The vastus externus. The adductor magnus femoris. h, The semi-tendinosus. i, The gracilis. ]c, The semi-membranosus. /, The biceps flexor cruris. m, The long head of the biceps. n, The short head. 0, The common tendon of the two heads. J), Part of the vastus internus. q, q. The cut heads of the gastrocnemius externus. r, The popliteus. s, The soleus. f, The plantaris. u, The cut tendon of the gastrocnemius externus.TABLE XVII. CONTINUED. V, The tendo Achillis, with the tendon of the plantaris adhering to it. The peroneus longus. ^5 The peroneus brevis. The flexor pollicis longus. a, The tendons of the extensor digitorum longus. 1, The extensor brevis digitorum. % The flexor brevis digitorum. FIG. 3. The Third Layer of Muscles on the Back Part of the Inferior Extremity. a, The gluteus minimus. 5, The obturator internus. c. The tendon of the obturator externus. df, The gracilis. e, The semi-membranosus. fyf The adductor magnus femoris. The short head of the biceps. h^ A, The cut heads of the gastrocnemius externus, with a view of the semilunar cartilages, i. The popliteus. Tc, The tibialis posticus. /, The flexor longus digitorum pedis. The flexor longus pollicis pedis. The peroneus longus, with the passage of its tendon to the sole, o, The peroneus brevis. p, The extensor brevis digitorum pedis. The flexor digitorum accessorius.TABLE XVII. CONTINUED. FIG. 4. The Fourth Za^^r o/^ Muscles on the Back Part of the Inferioe Extremity. «5 Part of the iliacus internus. 5, Part of the psoas magnus. Their insertion into the trochanter minor. dy The obturator externus. e. The adductor magnus femoris. ^ The tibialis posticus. The peroneus brevis, with the insertion of its tendon. FIG. 5. Represents the First Layer of Muscles on the Sole of the Foot, after removing the Common Integuments, the Aponeurosis Plantaris, and the Vaginal Liga- ments of the Toes. a, The flexor brevis digitorum, the tendons of which are perforated by the tendons of the flexor longus, and inserted into the second phalanx of the four small toes. b, The tendon of the flexor longus poUicis, at the sides of which the flexor brevis poUicis appears. c, The adductor pollicis. d, d. The abductor minimi digiti. e, e, The transversalis pedis.TABLE XVII. CONTINUED. py The transversalis pedis. FIG. 6. The Muscles which appear in the Sole, after those re- presented in the former Figure have been removed. a, The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. 6, 5, The flexor digitorum accessorius, with its inser- tion into the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. The connexion of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis. d, d, The insertion of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum into the last phalanx of the four small toes. e, e, e, e, The four lumbricales. f,J] The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. g; The insertion of the tibialis posticus. h, The insertion of the tibialis anticus. i, iy The two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis. Jc, A small portion of the adductor pollicis. Z, The insertion of the peroneus brevis. The tendon of the peroneus longus passing to the sole. n, The flexor brevis minimi digiti. Oy Two of the interossei, the insertions of which, and of the other interossei, are seen at the lateral parts of the roots of the toes.,3