INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. 33 Electrolysis of Gold, Silver, Copper, etc. ELECTRO-DEPOSITION : A Practical Treatise on the Electrolysis of Gold, Silver, Copper, Nickel, and other Metals and Alloys. With descrip- tions of Voltaic Batteries, Magneto and Dynamo-Electric Machines, Ther- mopiles, and of the Materials and Processes used in every Department of the Art, and several Chapters on Electro-Metallurgy. By Alexander Watt. Third Edition, Revised and Corrected. Crown 8vo, gs. cloth. “Eminently a book for the practical worker in electro-deposition. It contains practical descriptions of methods, processes and materials as actually pursued and used in the workshop.” —Engineer. Electro-Metallurgy. ELECTRO-METALLURGY; Practically Treated. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Electro-Deposition,” &c. Ninth Edition, Enlarged and Revised, with Additional Illustrations, and including the most recent Processes. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. “From this book both amateur and artisan may learn everything necessary for the successfu prosecution of electroplating.”—Iron. Electroplating. ELECTROPLATING: A Practical Handbook on the Deposi- tion of Copper, Silver, Nickel, Gold, Aluminium, Brass, Platinum, &c. &c. With Descriptions of the Chemicals, Materials, Batteries and Dynamo Machines used in the Art. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E. Second Edition, with Additions. Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ An excellent practical manual.”—Engineering, “ An excellent work, giving the newest information.”— Horological Journal. Electrotyping. ELECTROTYPING : The Reproduction and Multiplication of Print- ing Surfaces and Works of Art by the Electro-deposition of Metals. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ The book is thoroughly practical. The reader is, therefore, conducted through the leading aws of electricity, then through the metals used by electrotypers, the apparatus, and the depositing processes, up to the final preparation of the work.”—Art Journal. Horology. A TREATISE ON MODERN HOROLOGY, in Theory and Prac- tice. Translated from the French of Claudius Saunier, by Julien Trip- plin, F.R.A.S., and Edward Rigg, M.A., Assayer in the Royal Mint. With 78 Woodcuts and 22 Coloured Plates. Second Edition. Royal 8vo, £2 2s. cloth ; £2 10s. half-calf. “ There is no horological work in the English language at all to be compared to this produc- tion of M. Saunier’s for clearness and completeness. It is alike good as a guide for the student and as a reference for the experienced horologist and skilled workman.”—Horological Journal. “ The latest, the most complete, and the most reliable of those literary productions to which continental watchmakers are indebted for the mechanical superiority over their English brethren —in fact, the Book of Books, is M. Saunier’s ‘ Treatise. Watch-maker, Jeweller and Silversmith. Watchmaking. THE WATCHMAKER'S HANDBOOK. A Workshop Com- panion for those engaged in Watchmaking and the Allied Mechanical Arts. From the French of Claudius Saunier. Enlarged by Julien Tripplin, F.R.A.S., and Edward Rigg, M.A., Assayer in the Royal Mint. Woodcuts and Copper Plates. Third Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 9s. cloth. “ Each part is truly a treatise in itself. The arrangement is good and the language is clear and concise. It is an admirable guide for the young watchmaker.”—Engineering. “It is impossible to speak too highly of its excellence. It fulfils every requirement in a hand- book intended for the use of a workman ."—Watch and Clockmaker. “ This book contains an immense number of practical details bearing on the daily occupation of a watchmaker. Watchmaker and Metalworker (Chicago). Goldsmiths’ Work. THE GOLDSMITH'S HANDBOOK. By George E. Gee, Jeweller, &c. Third Edition, considerably Enlarged. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cl. bds. “A good, sornd educator, and will be accepted as an authority.”—Horological Journal. Silversmiths’ Work. THE SILVERSMITH'S HANDBOOK. By George E. Gee, Jeweller, &c. Second Edition, Revised, with numerous Illustrations. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth boards. “Workers in the trade will speedily discover its merits when they sit down to study it.”— English Mechanic. *** The above two works together, strongly half-bound, price 7s.