PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. asunder the lime salt, and forming with the silica a silicate of lime. The shell of an ordinary hen’s egg weighs about 105 grains—that is the inorganic portion of it—and if a bird lays 100 eggs in the year she produces nearly 22 ozs. of nearly pure carbonate of lime in that period of time. The composition of a fresh egg, exclusive of the shell, is 74 parts water, 14 albumen, 10*5 oil or fat, and 1*5 mineral salts. The yolks contain water and albumen, but associated with these is quite a large number of mineral and other substances, which render it very complex in composition. The bright yellow colour is due to a peculiar fat or oil, which is capable of reflect- ing the yellow rays of light, and this holds the sulphur and phosphorus which abound in the egg. The yolk contains rela- tively a less proportion of nitrogenous matter than the white, and the proportion of solid matter, on account of the fat, is considerably greater. An egg weighing if ozs. consists of T20 grains of carbon and 17! grains of nitrogen. The white of egg contains a much larger proportion of water than the yolk; it contains no fatty matter, but consists mainly of albumen in a dissolved state, and enclosed within very thin walled cells. It is this arrangement which gives to the white of egg its ropy gelatinous state. The albumen or white of egg is a coagulable lymph in its purest natural state, convertible by the action of heat at about 1240 Fahr. into thin white fibres, and at 1600 into a solid mass. In a heat not exceeding 2120 it dries, shrinks, and has the appearance of horn. When burnt it emits ammonia, and when treated with nitric acid yields nitrogen. Bow to Preserve Eggs.—Procure as many fresh-laid eggs as you may want to preserve. Take a square box and line the bottom of the box with common salt; then mb each egg thoroughly over with fresh butter and lay the eggs in rows on the top of the salt, the small end uppermost. Put another layer of salt on the top of the eggs, and proceed with the others