ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, etc. 15 The New Builder’s Brice Book, 1892. LOCKWOOD’S BUILDER'S PRICE BOOK FOR 1892. A Comprehensive Handbook of the Latest Prices and Data for- Builders, Architects, Engineers and Contractors. Re-constructed, Re-written and Further Enlarged. By Francis T. W. Miller. 700 closely-printed pages, crown 8vo, 4s. cloth. [Just published. “ This book is a very useful one, and should find a place in every English office connected with the building and engineering professions.”—Industries. “This Price Book has been set up in new type. . . . Advantage has been taken of the transformation to add much additional information, and the volume is now an excellent book of reference.”—Architect. “ In its new and revised form this Price Book is what a work of this kind should be—compre- hensive, reliable, well arranged, legible and well bound.’—British Architect. “ A work of established reputation."—Athenceum. “This very useful handbook is well written, exceedingly clear in its explanations and great care has evidently been taken to ensure accuracy.”—Morning Advertiser. Designing, Measuring, and Valuing. THE STUDENT’S GUIDE to the PRACTICE of MEASUR- ING AND VALUING ARTIFICERS’ WORKS. Containing Directions for taking Dimensions, Abstracting the same, and bringing the Quantities into Bill, with Tables of Constants for Valuation of Labour, and for the Calcula- tion of Areas and Solidities, Originally edited by Edward Dobson, Architect. With Additions on Mensuration and Construction, and a New Chapter on Dilapidations, Repairs, and Contracts, by E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A. Sixth Edition, including a Complete Form of a Bill of Quantities. With 8 Plates and 63 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. “ Well fulfils the promise of its title-page, and we can thoroughly recommend it to the class for whose use it has been compiled. Mr. Tarn’s additions and revisions have much increased the usefulness of the work, and have especially augmented its value to students.”—Engineering. “This edition will be found the most complete treatise on the principles of measuring and valuing artificers’ work that has yet been published.”—Building News. BocTcet Estimator and Technical Guide. THE POCKET TECHNICAL GUIDE, MEASURER AND ESTIMATOR FOR BUILDERS AND SURVEYORS. Containing Tech- nical Directions for Measuring Work in all the Building Trades, Complete Specifications for Houses, Roads, and Drains, and an easy Method of Estimat- ing the parts of a Building collectively. By A. C. Beaton, Author of “ Quantities and Measurements,” &c. Sixth Edition, Revised. With 53 Woodcuts, waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d. gilt edges. [Just published. “ No builder, architect, surveyor, or valuer should be without his ‘ Beaton.’ ’ —Building News. “Contains an extraordinary amount of information in daily requisition in measuring and estimating. Its presence in the pocket will save valuable time and trouble.”—Building World. Donaldson on Specifications, THE HANDBOOK OF SPECIFICATIONS; or, Practical Guide to the Architect, Engineer, Surveyor, and Builder, in drawing up Specifications and Contracts for Works and Constructions. Illustrated by Precedents of Buildings actually executed by eminent Architects and En- gineers. By Professor T. L. Donaldson, P.R.I.B.A., &c. New Edition, in One large Vol., 8vo, with upwards of 1,000 pages of Text, and 33 Plates, £1 ns. 6d. cloth. “ In this work forty-four specifications of executed works are given, Including the specifica- tions for parts of the new Houses of Parliament, by Sir Charles Barry, and for the new Royal Exchange, by Mr. Tite, M.P. The latter, in particular, is a very complete and remarkable document. It embodies, to a great extent, as Mr. Donaldson mentions, ‘the bill of quantities with the description of the works.’ ... It is valuable as a record, and more valuable still as a book of precedents. . . . Suffice it to say that Donaldson’s ‘Handbook of Specifications must be bought by all architects.”—Builder. Bartholomew and Bogers’ Specifications. SPECIFICATIONS FOR PRACTICAL ARCHITECTURE. A Guide to the Architect, Engineer, Surveyor, and Builder. With an Essay on the Structure and Science of Modern Buildings. Upon the Basis of the Work by Alfred Bartholomew, thoroughly Revised, Corrected, and greatly added to by Frederick Rogers, Architect. Second Edition, Revised, with Additions. With numerous Illustrations, medium 8vo, 15s. cloth. “ The collection of specifications prepared by Mr. Rogers on the basis of Bartholomew’s work is too well known to need any recommendation from us. It is one of the books with which every young architect must be equipped ; for time bas shown that the specifications cannot be set aside through any defect in them .’’—Architect.