COUNTING-HOUSE WORK-TABLES, CALCULATORS, etc. 29 COUNTING-HOUSE WORK, TABLES, etc. Introduction to Business, LESSONS IN COMMERCE. By Professor R. Gambaro, of the Royal High Commercial School at Genoa. Edited and Revised by James Gault, Professor of Commerce and Commercial Law in King’s College, London. Crown 8vo, price about 3s. 6d. (in the press. Accounts for Manufacturers, FACTORY ACCOUNTS: Their Principles and Practice. A Handbook for Accountants and Manufacturers, with Appendices on the No- menclature of Machine Details; the Income Tax Acts; the Rating of Fac- tories; Fire and Boiler Insurance; the Factory and Workshop Acts, &c.» including also a Glossary of Terms and a large number of Specimen Rulings. By Emile Garcke and J. M. Fells. Third Edition. Demy 8vo, 250 pages, price 6s. strongly bound. “A very interesting description ofthe requirements of Factory Accounts. . . . the principle of assimilating the Factory Accounts to the general commercial books is one which we thoroughly agree with .’’—Accountants’ Journal. “There are few owners of Factories who would not derive great benefit from the perusal of this most admirable work.”—Local Government Chronicle. Foreign Commercial Correspondence, THE FOREIGN COMMERCIAL CORRESPONDENT: Being Aids to Commercial Correspondence in Five Languages—English, French, German, Italian and Spanish. By Conrad E. Baker. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. ' ‘ Whoever wishes to correspond in all the languages mentioned by Mr. Baker cannot do better than study this work, the materials of which are excellent and conveniently arranged.”—Athenczum> “A careful examination, has convinced us that it is unusually complete, well arranged and reliable. The book is a thoroughly good one.”—Schoolmaster. Intuitive Calculations, THE COMPENDIOUS CALCULATOR; or, Easy and Con- cise Methods of Performing the various Arithmetical Operations required in Commercial and Business Transactions, together with Useful Tables. By D. 0‘Gorman. Corrected by Professor J. R. Young. Twenty-seventh Ed., Revised by C. Norris. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth; or, 3s. 6d. half-bound. “ It would be difficult to exaggerate the usefulness of a book like this to everyone engaged in commerce or manufacturing industry.”—Knowledge. “ Supplies special and rapid methods for all kinds of calculations. Of great utility to persons engaged in any kind of commercial transactions.”—Scotsman. Modern Metrical TJnits and Systems, MODERN METROLOGY: A Manual of the Metrical Units and Systems of the Present Century. With an Appendix containing a proposed English System. By Lowis D’A. Jackson, A.M.Inst.C.E., Author of “Aid to Survey Practice,” &c. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “The author has brought together much valuable and interesting information. . . . We cannot but recommend the work.”—Nature. “ For exhaustive tables of equivalent weights and measures of all sorts, and for clear demonstra- tions of the effects of the various systems that have been proposed or adopted, Mr. Jackson’s treatise is without a rival.”—Academy. The Metric System and the British Standards. A SERIES OF METRIC TABLES, in which the British Stand- ard Measures and Weights are compared with those of the Metric System at present in Use on the Continent. By C. H. Dowling, C.E. 8vo, ios. 6d. strongly bound. “Their accuracy has been certified by Professor Airy, the Astronomer-Royal.”—Builder. “ Mr. Dowling’s Tables are well put together as a ready-reckoner for the conversion of on® system into the other.”—Athenceum. Iron and Metal Trades9 Calculator, THE IRON AND METAL TRADES’ COMPANION. For expeditiously ascertaining the Value of any Goods bought or sold by Weight, from is. per cwt. to 112s. per cwt., and from one farthing per pound to one shilling per pound. Each Table extends from one pound to 100 tons. To which are appended Rules on Decimals, Square and Cube Root, Mensuration ot Superficies and Solids, &c.; also Tables of Weights of Materials, and other Useful Memoranda. ByTHOS. Downie. Strongly bound in leather, 396 pp., gs. “ A most useful set of tables. . . . Nothing like them before existed.”— Building-News. “ Although specially adapted to the iron and metal trades, the tables will be found useful in every other business in which merchandise is bought and sold by weight.”—Railway News.