MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. 3 Stone-working Machinery. STONE-WORKING MACHINERY, and the Rapid and Economi- cal Conversion of Stone. With Hints on the Arrangement and Management of Stone Works. By M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E. With Illusts. Crown 8vo, 9s. “Should be in the hands of every mason or student of stone-work.”— Colliery Guardian. “ A capital handbook tor all who manipulate stone for building or ornamental purposes.”— Machinery Market. Pump Construction and Management. PUMPS AND PUMPING : A Handbook for Pump Users. Being Notes on Selection, Construction and Management. By M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E., Author of “ Woodworking Machinery,” &c. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. “The matter is set forth as concisely as possible. In fact, condensation rather than diffuseness has been the author’s aim throughout; yet he does not seem to have omitted anything likely to be of use.”—Journal of Gas Lighting. Milling Machinery, etc. MILLING MACHINES AND PROCESSES: A Practical Treatise on Shaping Metals by Rotary Cutters, including Information on Making and Grinding the Cutters. By Paul N. Hasluck, Author of “ Lathe- work.” With upwards of 300 Engravings. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. Turning. ^ust Pubhshed- LATHE-WORK : A Practical Treatise on the Tools, Appliances, and Processes employed in the Art of Turning. By Paul N. Hasluck. Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Cr. 8vo, 5s. cloth. “Written by a man who knows, not only how work ought to be done, but who also knows how to do it, and how to convey his knowledge to others. To all turners this book would be valuable.” —Engineering. “ We can safely recommend the work to young engineers. To the amateur it will simply be invaluable. To the student it will convey a great deal of useful information.”—Engineer. Screw-Cutting. SCREW THREADS : And Methods of Producing Them. With Numerous Tables, and complete directions for using Screw-Cutting Lathes. By Paul N. Hasluck, Author of “Lathe-Work,” &c. With Fifty Illustra- tions. Third Edition, Enlarged. Waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d. cloth. “ Full of useful information, hints and practical criticism. Taps, dies and screwing-tools gene- rally are illustrated and their action described.”—Mechanical World. “ It is a complete compendium of all the details of the screw cutting lathe; in fact a miiltum- in-parvo on all the subjects it treats upon.”—Carpenter and Builder. Smith’s Tables for Mechanics, etc. TABLES, MEMORANDA, AND CALCULATED RESULTS, FOR MECHANICS, ENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, BUILDERS, etc. Selected and Arranged by Francis Smith. Fifth Edition, thoroughly Revised and Enlarged, with a New Section of Electrical Tables, Formula:, and Memoranda. Waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d. limp leather. [Just published, “ It would, perhaps, be as difficult to make a small pocket-book selection of notes and formulae to suit ALL engineers as it would be to make a universal medicine; but Mr. Smith’s waistcoat- pocket collection may be looked upon as a successful attempt.”—Engineer. “The best example we have ever seen of 250 pages of useful matter packed into the dimen- sions of a card-case.”—Building News. “A veritable pocket treasury of knowledge.”—Iron. Engineer’s and Machinist’s Assistant. THE ENGINEER’S, MILLWRIGHT'S, and MACHINIST’S PRACTICAL ASSISTANT. A collection of UsefulTables, Rules and Data, By William Templeton. 7th Edition, with Additions. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ Occupies a foremost place among books of this kind. A more suitable present to an appren- tice to any of the mechanical trades could not possibly be made.”—Building News. “A deservedly popular, work, it should be in the ‘drawer’ of every mechanic.”—English Mechanic. Iron and Steel. “ IRON AND STEEL ” : A Work for the Forge, Foundry, Factory, and Office, Containing ready, useful, and trustworthy Information for Iron- masters ; Managers of Bar, Rail, Plate, and Sheet Rolling Mills; Iron and Metal Founders ; Iron Ship and Bridge Builders ; Mecnanical, Mining, and Consulting Engineers ; Contractors, Builders, &c. By Charles Hoare. Eighth Edition, Revised and considerably Enlarged. 32mo, 6s. leather. “ One of the best of the pocket books.”—English Mechanic. “We cordially recommend this book to those engaged in considering the details of all kinds of Iron and steel works,”—Naval Science.