i7 DECORATIVE ARTS, etc. House Decoration. ELEMENTARY DECORATION. A Guide to the Simpler Forms of Everyday Art, as applied to the Interior and Exterior Decoration of Dwelling Houses, &c. By James W. Facey, Jun. With 68 Cuts. i2mo, 2s. cloth limp. PRACTICAL HOUSE DECORATION : A Guide to the Art of Ornamental Painting, the Arrangement of Colours in Apartments, and the principles of Decorative Design. With some Remarks upon the Nature and Properties of Pigments. By James William Facey, Author of “ Elementary Decoration,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. N.B.—The above Two Works together in One Vol., strongly half-bound, 5s. Colour. A GRAMMAR OF COLOURING. Applied to Decorative Painting and the Arts. By George Field. New Edition, Revised, Enlarged, and adapted to the use of the Ornamental Painter and Designer. By Ellis A. Davidson. With New Coloured Diagrams and Engravings. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth boards. "The book is a most useful resume of the properties of pigments."—Builder, House Painting, Graining, etc. HOUSE PAINTING, GRAINING, MARBLING, AND SIGN WRITING, A Practical Manual of. By Ellis A. Davidson, Sixth Edition. With Coloured Plates and Wood Engravings, nmo, 6s. cloth boards. “ A mass of information, of use to the amateur and of value to the practical man.”—English Mechanic. “Simply invaluable to the youngster entering upon this particular calling, and highly service able to the man who is practising it.”—Furniture Gazette. Decorators, Receipts for. THE DECORATOR'S ASSISTANT: A Modern Guide to De- corative Artists and Amateurs, Painters, Writers, Gilders, &c. Containing upwards of 600 Receipts, Rules and Instructions ; with a variety of Informa- tion for General Work connected with every Class of Interior and Exterior Decorations, &c. Fourth Edition, Revised. 152 pp., crown 8vo, is. in wrapper. “ Full of receipts of value to decorators, painters, gilders, &c. The book contains the gist of larger treatises on colour and technical processes. It would be difficult to meet with a work so full of varied information on the painter's art.”—Building News. “ We recommend the work to all who, whether for pleasure or profit, require a guide to decora-.. tion.”—Plumber and Decorator. Moyr Smith on Interior Decoration. ORNAMENTAL INTERIORS, ANCIENT AND MODERNr . By J. Moyr Smith. Super-royal 8vo, with 32 full-page Plates and numerous? - smaller Illustrations, handsomely bound in cloth, gilt top, price 18s. “The book is well illustrated and handsomely got up, and contains some true criticism and & . good many good examples of decorative treatment.”— The Builder. “ This is the most elaborate and beautiful work on the artistic decoration of interiors that we have seen. . . . The scrolls, panels and other designs from the author’s own pen are very beautiful and chaste ; but he takes care that the designs of other men shall figure even more thar his own.”—Liverpool Albion. “To all who take an interest in elaborate domestic ornament this handsome volume will be welcome. ”—G rap hie. British and Foreign Marbles. MARBLE DECORATION and the Terminology of British and Foreign Marbles. A Handbook for Students. By George H. Blagrove, Author of “ Shoring and its Application,” &c. With 28 Illustrations. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ This most useful and much wanted handbook should be in the hands of every architect and builder.”—Building World. • ■ It is an excellent manual for students, and interesting to artistic readers generally.”—Saturday. Review. “ A" carefully and usefully written treatise ; the work is essentially practical.”—Scotsman. Marble Working, etc. MARBLE AND MARBLE WORKERS: A Handbook for Architects, Artists, Masons and Students. By Arthur Lee, Author of “ A Visit Fo Carrara,” “ The Working of Marble,” &c. Small crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ A really valuable addition to the technical literature of architects and masons. ’’—Building News . C