ELECTRICITY, ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, etc. 25 ELECTRICITY ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, etc. Electrical Engineering. THE ELECTRICAL ENGINEER’S POCKET-BOOK OF MODERN RULES, FORMULAE, TABLES AND DATA. By H. R. Kempe, M.Inst.E.E., A.M.Inst C.E., Technical Officer Postal Telegraphs, Author of “A Handbook of Electrical Testing,” &c. With numerous Illus- trations, royal 321110, oblong, 5s. leather. [Just published. '1 There is very little in the shape of formulae or data which the electrician is likely to want in a hurry which cannot be found in its pages.”—Practical Engineer. “A very useful book of reference for daily use in practical electrical engineering and its various applications to the industries of the present day.”—Iron. “ It is the best book of its kind.”—Electrical Engineer. “The Electrical Engineer's Pocket-Book is a good one.”—Electrician. ' “ Strongly recommended to those engaged in tne various electrical industries.”—Electrical Review, Electric Lighting. ELECTRIC LIGHT FITTING : A Handbook for Working Electrical Engineers, embodying Practical Notes on Installation Manage- ment. By John W. Urquhart, Electrician, Author of “ Electric Light,” &c. With numerous Illustrations, crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. [Just published. “ This volume deals with what may be termed the mechanics of electric lighting, and is addressed to men who are already engaged in the work or are training for it. The work traverses a great deal of ground, and may be read as a sequel to the same author’s useful work on ‘ Electric Light.’ ”—Electrician. “ This is an attempt to state in the simplest language the precautions which should be adopted In installing the electric light, and to give information,for the guidance of those who have to run the plant when installed. The book is well worth the perusal of the workmen for whom it is written.”—Electrical Review. ‘ Eminently practical and useful. . . . Ought to be in the hands of everyone in charge of an electric light plant.”—Electrical E.ngineer. “A really capital book, which we have no hesitation in recommending to the notice of working electricians and electrical engineers.”—Mechanical World. Electric Light. ELECTRIC LIGHT : Its Production and Use. Embodying Plain Directions for the Treatment cf Dynamo-Electric Machines, Batteries, Accumulators, and Electric Lamps. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E., Author of ** Electric Light Fitting,” &c. Fourth Edition, Revised, with Large Additions and 145 Illustrations. .Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “The book is by far the best that we have yet met with on the subject.”—Athenceum. “It is the only work at present available which gives, in language intelligible for the most part to the ordinary reader, a general but concise history of the means which have been adopted up to the present time in producing the electric light.”—Metropolitan. ‘ * The book contains a general account of the means adopted in producing the electric light, not only as obtained from voltaic or galvanic batteries, but treats at length of the dynamo-electric machine in several of its forms ."—Colliery Guardian. Construction of Dynamos. DYNAMO CONSTRUCTION ; A Practical Handbook for the Use of Engineer Constructors and Electricians in Charge. With Examples of leading English, American and Continental Dynamos and Motors. By J. W. Urquhart, Author of “ Electric Light,” &c. . Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. ‘ The author has produced a book for which a demand has long existed. The subject is treated in a thoroughly practical manner.' '—Mecha->iical World. Dynamic Electricitij and JSIagnetism. THE ELEMENTS OF DYNAMIC ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM, By Philip Atkinson, A.M., Ph.D. Crown 8vo. 400 pp. With 120 Illustrations. 10s. 6d?cloth. [Jtist published. Text Book of Electricity. THE STUDENT’S TEXT-BOOK OF ELECTRICITY. By Henry M. Noad, Ph.D., F.R.S., F.C.S. New Edition, carefully Revised. With an Introduction and Additional Chapters, by W. H. Preece, M.I.C.E., Vice-President of the Society of Telegraph Engineers, &c. With 470 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 12J. 6d. cloth. ‘We can recommend Dr. Noad’s book for clear style, great range of subject, a good index ■d a plethora of woodcuts. Such collections as the present are indispensable.”—Athenceum. “ An admirable text book for every student — beginner or advanced — of electricity.”— Engineering.