INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. 3i INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. Soap-making, THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING: A Practical Handbook of the Manufacture of Hard and Soft Soaps, Toilet Soaps, etc. Including many New Processes, and a Chapter on the Recovery of Glycerine from Waste Leys. By Alexander Watt, Author oi “ Electro-Metallurgy Practically Treated,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. “The work will prove very useful, not merely .to the technological student, but to the practical soap-boiler who wishes to understand the theory of his art.”—Chemical Nevus. “Mr. Watt’s book is a thoroughly practical treatise on an art which has almost no literature In our language. We congratulate the author on the success of his endeavour to fill a void in English technical literature.”—Nature. Paper Making. THE ART OF PAPER MAKING : A Practical Handbook of the Manufacture of Paper from Rags, Esparto, Straw and other Fibrous Materials, Including the Manufacture of Pulp from Wood Fibre, with a Description of the Machinery and Appliances used. To which are added Details of Processes for Recovering Soda from Waste Liquors. By Alexander Watt. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth. “ This book is succinct, lucid, thoroughly practical, and includes everything of interest to the modern paper maker. It is the latest, most practical and most complete work on the paper-making art before the British public.”— Paper Record. ‘ It may be regarded as the standard work on the subject. The book is full of valuable in- fo -mation. The ‘ Art of Paper-making,’ is in every respect a model of a text-book, either for a technical class or for the private student.”—Paper and Printing Trades Journal. “ Admirably adapted for general as well as ordinary technical reference, and as a handbook for students in technical education may be warmly commended.”—The Paper Maker's Monthly Journal. Leather Manufacture. THE ART OF LEATHER MANUFACTURE. Being a Practical Handbook, in which the Operations of Tanning, Currying, and Leather Dressing are fully Described, the Principles of Tanning Explained and many Recent Processes introduced. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Soap-Making,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, gs. cloth. “A sound, comprehensive treatise on tanning and its accessories. This book is an eminently valuable production, which redounds to the credit of both author and publishers.”—Chemical Review. “This volume is technical without being tedious, comprehensive and complete without being prosy, and it bears on every page the impress of a master hand. We have never come across a better trade treatise, nor one that so thoroughly supplied an absolute want.”—Shoe and Leather Trades' Chronicle. Boot and Shoe Making. THE ART OF BOOT AND SHOE-MAKING. A Practical Handbook, including Measurement, Last-Fitting, Cutting-Out, Closing and Making, with a Description of the most approved Machinery employed. By John B. Leno, late Editor of St. Crispin, and The Boot and Shoe-Maker. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. i2mo, 2s. cloth limp. “This excellent treatise is by far the best work ever written on the subject. A new work, embracing all modern improvements, was much wanted. This want is now satisfied. The chapter on clicking, which shows now waste may be prevented, will save fifty times the price of the book.” —Scottish Leather Trader. Dentistry. MECHANICAL DENTISTRY : A Practical Treatise on the Construction of the various kinds of Artificial Dentures. Comprising also Use- ful Formulae, Tables and Receipts for Gold Plate, Clasps, Solders, &c. &c. By Charles Hunter. Third Edition, Revised. With upwards of 100 Wood Engravings. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ The work is very practical.”—Monthly Review of Dental Surgery. “Wo can strongly recommend Mr. Hunter’s treatise to all students preparing for the profession of dentistry, as well as to every mechanical dentist.”—Dublin Journal 0/ Medical Science. Wood Engraving. WOOD ENGRAVING: A Practical and Easy Introduction to the Study of the Art. By William Norman Brown. Second Edition. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth limp. “The book is clear and complete, and will be useful to anyone wanting to understand the first elements of the beautiful art of wood engraving.”—Gnathic.