ROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 16 Building; Civil and Ecclesiastical. A BOOK ON BUILDING, Civil and Ecclesiastical, including Church Restoration ; with the Theory of Domes and the Great Pyramid, &c. By Sir Edmund Beckett, Bart., LL.D., F.R.A.S., Author of “Clocks and Watches, and Bells,” &c. Second Edition, Enlarged. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ A book which is always amusing and nearly always instructive. The style throughout is in the highest degree condensed and epigrammatic.” — Times. Ventilation of Buildings. VENTILATION. A Text Book to the Practice of the Art oj Ventilating Buildings. With a Chapter upon Air Testing. By W. P. Buchan, R.P., Sanitary and Ventilating Engineer, Author of “ Plumbing,” &c. With 170 Illustrations. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. pttblished. The Art of Plumbing. PLUMBING. A Text Book to the Practice of the Art or Craft of the Plumber, with Supplementary Chapters on House Drainage, embodying the latest Improvements. By William Paton Buchan, R.P., Sanitary Engineer and Practical Plumber. Sixth Edition, Enlarged to 370 pages, and 380 Illustrations. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. “ A text book which may be safely put in the hands of every young plumber, and which will also be found useful by architects and medical professors.”—Builder. “ A valuable text book, and the only treatise which can be regarded as a really reliable manual of the plumber’s art.”—Building News. Geometry for the Architect, Engineer, etc. PRACTICAL GEOMETRY, for the Architect, Engineer and Mechanic. Giving Rules for the Delineation and Application of various Geometrical Lines, Figures and Curves. By E. W. Tarn, M. A., Architect, Author of “The Science of Building,” &c. Second Edition. With 172 Illus- trations, demy 8vo, 9s. cloth. “ No book with the same objects in view has ever been published in which the clearness of the rules laid down and the illustrative diagrams have been so satisfactory.”—Scotsman. The Science of Geometry. THE GEOMETRY OF COMPASSES; or, Problems Resolved by the mere Description of Circles, and the use of Coloured Diagrams and Symbols. By Oliver Byrne. Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ The treatise is a good one, and remarkable—like all Mr. Byrne’s contributions to the science of geometry—for the lucid character of its teaching.”—Building News. DECORATIVE ARTS, etc. Woods and Marbles (Imitation of). SCHOOL OF PAINTING FOR THE IMITATION OF WOODS AND MARBLES, as Taught and Practised by A. R. Van der Burg and P. Van der Burg, Directors of the Rotterdam Painting Institution. Royal folio, 183 by 12^ in., Illustrated with 24 full-size Coloured Plates; also 12 plain Plates, comprising 154 Figures. Second and Cheaper Edition. Price £1 ns.6d. List of Plates. 1. Various Tools required for Wood Painting —2, 3. Walnut: Preliminary Stages of Graining and Finished Specimen — 4. T ools used for Marble Painting and Method of Manipulation— *,6. St. Remi Marble: Earlier Operations and Finished Specimen—7. Methods of Sketching different Grains, Knots, &c.—8, 9. Ash: Pre- liminary Stages and Finished Specimen —10. Methods of Sketching Marble Grains—11, 12. Breche Marble: Preliminary Stages of Working and Finished Specimen—13. Maple: Methods Finished Specimen—19. Mahogany: Specimens of various Grains and Methods of Manipulation —20, 21. Mahogany: Earlier Stages and Finished Specimen—22,23, 24. Sienna Marble: Varieties of Grain, Preliminary Stages and Finished Specimen—25, 26, 27. Juniper Wood : Methods of producing Grain, &c.: Preliminary Stages and Finished Specimen—28, 29, 30. Vert de Mer Marble: Varieties of Grain and Methods of Working Unfinished and Finished Speci- mens—31. 32. 33. Oak: Varieties of Grain, Tools Employed, and Methods of Manipulation, Pre- Specimen—16. Methods of Sketching the dif- ferent Species of White Marble—17, 18. White Marble: Preliminary Stages of Process and *** Opinions of the Press. “ Those who desire to attain skill in the art of painting woods and marbles will find advantage consulting this book. . . . Some of the Working Men’s Clubs should give their young men the opportunity to study it.”—Builder. “ A comprehensive guide to the art. The explanations of the processes, the manipulation and management of the colours, and the beautifully executed plates will not be the least valuable to the student who aims at making his work a faithful transcript of nature.”—Building News.