CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 24 Mineral Surveying and Valuing. THE MINERAL SURVEYOR AND VALUER'S COMPLETE G UIDE, comprising a Treatise on Improved Mining Surveying and the Valua- tion of Mining Properties, with New Traverse Tables. By Wm. Lintern, Mining and Civil Engineer. Third Edition, with an Appendix on “ Magnetic and Angular Surveying,” with Records of the Peculiarities of Needle Dis- tuBbances. With Four Plates of Diagrams, Plans, &c. i2mo, 4s. cloth. “ Mr. Lintern’s book forms a valuable and thoroughly trustworthy guide.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. “ This new edition must be of the highest value to colliery surveyors, proprietors and mana- gers.”—Colliery Guardian. Asbestos and its Uses. ASBESTOS: Its Properties, Occurrence and Uses. With some Account of the Mines of Italy and Canada. By Robert H. Jones. With Eight Collotype Plates and other Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ An interesting and invaluable work.”—Colliery Guardian. “ We counsel our readers to get this exceedingly interesting work for themselves ; they will find^in ft much that is suggestive, and a great deal that is of immediate and practical usefulness.”— “ A valuable addition to the architect’s and engineer’s library.”— Building News. Underground Tumping Machinery. MINE DRAINAGE. Being a Complete and Practical Treatise on Direct-Acting Underground Steam Pumping Machinery, with a Descrip- tion of a large number of the best known Engines, their General Utility and the Special Sphere of their Action, the Mode of their Application, and their merits compared with other forms of Pumping Machinery. By Stephen Michell. 8vo, 15s. cloth. “Will be highly esteemed by colliery owners and lessees, mining engineers, and students generally who require to be acquainted with the best means of securing the drainage of mines. It Is a most valuable work, and stands almost alone in the literature of steam pumping machinery.”— Colliery Gteardian. “ Much valuable information is given, so that the book is thoroughly worthy of an extensive circulation amongst practical men and purchasers of machinery.”—Mining 'Journal. Mining Tools. A MANUAL OF MINING TOOLS. For the Use of Mine Managers, Agents, Students, &c. By William Morgans, Lecturer on Prac- tical Mining at the Bristol School of Mines. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. ATLAS OF ENGRAVINGS to Illustrate the above, contain- ing 235 Illustrations of Mining Tools, drawn to scale. 4to, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ Students in the science of mining, and overmen, captains, managers, and viewers may gain practical knowledge and useful hints by the study of Mr. Morgans’ manual.”—Colliery Guardian. “A valuable work, which will tend materially to improve our mining literature.”—Mining Journal. Coal Mining» COAL AND COAL MINING: A Rudimentary Treatise on. By the late Sir Warington W. Smyth, M.A., F.R.S., &c., Chief Inspector of the Mines of the Crown. Seventh Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. “As an outline is given of every known coal-field in this and other countries, as well as of the principal methods of working, the book will doubtless interest a very large number of readers."— Mining Journal. Subterraneous Surveying. SUBTERRANEOUS SURVEYING, Elementary and Practical Treatise on, with and without the Magnetic Needle. By Thomas Fenwick, Surveyor of Mines, and Thomas Baker, C.E. Illust. izmo, 3s. cloth boards. Granite Quarrying. GRANITES AND OUR GRANITE INDUSTRIES. By George F. Harris, F.G.S., Membre de la Societe Beige de Geologie, Lec- turer on Economic Geology at the Birkbeck Institution, &c. With Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ A clearly and well-written manual for persons engaged or interested in the granite industry.’ — Scotsman. “ An interesting work, which will be deservedly esteemed.”—Colliery Guardian. “ An exceedingly interesting and valuable monograph on a subject which has hitherto received unaccountably little attention in the shape of systematic literary treatment.”—Scottish Leader.