13 CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. River Engineering, RIVER BARS: The Causes of their Formation, and their Treat- ment by “ Induced Tidal Scour; ” with a Description of the Successful Re- duction by this Method of the Bar at Dublin. By I. J. Mann, Assist. Eng. to the Dublin Port and Docks Board. Royal 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. “We recommend all interested in harbour works—and, indeed, those concerned in the im- provements of rivers generally—to read Mr. Mann’s interesting work on the treatment of river bars ."—Engineer. Trusses, TRUSSES OF WOOD AND IRON. Practical Applications of Science in Determining the Stresses, Breaking Weights, Safe Loads, Scantlings, and Details of Construction, with Complete Working Drawings. By William Griffiths, Surveyor, Assistant Master, Tranmere School of Science and Art. Oblong 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ This handy little book enters so minutely into every detail connected with the construction of roof trusses, that no student need be ignorant of these matters."—Practical Engineer. Railway Working. SAFE RAILWAY WORKING. A Treatise on Railway Acci- dents: Their Cause and Prevention; with a Description of Modern Appliances and Systems. By Clement E. Stretton, C.E., Vice-President and Con- sulting Engineer, Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants. With Illus- trations and Coloured Plates. Second Edition, Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ A book for the engineer, the directors, the managers; and, in short, all who wish for informa- tion on railway matters will find a perfect encyclopaedia in ‘ Safe Railway Working. "—Railway Review. “ We commend the remarks on railway signalling to all railway managers, especially where a uniform code and practice is advocated.”—Herefiath's Railway Journal. “The author maybe congratulated on having collected, in a very convenient form, much valuable information on the principal questions affecting the safe workii g of railways.”—Rail- way Engineer. Field-Rook for Engineers, THE ENGINEER'S, MINING SURVEYOR’S, AND CON- TRACTOR’S FIELD-BOOK. Consisting of a Series of Tables, with Rules, Explanations of Systems, and use of Theodolite for Traverse Surveying and Plotting the Work with minute accuracy by means of Straight Edge and Set Square only ; Levelling with the Theodolite, Casting-out and Reducing Levels to Datum, and Plotting Sections in the ordinary manner; setting-out Curves with the Theodolite by Tangential Angles and Multiples, with Right and Left-hand Readings of the Instrument: Setting-out Curves without Theodolite, on the System of Tangential Angles by sets of Tangents and Off- sets ; and Earthwork Tables to 80 feet deep, calculated for every 6 inches in depth. By W. Davis Haskoll, C.E. With numerous Woodcuts. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 12s. cloth. ‘ ‘ The book is very handy; the separate tables of sines and tangents to every minute will make it useful for many other purposes, the genuine traverse tables existing all the same.”—Athen<zum. “Every person engaged in engineering field operations will estimate the importance of such a work and the amount of valuable time which will be saved by reference to a set of reliable tables prepared with the accuracy and fulness of those given in this volume.”—Railway News. Earthwork, Measurement of. A MANUAL ON EARTHWORK. By Alex. J. S. Graham, C.E. With numerous Diagrams. Second Edition. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cloth “A great amount of practical information, very admirably arranged, and available for rough estimates, as well as for the more exact calculations required in the engineer’s and contractor's offices.”—Artizan. Strains in Ironwork, THE STRAINS ON STRUCTURES OF IRONWORK; with Practical Remarks on Iron Construction. By F. W. Sheilds, M.Inst,C.E, Second Edition, with 5 Plates. Royal 8vo, 5s. cloth. The student cannot find a better little book on this subject.”—Engineer. East Iron and other Metals, Strength of. A PRACTICAL ESSAY ON THE STRENGTH OF CAST IRON AND OTHER METALS. By Thomas Tredgold, C.E. Fifth Edition, including Hodgkinson’s Experimental Researches. 8vo, 12s. cloth.