CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. ii Levelling, A TREATISE ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF LEVELLING. Showing its Application to purposes of Railway and Civil Engineering, in the Construction of Roads; with Mr.TELFORD’s Rules for the same. By Frederick W. Simms, F.G.S., M.Inst.C.E. Seventh Edition, with the addition of Law’s Practical Examples for Setting-out Railway Curves, and Trautwine’s Field Practice of Laying-out Circular Curves. With 7 Plates and numerous Woodcuts, 8vo, 8s. 6d. cloth. *** Trautwine on Curves may be had separate, 5s. “ The text-book on levelling in most of our engineering schools and colleges.”—Engineer. “ The publishers have rendered a substantial service to the profession, especially to the younger members, by bringing out the present edition of Mr. Simms’s useful work.”—Engineering. Meat, Expansion by, EXPANSION OF STRUCTURES BY HEAT. By John Keily, C.E., late of the Indian Public Works and Victorian Railway Depart- ments. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. Summary of Contents. Section I. Formulas and Data, Section II. Metal Bars. Section III. Simple Frames. Section IV, Complex Frames and Plates. Section V. Thermal Conductivity. “ The aim the author has set before him, 1 other structures, is a laudable one, for this is a branch of physics upon which the engineer tect can find but little reliable and comprehensive data in books.”—Builder. “ Whoever is concerned to know the effect of changes of temperature on such structures as suspension bridges and the like, could not do better than consult Mr. Keily’s valuable and handy exposition of the geometrical principles involved in these changes.”—Scotsman. Section VI. Mechanical Force of Heat. Section VII. Work of Expansion and Contraction. Section VIII. Suspension Bridges. Section IX. Masonry Structures. show the effects of heat upon metallic and -u—: -rU-r. .u : ir archi- Practical Mathematics, MATHEMATICS FOR PRACTICAL MEN: Being a Common- place Book of Pure and Mixed Mathematics. Designed chiefly for the use of Civil Engineers, Architects and Surveyors. By Olinthus Gregory, LL.D., F.R.A.S., Enlarged by Henry Law, C.E. 4th Edition, carefully Revised by J. R. Young, formerly Professor of Mathematics, Belfast College, With 13 Plates, 8vo, £1 is. cloth. * “ The engineer or architect will here find ready to his hand rules for solving nearly every mathe- matical difficulty that may arise in his practice The rules are in all cases explained by means of examples, in which every step of the process is clearly worked out.”—Builder. “ One of the most serviceable books for practical mechanics. . . It is an instructive book for the student, and a text-book for him who, having once mastered the subjects it treats of, needs occasionally to refresh his memory upon them.”—Building News. JFTllsrlVfi nils* rrnhi HYDRAULIC TABLES, CO-EFFICIENTS, and FORMULA! for finding the Discharge of Water from Orifices, Notches, Weirs, Pipes, and Rivers. With New Formulas, Tables, and General Information on Rainfall, Catchment-Basins, Drainage, Sewerage, Water Supply for Towns and Mill Power. By John Neville, Civil Engineer, M.R.I.A. Third Ed., carefully Revised, with considerable Additions. Numerous Illusts. Cr. 8vo, 14s. cloth. “ Alike valuable to students and engineers in practice ; its study will prevent the annoyance of avoidable failures, and assist them to select the readiest means of successfully carrying out any given work connected with hydraulic engineering.”—Mining Journal. “ It is, of all English books on the subject, the one nearest to completeness. . . . From the good arrangement of the matter, the clear expl.anations, and abundance of formulae, the carefully calculated tables, and, above all, the thorough, acquaintance with both theory and construction, ►which is displayed from first to last, the book w be found to be an acquisitionl'—Architect. Hydraulics, HYDRAULIC MANUAL. Consisting of Working Tables and Explanatory Text. Intended as a Guide in Hydraulic Calculations and Field Operations. By Lowis D’A. Jackson, Author of “Aid to Survey Practice,” “Modern Metrology,’’ &c. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. Large cr. 8vo, 16s. cl. “ The author has had a wide experience in hydraulic engineering and has been a careful ob- server of the facts which have come under his notice, and from the great mass of material at his command he has constructed a manual which may be accepted as a trustworthy guide to this branch of the engineer’s profession. We can heartily recommend this volume to all who desire to be acquainted with the latest development of this important subject.”—Engineering. " The standard-work in this department of mechnnics.’ —Scotsman. “ The most useful feature of this work is its freedom from what is superannuated, and its thorough adoption of recent experiments; the text is, in fact, in great part a short account of the great modem experiments.”—Nature,