23 MINING AND METALLURGY. Explosives. -4 HANDBOOK ON MODERN EXPLOSIVES. Being a Practical Treatise on the Manufacture and Application of Dynamite, Gun- Cotton, Nitro-Glycerine and other Explosive Compounds. Including the Manufacture of Collodion-Cotton. By M. Eissler, Mining Engineer and Metallurgical Chemist, Author of “ The Metallurgy of Gold,” &c. With about 100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. “Useful not only to the miner, but also to officers of both services to whom blasting and the use of explosives generally may at any time become a necessary auxiliary. ”—Nature. “ A veritable mine of information on the subject of explosives employed for military, mining ar.d blasting purposes.”—Army and Navy Gazette. “ The book is clearly written. Taken as a whole, we consider it an excellent little book av-d one that should be found of great service to miners and others who are engaged in work requiring the use of explosives.’’—Atheneeum. Gold, Metallurgy of. THE METALLURGY OF GOLD : A Practical Treatise on the Metallurgical Treatment of Gold-bearing Ores. Including the Process( s of Concentration and Chlorination, and the Assaying, Melting and Refining of Gold. By M. Eissler, Mining Engineer and Metallurgical Chemist, formerly Assistant Assayer of the U. S. Mint, San Francisco. Third Edition, Revised and greatly Enlarged. With 187 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ This book thoroughly deserves its title of a ‘ Practical Treatise.’ The -whole process of gold milling, from the breaking of the quartz to the assay of the bullion, is described in clear and orderly narrative and with much, but not too much, fulness of detail.’’—Saturday Review. “ The work is a storehouse of information and valuable data, and we strongly recommend it to all professional men engaged in the gold-mining industry.”—Mining Journal Silver, Metallurgy of. THE METALLURGY OF SILVER : A Practical Treatise on the Amalgamation, Roasting and Lixiviation of Silver Ores, Including the Assaying, Melting and Refining of Silver Bullion. By M. Eissler, Author of “The Metallurgy of Gold.’* Second Edition, Enlarged. With 150' Illus- trations. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ A practical treatise, and a technical work which we are convinced will supply a long-felt want amongst practical men, and at the same time be of value to students and others indirectly connected with tne industries.’’—Milling Journal. “ From first to last the book is thoroughly sound and reliable.”—Colliery Guardian. “For chemists, practical miners, assayers and investors alike, we do not know of any work on the subject so handy and yet so comprehensive.”—Glasgow Herald. Silver-Eead, Metallurgy of. THE METALLURGY OF ARGENTIFEROUS LEAD: A Practical Treatise on the Smelting of Silver-Lead Ores and the Refining of Lead Bullion. Including Reports on various Smelting Establishments and Descriptions of Modern Furnaces and Plants in Europe and America. By M. Eissler, M.E., Author of “The Metallurgy of Gold,” &c. Crown 8vo. 400 pp., with numerous Illustrations, 12s. 6d. cloth. [jlust published. Metalliferous Minerals and Mining. TREATISE ON METALLIFEROUS MINERALS AND MINING. By D. C. Davies, F.G.S., Mining Engineer, &c., Author of “A Treatise on Slate and Slate Quarrying.” Illustrated with numerous Wood Engravings. Fourth Edition, carefully Revised. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “Neither the practical miner nor the general reader interested in mines can have a better book for his companion and his guide.”—Mining Journal. [Mining World. “We are doing our readers a service in calling their attention to this valuable work.”— “Asa history of the present state of mining throughout the world this book has a real value, and it supplies an actual want.”—Atheneeum. Earthy Minerals and Mining. A TREATISE ON EARTHY S- OTHER MINERALS AND MINING. By D. C. Davies, F.G.S. Uniform with, and forming a Com- panion Volume to, the same Author’s “ Metalliferous Minerals and Mining.” With 76 Wood Engravings. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ We do not remember to have met with any English work on mining matters that contains the same amount of information packed in equally convenient form .’’—Academy. “We should be inclined to rank it as among the very best of the handy technical and trades manuals which have recently appeared.”—British Quarterly Review.