LAND AND ESTATE MANAGEMENT, LAW, etc. 39 Law of Patents. PATENTS FOR INVENTIONS, AND HOW TO PROCURE THEM. Compiled for the Use of Inventors, Patentees and others. By G. G. M. Hardingham, Assoc.Mem.Inst.C.E., &c. Demy 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. Metropolitan Rating Appeals. REPORTS OF APPEALS HEARD BEFORE THE COURT OF GENERAL ASSESSMENT SESSIONS, from the Year 1871 to 1885. By Edward Ryde and Arthur Lyon Ryde. Fourth Edition, brought down to the Present Date, with an Introduction to the Valuation (Metropolis) Act, 1869, and an Appendix by Walter C. Ryde, of the Inner Temple, Barrister- at-Law. 8vo, 16s. cloth. “ A useful work, occupying a place mid-way between a handbook for a lawyer and a guide to the surveyor. It is compiled by a gentleman eminent in his profession as a land agent, whose spe- cialty, it is acknowledged, lies i the direction of assessing property for rating purposes.”—Land Agents' Record. “ It is an indispensable wo of reference for all engaged in assessment business.”—Journal 0/ Gas Lighting. House Property. HANDBOOK OF HOUSE PROPERTY. A Popular and Practi- cal Guide to the Purchase, Mortgage, Tenancy, and Compulsory Sale of Houses and Land, including the Law of Dilapidations and Fixtures; with Examples of all kinds of Valuations, Useful Information on Building, and Suggestive Elucidations of Fine Art. By E. L. Tarbuck, Architect and Surveyor. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. i2mo, 5s. cloth. "The advice is thoroughly practical.”—Law Journal. “ For all who have dealings with house property, this is an indispensable guide."—Decoration. “ Carefully brought up to date, and much improved by the addition of a division on fine art. “ A well-written and thoughtful work.”—Land Agent's Record. Inwood’s Estate Tables. TABLES FOR THE PURCHASING OF ESTATES, Freehold, Copyhold, or Leasehold; Annuities, Advowsons, etc., and for the Renewing of Leases held under Cathedral Churches, Colleges, or other Corporate bodies, for Terms of Years certain, and for Lives; also for Valuing Reversionary Estates, Deferred Annuities, Next Presentations, &c.; together with Smart’s Five Tables of Compound Interest, and an Extension of the same to Lower and Intermediate Rates. By W. Inwood. 23rd Edition, with considerable Additions, and new and valuable Tables of Logarithms for the more Difficult Computations of the Interest of Money, Discount, Annuities, &c., by M. Fedor Thoman, of the Societe Credit Mobilier of Paris. Crown 8vo, 8s. cloth. "Those interested in the purchase and sale of estates, and in the adjustment of compensation cases, as well as in transactions in annuities, life insurances, &c„ will find the present edition of eminent service.”—Engineering. “ ‘ Inwood’s Tables ’ still maintain a most enviable reputation. The new issue has been enriched by large additional contributions by M. Fedor Thoman, whose carefully arranged Tables cannot fail to be of the utmost utility.”—Mining Journal. Agricultural and Tenant-Right Valuation. THE AGRICULTURAL AND TENANT-RIGHT-VALUER'S ASSISTANT. A Practical Handbook on Measuring and Estimating the Contents, Weights and Values of Agricultural Produce and Timber, the Values of Estates and Agricultural Labour, Forms of Tenant-Right-Valua- tions, Scales 01 Compensation under the Agricultural Holdings Act, 1883, &c. &c. By Tom Bright, Agricultural Surveyor. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. "Full of tables and examples in connection with the valuation of tenant-right, estates, labour, contents, and weights of timber, and farm produce of all kinds.”—Agricultural Gazette. “ An eminently practical handbook, full of practical tables and data of undoubted interest and value to surveyors and auctioneers in preparing valuations of all kinds.”—Farmer, Plantations and Underwoods. POLE PLANTATIONS AND UNDERWOODS: A Practical Handbook on Estimating the Cost of Forming, Renovating, Improving and Grubbing Plantations and Underwoods, their Valuation for Purposes of Transfer, Rental, Sale or Assessment. By Tom Bright, F.S.Sc., Author of “The Agricultural and Tenant-Right-Valuer’s Assistant,” &c. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ Will be found very useful to those who are actually engaged in managing wood.”—Bell's Weekly Messenger. •‘To valuers, foresters and agents it will be a welcome aid.”—North British Agriculturist. ‘‘Well calculated to assist the valuer in the discharge of his duties, and of undoubted interest and use both to surveyors and auctioneers in preparing valuations of all kinds.”—Kent Herald.