CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. Engineering Construction. PATTERN-MAKING : A Practical Treatise, embracing the Main Types of Engineering Construction, and including Gearing, both Hand and Machine made, Engine Work, Sheaves and Pulleys, Pipes and Columns, Screws, Machine Parts, Pumps and Cocks, the Moulding of Patterns in Loam and Greensand, &c., together with the methods of Estimating the weight of Castings; to which is added an Appendix of Tables for Workshop Reference. By a Foreman Pattern Maker. With upwards of Three Hundred and Seventy Illustrations. Crown Svo, js. 6d. cloth. “ A well written technical guide, evidently written by a man who understands and has prac- tised what he has written about. . . . We c rdially recommend it to engineering students, young j jurneymen, and others desirous of being initiated into the mysteries of patt.- rn-making.”—Builder. “ We can confidently recommend this comprehensive treat be.’—Building News. “ Likely to prove a welcome guide to many workmen, especially to draughtsmen who have lacked a training in the shops, pupils pursuing their practical studies in our factories, and to em- ployers and managers in engineering works ."—Hardware Trade Journal. “More than 370 illustrations help to explain the text, which is, however, always clear and ex- plicit, thus rendering the work an excellent vade mecura for the apprentice who desires to become master of his trade.”—English, Mechanic. Dictionary of Mechanical Engineering Terms. LOCKWOOD’S DICTIONARY OF TERMS USED IN THE PRACTICE OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, embracing those current in the Drawing Office, Pattern Shop, Foundry, Fitting, Turning, Smith’s and Boiler Shops, &c. &c. Comprising upwards of 6,000 Definitions. Edited by A Foreman Pattern-Maker, Author of “Pattern Making.” Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. ‘‘Just the sort of handy dictionary required by the various trades engaged in mechanical en- gineering. The practical engineering pupil will find the book of great value in his studies, and every foreman engineer and mechanic should have a copy.”—Building News. “After a careiul examination of the book, and trying all manner of words, we think that the engineer will here find all he is likely to require. It will be largely used.”—Practical Engineer. “One of the most useful books which can be presented to a mechanic or student.”—English Mechanic. “ Not merely a dictionary, but, to a certain extent, also a most valuable guide. It strikes us as a happy idea to combine witii a definition of the phrase useful information on the subject of which it treats.”—Machinery Market. “No word having connection with any branch of constructive engineering seems to be omitted. No more comprehensive work has been, so far, issued. —Knowledge. “We strongly commend this useful and reliable adviser to our friends in the workshop, and to students everywhere.”—Colliery Guardian. Steam Boilers. A TREATISE ON STEAM BOILERS: Their Strength, Con- struction, and Economical Working. By Robert Wilson, C.E. Fifth Edition. i2mo, 6s. cloth. “The best treatise that has ever been published on steam boilers.”—Engineer. “The author shows himself perfect master of his subject, and we heartily recommend all em- ploying steam power to possess themselves of the work.”—Ryland's Iron Trade Circular. BOILER AND ^FACTORY CHIMNEYS; Their Draught-Power and Stability. With a Chapter on Lightning Conductors. By Robert Wilson, A.I.C.E., Author of “A Treatise on Steam Boilers,” &c. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6cl. cloth. “Full of userul information, definite in statement, and thoroughly practical in treatment. — The Local Government Chronicle. “ A valuable contribution to the iterature of scientific building.”—The Builder. Boiler Making. THE BOILER-MAKER’S READY RECKONER & ASSIST- ANT. With Examples of Practical Geometry and Templating, for the Use of Platers, Smiths and Riveters. By John Courtney, Edited by D. K. Clark, M.I.C.E. Third Edition, 480 pp., with i4oIllusts. Fcap. 8vo, 7s. half-bound. “ No workman or apprentice should be without this book.”— Iron Trade Circular. “ Boiler-makers will readily recognise the value of this volume. . . . The tables are clearly printed, and so arranged that they can be referred to with the greatest facility, so that it cannot be doubted that they will be generally appreciated and much used.”—Mining Journal. Warming. HEATING BY HOT WATER; with Information and Sug- gestions on the best Methods of Heating Public, Private and Horticultural Buildings. By Walter Jones. With Illustrations, crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ We confidently recommend all interested in heating by hot water to secure a copy of this valuable little treatise.”— The Plumber and Decorator.