4° CROSBY LOCKWOOD dr» SON’S CATALOGUE. A Complete Epitome of the Laws of this Country. EVERY MAN’S OWN LAWYER: A Handy-Book of. the Principles of Law and Equity. By A Barrister. Twenty-ninth Edition. Revised and Enlarged. Including the Legislation of 1891, and including careful digests of The Tithe Act, 1891; the Mortmain and Charitable Uses Act, 1891; the Charitable Trusts {Recovery) Act, 1891; the Forged Transfers Act, 1891; the Custody of Children Act, 1891; the Slander of Women Act, 1891; the Public Health (London) Act, 1891; the Stamp Act, 1891; the Savings Bank Act, 1891; the Elementary Education (“ Free Education”) Act, 1891; the County Councils (Elections) Act, 1891; and the Land Registry {Middlesex Deeds) Act, 1891; while other new Acts have been duly noted. Crown 8vo, 688 pp., price 6s. M. (saved at every consultation!), strongly bound in cloth. [Just published. *** THE BOOK WILL BE FOUND TO COMPRISE (AMONGST OTHER MATTER)— The Rights and Wrongs of Individuals—Landlord and Tenant—Vendors and purchasers—partners and Agents—Companies and Associations—masters. Servants and Workmen—Leases and Mortgages—Church and Clergy, Ritual —Libel and Slander—Contracts and Agreements—Bonds and Bills of Sale- Cheques, Bills and Notes—Railway and Shipping law—Bankruptcy and In- surance-Borrowers, Lenders and Sureties—Criminal Law—Parliamentary ELECTIONS—COUNTY COUNCILS—MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS—PARISH LAW, CHURCH- WARDENS, etc.—public Health and nuisances—Friendly and Building societies—Copyright and Patents—Trade Marks and designs—husband and wife, Divorce, etc.—Trustees and Executors—Intestacy, Law of—Guardian and Ward, infants, etc.—Game Laws and Sporting-Horses, Horse-dealing And dogs—Innkeepers, Licensing, etc.—Forms of Wills, Agreements, etc. etc. Note.—The object of this work is to enable those who consult it to help them- selves to the law; and thereby to dispense, as far as possible, with professional assistance and advice. There are many wrongs and grievances which persons sub- mit to from time to time through not knowing how or where to apply for redress ; and many persons have as great a dread of a lawyer's office as of a lion's den. With this book at hand it is believed that many a Six-and-Eightpence may be saved; many a wrong redressed; many a right reclaimed; many a law suit avoided; and many an evil abated. The work has established itself as the standard legal adviser of all classes, and also made a reputation for itself as a useful book of reference for lawyers residing at a distance from law libraries, who are glad to have at hand a work em- bodying recent decisions and enactments. *** Opinions of the Press. “ It is a complete code of English Law, written in plain language, which ail can understand. . . Should be in the hands of every business man, and all who wish to abolish lawyers’ bills.”— Weekly Times. “ A useful and concise epitome of the law, compiled with considerable care.”—Law Magazine. “A complete digest of the most useful facts which constitute English law.”—Globe. “ Admirably done, admirably arranged, and admirably cheap.”—Leeds Mercury. ‘ A concise, cheap and complete epitome of the English law So plainly written that he who runs may read, and he who reads may understand.”—Figaro. “ A dictionary of legal facts well put together. The book is a very useful one."—Spectator. “Thelatest edition of this popular book ought to be in every business establishment, and on every library table.”—Sheffield Post. Private Bill Legislation and Provisional Orders. HANDBOOK FOR THE USE OF SOLICITORS AND EN- GINEERS Engaged in Promoting Private Acts of Parliament and Provi- sional Orders, for the Authorization of Railways, Tramways, Works for the Supply of Gas and Water, and other undertakings of a like character. By L. Livingston Macassey, of the Middle Temple, Barrister-at-Law, M. Inst.C.E.; Author of “ Hints on Water Supply.’’ 8vo, 950 pp., 25s. cloth. “ The volume is a desideratum on a subject which can be only acquired by practical experi- ence, and the order of procedure in Private Bill Legislation and Provisional Orders is followed. The author’s suggestions and notes will be found of great value to engineers and others profession- ally engaged in this class of practice. ” —Building Ne-ws. “ The author’s double experience as an engineer and barrister has eminently qualified him for the task, and enabled him to approach the subject alike from an engineering and legal point of view. The volume will be found a great help both to engineers and lawyers engaged in promoting Private Acts ot Parliament and Provisional Orders.”—Local Government Chronicle. OGDEN, SMALE AND CO. LIMITED, PRINTERS, GREAT SAFFRON HILL, E.C