5 MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. Steam Engine. TEXT-BOOK ON THE STEAM ENGINE. With a Sup- plement on Gas Engines, and Part II. on Heat Engines. By T. M. Goodeve, M.A., Barrister-at-Law, Professor ot Mechanics at the Normal School of Science and the Royal School of Mines; Author of “The Princi- ples of Mechanics,” “The Elements ot Mechanism,” &c. Eleventh Edition, Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. cloth. “Professor Goodeve has given us a treatise on the steam engine which will bear comparison with anything written by Huxley or Maxwell, and we can award it no higher praise.”—Engineer. “ Mr. Goodeve’s text-book is a work of which every young engineer should possess himself.’ ’ —Mining Journal. Gas Engines. ON GAS-ENGINES. Being a Reprint, with some Additions, of the Supplement to the Text-book on the Steam Engine, by T. M. Goodeve, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ Like all Mr. Goodeve’s writings, the present is no exception in point of general excellence. It is a valuable little volume.”—Mechanical World. Steam. THE SAFF USE OF STEAM. Containing Rules for Un- professional Steam-users. By an Engineer. Sixth Edition. Sewed, 6d. “ If steam-users would but learn this little book by heart boiler explosions would become sensations by their rarity ."—English Mechanic. Reference Rook for Mechanical Engineers. THE MECHANICAL ENGINEER'S REFERENCE BOOK, for Machine and Boiler Construction. In Two Parts. Part I. General Engineering Data. Part II. Boiler Construction. With 51 Plates and numerous Illustrations. By Nelson Foley, M.I.N.A. Folio, £5 5s. half- bound. [Just published. Coal and Speed Tables. A POCKET BOOK OF COAL AND SPEED TABLES, for Engineers and Steam-users. By Nelson Foley, Author of “Boiler Con- struction.” Pocket-size, 3s. 6d. cloth; 4s. leather. “ These tables are designed to meet the requirements of every-day use ; and may be com- mended to engineers and users of steam.”— Iron. “ This pocket-book well merits the attention of the practical engineer. Mr. Foley has com- piled a very useful set of tables, the information contained in which is frequently required by engineers, coal consumers and users of steam.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. Fire Engineering. FIRES, FIRE-ENGINES, AND FIRE-BRIGADES. With a History of Fire-Engines, their Construction, Use, and Management; Re- marks on Fire-Proof Buildings, and the Preservation of Life from Fire ; Foreign Fire Systems, &c. By C. F. T. Young, C.E. With numerous Illustrations, 544 pp., demy 8vo, £1 4s. cloth. “ To such of our readers as are interested in the subject of fires and fire apparatus, we can most heartily commend this book.”—Engineering. “It displays much evidence of careful research; and Mr. Young has put his facts neatly together. It is evident enough that his acquaintance with the practical details of the construction oi steam fire engines is accurate and full.”—Engineer. Estimating for Engineering Work, A c. ENGINEERING ESTIMATES, COSTS AND ACCOUNTS: A Guide to Commercial Engineering. With numerous Examples of Esti- mates and Costs of Millwright Work, Miscellaneous Productions, Steam Engines and Steam Boilers; and a Section on the Preparation of Costs Accounts. By A General Manager. Demy 8vo, 12s. cloth. “ This is an excellent and very useful book, covering subject-matter in constant requisition in every factory and workshop. . . . The book is invaluable, not only to the young engineer, but also to the estimate department of every works.”—Builder. “We accord the work unqualified praise. The information is given in a plain, straightforward manner, and bears throughout evidence of the intimate practical acquaintance of the author with every phrase of commercial engineering.”—Mechanical World. Elementary Mechanics. CONDENSED MECHANICS. A Selection of Formulas, Rules, Tables, and Data for the Use of Engineering Students, Science Classes, &c. In Accordance with the Requirements of the Science and Art Department By W. G. Crawford Hughes, A.M.I.C.E. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. \_Just published.