22 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. MINING AND METALLURGY. Metalliferous Mining in the United Kingdom, BRITISH MINING : A Treatise on the History .Discovery, Practical Development, and Future Prospects of Metalliferous Mines in the United King- dom. By Robert Hunt, F.R.S., Keeper of Mining Records; Editor o3 “ Ure’s Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines,” &c. Upwards of 950 pp., with 230 Illustrations. Second Edition, Revised. Super-royal 8vo? £2 25. cloth. “One of the most valuable works of reference of modern times. Mr. Hunt, as keeper of mining records of the United Kingdom, has had opportunities for such a task not enjoyed by anyone else, and has evidently made the most of them. . . . The language and style adopted are good, and the treatment of the various subjects laborious, conscientious, and scientific.”—Engineering. “The book is, in fact, a treasure-house of statistical information on mining subjects, and we know of no other work embodying so great a mass of matter of this kind. Were this the only merit of Mr. Hunt's volume, it would be sufficient to render it indispensable in this library 03 everyone interested in the development of the mining and metallurgical industries of this country.’ —Athenceum. “A mass of information not elsewhere available, and of the greatest value to those who may be interested in our great mineral industries.”—Engineer. “A sound, business-like collection of interesting facts. . . . The amount of information Mr. Hunt has brought together is enormous. . . . The volume appears likely to convey more Instruction upon the subject than any work hitherto published.”—Mining Journal. Colliery Management, THE COLLIERY MANAGER'S HANDBOOK: A Compre- hensive Treatise on the Laying-out and Working of Collieries, Designed as a Book of Reference for Colliery Managers, and for the Use of Coal-Mining Students preparing for First-class Certificates. By Caleb Pamely, Mining Engineer and Surveyor; Member of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers; and Member of the South Wales Ins’i- tute of Mining Engineers. With nearly 500 Plans, Diagrams, and othes Illustrations. Medium 8vo, about Coo pages. Price £1 5s. strongly bound. [Just published, tfnal ctYkfl TwfiM THE COAL AND IRON INDUSTRIES OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. Comprising a Description of the Coal Fields, and of the- Principal Seams of Coal, with Returns of their Produce and its Distribu- tion, and Analyses of Special Varieties. Also an Account of the occurrence of Iron Ores in Veins or Seams; Analyses of each Variety; and a History of the Rise and Progress of Pig Iron Manufacture. By Richard Meade, Assistant Keeper of Mining Records. With Maps. 8vo, £1 8s. cloth. “The book is one which must find a place on the shelves of all interested in coal and iron production, and in the iron, steel, and other metallurgical industries.”—Engineer. “ Of this book we may unreservedly say that it is the best of its class which we have ever mei, . . A book of reference which no one engaged in the iron or coal trades should omit from has library.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. Prospecting for Gold and other Metals, THE PROSPECTOR'S HANDBOOK: A Guide for the Pro- spector and Traveller in Search of Metal-Bearing or other Valuable Minerals, By J. W. Anderson, M.A. (Camb.), F.R.G.S., Author of “Fiji and New Caledonia.” Fifth Edition, thoroughly Revised and Enlarged. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “Will supply a much felt want, especially among Colonists, in whose way are so often thrown many mineralogical specimens the value of which it is difficult to determine.”—Engineer. “How to find commercial minerals, and how to identify them when they are tound, are the leading points to which attention is directed. The author has managed to pack as much practica3 detail into his pages as would supply material for a book three times its sizz."—Mining Journal, Mining Notes and Formulae. NOTES AND FORMULAE FOR MINING STUDENTS. By John Herman Merivale, M.A., Certificated Colliery Manager, Professor of Mining in the Durham College of Science, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ Invaluable to anyone who is working up for an examination on mining subjects.”— Coal and Iron Trades Review. “ The author has done his work in an exceedingly creditable manner, and has produced a book that will be of service to students, and those who are practically engaged in mining operations.”— Engineer. “ A vast amount of technical matter of the utmost value to mining engineers, and of consider- able interest to students.”—Schoolmaster.