MARINE ENGINEERING, NAVIGATION, etc. 21 MARINE ENGINEERING, NAVIGATION, etc. Chain Cables. CHAIN CABLES AND CHAINS. Comprising Sizes and Curves of Links, Studs, &c., Iron for Cables and Chains, Chain Cable and Chain Making, Forming and Welding Links, Strength of Cables and Chains, Certificates for Cables, Marking Cables, Prices of Chain Cables and Chains, Historical Notes, Acts of Parliament, Statutory Tests, Charges for Testing, List of Manufacturers of Cables, &c. &c. By Thomas W. Traill, F.E.R.N., M. Inst. C.E., Engineer Surveyor in Chief, Board of Trade, Inspector of Chain Cable and Anchor Proving Establishments, and General Superin- tendent, Lloyd’s Committee on Proving Establishments. With numerous Tables, Illustrations and Lithographic Drawings, Folio, £2 2S. cloth, bevelled boards. “It contains a vast amount of valuable information. Nothing seems to be wanting to make it a complete and standard work of reference on the subject.”—Nautical Magazine. Marine Engineering. MARINE ENGINES AND STEAM VESSELS (A Treatise on). By Robert Murray, C.E. Eighth Edition, thoroughly Revised, with considerable Additions by the Author and by George Carlisle, C.E., Senior Surveyor to the Board of Trade at Liverpool. i2mo, 5s, cloth boards. “Well adapted to give the young steamship engineer or marine engine and boiler maker a general introduction into his practical work.”—Mechanical World. “We feel sure that this thoroughly revised edition will continue to be as popular in the future as it has been in the past, as, for its size, it contains more useful information than any similar treatise. ’ ’ —Industries. The information given is both sound and sensible, and well qualified to direct young sea- going hands on the straight road to the extra chief’s cert ficate. Most useful to survejors, inspectors, draughtsmen, and all young engineers who take an interest in their profession.”— Glasgow Herald. “An indispensable manual for the student of marine engineering.”—Liverpool Mercury. Bocket-Book for N aval Architects and Shipbuilders. THE NAVAL ARCHITECT'S AND SHIPBUILDER’S POCKET-BOOK of Formula, Rules, and Tables,and MARINE ENGINEER'S AND SURVEYOR’S Handy Book of Reference. By Clement Mackrow, Member of the Institution of Naval Architects, Naval Draughtsman. Fourth Edition, Revised. With numerous Diagrams, &c. Fcap., 12s. 6d. strongly bound in leather. “ Will t>e found to contain the most useful tables and formulae required by shipbuilders, carefully collected from the best authorities, and put together in a popular and simple form.”—Engineer. “ The professional shipbuilder has now, in a convenient and accessible form, reliable data for solving many of the numerous problems that present themselves in the course of his work.”—Iron. “There is scarcely a subject on which a naval architect or shipbuilder can require to refresh his memory which will not be found within the covers of Mr. Mackrow’s book ."—English Mechanic. Bocket-Book for Marine Engineers. A POCKET-BOOK OF USEFUL TABLES AND FOR- MULAE FOR MARINE ENGINEERS. By Frank Proctor, A.I.N.A. Third Edition. Royal 32010, leather, gilt edges, with strap, 4s. “ We recommend it to our readers as going far to supply a long-felt want.”—Naval Science. “ A most useful companion to all marine engineers.”—United Service Gazette. Introduction to Marine Engineering. ELEMENTARY ENGINEERING : A Manual for Young Marine Engineers and Apprentices. In the Form of Questions and Answers on Metals, Alloys, Strength of Materials, Construction and Management of Marine Engines and Boilers, Geometry, &c. &c. With an Appendix of Useful Tables. By John Sherren Brewer, Government Marine Surveyor, Hong- kong. Small crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ Contains much valuable information for the class for whom it is intended, especially in the chapters on the management of boilers and eng nes.”—Nautical Magazine. *• A useful introduction to the more elaborate text books.”—Scotsman. “ To a student who has the requisite desire, and resolve to attain a thorough knowledge, Mr. Brewer offers decidedly useful help.”—Athenceum. Navigation. PRACTICAL NAVIGATION. Consisting of The Sailor’s Sea-Book, by James Greenwood and W. H. Rosser ; together with the requisite Mathematical and Nautical Tables for the Working of the Problems, by Henry Law, C.E., and Professor J. R. Young. Illustrated. i2mo, 7s. ■st-ongly half-bound.