CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. Handbook for Works’ Managers. THE WORKS’ MANAGER’S HANDBOOK OF MODERN RULES, TABLES, AND DATA. For Engineers, Millwrights, and Boiles Makers; Tool Makers, Machinists, and Metal Workers; Iron and Brass Founders, &c. By W. S. Hutton, C.E., Author of “ The Practical Engineer’s Handbook." Fourth Edition, carefully Revised, and partly Re-written. la One handsome Volume, medium 8vo, 15s. strongly bound. [Just published. .1-3” The Author having compiled Rules and Data for his own use in a great variety of modern engineering work, and having found his notes extremely useful, decided to publish them—revised to date—believing that a practical work, suited ta the daily requirements of modern engineers, would be favourably received. In the Third Edition, the following among other additions have been made, viz.: Rules for the Proportions of Riveted Joints in Soft Steel Plates, the Results of Experi- ments by Professor Kennedy for the Institution of Mechanical Engineers—Rules for the Proportions of Turbines—Rules for the Strength of Hollow Shafts of Whit- worth's Compressed Steel, &c. *** Opinions of the Press. ‘‘The author treats every subject from the point of view of one who has collected workshop notes for application in workshop practice, rather than from the theoretical or literary aspect. The volume contains a great deal of that kind of information which is gained only by practical experi- ence, and is seldom written in books.”—Engineer. ‘‘The volume is an exceedingly useful one, brimful with engineers’ notes, memoranda, and rules, and well worthy of being on every mechanical engineer’s bookshelf.”—Mecha7iical World. “ The information is precisely that likely to be required in practice. . . . The work forms a desirable addition to the library not only of the works manager, but of anyone connected with-, genera! engineering."—Mining Journal. “A formidable mass of facts and figures, readily accessible through an elaborate index .... Such a volume will be found absolutely necessary as a book of reference in all sorts of 'works ’ connected with the metal trades.”—Hyland's Iron Trades Circular. “ Brimful of useful information, stated in a concise form, Mr. Hutton’s books have met a press- ing want among engineers. The book must prove extremely useful to every practical man. possessing a copy.”—Practical Engineer. Practical Treatise on Modern Steam-Boilers. STEAM-BOILER CONSTRUCTION. A Practical Handbook for Engineers, Boiler-Makers, and Steam Users. Containing a large Col- lection of Rules and Data relating to the Design, Construction, and Working of Modern Stationary, Locomotive, and Marine Steam-Boilers. By Walter S. Hutton, C.E., Author of “The Works’ Manager’s Handbook,” &c- With upwards of 300 Illustrations. Medium 8vo, 18s. cloth. [Just published. “Eve^y detail, both in boiler design and management, is clearly laid before the reader. The- volume shows that boiler construction has been reduced to the condition of one of the most exact sciences; and such a book is of the utmost value to the fin de siecle Engineer and Works ' Manager ."—Marine Engineer. “ There has long been room for a modern handbook on steam boilers ; there is not that room, row, because Mr. Hutton has filled it. It is a thoroughly practical book for those who are occu,- pied in the construction, design, se’ection, or use of boilers.”—EngEieer. 66The Modernised Templeton THE PRACTICAL MECHANIC'S WORKSHOP COM- PANION. Comprising a great variety of the most useful Rules and Formulae in Mechanical Science, with numerous Tables of Practical Data and Calcu- lated Results for Facilitating Mechanical Operations. By William Temple- ton, Author of “The Engineer’s Practical Assistant,’’ &c. &c. Sixteenth Edition, Revised, Modernised, and considerably Enlarged by Walter S. Hutton, C.E., Author of “The Works’ Manager’s Handbook,” “The Practical Engineer’s Handbook,” &c. Fcap. 8vo, nearly 500 pp., with Eight Plates and upwards of 250 Illustrative Diagrams, 6s., strongly bound for workshop or pocket wear and tear. [Just published* *** Opinions of the Press. “ In Its modernised form Hutton’s ‘ Templeton ’ should have a wide sale, for it contains much valuable information which the mechanic will often find of use, and not a few tables and notes which he might look for in vain in other works. This modernised edition wi be appreciated by all who have learned to value the original editions of ‘ Templeton.’ ’ —English Mechanic. “ It has met with great success in the engineering workshop, as we can testify: and there are a great many men who, in a great measure, owe their rise in life to this little book.”—Building News. “ This familiar text-book—well known to all mechanics and engineers—is of essential service to the every-day requirements of engineers, millwrights, and the various trades connected with engineering and building. The new modernised edition is worth its weight in gold ."—Building News. (Second Notice.) . , . , .... “ This well-knowm and largely used book contains information, brought up to date, of the sort so useful to the foreman and draughtsman. So much fresh information has been introduced as to constitute it prrctically a r ew bock. It will be largely u:ed in the office and workshop. Mechanical World,