317 MUSCLES OF THE BACK OF THE FORE-ABM. tendons, and sends downwards processes, which are fixed to the bones, forming sheaths for those tendons. The ligament will be subsequently examined more in detail. Muscles of the back of the fore-arm. — The muscles two^^ are arranged in a superficial and a deep layer, like those of muscles, the front of the fore-arm. The superficial layer is composed superfi- of seven muscles, which arise mostly by a common tendon from the outer condyle of the humerus, and have the under- viz. mentioned position one to another. Proceeding from without inwards, the student will find in succession the long supinator, two radial extensors of the wrist (long and short), the common extensor of the fingers, the extensor of the little finger, and lastly the ulnar extensor of the wrist. There is one other small muscle near the elbow, the anconeus. The supinator radii longus is contained partly in the Supi- ,. . t nator arm and partly m the tore-arm, and limits, on the outer longus side, the hollow in front of the elbow. The muscle CLVIS6S arises from the upper two thirds of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus humerus, and from the front of the external intermuscular septum. The fleshy fibres end, above the middle of the fore- arm, in a tendon, by means of which the muscle is inserted and is in- into the lower end of the radius above the styloid process. In into the arm the margins of the supinator are directed from the fascia to the bone, but in the fore-arm the muscle is flattened over the others, and its edges have an opposite direction, viz. from before backwards. Near its insertion the supi- is super- nator is covered by two extensors of the thumb. Along its and ' inner border, below the elbow, is the radial artery; and part of above the joint, it is in contact with the brachialis anticus. in front Beneath this muscle are found the extensors of the wrist, the elbow, radial nerve, and the radius. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGIOR arises from the Exten- sor carpi lower third of the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus, and longus J ° 7 is nearly from the front of the contiguous intermuscular septum, as long or asthe The muscle descends on the short radial extensor; and its prece- ding. tendon passes beneath the extensors of the thumb, and through the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of inser- the metacarpal bone of the index finger. Along its outer border is the radial nerve. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR is attached tO the Exten. orbicular ligament of the radius, and to the outer condyle of brevis