THE AXILLARY VESSELS. 257 branches are four in number; two of these (superior and to the ) acromial thoracic) arise from the artery above the pectoralis minor, one (alar thoracic) beneath the muscle, and one (long thoracic) at the lower border. Three branches are supplied to the shoulder, viz. one subscapular and two cir- and the cumflex; the first springs opposite the edge of the muscle of der, the same name, and the others wind round the neck of the humerus. 1. The superior thoracic branch is the highest offset of the artery, upper" and arises opposite the first intercostal space ; it is a small vessel, tnoraclc ■ and ramifies on the side of the chest, where it anastomoses with the intercostal arteries. 2. The acromial thoracic branch is a short trunk on the front of Acro- the artery, which appears at the upper border of the pectoralis Jidc***0" minor, and opposite the interval between the large pectoral and ls large' deltoid muscles. Its branches are directed either inwards to supply and sup- the two pectoral, or outwards to the deltoid muscle. The inner or thorax thoracic set, besides supplying the thoracic muscles, give a few jfJJoui- offsets to the side of the chest, which anastomose with the inter- der- costal and other thoracic arteries. The outer or acromial set end mostly in the deltoid, but one small artery which is derived from them accompanies the cephalic vein for a short distance; and an- inferior ... . acromial other branch (inferior acromial) perforates the deltoid muscle, and offset, anastomoses on the acromion process, with a branch of the supra- scapular artery of the neck. One or two small twigs ascend from the trunk of the artery to the subclavius and deltoid muscles. 3. The alar thoracic branch is very inconstant as a distinct artery, Alar and its place is supplied frequently by offsets of the subscapular veryTr-C or long thoracic branches; the artery is distributed to the glands resular- of the axillary space. 4. The long thoracic branch (external mammary) is directed Long along the border of the pectoralis minor to the side of the chest, on which it extends to about the sixth intercostal space ; it supplies the pectoral and serratus muscles, and anastomoses with the intercos- tal and thoracic arteries. In the female it gives branches to the mammary gland. A second external mammary artery is not unfrequently met A second with, especially in the female; its position is nearer the middle ofartery" the axilla with the vein of the same name. 5. The subscapular branch courses with a nerve of the same Snbsca- name along the subscapular muscle, as far as the lower angle of the pular has scapula, where it ends in branches for the serratus magnus and the latissimus dorsi and teres muscles. Near its origin the artery sends backward a considerable branch round the edge of the sub-