DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 260 upper, «. The upper branch is the smallest and enters the highest part lower, of the subscapularis muscle, b. The lower subscapular branch (nerve of the teres muscle) gives an offset to the inferior part of long sub- the subscapular muscle, and ends in the teres major, c. The lovsr scapular. 7 7 . . - « , subscapular nerve takes the course of the artery of the same name along the posterior wall of the axilla, and ends in the latissimus dorsi muscle. Poste- Another small nerve, posterior thoracic (nerve to the rior tho- ■* racic. serratus, external respiratory, Bell) is now seen on the sur- face of the serratus muscle. It arises above the clavicle (p. 76.), from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; to reach its destination, it descends behind the axillary artery, and enters the surface of the serratus magnus muscle which is towards the axilla. Latis- The latissimus dorsi muscle may now be examined as the fold far as it enters into the posterior fold of the axilla. Arising axilla, from the back of the trunk of the body, and crossing the lower angle of the scapula, the muscle ascends to be inserted by a tendon into the bottom of the bicipital groove. At its attachment to the bone, the tendon is about one inch and a half in depth, and is in front of that of the teres ; at its lower border aponeurotic fibres connect it with the teres, but a well marked bursa intervenes between the two near the bone. Disposi- The fibres have a cross arrangement in their course to the tion of tendon 0f insertion; for whilst those that are attached to the fibref* lower ribs ascend to the upper edge of the tendon, those from the spines of the dorsal vertebrae descend to its lower edge. Thus the fibres produce a hollow or groove, which lodges the lower border of the scapula and the teres major muscle. Dissec- Dissection, — To lay bare the serratus muscle, which the ser- passes from the chest to the base of the scapula, the arm ratus* must be drawn from the trunk, so as to separate the scapula from the thorax. The nerves of the brachial plexus should then be cut through opposite the second rib, and the fat and the cellular structure should be cleaned from the surface of the muscle. serratus The serratus magnus muscle extends between the base £ attach- of the scapula and the thorax. It arises from the outer sur- ribs and face and the lower border of the eight upper ribs, about two scapula, jJacjiea from their cartilages, by pointed processes, which are nine in number, in consequence of the second rib having