789 MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH. and have the general form of the surrounding bony parts: they are confined to the vestibule and the semicircular canals, and are surrounded by the perilymph. Dissection. — The delicate internal parts of the ear, with Dissec- their vessels and nerves, cannot be dissected except on a them m temporal bone, that has been put in spirits, and afterwards bone, softened in acid. The previous instructions for the dissec- tion of the osseous labyrinth will guide the student to the situation of the membranous structures within it, but the surrounding softened material must be removed with great care. A lens and a microscope will be needed for the com- plete examination of the sacs. For the display of the blood-' vessels a minute injection should be made of them. The utricle, or the common sinus, is the larger of the two The sacs, and is situate at the posterior and upper part of the situation vestibule, where it corresponds to the fovea semi-elliptica in the roof. It is transversely oval in form, and connected with and it posteriorly are three looped tubes, that are prolonged into form; the semicircular canals. The sac and its offsets are filled contains with a clear fluid, like water, which is named endolymph ; and in the wall of the sac is a small calcareous deposit and A otolith. (otolith) opposite the entrance of the nerve into it. The prolongations into the semicircular canals are smaller Tubes ^ than the osseous tubes, being only one third of their diame- into the ' & J . arched ter ; and the interval between the bone and the membrane is canals, filled by the perilymph. In form they resemble the bony cases, for they aref marked at one end by a dilatation corre- sponding to the ampulla of the osseous tubes, and, further, dilated two are blended at one end, like the canals they occupy: end, they communicate with the utricle by five openings, and are filled with the endolymphic fluid of that sac. At each am- contain a pullary enlargement there is in the interior a transverse pro- jection into the cavity, and at that spot a branch of the auditory nerve enters the walL The saccule is a smaller and a rounder cyst than the utricle, smaller and is placed in front of it in the hollow of the fovea hemi- ?ore1Sthe" spherica. Like the larger sac, it has a translucent wall, in which is an otolith opposite the entrance of the nerve; it is also filled by endolymph. It is doubtful whether the two Do the sacs communicate. two join? Structure of the sacs. — The wall of the membranous waiiof