706 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. Take Dissection. — For the removal of the skin, one cut may be skin7 made along the middle of the leg to the sole of the foot, where a transverse incision is to be carried over the heel. The two resulting flaps of skin may be raised; the outer one is to be detached as far as the fibula, and the other as far as the inner margin of the tibia, seek cu- In the superficial fascia the cutaneous nerves and vessels nerves are to be followed. On the inner side, close to the tibia, is fat. the internal saphenous vein with the nerve of the same name, together with twigs of the internal cutaneous, near the knee. In the centre is the external saphenous vein, with the small sciatic nerve above, and the external saphenous nerve below the middle of the leg. On the outer side are the cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal nerve. super- The superficial fascia or the fatty layer of the back of the fosda.' leg is least thick over the tibia. Over the line of the super- ficial vessels it may be separated into two layers as in the thigh. Two su- Superficial Veins. — Two veins appear in the dissection veins, of the back of the leg, which are named saphenous—inner and outer. intprnai The internal saphenous vein begins in an arch on the nous? dorsum of the foot; it ascends along the leg in front of the inner ankle, and then behind the inner edge of the tibia, to reach the thigh, where it has been already noticed (p. 650.). In the leg the vein is joined by superficial branches, and by deep roots from the tibial veins. External The external saphenous vein begins at the outer end of nous. the arch on the dorsum of the foot, and appears below the outer ankle. The vein then courses along the back of the leg to the ham, where it ends in the popliteal vein. It receives large branches about the heel, and others on the back of the leg. cutane- Cutaneous Nerves.— The nerves in the superficial fascia ous nerves, of the back of the leg are prolongations of branches already examined in part, viz. the internal and external saphenous, cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal, the small sciatic nerve, and offsets of the internal cutaneous of the thigh. Internal The internal saphenous nerve, which has been traced before to saphe- ^e knee 672.)} accompanies tbe vein of the same name in the