626 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. it is like The clitoris is a small erectile body, and is the homologue penis; of the penis ; it has the same anatomy as that organ, with the exception that the urethra and the spongy enveloping sub- has a stance are not present below it. Its anterior extremity is glans and 1 J prepuce, terminated by a rounded part or glans, and is covered by a fold of the skin, corresponding to the prepuce of the male, which is provided with sebaceous glands. In structure this organ resembles the penis in the following particulars : — it corpora consists of corpora cavernosa, which are attached by crura caver- x J nosa, (one on each, side) to the rami of the ischium and pubes and are then blended to form one body, with an imperfect pecti- niform septum ; and further, it possesses a corpus spongiosum, but this structure is limited to the glans clitoridis, that it and forms. In the interior of both constituent bodies is an tissue, erectile tissue, like that of the male (p. 621.). The nymphce Labia (labia minora) are two folds of mucous membrane that de- descend scend from the end of the clitoris, one on each side of the prepuce, orifice of the vagina: they are continuous above with the preputial covering of the clitoris, and extend down about one inch and a half. The inner surface is continuous with the lining of the vestibular space and the vagina; and the outer, with the covering of the external labium. Blood-vessels are contained in each fold, vesti- Vestibule and orifice of the urethra. —Within the nymphae, bule" between the clitoris above and the vagina below, is an an- gular interval, about one inch and a half deep, which is called Opening the vestibule. In the middle line of the vestibular space is urethra, the round orifice of the urethra, which is contained in an eminence about one inch below the clitoris, and near the aperture of the vagina. Aperture Orifice of the vagina and the hymen. — The aperture of vagina, the vagina is close below the meatus urinarius, and varies much in size. In the child and in the virgin it is partly closed below by a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane Hymen named the hymen. After the destruction of the membrane, runcuik small irregularly-shaped projections, carunculce myrtiformes, exist around the opening of the vagina. The internal generative organs are the uterus and the vagina, and the ovaries with the Fallopian tubes, separate Dissection. — The viscera are now to be separated, so that vagina A and the bladder and the urethra may be together, and the vagina uterus. •> a ^