PERINEUM OF THE FEMALE. 455 from the urethra through the left lateral lobe of that body, so as not to injure the ejaculatory duct below. The whole cfaJ^ule of the prostate and its fibrous capsule are not to be cut Pf°^date through, otherwise the urine may be effused beneath the peritoneum. When the dissection of the perinaeum is completed, the flaps of skins are to be fastened together, after some preser- vative fluid has been used, and the limbs are to be put down. Section II. PERINEUM OF THE FEMALE. In the female the perinaeum differs from the like region in peH- the male more in the external form than the internal ana- oTfemaie tomy; but it has special parts distinguishing it, viz. the has spe* aperture of the vagina surrounded by its sphincter, and the parts, aperture of the vulva with the labia. Surface marking. — On the surface of the perineal space Along in the middle line, there are two apertures, viz. those of the aPer- anus and vulva, which are separated from one another by anus and an interval of about an inch; the former is situate relatively rather farther back than in the male, and the vulva is in the situation of the scrotum of the other sex. Bounding the vulva are the labia majora, one on each side. Within the Parts vulva, at the upper part, is the clitoris, with two small mem- vulva? branous folds, labia minora, extending downwards from it. Below the clitoris is the small aperture of the urethra; and still lower down is the vagina, whose opening is sometimes partly closed by a thin piece of membrane, the hymen. Deep boundaries. — The deep boundaries of the perinaeum Parts are alike in both sexes ; but in the female the outlet of the space are pelvis, corresponding to the perinaeum, is larger than that of both m the male. In this sex the perinaeum is not so deep. Dissection. — The steps of the dissection are much the Take same in both sexes, and the same description will serve, ischio- generally, for the perinaeum both of the male and the female, fossa. First, the dissection of the ischio-rectal fossa is to be made; and afterwards the muscles, vessels, and nerves of the pos- G G 4