511 AOETIC AND MESENTERIC PLEXUSES. same extent of the intestinal tube as the vessel supplies. The nerves closely surround the artery with a sheath, and £™. are at first covered by the pancreas. In the mesentery, ^mi^ne near the intestine, some of the nerves leave the arteries, and divide and communicate with others before entering the gut. The secondary plexuses are the same as the branches of its se- ' 1 t condary the artery, viz. intestinal nerves to the small intestine ; and piex- fr . uses. an ileo-colic, a right colic, and a middle colic plexus to the large intestine. The aortic plexus is a network of nerves, that covers the A,ortic * 7 plexus aorta below the superior mesenteric artery. Superiorly it is js^e- continuous with the solar plexus ; and inferiorly it ends on from each side in branches, that cross the common iliac artery, plexus, and enter the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis. From it an offsets, offset is furnished to the two visceral arteries of the aorta below the renal and superior mesenteric trunks, viz. to the spermatic and inferior mesenteric arteries. The aortic plexus is stronger on the sides than on the This L ° m plexus' front of the aorta, in consequence of its receiving accessory j^est^ branches from the lumbar ganglia, especially the left. At on sides the upper part the plexus seems to be derived from an offset, on each side of the aorta, which is connected with the solar and renal plexuses. The spermatic plexus is formed by an offset from both the sPer- ■*■■•■*■ J matic aortic and the renal plexus. The nerves from it run on the plexus, spermatic artery to the testicle: and in the cord they join other filaments on the vas deferens. In the female, the nerves on the spermatic (ovarian) ^Je- artery are supplied to the ovary and the uterus. The inferior mesenteric plexus surrounds the trunk and inferior branches of the artery of the same name, and is supplied to teric*1 the same part of the intestinal tube as the artery is dis- plexus* tributed to. This plexus is furnished from the left part of the aortic plexus ; and the nerves composing it are whiter and larger than in either of the preceding offsets of the sym- pathetic. Near the intestine (sigmoid flexure) the branching Nerves of the nerves, and the union of the contiguous twigs are well uke the i -t vessels. marked. The following secondary plexuses are named from the se- arteries they accompany, and are distributed like them to the plexuses.