THE DELTOID MUSCLE. 267 minence of the shoulder, by beginning in front at the an- the terior border of the deltoid muscle. Some small cutaneous der. nerves are to be found in the fat: some of these descend, from above, over the acromion, and others come to the sur- face about half way down the posterior border of the deltoid muscle. Superficial nerves. — Branches of nerves, supra-acromial, cuta- descend to the surface of the shoulder from the cervical nerves plexus (p. 59.). A cutaneous branch of the circumflex shoui- nerve turns forward from beneath the posterior border of the deltoid, and supplies the integument covering the lower two thirds of that muscle. Dissection. — The fat and fascia are now to be taken from Dissec . tion of the deltoid muscle, its fibres being made tense at the same deltoid time. Beginning at the anterior edge of the muscle, the dissector is to carry the knife upwards and downwards in the direction of the fibres, in order that its coarse, rough, muscular fasciculi may be more easily cleaned. At the same time the fascia maybe removed from the back of the scapula, so as to denude the teres major, and a part of the infra- spinatus muscle. The deltoid muscle is triangular in form, and has its Deltoid base at the scapula and clavicle, and its apex at the humerus. It arises from nearly all the lower edge of the spine of the Origin, scapula, from the anterior border of the acromion, and from the outer half or third of the clavicle. Its fibres converge to a tendon, and are inserted by means of it into an impres- inver- sion,, two inches in extent, about the middle of the outer surface of the humerus. The anterior border is contiguous Adjacent parts. to the pectoralis major muscle and the cephalic vein; and the posterior rests on the infraspinatus and triceps muscles. The origin of the muscle corresponds to the extent of the attachment of the trapezius to the bones of the shoulder; the insertion is united with the tendon of the pectoralis major, and has a fasciculus of the brachialis anticus on each side of it. Dissection. — The deltoid is to be divided near its origin, Dissec- - _ _ ' n ° tion to and thrown down as much as the circumflex vessels and detach •n • • deltoid. nerve will permit. As the muscle is raised a large thick bursa between it and the head of the humerus comes into sight. The cellular membrane is to be taken away from the