635 INTERNAL PELVIC MUSCLES. Dissection. — The rectum may be prepared for examination Prepara- by distending it with air, and removing the peritoneal cover- rectum, ing and the cellular membrane from it. Section VII. INTERNAL MUSCLES AND THE LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. Muscles.—The two following muscles, pyriformis and obtu- Two . . . . . P muscles. rator mternus, have their origin within the cavity 01 the pelvis. The pyriformis muscle is wide and fleshy within the pyrifor- pelvis, and is directed outwards through the great sacro- situa sciatic notch to be inserted into the great trochanter of the tlon' femur. Narrowing in its progress, the muscle has received its name from its form. In the pelvis the pyriformis is attached by three slips to origin the second, third, and fourth pieces of the sacrum, both peivls between, and external to the anterior apertures; as it passes from the pelvis, it takes origin also from the surface of the ilium which forms the upper part of the large sacro- sciatic notch, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. From this origin the fibres converge to the tendon of inser- Inser_ tion into the trochanter. (See Dissection of the But- tlon' tock.). The anterior surface is in contact with the rec- its con- tum, with the sacral plexus, and with the sciatic and pudic weith°ns branches of the internal iliac vessels; whilst the opposite around, surface rests on the sacrum, and is covered by the great gluteal muscle outside the pelvis. The upper border is near the ilium, but separated from it by the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve; and the lower is contiguous to the coccygeus muscle, only the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves intervening. The OBTURATOR INTERNUS MUSCLE, like the preceding, Obtura- has its origin in the pelvis, and its insertion out of the muscle cavity at the great trochanter of the femur ; but the part outside, is almost parallel in direction with that inside the is bent , . over pelvis. pelvis. The muscle arises by a broad fleshy attachment from the Origin inner surface of the obturator membrane, and the fibrous pelvis.