DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 444 thigh space and the thigh, which is connected with the rami of the rinseaf pubes and ischium, it will be necessary to take away, on the space. side, the fat from the fascia lata of the thigh, external to the line of the bones before mentioned, on right Amongst the fat of the thigh on the right side, the student inferior, should seek the inferior pudendal nerve, which pierces the dai fascia lata about one inch anterior to the tuberosity of the nerve. ischium, and the same distance from the margin of the ramus of that bone ; and should trace its junction with the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve in the fat. Afterwards this nerve is to be followed forwards to where it enters beneath the piece of the superficial fascia in the middle line. Superfi- The superficial fascia of the anterior half of the perinaeum cia. is continuous with that of the rest of the body, extending on each side to the thigh, in front to the scrotum, and back- its thick- wards around the anus. Its depth., and the quantity of fat ries!va" in it will vary with the condition of the body. It resembles biesethat the superficial fascia of the groin and the upper part of the In having thigh? in having two strata;—one is a subcutaneous fatty ers?Iay" stratum, continuous with that in other parts of the body; and the other is a deeper membranous layer, which is of limited extent, and is connected with the firm subjacent structures. Air blown beneath the fascia has been seen to pass only forwards to the scrotum; and this direction is given to it by the connections of the deeper layer on the under surface. Con- An examination of the deep or membranous stratum will of deep show it to have the following attachments : — On the outer ldyer* side it is fixed to the rami of the pubes and ischium, exter- nal to the line of the crus penis and its muscle, extending as low as the tuberosity of the ischium. Posteriorly the stratum bends down to join the triangular ligament of the perinasum; but in front it is unattached, and is continued to Forms a the scrotum and the penis. By means of similar connections openVn on both sides, a pouch is formed over the anterior half of the this*' Perin9e&l space underneath the superficial fascia. From the byVaded 'un(^er surface of this part of the fascia a septum dips down- septum. Wards, and divides the subjacent space posteriorly into two parts ; but anteriorly this partition is less perfect or disap- Course pears. Should urine be effused beneath the membranous urLe!e part of the fascia, the fluid will necessarily be directed for-