319 EXTENSORS OF THE FINGERS. each collateral tendon, so as to prevent the raising of that finger if the other fingers are closed. The EXTENSOR MINIMI DIGITI is the mOSt slender muscle On Exten- sor of the back of the fore-arm. and appears to be but a part of the little .... . n finger. common extensor. Its origin is in common with that of common the extensor communis, but it passes through a distinctongm sheath of the annular ligament; and its tendon, which is split into two directly afterwards, ends by joining the com- andter- mon expansion on the first phalanx of the little finger. tion. The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARIS MUSCLE arises from the Exten- sor carpi common tendon and from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm; uinaris. it is also firmly fixed by the fascia to the posterior border of the ulna below the anconeus muscle (about the middle third). The tendon of the muscle becomes free from fleshy origin, fibres near the annular ligament, and passes through a sepa- rate sheath in that structure to be inserted into the base of inser- the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Beneath this extensor are some of the muscles of the deep layer with part ™°^alin~ of the ulna. On the outer side is the extensor of the little muscle, finger. The anconeus is a small triangular muscle near the Anco- elbow joint, which arises from the outer condyle of the humerus by a tendon distinct from, and posterior to the a dis- common tendon of origin of the other muscles. From this origin origin the fibres diverge to their insertion into the outer and in- side of the olecranon, and into the impression on the upper sertl0n' third of the posterior surface of the ulna. The upper iSCiose fibres are nearly transverse, and are contiguous to the lowest [deeps, of the triceps muscle ; and beneath the anconeus are the supinator brevis muscle and the recurrent interosseous vessels. Dissection. — For the display of the deep muscles of the Dissec- back of the fore-arm, and the posterior interosseous artery deep and nerve, some of the superficial muscles, viz. the extensor muscles communis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi uinaris must be detached from their origin, and turned aside: some small branches of the nerve and artery, which will be seen entering the muscles, may be divided. The cellular mem- brane is then to be removed from the muscles, and from the ramifications of the artery and nerve; and a slender part of and in- the nerve, that sinks beneath one muscle (extensor of the seous