DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 164 which is contained in the fold of mucous membrane bounding Rouble laterally the upper opening of the larynx. Its fibres arise, posteriorly, from the front and upper part of the arytenoid cartilage, some being continuous with the oblique fibres of the arytenoid muscle; and a fasciculus (thyro-epiglottideus)is at- tached, anteriorly, to the inner surface of the thyroid cartilage. From this origin the fibres turn upwards with very different directions, and are inserted into the border of the epiglottis, inser- Xhe strength of this muscle varies much in different bodies. tion. 0 Some of the lower fibres of this muscle, that cover the top of the laryngeal pouch, have been described by Mr. Hilton * as a separate muscle, and named compressor sacculi laryngis. Parts Parts inside the Larynx. — The laryngeal cartilages are larynx, so arranged as to enclose a space, and the parts more im- mediately concerned in the production of the voice, viz. the vocal cords, the glottis, and the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. Dissec- Dissection, — For the purpose of displaying the vocal ap- pose paratus, let the tube of the larynx be divided along the posterior part; and in cutting through the arytenoid mus- cle, let the incision be rather to the right of the middle line, so as to avoid the nerves that enter it. On looking into the larynx a hollow (ventricle) will be seen on each side; and if a probe be passed into the ventricle it may be made to enter a small pouch by an aperture in the anterior and upper part. The dissector should fill the pouch on the right side by introducing very small, round bits of cotton wool into it. Space The laryngeal space reaches from the aperture behind Eiied^ the epiglottis to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. At the upper part, the space that corresponds to the large interval between the ahe of the thyroid cartilage, is much produc- diminished in size by the thyro-arytenoid muscles and ing giot- ^e vocai cordSj and only a narrow interval, the glottis, is The rest left at one spot. At the lower part, however, the space re- large. mains 0f the same shape and size as the cricoid cartilage, and is therefore circular, and larger than the narrow part before alluded to. Upper The upper orifice of the larynx will be seen by placing onfice, .n contacj. surfaces of the cut along the posterior part. * See No. 5. of Guy's Hospital Reports.