351 CAVITY OF RIGHT AURICLE. and from the superior cava nearly to the inferior cava; from the centre of that incision the knife is to be carried across the anterior wall to the auricula. By means of these cuts an opening will be made of sufficient size ; and on raising the flaps with hooks, and removing the coagulated blood, the shape of the cavity will be apparent. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT AURICLE * IS rather of an irre- Form of gular form, though when seen from the right side, with the auricle, flaps held up as laB&ve directed, it has somewhat the appear- ance of a cone, with, the base to the right and the apex to the left. The base or wider part of the cavity is turned towards the its base; right side, and at its extremities are the openings of the superior and inferior cavse. Between those vessels the wall of the cavity projects somewhat, and presents a slight ele- vation in some bodies (tubercle of Lower). The apex is apex, prolonged downwards towards the junction of the auricle with the ventricle, and in it is the large opening into the right ventricular cavity. The anterior ivall is thin and loose. Near its upper part Anterior is an opening leading into the pouch of the appendix or presents auricula, which will admit the tip of the little finger. Around, and in the interior of the appendix, are fleshy bands, named musculi pectinati, which cross in different directions, forming a network that contrasts with the general smoothness of the auricle. The posterior wall corresponds for the.most part, in con- Poste- sequence of the position of the heart, to the septum between [smS- the auricles. On it, nearer the inferior than the superior fossa" cava, is a large oval depression, the fossa ovalis, which is the remains of an opening in the fetus between the auricles, Inferiorly the fossa merges into the opening of the lower cava. A thin semitransparent structure forms the bottom of the fossa, and there is oftentimes a small oblique aperture at its upper part. Around the upper three fourths of that hollow is an elevated band of muscular fibre, called annulus seu isthmus Yieussenii, which is most prominent above and Annulus * Sometimes the term cavity of the auricle is applied only to the appendix, and the term sinus venosus to the rest of the space here named auricle.