DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 188 parallel to the fourth nerve. On the upper surface of the cerebellum the artery spreads out in branches, and its rami- fications anastomose with the vessel of the opposite side, and with the inferior cerebellar artery. Some twigs of this vessel enter the piece of the pia mater (velum interpositum), that projects into the posterior part of the cerebrum. Posterior 3. The posterior cerebral artery takes on each side a cerebral x artery; backward course, similar to that of the preceding artery, but separated from it by the third nerve. The vessel is then inclined to the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, at its inner side, and divides into many branches. Some of these supply the under part of the posterior lobe, whilst others turn up- wards both on the outer and inner aspects of the back of the hemisphere, and anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. Its branches are the following : — its offsets Numerous small long branches leave it close to its origin, and are enter the base of the brain between the crura cerebri (posterior perforated spot). Soon afterwards the vessel is joined by a small commu- straight branch (posterior communicating) from the internal carotid andcho- artery. Lastly, it furnishes a small choroid artery to the fold of roid. pja mater that projects into the cerebrum : this small branch winds round the crus cerebri, and is transmitted between the crus and the hemisphere of the cerebrum to the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. Part of From the foregoing examination of the branches of the supplied vertebral arteries, and of the trunk (basilar) that continues teybnd" them onwards, it appears that about half the encephalon — arteries. ^z ^e medulla oblongata, the pons, the cerebellum, and the posterior third of the cerebrum—receives its blood through those branches of the subclavian arteries. internal The internal carotid artery terminates in the brain carotid ^ SUppiving branches to its remaining two thirds, or to the anterior and middle lobes. Having passed through the space of the cavernous sinus (p. 21.), the vessel emerges on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, and divides at ends in the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius into anterior cerebral, arteries, middle cerebral, and posterior communicating arteries. At the base of the brain the carotid artery lies between the second and third nerves, but nearest the former. Branch- Branches.—In the skull the carotid artery supplies the es.