259 THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. s 2 At first the plexus consists of two cords, which are placed The external to the artery, and are thus constituted ; — that form ; nearest the vessel is formed by the last cervical and first cords that lie dorsal nerves, and the other, by the fifth, sixth, and seventh around cervical nerves. But a third cord is soon produced by the tery, union of two fasciculi, which are derived, one from each of the others; so that, beneath the small pectoral muscle, the plexus consists of three large cords, one being to the outer side, one to the inner side, and one behind the vessel. Occasionally there may be some deviation from this mode of arrangement. The branches of the plexus below the clavicle are fur- and give 1 the nished to the muscles of the front of the chest, to some of several branch- the muscles of the scapula and the latissimus dorsi, and to es>viz- the arm. They arise from the several cords in the following way:-—, The outer cord gives origin to one anterior thoracic from the branch, to the musculo-cutaneous trunk, and to the outer head of the median nerve. The inner cord produces a second anterior thoracic nerve, inner, . and the inner head of the median, the internal cutaneous, the nerve of Wrisberg, and the ulnar nerve. The posterior cord furnishes the subscapular branches, and P°rs*erior ends in the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves. Only the thoracic and subscapular nerves are now dissected The foi- . . . lowing to their termination; the remaining nerves will be seen in are seen, 0 viz. the arm. The anterior thoracic branches are two in number, — two an- terior outer and inner with respect to the cords of the plexus. thoracic, a. The outer nerve crosses inwards, over the axillary artery, to outer the under surface of the great pectoral muscle in which it ends. On the inner side of the vessel it communicates with the following branch, b. The inner thoracic branch turns upwards between the and artery and vein, and, after receiving the branch of junction from the other, divides into many branches that enter the under surface of the pectoralis minor. Some twigs enter the great pectoral muscle, after passing either through or above the border of the pectoralis minor. The subscapular nerves are three in number. Two enter Three the subscapular muscle, and are named upper and lower puiar ;" from their relative position; and the third is the long sub- scapular.