630 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. os uteri; and then enough of the tissue is to be taken away on each side of the middle line to show the contained cavity, its thick- The thickness of the uterine wall is greatest opposite the ness. . middle of the body, and at the centre of the fundus ; but from those spots the wall becomes thinner towards the attachment of the Fallopian tubes, in the Interior of the uterus.—Within the uterus is a small space, which is artificially divided into two—one of the body, isatri- another of the neck of the organ. The space occupying the space in body of the viscus is triangular in form, and is larger than the body, J & ? & the other. The base is at the fundus of the uterus, where it is convex towards the cavity, and the angles are prolonged which is towards the Fallopian tubes. The apex is directed down- ed^™" wards, and joins the cavity in the cervix by a narrowed cir- and a cu^r part, isthmus (os uteri internum). The space within sniped" tne nech terminates inferiorly at the os uteri; and above thenVck at tne sPace within the body, as before said, but this last opening may be smaller than the one into the vagina. It is larger at the middle than at either end, being spindle-shaped, and is somewhat flattened, like the cavity of the body. Along both the anterior and the posterior wall is a longitu- in the dinal ridge, and other ridges (rugce) are directed obliquely ridges from these on each side : this appearance has been named arbor arbor vitce uterinus. In the intervals between the rugae are vitae. some mucous follicles, which sometimes become filled and distended with fluid, and give rise to the ovula of Naboth. uterus Structure. — The dense wall of the uterus is composed cuiar1118" of layers of unstriped muscular fibre, intermixed with fibro- orgdn* cellular structure, and large blood-vessels. On the exterior is the peritoneum, and lining the interior is a thin mucous membrane. There The muscular fibres can be demonstrated at the full period strata7e of gestation to form three strata in the wall of the uterus, external, viz. exernal, internal, and middle. The external layer con- tains fibres which are mostly transverse, but at the fundus and at the sides they are oblique, and there they are more marked than along the middle of the organ. Externally the fibres converge towards the broad ligament; some are in- serted into that membrane ; whilst others are prolonged on the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ligament of internal, the ovary. The internal fibres describe circles around the