728 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. on the On the dorsum of the foot is an arch of veins, which ends v°e°sseisth at the sides in the saphenous veins. On the outer side is nerves, the short saphenous nerve; and in the interval between the great toe and the next, is the cutaneous part of the anterior tibial nerve. The nerves should be traced to the ends of the toes by removing the integuments. After the several vessels and nerves are dissected, the fat is to be taken away, in order that the fascia may be seen. Cutane- The venous arch on the dorsum of the foot has its con- ous . veins, vexity turned forwards, and receives digital branches from the toes; but at its concavity it is joined by small veins from the instep. Internally and externally it joins the saphenous veins. internal The internal saphenous vein begins at the inner side of saphe- nous. the great toe, and in the arch of veins; it ascends along the inner side of the foot, and in front of the inner ankle to the inner part of the leg, where it has been before seen (650.). It receives branches from the inner side and the sole of the foot. External The external saphenous vein begins on the outside of the nous?" little toe and the foot, and in the venous arch; it is then continued below the outer ankle to the back of the leg (p. 706.). source Cutaneous Nerves, All the superficial nerves on the cutane- front of the leg and foot are derived from branches of the nerves, popliteal trunks, viz., from the musculocutaneous and ante- rior tibial nerves of the external popliteal, and from the external saphenous nerve of the internal popliteal. Some inconsiderable offsets to the sides of the leg from the internal and external saphenous do not require separate notice. Muscu- The musculo-cutaneous nerve has a cutaneous termination, and its n°eousta~ place of destination is the dorsum of the foot and the toes. Per- ce?tainS f°ratm© the fascia in the lower third of the leg, it divides into two toes; principal branches (inner and outer), which give digital nerves to the sides of all the toes, except the outer part of the little toe and ^divides the contiguous sides of the great toe and the next. The digital lnt0 branches may be traced in the integument as far as the end of the last phalanx. inner The inner branch communicates with the internal saphenous and nerve, and supplies the inner side of the foot and great toe : it also joins the anterior tibial nerve, outer b. The outer branch divides into three nerves, which lie over the branch.