587 CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. The rectum is behind all, and takes a curved course, with outline r of their the convexity backwards, along the front of the sacrum and position, the coccyx. The bladder is placed in the concavity of the rectum, its neck being surrounded by the prostate gland; and the urethra curves forwards from it above the tube of the intestine. Beneath the bladder—that is to say, between it and the rectum, — are the little seminal sacs with their ducts. These organs are partly surrounded by the peri- toneum. Dissection.—All the recto-vesical fascia, except the ante- Take rior ligament of the bladder, may now be taken from the fascia J .,. and viscera. The obliterated remnant of the internal iliac artery some vessels. (hypogastric) should next be followed forwards, along the bladder, from the back of the pelvis ; but the other branches of the same artery to the lower limb are to be cut through. When the fat and the vessels have been cleared away, the pouch of the peritoneum, in which wool has been placed, will be brought into view, with the ureter passing to the bladder. The prostate may now be cleaned, and the vesiculae semi- The nales which are behind it defined: the part of the bladder Jiscen! below the peritoneum is likewise to be prepared, and at the cleaned, same time the vas deferens, which lies on the lateral aspect of that viscus, is to be followed down to the seminal sacs. Lastly, the cellular layer is to be removed from the part of the rectum below the peritoneum, but the branches to it from the inferior mesenteric artery are to be preserved. If the bladder has become flaccid, half fill it with air, in order that its connections may be studied. The peritoneum does not envelop the viscera of the pelvis The pe- so completely as those of the upper part of the abdomen, um After partly surrounding the upper portion of the rectum, and fixing it by a process—meso-rectum, the membrane can covers be traced to the back of the bladder, where it projects for the some way between this viscus and the rectum, forming the recto-vesical pouch. On each side of the rectum the serous membrane is arrested by the internal iliac-artery, and gives rise to a fold, the posterior ligament of the bladder. Tracing the peritoneum upwards on the bladder, the student will find and it covering all the posterior surface ; and the posterior part thetly of each lateral region, as far forwards as the position of the