DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 330 the os magnum and the bone on each side, viz. the unciform and trapezoid, in an interosseous ligament. The two One row with another.—The two rows of carpal bones rows are 1 joined by are connected by an anterior and posterior, and two lateral ligaments. anterior, ^he interior ligament consists of irregular fibres, and intervenes between the two rows on the palmar aspect. The So?6" Posier^or ligament, which is stronger, and the greater num- ber of whose fibres are transverse, has a corresponding ?nd attachment on the dorsal aspect of the bones. Of the lateral lateral , L i»ga-: ligaments, the external is the best marked, and extends be- ments. 7 7 tween the os trapezium and the scaphoid bone; whilst the internal ligament passes between the cuneiform and unciform bones. Dissec- Dissection.—After the division of the lateral and poste- rior ligaments, the one row of bones may be separated from the other, so as to allow the articular surfaces to be seen. surface Articular surfaces.— The first row of carpal bones forms of each J A row in an arch, whose hollow is turned towards the other. In the contact. 7 second row, the os magnum and os unciforme present a con- dyloid projection, which is received into the arch before mentioned: whilst the two outer bones are much below the level of the others and form a slight hollow for the reception of the scaphoid bone. °onvyy- One synovial membrane serves for the articulation of all brine for iae carpal bones, except that of the pisiform with the carpal cuneiform bone. Lining the joint between the two rows of bones, the carpUSj the membrane sends upwards and downwards prolongations between the individual bones. The offsets upwards are two, and sometimes they join the synovial mem- fnner°ur brane of the wrist joint; but the offsets in the opposite di- carpai rection are three, and may be continued to all or only some of the articulations between the four inner metacarpal with their carpal bones, ctrpti Union of the Metacarpal Bones. — The metacarpal joinedare bones of the four fingers are connected at their bases by the bases*' following ligaments : — Superficial dorsal and palmar fasci- culi of fibres pass transversely from one bone to that next it; and those in the palm are the strongest. Besides, there are short interosseous bands between the contiguous rough surfaces of the bones.