650 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. to rather below the tubercle of the tibia ; at its extremity a transverse incision is to be made across the front of the leg, but this is to reach farthest on the inner side. The flaps of the skin may now be reflected inwards and out- wards. and foi- The saphenous vein is first to be traced out as far as the low sa- . . . . . phenous skm is reflected, but in removing the tissue from it, the student should be careful of branches of the internal cuta- neous nerve that lie along it. Cuta- The cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh are to be neous 0 fronYof°f sougnt *n tne *n tne flowing positions: — On the outer thigh, margin is the external cutaneous nerve; in the centre are the branches of the middle cutaneous nerve ; whilst at the inner margin lie the ramifications of the internal cutaneous nerve, — one small offset appearing near the upper part of the thigh, one or more about the middle, and one of the terminal branches (anterior) about the lower third, and on On the inner side of the knee three other cutaneous nerves the knee, are to be looked for: — One is a branch of the great saphe- nous, which is directed to the front of the patella; another is the trunk of the great saphenous nerve, which lies by the side of the vein of the same name, close to the lower part of the surface now dissected; and the third is a terminal branch (inner) of the internal cutaneous nerve, that is close behind the preceding, and communicates with it. Small cutaneous arteries accompany the nerves, super- Superficial Veins. — All the veins on the anterior and veins, inner aspects of the thigh are collected into one; and this trunk is named saphenous from the readiness with which it may be detected on the surface, internal The internal saphenous vein is the cutaneous vessel of nouhse" the inner side and front of the lower limb, and extends from thigh"1 the foot to the upper part of the thigh, where it joins the femoral vein. In the part of its course now dissected, the vessel lies somewhat behind the knee-joint inferiorly; but as it ascends to its termination, it is directed along the inner pierces side and the front of the thigh. Near Poupart's ligament it lataTo pierces the fascia lata by a special opening named saphenous, femoral and enters, as before said, the deep vein of the limb. Super- veins ficial branches join it both externally and internally; and joining near Poupart's ligament the three veins, corresponding to