546 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. in the nutrition of the organ, enters the transverse fissure, and is directed transversely in spaces named portal canals, where it is enveloped by fibrous tissue, the capsule of Glisson. The other set, or the hepatic veins, is without a sheath, and runs from the anterior to the posterior border of the liver; it conveys to the vena cava the blood that has been circu- lated through the organ. The ramifications of these diffe- rent vessels are to be traced in the liver. Capsule The capsule of Glisso?i is a layer of fibro-cellular struc- sonfwith ture, that envelops the vessels entering the liver through hf trans- the transverse fissure. In this sheath the vessels ramify, fissure and in it they are minutely divided before their termination a cellular in the lobules. Processes of the sheath accompany the small extends interlobular vessels, and join the cellular covering of the lobules, lobules. If a transverse section is made of a portal canal, the vessels will retract somewhat into the loose surrounding tissue. Vena The vena porta ramifies in the liver like an artery, and the porta? blood is circulated through it in the same manner, viz. from trunk occupies to branches. After entering the transverse fissure the vein divides canals, into primary branches ; these lie in the portal canals or spaces with offsets of the hepatic artery, the hepatic duct, and the nerves and and lymphatics. The same division is repeated again and again; and vagina? the resulting vessels give off minute lateral branches, some of which, vaginal, ramify in the cellular sheath before their final dis- tribution to the hepatic substance, whilst others pass to the lobules and in - without previous anastomosis. Finally, the last branches of the teriobu- vejn penetra£e between the lobules, around which they form a branch- circle, and then end in the interior as before explained: where these twigs lie between the lobules they are named interlobular. Bile Hepatic duct. — The commencement of the duct within the lobules is uncertain; but probably the duct has a reticular arrange- ment amongst the portal vessels, its radicles corresponding to the spaces between the rows of cells, and being lined by a thin membrane. On leaving the lobules the branches form a plexus, interlobular, between them; and the small ducts soon unite into larger vaginal branches, that lie in the portal canals with the other vessels. Lastly, the ducts are collected into a right and a left trunk, which leave the liver at the transverse fissure as before described. Some Ducts have been found in the left lateral ligament of the liver, in the between the layers of the peritoneum; they anastomose together iiga-al an(^ are accompanied by branches of the vessels of the liver, viz. meat, vena portse, hepatic artery, and hepatic vein.