506 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. the right side of the linea alba, and to the under part of the Contains diaphragm. In its base or free part is contained the remnant liga- of the umbilical vein, which is named the round ligament This fold is produced by the passage of the umbilical vein to How the liver, above the sac of the peritoneum ; and with a little formed. care the dissector will be able to detach the serous membrane from the vein, and to trace the sac continuously upwards on each side of it into the suspensory ligament. Coro- The coronary ligament is a short but wide process of the ligament peritoneum, which connects the hinder part of the liver to the diaphragm. It reaches all across the liver ; though at each side it is enlarged, and forms a triangularly shaped piece; to these larger pieces of it the terms right and left lateral ligaments have been applied, gives a. The left triangular or lateral portion is attached to the left and liver above the edge of the left lobe, and is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, which are in contact; it lies in front of the oesophagean opening in the diaphragm, right o. The right triangular or lateral portion lies deeply in triangu- the hypochondriac region, in front of the vena cava inferior, merit!?" Its two pieces of peritoneum are widely separated from one another and between them the kidney touches the liver. MESENTERIC VESSELS AND SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Examine Directions. — The vessels and nerves (mesenteric) that are sdftcT" distributed to the alimentary tube, except to the upper and tines? tne lower part, may be first dissected. After these have been examined, and the connections of the aorta and vena cava have been seen, the intestine can be taken out to give room for the display of the viscera in the upper part of the cavity. vessels Mesenteric Vessels. — The mesenteric arteries (superior unen.tes" and inferior) are two large visceral branches of the aorta, which supply the whole of the intestinal tube, except the duo- denum and the rectum. Each is accompanied by a vein, and by a plexus of nerves of the same name derived from the sympathetic. Dissec_ Dissection.—For the dissection of the superior mesenteric superior vessels and nerves, the great omentum and the transverse terfcT" colon are to be placed on the margin of the ribs, and one