743 ARTICULATIONS OF THE FIBULA. a. The upper articulation, like the lower, is almost im- Upper movable, and therefore the structures between the ends of tion,, the bones are slight and simple. Only two small bands, anterior and posterior, are present here. The anterior ligament extends before the joint from theby an- outer tuberosity of the tibia, to the head of the fibula. The posterior ligament, thinner than the anterior, is attached to and Pos- corresponding parts of the bones behind the joint, and is band, covered by the tendon of the popliteus muscle. A synovial membrane lines the articulation, and projects upwards so as to touch that of the knee-joint. b. The lower articulation is continuous with the ankle- Lower joint, for the same synovial membrane serves for the two. tion has Besides an anterior and a posterior band, there is an inferior ligament between the lower ends of the bones. The anterior ligament reaches obliquely from the lower anterior, end of the tibia to that of the fibula; and the posterior has posten- attachments behind the joint, similar to those of the band in front. The inferior ligament is continuous with the fibres and infe- of the posterior, but is stronger than it. It is fixed on the ment^* one side to the end of the fibula, and on the other along the posterior edge of the articular surface of the tibia, so as to assist in deepening the hollow into which the astragalus is received. The interosseous ligament is an aponeurotic partition be- inter- tween the muscles on the front and the back of the leg. Its ligament fibres are for the most part directed downwards from the the outer border of the tibia to the ridge on the anterior or inner surface of the fibula; but some few cross in the opposite direction. Both superiorly and inferiorly is an aperture which transmits vessels, viz. the anterior tibial at the one spot, and the anterior peroneal at the other. Some strong irregular bundles of fibres, which constitute the inferior in- inferior terosseous ligament, extend between the bones below the ment. aperture for the anterior peroneal artery ; these take differ- ent directions, like the fibres of the rest of the interosseous membrane. Articulation of the ankle.—Like the knee, the ankle Bones is a ginglymoid or hinge joint. In this instance the upper ankie- surface of the astragalus is received into an arch formed by J°mt' the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, and the four ligaments 3 b 4