DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 482 crosses the external iliac artery, nearly an incli above Poupart's ligament, to reach the iliac vein on the inner side. Section II. HERNIA OF THE ABDOMEN. Inguinal The lower part of the wall of the abdomen, that has been herma- reServed on the left side of the body, should now be dissected for the anatomy of inguinal hernia. Thedis. Dissection.— The skin, the superficial fascia, and the apo- on the neurosis of the external oblique having been already reflected groin, in the previous examination of the wall of the abdomen, the necessary dissection of the inguinal region will be completed by reflecting the internal oblique muscle. To raise upwards the muscle, its lower fleshy origin from Poupart's ligament must be detached. For this purpose let one incision be made Reflect across the fleshy part of the internal oblique, from the crest of the ilium towards the linea alba; and after the depth of the muscle has been ascertained by the cellular layer beneath it, let the lowest fibres be carefully cut through at their origin from Poupart's ligament. By detaching the muscle cautiously, the student will be able to raise it from the subjacent trans- versalis, so that it may be turned upwards on the abdomen : the separation of the two muscles just mentioned is some- times difficult in consequence of their fibres being blended together, but a cellular interval, and a branch of the circum- flex iliac artery, mark their intermuscular space. The cre- master muscle is then to be divided along the cord, and to be reflected to the sides, clean Let the dissector clean the surface of the transversalis cen{a muscle, without displacing its lower arched border, and pdrts* trace with care the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, to show its exact extent outwards. The fascia transversalis and the spermatic cord should likewise be nicely cleaned. Crossing the interval apparent below the border of the transversalis muscle, is the epigastric artery, which lies close to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, but beneath the fascia transversalis: a small piece of