DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 178 ofcervi- verse process of the sixth cervical vertebra (usually), the tebraj." artery ascends vertically through the foramina in the trans- verse processes; and having passed through the aperture in the atlas, the vessel turns backwards on the posterior arch of that bone, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum, after piercing the ligament joining the atlas and the occipital Position bone. In its course through the foramina, the artery lies in to the . °. J nerves, front of the anterior trunks of the cervical nerves, except those of the first and second, the former of which crosses on a vein the inner, and the latter on the outer side of the vessel. The nerves vessel is accompanied by a vein, and a plexus of nerves of are with . it. the same name, in its course the artery furnishes small twigs to the spinal canal, and the contained cord. Verte- The vertebral vein commences by small radicles in the oc- brai vein c.pU^ an(j -m muscles of the back of the neck, and enters the aperture in the transverse process of the atlas, where it sometimes receives a vein through the posterior condyloid ends in foramen of the occipital bone. Accompanying the artery, vian!a" the vein traverses the apertures in the transverse processes, Branch- and ends in the subclavian vein. In its course it receives branches from the internal and external spinal veins; its other branches are described at p. 73. Plexus of The vertebral plexus of nerves is derived from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The plexus surrounds the artery, and communicates with the spinal nerves as high as the third or fourth. Section XIX. LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAE AND CLAVICLE. Directions.— On the remaining part of the spine the liga- ments, that connect the cervical vertebrae one to another and to the occipital bone, are to be examined. Dissec- Dissection.— Separate the cervical from the dorsal ver- tebrae by disarticulating between the seventh and the first. Then remove altogether the muscles, vessels, nerves, and cellular structure from the vertebrae. By sawing through the occipital bone, so as to leave only an osseous ring bound- ing posteriorly the foramen magnum, the ligaments between the atlas and the occipital bone can be more easily cleaned.