DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 158 chondro distinct from the rest at its origin, and is separated from globus, tkem higher up by a slip of the genio-hyo-glossus, and by the lingual vessels. About two or three lines wide at its origin, origin from the root of the small cornu, and from part of the connec- body of the os hyoides, the muscle is directed upwards and forwards to the root of the tongue beneath the hinder fibres ending from the genio-hyo-glossus. In entering the tongue, the tongue, fibres spread out, beneath the upper lingualis, obliquely in- wards and forwards over the posterior third of the dorsum, and extend as far as the hyo-glossus, with which they be- come blended. Muscu- Cortex of the tongue. — The muscles above described, to- iortex of gether with the superficial lingualis, constitute a cortical tongue. jayer 0f oblique and longitudinal fibres, that covers the tongue, except below, where some muscles are placed, and resembles " a slipper turned upside down." * This stratum is pierced by deeper fibres. Ar_ The genio-hyo-glossus enters the tongue vertically on the menun sm<e °f the septum, and perforates its cortical covering to tongue; en^ i*1 the submucous tissue. In the tongue the fibres spread like the ribs of a fan from apex to base, and are col- lected into laminas as they pass through the transversalis. itsposte- The most posterior fibres end on the hyo-glossal membrane, fibres, and a slip is continued from that part, beneath the hyo- glossus, to the upper constrictor of the pharynx. A vertical section, at a future stage, will show the radiation of its fibres. Con. The pharyngeo-glossus (glosso pharyngeus), or the part of atrthe°r tne upper constrictor attached to the side of the tongue, tongue, passes amongst fibres of the stylo and hyo-glossus, and en- how tering into the lingual substance, is continued with the transverse muscle to the septum. Number B. The intrinsic muscles are three in number in each half names of the tongue, viz. a transverse, and a superior and an in- of those, n • T i • tenor lingualis. First Dissection. — To complete the preparation of the inferior p^e lingualis, on the right side, the fibres of the stylo-glossus inferior, * This apt simile has been used by Mr. Zaglas in an accurate paper on the muscular structure cf the tongue. See Annuals of Anatomy and Physiology, Part I., by Mr. Goodsir. Edin.