DISSECTION" OF THE THIGH. 652 Middle : Middle cutaneous.—The nerve for the centre of the front of the cutane- ^jgjj jg a cutaneous offset from the anterior crural, and divides into two branches that may pierce the fascia at separate spots. It is transmitted through the fascia lata about three inches from Pou- is on part's ligament, and its branches are continued to the knee, where front of communicates with the offset of the great saphenous nerve over anc[h' tne Patella. In the superficial fascia this nerve is united with the reaches rrenito-crural and internal cutaneous nerves. In some instances the knee. ° the nerve is inclined to the inner side of the knee, and is substi- tuted for a branch (anterior) of the following nerve. Internal Internal cutaneous. — Derived from the anterior crural trunk, ous like the preceding, this nerve is furnished to all the inner side of is di- the thigh. It is divided into two branches (anterior and inner), vided ° . „ . . . V J into two. that perforate the fascia m separate places. The an- a. The anterior branch becomes cutaneous in the lower third of branch the thigh in the line of the inner intermuscular septum, along or somewhat behind which it is continued to the knee. This branch extends is distributed in the integument of the lower third of the thigh at along the the inner part, as well as in that over the patella and the inner side septum. o£ ^e knee-joint, and is united with the branch of the internal ■ saphenous nerve. Occasionally this part of the nerve is found below the level of the knee-joint; and in that case it is larger than usual, and is joined by a small offset from the saphenous nerve. The b. the inner branch perforates the fascia at the inner side of the endfin knee behind the internal saphenous nerve, with which it communi- piutof cates; it furnishes offsets to the lower part of the thigh, and the the leg. Upper half of the leg on the inner surface. other Other small cutaneous branches for the supply of the inner side small i t. j twigs to of the thigh arise from either the trunk, or the two final branches pTrTof of the internal cutaneous nerve, and appear by the side of the thigh, saphenous vein, after piercing the fascia lata. One or two come into view near the upper part of the vein, and reach as far as the middle of the thigh ; and one, of larger size than the rest, appears where the others cease, and extends as far as the knee. These cutaneous offsets usually communicate, internal Internal saphenous. — A branch of the anterior crural, like the Suf" two preceding, this nerve is continued to the foot, but only a appears little part of it is now visible. The nerve pierces the fascia on the knee*and inner side of the knee, and, after communicating with the inner theTe^0 branch of the internal cutaneous, gives forwards some offsets over that joint; finally it accompanies the saphenous vein to the leg and foot. a branch One branch of the saphenous nerve {patellar) appears on the over the surface of the fascia, higher than the trunk from which it springs, patella jt .g gQon joined by the internal cutaneous nerve, and ends in many