627 THE VAGINA. and the uterus remain united. The bladder is to be set aside for subsequent use, since the other organs may first be learnt. The surface of the vagina, and that of the lower part of the uterus should be cleaned, but the peritoneal investment of the latter is to be left untouched for the present. THE VAGINA. The vagina is a dilatable tube, that is connected with the Extent uterus at one end, and terminates in the vulva at the other. It has a curved course between the two points mentioned : and and the anterior and posterior surfaces of the tube are not course, equal in length, for whilst the former measures about four inches, the latter is about five or six in extent. In its position in the body the vagina is flattened from Form above downwards, so that the opposite surfaces may be in contact, but the upper end is rounded where it is joined to the uterus. Its size varies at different spots : thus the ex- and size, ternal orifice which is surrounded by the constrictor vaginas muscle is the narrowest part, the middle portion is the largest, and the upper end is intermediate in dimensions between the other two. After the vagina has been laid open by an incision along interior the upper wall, the position of the uterus in that wall, in- stead of at the extremity, may be remarked ; and further, the tube can be seen to extend higher on the posterior than the anterior aspect of the cervix uteri. On the inner surface, towards the lower part, is a slight longitudinal ridge both in front and behind, named columns of the vagina. Before the has tissue of the vagina has been distended, other transverse and ridges or rugce may be seen passing between the columns. russe' The wall of the vagina is thicker anteriorly, where the Wall, urethra is situate, than at any other part of the canal. Structure. — The vaginal wall is formed by a spongy An erec- erectile tissue; this is covered externally by a dilatable and structure vascular fibro-cellular layer, and lined internally by mucous wan.e membrane. At its lower end the tube is surrounded by a band of the fibres of the sphincter vaginas muscle (p. 456.). The erectile tissue is most abundant at the lower part of Erectile the vagina, where it gives the greater thickness to the wall. tlssue Two masses of the erectile tissue, one on each side of the forms