264 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. branches to the lower intercostal spaces, and its termination will be seen in the dissection of the abdominal wall. Veins. Two veins accompany the artery; these join into one trunk, which opens into the innominate vein, inter. The intercostal nerves supply the wall of the thorax, and costal . . „ , . m, nerves; are seen now in the anterior part 01 their extent. They are the anterior trunks of the dorsal nerves, and are placed at course, first between the layers of the intercostal muscles. About midway between the spine and the sternum, each gives off the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax : diminished in size by the emission of that offset, the trunk is continued onwards, at first in, and afterwards beneath the internal in- , termina- tercostal muscle, as far as the side of the sternum, where it tion, and branch- eno-s as tne anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. The es' intercostal nerves supply branches to the intercostal muscles, and to the triangularis sterni. inter- The aortic intercostal arteries furnish branches to the arteries thoracic wall; they lie with the nerves between the strata of the*Uh intercostal muscles, and nearer the upper than the lower rib ancTes' of the contained space. About the mid point (from before inTotwo. back) of the space the artery bifurcates: — one branch fol- lows the line of the upper rib, and the other descends to the lower rib: both anastomose anteriorly with the intercostal branches of the internal mammary artery. A small cuta- neous offset is distributed with the lateral cutaneous nerve of the thorax. At this The dissector of the upper limb now waits the appointed thograxhe time for the examination of the thorax. But as soon as the a?eddis!k body is turned for the dissection of the back, he is to proceed sected. tne par{S marked for him in that chapter. After the back is finished, the limb is to be detached from the trunk by sawing the clavicle about the middle, and cutting through the soft parts connected with the scapula. Section II. SCAPULAR MUSCLES, VESSELS, NERVES, AND LIGAMENTS. Position. Position. — After the limb has been separated from the trunk it is to be placed with the subscapularis uppermost.