SEMICIRCULAE CANALS. 785 of a file or some cutting instrument. Two may be seen opening near the aperture made in the vestibule, and may be followed thence ; but the third is altogether towards the pos- terior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The canals are of unequal lengths, but each forms more length; A terraina. than half a circle : they communicate at each end with the tion °y J % five vestibule, and the contiguous ends of two are blended to- ?Pen- ings; gether so as to give but five openings into that cavity. Each is marked by one dilated extremity which is called the united1- ampulla. When a tube is cut across it is not circular, but is compressed laterally, and measures about °f an inch, £?zrnland though in the ampulla the size is as large again. From a difference in the direction taken by the tubes, They are * 7 named they have been named superior and posterior vertical, and horizontal. The superior vertical canal crosses the superior vertical, upper border of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it forms a projection. Its extremities are more dis- tant than in the other tubes: its outer end is marked by the ampulla, whilst the inner is joined with the following. The posterior vertical tube is directed backwards from its junc-posterior tion with the preceding towards the posterior surface of the temporal bone ; the upper end is united with the superior vertical canal to form a common tube, and the lower end is free and dilated. The horizontal canal has separate aper- and na- tures, and is the shortest of the three. Deeper in position than the superior vertical, it lies in the substance of the bone nearly on a level with the fenestra ovalis; its dilated end is at the outer side close above that aperture. Cochlea. — This part of the osseous labyrinth has a posi- Cochlea, tion anterior to the vestibule, and has received its name from its resemblance to a snail's shell. Dissection. — To obtain a view of the cochlea in the dried Dissec- tion tor bone, it will be needful to cut or file away gradually on the "in <*ry preparation before used for displaying the vestibule, the sur- face of bone forming the promontory of the tympanum ; or this may be done on another piece of bone in which the semicircular canals are not laid bare. The horizontal direc- tion of this body will be best seen by cutting away the bone above it. To dissect the same parts in the recent state, a and recent softened bone should be used. bone. The cochlea is conical in form, and is placed almost hori- Form 3 E