674 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. tion of to be taken from them, and the superficial adductors are to muscles, be separated one from another. Let the student be careful of the branches of the obturator nerve in connection with the muscles, viz. those offsets entering the muscular fibres, and the plexus on the inner side of the thigh. Lastly, should any cellular tissue and veins be left with the pro- funda and its branches, the whole must be cleared away. DEEP PARTS ON THE INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. The ad- The muscles in this position are the three adductors, ductor A muscles longus, brevis, and magnus, with the gracilis and the pec- tineus; these have the under-mentioned position with respect and their to one another. Internal to all and the longest, is the gra- ' cilis. Superficial to the others, are the pectineus and the adductor longus; and beneath those two are the short ad- ductor and the adductor magnus. Vessels. In connection with these muscles, and supplying them, are the profunda artery (of the femoral) and its branches, with the accompanying vein. Nerve. The obturator nerve lies amongst the adductor muscles, and furnishes branches to them. Gracilis The Gracilis reaches from the pelvis to the tibia, and is fleshy and riband-like above, but tendinous below. The takes muscle arises by an aponeurosis, two to three inches in from the depth, from the lower half of the body and all the descending pelvls» ramus of the os pubis close to the inner margin. Inferiorly serted it is inserted by a flat tendon, about half an inch wide, into tibia. the inner surface of the tibia, beneath the sartorius. The muscle is superficial throughout. At the upper part of the thigh it is flattened against the adductor magnus, so as to have its borders directed forwards and backwards; but in Position the lower third it intervenes between the sartorius and muscles, semi-membranosus muscles, and forms part of the inner boundary of the popliteal space. Its tendon, near the inser- tion, is above that of the semi-tendinosus, though on the same level, and both lie over the internal lateral ligament; and an expansion is continued from it to the fascia of the leg, as in the tendon of the sartorius. A bursa separates it from the ligament of the joint, and projects above it to the sartorius tendon.