VISCERA IN THE FEMALE PELVIS. 595 Q Q 2 connected with the viscera, and all are directed forwards, one above another, to the surface, viz. the tube of the ure- thra, that of the vagina, and that of the rectum. Directions. — The description in Section 1. (p. 581.) of ^se . descrip- the male pelvis must be used for instructions respecting the tion of removal of the innominate bone, and for the anatomy of the pelvis, fasciae, and the muscles of the outlet of the pelvis. After the student has learnt, as directed above, the fasciae and the muscles, which are nearly alike in both sexes, he may make the following special dissection of the viscera of the female pelvis. Dissection. — On taking away the recto-vesieal fascia and Then *=> J # e clean some cellular membrane, the several viscera will come into the m • • • • i viscera view. To maintain the position of the uterus, this may be of the female held up with a piece of string passed though the upper part, pelvis.; The reflections of the peritoneum on the viscera are to be preserved, and a piece of cotton wool is to be placed between the rectum and the uterus. The obliterated part of the in- ternal iliac artery is to be followed forwards to the bladder, but all the other branches may be cut away on this the left side ; the ureter will be found passing to the bladder close to that artery. Afterwards the urethra, the vagina, and the rectum are to be cleaned, and partly separated from one another at the anterior part of the pelvis, but the arteries on the rectum are to be preserved. The peritoneum gives a partial covering to the viscera, as Reflec- in the male pelvis. Investing the upper part of the rectum, the peri- and forming behind it the meso-rectum, the membrane is continued for a short distance on the front of the intestine to the posterior part of the vagina, and the back of the uterus. It covers the posterior, and the greater part of the anterior surface of the uterus, and can be traced to the bladder without again touching the vagina. On each side of the uterus it forms a wide fold (broad ligament), which attaches that viscus to the wall of the abdomen and pelvis. As the peritoneum is followed upwards to the wall of the abdomen, it will be found to cover the posterior surface of the bladder, and on each side, the part behind the position of the obliterated hypogastric artery. In the female, the pouch between the rectum and the bladder can scarcely be said to exist, because the vagina intervenes between the two, and