292 DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. Near the wrist it communicates sometimes with a cutaneous offset from the ulnar nerve. The posterior branch continues along the back of the fore-arm (ulnar side) to rather below the middle, musculo The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve is continued temai from the arm, and courses along the radial border of the fore-arm neous; as far as the ball of the thumb, on which it terminates in cuta- neous offsets. Near the wrist the nerve is placed over the radial artery, and some twigs pierce the fascia to ramify on the vessel. A little above the middle of the fore-arm the nerve gives backwards, to the integument on the posterior aspect, a branch that reaches nearly to the wrist, and communicates with the radial nerve as well as with the following cutaneous nerve, external The external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, after ousot passing the elbow, turns to the posterior aspect of the fore-arm, io"spirai. an(^ reaches as far as the wrist. Near its termination it joins the preceding cutaneous nerve. Ending The radial nerve is distributed to the integument of the back of radial the hand, and to that of the thumb and the next two fingers. It neive becomes cutaneous at the outer border of the fore-arm in the lower third, and after giving backwards some filaments to the posterior aspect of the limb, divides into two branches : — by exter- a. One (external) is joined by the musculo-cutaneous nerve, internal and is distributed to the radial border and the ball of the thumb, branch; ^ rpj^ Q^QY krarjcn (internal) supplies the remaining side of the thumb, both sides of the next two digits, and half the ring finger ; so that the radial nerve supplies the same number of digital branches on the dorsal aspect as the median nerve furnishes on the which palmar :aspect. This division of the radial nerve communicates the'fin- with the musculo-cutaneous and ulnar nerves ; and the offset, which gers* is distributed to the contiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers, is joined by another twig from the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. Termi- On the sides of the fingers each of these dorsal digital nerves- is united with an offset from the corresponding digital nerve on the palmar surface, and then extends to the tip of the finger. Branch The dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve furnishes offsets to the rest nerve to of the fingers and to the back of the hand. Appearing by the hand and styloid process of the ulna, this branch joins in an arch across the back of the hand with a twig from the radial nerve, and is then fingers, distributed to both sides of the little finger, and to the contiguous side of the ring finger : moreover, it communicates with the part of the radial nerve that supplies the space between the ring and middle fingers. The ulnar nerve will be afterwards seen to supply branches to the same number of digits on the palmar surface. Deep The aponeurosis of the fore-arm is continuous with a