628 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. semi- opening of the vagina, have been described as the semi-bulbs by Taylor, and as the bulbi vestibuli by Kobelt. These are elongated masses of plexiform veins, about an inch in length, which are enclosed in fibrous membrane, and are situate one on each side of the vestibule, where they are covered on the outer side by the constrictor vaginae. At its upper part each is pointed, is continued to the clitoris, and commu- nicates with the vessels of that body ; whilst at the posterior which rounded part it joins the venous plexus of the vagina. These corre- the "bulb bodies are supposed by Kobelt to be the homologue of the male6 bulb °^ *ne corPus spongiosum urethras in the male ; but in the female this corresponding part is split, instead of forming one piece in the middle line, and each lateral half is thrust aside towards the crus clitoridis by the aperture of the vagina. Mucous The mucous membrane is continued through the lower brane aperture, over the vessels of the nymphae, which it encloses, vagina, to join the integument on the labia majora ; and through the os uteri, at the opposite end, to the interior of the uterus. Many muciparous glands and follicles abound on the surface, but these are in greatest abundance at the upper part. A laminar epithelium gives a lining to the membrane. Muscu- Beneath the mucous membrane is a stratum of contractile tum.trd" fibre cells ; these are arranged for the most part in a circular direction, but some have a longitudinal course. These are largest during pregnancy, or in those who have borne chil- dren.—Kolliker. Arteries. Blood-vessels and nerves. — The arteries are derived from the Veins visceral branches of the internal iliac. The veins, corresponding to piexi- the arteries, form a plexus around the vagina, as well as in the form. external or genital organs, and open into the internal iliac vein. For a description of the nerves see page 610. Two Glands of BartJioline. — On the outer part of the vagina, fnaio- near tne aperture at the lower end, are two small yellowish c°ow-to glandular bodies, one on each side, that are homologous with per's. Cowper's glands in the male. Each is about the size of a small bean ; it is provided with a duct, that is directed forwards to open on the inner aspect of the corresponding nympha.