ULNAR ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 299 the hand to be inserted into the middle phalanges of the inser- fingers, after being perforated by the tendons of the deep Itsten. flexor. ~ dons The flexor sublimis is concealed above by the other pierced muscles of the superficial layer; and the radial vessels lie on alxor? the attachment to the radius. Along the inner border 3S Connec- the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the ulnar vessels and nerve, with The tendons of the muscle are arranged in pairs before they around, enter beneath the annular ligament of the wrist; those of the middle and ring fingers being anterior, and those of the index and little finger posterior in position. When the coronoid and condyloid attachments are divided, the muscle will be seen to cover two flexors of the deep layer (flexor 'digit, profundus and flexor pollicis), the median nerve, and the upper part of the ulnar artery. The ulnar artery is the larger of the two branches from ulnar the bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and is directed along ends in the inner side of the fore-arm to the palm of the hand. At fid.0 its extremity it forms the superficial palmar arch, and joins the radial artery. In the fore-arm the vessel has an arched direction, and its connec- depth from the surface varies in the first and last parts of the*m its course. In the upper half of the fore-arm the artery is upper inclined obliquely inwards, between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, and is covered by the former, viz. by the pronator teres, flexor sublimis, palmaris longus, and flexor carpi radialis. But below the spot mentioned, the vessel is and quite superficial between the tendons of the flexor sublimis {jaTfof and flexor carpi ulnaris, and is concealed only by the com- Sm.°re" mon integuments and the proper fascia of the limb, though the flexor ulnaris somewhat overlays it, and serves as the guide to its position. Beneath the artery will be found first the brachialis anticus for a short distance, and afterwards the flexor profundus. The two companion veins are situate on the sides of the position artery. The median nerve lies to the inner side of the vessel andems for about an inch, but then crosses over that trunk to gain nerves* the outer side. About the middle of the fore-arm, the ulnar nerve approaches the artery, and continues thence on the inner side. A small branch of the ulnar nerve descends on its lower part to the palm of the hand.