490 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. it and the urachus, another between it and the epigastric, ofUtheer an<^ a outside the epigastric artery. The presence of hernial these fossa? determines the existence of the different kinds of protru- sions inguinal hernia ; there being one, two, or three, on each same as . ° # ° fossae, side, according to the fossae. situation Femoral Hernia.—In this hernia the intestine leaves of the femoral the abdomen, below Poupart's ligament, in the loose sheath hernia. ' r & . ' that surrounds the femoral vessels. The course that the intestine takes, and the coverings that it receives, will be readily understood after the anatomy of the parts among which it passes has been learnt. Only so much of the structures will be described here, as can be now seen, the rest is fully noticed in the dissection of the thigh. Dissec- Dissection. — The examination of the structures concerned the parts in the femoral hernia is to be made on the left side of the ed. body. The lower part of the abdominal wall is to be divided from the umbilicus to the pubes, and the peritoneum is to be detached from the inner surface of the wall, and from the iliac fossa. The layer of the subperitoneal fat is next to be separated in the same way, but before doing this it will be • necessary to cut through the cord at the abdominal ring : as this layer is raised, one or more lymphatic glands will be seen by the side of the iliac vessels. Any cellular membrane that remains, is to be taken away to show the upper opening of the membranous sheath that contains the femoral vessels. In this dissection the genito-crural nerve is seen on the iliac artery. Afterwards the iliac fascia and the fascia transver- salis are to be traced to Poupart's ligament, to see the part that each takes in the production of the femoral sheath. Anatomy Anatomy. — The parts concerned in the femoral hernia struc- are severally to be examined, viz. the subperitoneal fat; the tures* membranes (transversalis and iliac fascia) lining the interior of the abdominal cavity near Poupart's ligament, with the sheath to which they give origin ; and, lastly, the crural ring, or the space through which the hernia leaves the abdomen. subpe- The subperitoneal fat extends as a continuous layer be- ntoneai neat]1 peritoneum, though it is thickest and most fibrous at the lower part of the abdomen, where the vessels pass be- neath Poupart's ligament. At that spot it extends over the upper opening of the sheath of the vessels, instead of descend-