VOCAL COEDS OF THE LARYNX. 167 M 4 b. The upper ligament (false vocal cord) is semilunar Upper ~. ,111 t t . ligament in. form, and is much weaker than the preceding one. It is fixed in front to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, near the attachment of the epiglottis; and behind to the rough ante- rior surface of the arytenoid cartilage. This ligament con- is a very tains chiefly fibrous tissue in its structure, which is con- band, tinuous with that in the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. The mucous membrane of the larynx is derived from that Mucous investing the pharynx, and is prolonged to the lungs through brane. the trachea. When entering the larynx it is stretched be- tween the epiglottis and the tip of the arytenoid cartilage, forming the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold on each side of the laryngeal orifice: in this part it is very loose, and the sub- mucous tissue abundant. In the larynx the membrane closely lines the cavity, sinks into the ventricle, and is prolonged into the laryngeal pouch. On the thyro-arytsenoid ligaments it is very thin and adherent, allowing these to be visible through it. A columnar ciliated epithelium covers all the surface Epithe- below the superior vocal cords, and is continued anteriorly in the adult to the root of the epiglottis (Kolliker). In the has dif- part of the larynx above the line mentioned, the epithelium nature, is of the laminar kind. Numerous muciparous glands are connected with the mu- Glands, cous membrane of the larynx ; and their orifices will be seen on the surface, especially at the posterior aspect of the epi- glottis. In the edge of the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold there is a little swelling occasioned by a mass of subjacent glands (arytenoid), and a small fibro-cartilaginous body. None exist over the vocal cord. Dissection, — The course of the laryngeal nerves in the Dissec- neck has been already traced, and their termination in the nerves, larynx may be dissected on the untouched side. For this purpose the other half of the thyroid is to be disarticulated from the cricoid cartilage, and care should be taken of the recurrent nerve, which lies near the junction between the two. The trachea and larynx should next be fastened down with pins, and after the thyroid has been drawn away from the cricoid cartilage, the inferior laryngeal nerve can be traced over the side of the latter cartilage to the muscles of the