DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 268 circumflex vessels and nerve, and the remains of the bursa are to be removed. The insertion of the muscle should also be examined. Parts Parts covered by deltoid.— The deltoid conceals the head covered by the and the upper part of the humerus, and those parts of the deltoid, i . rr_ r _ _ . r dorsal scapular muscles that are nxed to the great tuberosity of that bone. Below the head of the bone are the circumflex vessels and nerve, and the upper part of the biceps muscle; and in front of the humerus is the coracoid process with its muscles. A large bursa, sometimes divided into small sacs, intervenes between the convex head of the bone and the under surfaces of the deltoid muscle and the acromion process. Dissec- Dissection. — By following back the circumflex vessels and circum- nerve, through a space between the humerus and the long seis. head of the triceps, their origin from the axillary trunks will be arrived at. In taking the fat from that space care must be taken of a branch of nerve to the teres minor muscle. Arching backwards, in front of the neck of the humerus, is the small anterior circumflex artery. Twodr- The circumflex arteries are the last branches of the axil- arteries; lary trunk, and arise near its termination (p. 258.). They are two in number, and are named anterior and posterior from their position on the neck of the humerus, anterior The anterior branch is a small artery that courses trans- versely outwards, beneath the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, and anastomoses in front of the humerus with branches of the posterior circumflex. As it crosses the bicipital groove it gives upwards a branch in it to the arti- culation and the head of the humerus, poste- The posterior circumflex artery is larger in size, and nor* arises opposite the border of the subscapular muscle. It winds backwards through a space between the humerus and the long head of the triceps, and is distributed chiefly to the deltoid muscle, in which it anastomoses with the acromial thoracic artery. Branches are given from it to the head of the humerus and the shoulder joint, and to anastomose with the anterior circumflex artery. It supplies branches like- wise to the teres minor, and the long head of the triceps. One cir- The circumflex nerve, at its origin (p. 259.), is placed cumflex J ' ° vr . nerve beneath the axillary artery, and leaves the axilla by turning