SUPERIOR MESENTERIC VESSELS. 507 layer (anterior) of the mesentery is to be removed. Whilst tracing the branches of the artery to the small intestine, the student will meet with corresponding veins, and with offsets of the sympathetic nerves on the arteries. Some mesenteric glands and a few lacteal vessels will come into view at the same time. The branches from the right side of the vessel to the large intestine are next to be followed. After all the branches have been cleaned, the trunk of the artery should be traced back beneath the pancreas, and the plexus of nerves surrounding it should be defined. The superior mesenteric artery supplies branches to the Supe- small intestine beyond the duodenal part, and to half the senteric large intestine, viz. as far as the end of the transverse colon. ar eiy" Arising from the aorta near the diaphragm, the vessel is Courses directed downwards between the layers of the mesentery, tine in " where it forms an arch with the convexity to the left side, sentery. and terminates in offsets to the cascum and the end of the small intestine. At first the artery lies beneath the pancreas and the splenic vein; and as it descends to the Connec- mesentery it is placed in front of the duodenum and the left renal vein. This vessel is surrounded by the mesenteric plexus of nerves, and is accompanied by the vein of the same name. Branches.—Whilst the vessel is covered by the pancreas, and it gives a small branch to that body and the duodenum. Its es.anch" other branches are intestinal: those from the left or convex side of the vessel (rami intestinales) supply the jejunum and the ileum ; and those from the opposite side supply the colon, and are named colic arteries. The pancreatico-duodenal branch (inferior) is of small Pancre- size, and after giving twigs to the pancreas, extends from duo." left to right along the concavity of the duodenum, and anas- denaL tomoses with the other duodenal branches. The branches to the small intestine, viz. to the jejunum Branch- and the ileum, are about twelve in number, and pass from small the left side of the artery, between the layers of the mesen- tine, tery, to their destination. About two inches from their Number origin, or sooner, the branches bifurcate, and each resulting branch unites with a similar offset from the collateral •arteries, so as to form a series of arches. . From the con-^and ar- * vexity of those arches other branches take origin, which ment in " ° arr.hfis.