DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 456 terior half of the perineal space are to be examined. (See description of the Male Perineum, p. 439.) Then Next the skin is to be taken from the anterior half of the examine . ... anterior perineal space, as in the male; and the transverse incision peri- in front is to be made at the anterior part of the vulva. The attachments of the superficial fascia are then to be looked to, and the cutaneous vessels and nerves are to be traced beneath it (p. 443.). Superfi- Superficial fascia, — The description of this structure in fascia, the male will serve for the anatomy of it in the female with these modifications; that in this sex it is less perfect and of less extent, in consequence of the aperture of the vulva; and that it is continued forwards through the labia majora (the homologue of the scrotum) to the inguinal region. Dissec- Dissection. — The labia and the superficial fascia are to the mus- be removed, to follow the sphincter vaginae muscle around the opening of the vagina. The two other muscles that are exposed at the same time (transversalis perinaei and erector clitoridis) resemble those in the male, sphinc The sphincter vaginae is an orbicular muscle around ter vagina?, the orifice of the vagina. Posteriorly it is attached to the Origin, central point of the perinaeum, where it mixes with the sphincter ani and transversalis muscles; and its fibres are inser- directed forwards, some on each side of the vagina, to be tion. . . ' . . & ? inserted into the body of the clitoris. Erector The erector clitoridis resembles the erector of the penis ridis" in the male, though it is much smaller. The transversalis Trans- is similar to the same muscle in the male. The one descrip- ersais. suffice for these parts in both sexes (p. 447.). To ex- Dissection. — To see the triangular ligament of the urethra, angular" the erector and the crus clitoridis are to be detached from nfent. the bone, and the outer fibres of the sphincter vaginae are to be removed. Triangu. The triangular ligament transmits the urethra, but is not lar liga- . _ . .. . ment. quite so strongly marked as in the male; its extent is partly interrupted behind by the large aperture of the vagina (p. 455.). To see Dissection.— By cutting through the ligament in the ™inxz- same way as in the male, the deep muscles, with the pudic vessels and nerve and their branches, will be arrived at. Afterwards the trunks of those vessels, and that of the pudic nerve, are to be traced backwards.