524 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. foi\ the usual time, the dissector can first examine the dispo- sition of the fascia lumborum, which is described in the Dis- section op the Back, p. 402. The rest of the time he should occupy in examining the form and structure of the viscera, as in the following section. Section IV. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. THE STOMACH. Defini- The stomach is the dilated part of the alimentary tube be- tion. A ... tween the oesophagus and the small intestine, into which the food is received to be changed into chyme. Separate Dissection, — To see the form of the stomach this viscus up the°w must be blown up moderately and the surface cleaned ; but ' previously, the spleen is to be detached and the duodenum cut through near the pylorus. Form, Form and Divisions. — The stomach is somewhat conical in form, with the base or wider part turned to the left, and direc- the apex to the right side ; and it is directed obliquely across size' the abdomen. Its size varies much in different bodies, and is sometimes much diminished by a constriction in the centre : when it is moderately distended, it is about twelve inches divi. long and four wide. This viscus presents for examination sions. twQ en(jSj two orifiCes, two surfaces, and two borders or curves. Left end Extremities.—The left end or tuberosity (fundus ventri- culi) is the largest part of the stomach, and projects about three inches to the left of the cesophagean opening. The j and right right or pyloric end is much smaller than the other, is cylin- drical, and forms the apex of the cone, to which the stomach is likened. cardiac Openings. — The left opening (cardiac), which communi- cates with the oesophagus, is at the highest part of the | stomach, and is funnel-shaped towards the cavity of the andpy- organ. The right or inferior orifice (pylorus) opens into I open- the duodenum, and is guarded internally by a valve: at the last*has same sPot tne stomach is slightly constricted externally, I a vaive. wnere a firm circular ring may be felt.