660 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. The general, in an operation for the relief of the strangulated surgeon does not bowel, the surgeon, after dividing the subcutaneous fat, can findso I- 1 n , . , many as recognise but little ot the coverings enumerated bv ana- the ana- . . < J tomist. tomists until he meets with that of the sub-peritoneal fat or septum crurale. ftriceof ^eai °f str^cture' — The strangulation of a femoral hernia ture. mav foe situate either at the crural ring, or at the saphenous fftobe °Pen*n&- ^ the constriction is at the latter spot, it will be remov- removed by dividing upwards the firm band of the falciform margin of the saphenous opening, which arches over the hernia. If it is in the neck of the sac it is occasioned by the base of Gimbernat's ligament; and will be relieved by an incision into that structure, of a few lines in extent, with the knife directed inwards horizontally. The several vessels that may be wounded in attempting to relieve the strangu- suppo- lated intestine are enumerated at page 492. The preceding sacS statements apply to the operation requiring the hernial sac opened. ^ ^e opened for the relief of the strangulated bowel, clean Dissection. — The triangular space at the top of the thigh Scarpa's will be prepared by removing the fascia lata from the hollow !arangu" near Poupart's ligament, and cleaning the parts that then come into view. The muscular boundaries on the sides may be first dissected; then the remains of the crural sheath are to be taken away, and the femoral vessels to be followed downwards as far as the sartorius muscle. On the outer side of the vessels the divisions of the anterior crural nerve are to be sought, together with the branches of an artery (profunda) which are buried in the fat. All the cellular tissue is to be cleared out of the space; and, in removing it from beneath the femoral artery, the student is to seek for one or two small nerves to the pectineus muscle. Trian- The TRIANGULAR SPACE OF SCARPA is situate at the fpaceat upper part of the thigh, and is beneath the hollow observ- the°f able on the anterior aspect, near Poupart's ligament. It thlgh; corresponds to the axillary space in the upper limb. Com- monly its extent is equal to that of the upper third of the extent; thigh; but its length varies according to the breadth of the sartorius, and the height at which this muscle crosses bound- inwards. The base of the space is at Poupart's ligament, and the apex, at the meeting of the sartorius with the ad- ductor longus muscle. Bounding the hollow on the outer space. aries;