12 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. veins entering the longitudinal sinus; raise and throw back- wards the falx, but leave it connected behind with the rest of the dura mater. For the division of the nerves and ves- sels of the brain, a very sharp scalpel will be necessary; and the nerves are to be cut longer on the one side than on the other. Mode of Removal of the brain.—Begin the removal of the brain by ing and gently raising with the fingers the anterior lobes and the olfac- cut.tS tory bulbs. Next cut through the internal carotid artery and the second and third nerves, which first present themselves to the dissector; the artery having the large second nerve on its inner, and the round third nerve on its outer side. A small branch of artery to the orbit should likewise be divided at this time. The brain is now to be supported in the left hand, and the pituitary body to be dislodged from the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone. Afterwards a strong horizontal process of the dura mater (tentorium cerebelli) comes into view ; and along its free margin will be seen the small fourth nerve, which is to be cut at this stage of the proceeding. Next make an incision through the tentorium on each side, close to its attachment to the temporal bone, without injuring the parts underneath. The following nerves, which now appear, are to be divided in succession. Near the inner margin of the tentorium is the fifth nerve, consisting of a large and small root; whilst towards the middle line of the head is the long slender sixth nerve. Below the fifth, and somewhat external to it, is the seventh nerve with its facial and auditory parts, the former being anterior and the smaller of the two. Directly below the seventh are the three divi- sions of the eighth nerve in one line: of these, the upper small piece is the glossopharyngeal; the flat band next be- low, the pneumo-gastric ; and the long round nerve ascend- ing from the spinal canal, the spinal accessory division. The remaining nerve is the ninth, which consists of two small pieces. After dividing the nerves, cut through the vertebral arteries as they wind round the upper part of the spinal cord. Lastly, cut across the spinal cord as low as possible, as well as the roots of the spinal nerves that are attached on each side. By placing the right first two fingers in the spinal canal, the cord may be raised, and the whole brain may then be taken readily from the skull in the left hand.