755 CHAPTER X. DISSECTION OF THE EYE. The eyeball is the organ of vision. It is lodged in the situation orbit, and is supported in this hollow on a mass of fat; it IS eye-ball, surrounded by muscles which impart to it its several move- ments. Two lids or shields protect the eyeball from external Parts ~ 1 J around injury, and moderate the quantity of light admitted into the gj^j"f interior; and the anterior or exposed surface is covered by a iL mucous membrane (conjunctiva). Directions. — In the absence of specimens of the human Thedis- . section eye, the structure must be learnt on that of some large am- to be made on mal, as the ox for example. Let the student, therefore, pro- eye cure half a dozen or more eyes of the ox for the purpose of ox. dissection. One or two small basins will be needed, and in the bottom of one of them, or of a deep plate, some melted wax or tallow should be run. Dissection. — To see the general form of the ball of the Detach eye, and the outer surface of the external coat, the attach- cies. ment of the different muscles should be taken away, and the loose mucous membrane should be removed from around the anterior part. The ball of the eye is roundish in form, and consists of Form of two parts which differ greatly in appearance, viz. an opaque or posterior, forming four-fifths of the whole, and a smaller transparent portion (cornea) in front; these two parts are segments of different-sized spheres, and the anterior belongs to the smaller one. To the back of the globe the optic nerve Position ° p of optic is attached, rather to the inner side of the axis of the ball; nerve, and around it the nutritive vessels and the nerves are dis- posed. The antero-posterior diameter of the ball amounts Diame- to about an inch, and exceeds the transverse by about a line. The organ of vision is composed of certain parts essential outline to the function, and of others requisite for protection and elements support. Its sentient constituent is a fine expansion of the organ of