POUPART S LIGAMENT. 469 H H 3 piece of the aponeurosis has been thrown towards the thigh, the cord is to be dislodged from the surface of the ligament, to see the insertion of this band into the os pubis, and to lay bare the fibres that ascend therefrom to the linea alba, and are named triangular ligament. Pouparfs ligament is the lower border of the aponeurosis, p0u- which intervenes between the crest of the ilium and the gament." pubes. Externally it is round and cord-like, and is attached ^JJa- to the anterior superior spine of the ilium; but internally it outer widens as it approaches the pubes, and is inserted into the and 1 A 17 inner fpine of the os pubis and the pectineal line for about three attach- m x L ments: quarters of an inch, so as to form a triangular looking piece, with its base directed outwards, which is named Gimbernafs last ligament. (See the Dissection of the Thigh.) The line of Gimber- -rf , . . _ , { . nat's li- Jroupart s ligament is not straight between its outer and gament. inner attachment, but is curved downwards to the thigh, itsdirec- and retains this position as long as the fascia lata remains uncut. Its outer half is oblique, and is firmly united with and parts the subjacent iliac fascia; along the line of union of the two tact with the other lateral muscles of the abdominal wall are attached. Its inner half is placed over the vessels passing from the abdomen to the thigh, and beneath the spermatic cord. Triangular ligament.—From the insertion of Poupart's ligament Tnan- into the pectineal line, some fibres are directed upwards and in- lament." wards to the linea alba, where they become blended with the other tendons. As the fibres ascend, they diverge and form a thin band, to which the name triangular ligament has been applied. Dissection.— The remnant of the external oblique is now Dissec- tion to to be taken away, on both sides of the body, to see the parts ?xPos<a that are covered by it. The muscle may be detached by oblique, carrying the scalpel through the digitations on the ribs back to the free border, and then through the attachment to the crista ilii. The muscle may be thrown forwards as far as it is practicable, after the nerves that cross the crest of the ilium are dissected out; but in raising it care must be taken not to detach the rectus muscle from the ribs, nor to cut through the tendon of the internal oblique near the same part. By the removal of the cellular membrane the underlying internal oblique muscle, with some nerves on its surface below, will be cleaned: at the lower border of the internal oblique the cremaster muscle is to be dissected out on the cord.