DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 184 visceral The visceral part covers the encephalon loosely, especially not close at the under surface, and beneath it there is a considerable t0 ram' interval (subarachnoid space). When it is traced over the brain, the following is the disposition of the serous mem- brane. On the upper or convex surface of the brain the membrane passes from one convolution to another, without dipping into the intervening hollows; but it lines the great hollow median fissure as low as the extent of the falx. On the lower or under surface of the cerebral mass the arachnoid covers the anterior lobes, and sinks also into the median varies at fissure: but farther back there is a space between it and the brain. Still more posteriorly the serous membrane is closely connected to the pons and to the under surface of the cere- bellum ; but between the hemispheres of the little brain there is another space beneath it, similar to that at the under part of the cerebrum. it is the The subarachnoid space, or the interval between the arach- arachnoid membrane and the pia mater, is larger in one spot space, than another, and contains more or less fluid, that has been named cerebro-spinal. This space is largest in the fissure between the hemispheres both of the cerebrum and the cere- bellum, and at the under part of the great brain about its middle. If the arachnoid covering is removed from the fissure between the hemispheres of the cerebellum, the aper- ture of the fourth ventricle will be perceived, by which the cavity in the interior of the brain communicates with the subserous space both of the encephalon and of the spinal cord. Pia ma- The pia mater, or the vascular covering of the brain, closely invests the different parts of the cranial mass, and dips into the fissures, as well as into the hollows between the sends convolutions and laminae. Besides covering the exterior of Fntothe the brain, it sends processes into the interior to supply ves- brain' sels to the walls of the enclosed spaces: thus, one penetrates into the cerebrum below the corpus callosum, and is named velum interpositum; and two vascular fringes project into the fourth ventricle, and are known as the choroid plexuses of that ventricle. it is a This membrane is a net-work of vessels, and is constructed of biood- of the minute ramifications of the arteries, before they enter vesse s. ^e substance of the brain, and of the veins that issue from