57 POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. by the sterno-mastoid muscle, and behind by the trapezius. Bounda- Its base corresponds to the middle third of the clavicle, nes' and its apex is at the skull. In the area of the space are several muscles, which are to be recognised in the following order from above down, viz., splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulas, and middle and posterior scalenus ; and at the lower and outer angle, somewhat beneath the trapezius, is the upper part of the serratus magnus. Covering the space, are the structures already examined, viz. the skin and super- ficial fascia, the platysma over the lower half or more, and the deep fascia. The small omo-hyoid muscle crosses the is di- lower part of the space, so as to subdivide it into a lower or into two clavicular, and an upper or occipital part. hyoku° The clavicular part is small in size and close to the cla- Part vicle, and contains the subclavian artery. It is triangular in "f^013" form, and is bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid, above by the omo-hyoid muscle, and below by the clavicle. This small space measures commonly about one inch, and a half from before backwards, and somewhat less in front at its base. Crossing the area of this part of the space, rather above Vessels the level of the clavicle, is the trunk of the subclavian artery nerves (its third part), which issues from beneath the anterior sea- par£ls lenus muscle, and is directed over the first rib to the axilla. Above the artery are the large cords of the brachial plexus, which accompany the vessel, and become closely applied to it beneath the clavicle. Beneath the artery and the nerves and their is the middle scalenus muscle. Along the clavicular side of position, the space, and rather beneath the clavicle, are the supra-sca- pular vessels; and crossing the upper angle, at the meeting of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles, are the trans- verse cervical vessels. Entering the space from above is the external jugular vein, which descends over the omo-hyoideus near its anterior part, and opens into the subclavian vein ; in this spot the vein receives the supra-scapular and transverse cervical branches, and sometimes a small vein, over the clavicle, from the cephalic vein of the arm. The size of the clavicular part of the posterior triangular varia- space is influenced by the extent of attachment of the tra- Size pezius and sterno-mastoid muscles along the clavicle, since space; in some bodies these muscles occupy nearly the whole length