DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 258 brandf1 scaPu^ar muscle ' this dorsal branch gives an offset, infra scapular, to the ventral aspect of the scapula, and then turns to the dorsum of that bone, where it will be afterwards dissected. The subsca- pular artery is frequently combined at its origin with other branches of the axillary, or with branches of the brachial artery. Two 6. The circumflex branches (anterior and posterior) arise near flex. the end of the axillary artery. One turns in front of, and the other behind the bone. They will be dissected in the examination of the arm. Axillary The axillary vein continues upwards the basilic vein of vein' the arm, and has the same extent and connections as the extent axillary artery. It lies to the thoracic side of the artery, nection"" and receives thoracic and subscapular branches. Opposite Branch- subscapular muscle it is joined, externally, by a large vein, which is formed by the venas comites of the brachial artery ; and near the clavicle the cephalic vein opens into it. Dissec- Dissection.—In order that the branches of the brachial brachial plexus may be followed out, the pectoralis minor is to be cut plexus, ikro^g]^ near its insertion into the coracoid process, and to be turned towards the chest, but without injuring the thoracic nerves in contact with it. The axillary vessels are then to be cut across opposite the second rib*, and to be drawn down with hooks; and their thoracic branches may likewise be removed. A dense fascia is to be cleared away from the large nerves of the plexus. Nerves The brachial plexus results from the union of the an- brachSf terior branches of the first dorsal and the four lower cervical plexus. nerveg. an(j t0 the completion of the plexus, a slip is its situa- added from the lowest nerve in the cervical plexus. This interlacement of the nerves is placed partly in the neck and partly in the axilla, and divides opposite the coracoid process into large trunks for the supply of the limb. The part of the plexus above the clavicle is described in the dissection of and con- the head and neck (p. 75.). The part below the clavicle has ' the same connections as the axillary artery with the sur- rounding muscles, and the nerves are arranged in it in the following manner:— i * The student must be careful not to cut the vessels higher than the spot mentioned, otherwise he will injure the dissection of the neck.