604 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. and the upper part of the prostate gland, to leave the pelvis below the pubic arch. It furnishes branches to supply the place of those that are wanting. Branch- The branches of the internal iliac artery that are peculiar es in the . female, to the female are two, the uterine and vaginal. uterine 6. The uterine artery passes inwards between the layers of the broad ligament, to the neck of the uterus. At that part the vessel changes its direction, and ascends along the side of the uterus to the fundus, where it anastomoses with the ovarian artery (spermatic) of the aorta. Numerous supplies branches enter the substance of the uterus, ramifying in it, uterus. , 4 * , and anastomose with those ot the opposite side. Ihis artery and its branches are remarkable for their tortuous condition. Offsets a. At the neck of the uterus some small twigs are supplied to va- oil gina, to the vagina and the bladder; and the special vaginal artery may arise from it at that spot, and the b. Branches in the broad ligament — One branch ac- broad . , ;r , . . , , Hga- companies the round ligament into the inguinal canal and anastomoses with a branch of the epigastric. Another ex- tends on the Fallopian tube, and divides into long branches that reach the end. And a third offset, according to J. Web- ber, is distributed to the ovary. vaginal 7. The vaginal artery seldom arises separately from the internal iliac: combined with the preceding, or with the branch to the rectum, this artery extends to the vagina, and ramifies in its wall as low as the outer orifice. Branch- Other arteries in the pelvis.—The remaining arteries in esofthe * t aorta, the pelvis, that are not derived from the internal iliac, are the ovarian, superior hemorrhoidal, and middle sacral. Ovarian The ovarian artery has been described in part with the artery. krancjies 0f faQ ^orta, and has been traced to the pelvis (p. 567.). After passing the brim of the pelvis it becomes tor- tuous, and enters the broad ligament to be distributed to the ovary: in the ligament there is a free anastomosis between the ovarian and uterine arteries. superior The superior hcemorrhoidal artery is the continuation of hsemor- _ . * . . n rhoidai. the trunk ot the interior mesenteric behind the rectum, and divides into two branches opposite the middle of the- sacrum. From the point of the division of the trunk these branches are continued along the rectum, one on each side, to the lower part of the gut, where they anastomose with