501 REFLECTIONS OF THE PERITONEUM. K K 3 rather lower than the left; it reaches to the lower border of the last rib but one, whilst its fellow is opposite the ripper border of the corresponding rib. In front of it, in addition to the Different r ° , 7 parts common connections before specified, are the duodenum and the before liver; and before the left one is the lower end of the spleen. Above the right is the liver, and above the left the spleen. The connections of the pancreas may be omitted for the Pan- J creas. present. THE PERITONEUM. This is the largest serous membrane in the body. Like Perito. ° ^ e neum other membranes of the kind it is a closed sac, except in the female, in whom it is continuous with the lining of the Fal- lopian tubes. One^ part of it lines the wall of the abdomen consists (parietal layer), and another is reflected over the different rietai viscera (visceral layer), except where the vessels enter. Its cerai inner surface is smooth ; but the outer is rough, when it is ayer' detached from the surfaces with which it is naturally in con- tact. The membrane forms folds as it passes from vise us to and viscus along the vessels ; these attach the viscera to the ab- folds on dominal wall, and consist for the most part of two layers, one on each side of the vessels. The continuity of the sac may be traced both in a vertical and a horizonal direction. Horizontal circle around the abdomen.—If the membrane be fol- Conti-^ lowed outwards from the umbilicus, it will be found partly to en- thety ° close the large intestine, and to fix it to the abdominal wall. From brane the colon it may be traced over the kidney as far as the middle fheiwdy, line, where it is reflected along the vessels going to the small in- testine, over the intestine, and then back to the spine along the cus« other aspect of the vessels. Lastly it may be pursued outwards to the right colon, which it encircles like the left, and along the wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. The membrane, that fixes the colon on each side to the abdominal wall, is named meso-colon, and that attaching the small intestine is the mesentery. Vertical circle or from above downwards. — Beginning at the liver, Con- the student may perceive that the peritoneum covering it is pro- o?they longed from the under surface of that viscus on the vessels. From ^JJ1.8 the liver it may be followed along those vessels, one piece before and the other behind them, forming the small omentum, to the above 7 down; upper border of the stomach. At the stomach, the two pieces en- closing the vessels separate, one going before, and the other behind