LIGAMENTS OF THE FINGERS. 333 upper part to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and ends below by being inserted into the side of the phalanx, and into the inferior ligament. The inferior ligament is a longitudinal band, which is fixed inferior firmly to the phalanx, but loosely to the metacarpal bone. It ment. is fibrocartilaginous in substance, and is grooved for the flexor tendon: to its sides the lateral ligaments are attached. Covering the upper part of the joint is the extensor tendon, which takes the place of a superior ligament, and sends down an expansion on each side. The synovial membrane is a synovial A mem- simple sac, which lines the joint. fcrane. In the articulation of the thumb two sesamoid bones are Joint of i t n thumb. connected with the inferior ligament, and receive most of the fibres of the lateral ligaments. Union of the Phalanges. — The ligaments of the first J,°intsof ° the pha- joint are the same as those in the metacarpo-phalangeal arti- j^|es culation, viz. two lateral and an inferior. The lateral ligaments are triangular in form ; each is con- J^ral nected by its apex to the side of the phalanx near the an- terior part, and by its base, to the inferior ligament. The inferior inferior ligament has the same mode of attachment between ment. the extremities of the bones as in the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, but it is not so strong as in that articulation. There is a simple synovial membrane present in the joint. The articulation of the second with the last phalanx is like the preceding joint, both in the number and disposition of its ligaments, and in the surfaces of the bones ; but all the articular parts are much less strongly marked. Articular Surfaces. — The anterior end of each phalanx surface is marked by a pulley-like surface. The posterior end of the bones, phalanx presents a transversely hollowed fossa, and is pro- vided with a crest, which fits into the central depression of the opposite articular surface in the movements of the joint.