LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAE. 395 This ligament is wide above, and diminishes in size down- is wide 7 , n j i . . at parts; wards, just the opposite ot the anterior: in the neck it is loose, and extends all across the bodies of the vertebrae, whilst in the loins it is only a thin narrow band. Opposite the dorsal and lumbar intervertebral substance it is wider than at the centre of the body of the vertebrae, and sends off on each side a pointed process to be attached to the pedicle of the neural arch, so that the margins are zigzag or dentate in those regions of the spine. Its fibres are superficial and j£^ch- deep as in the anterior ligament, and are more closely united and with the intervertebral substance than with the bone. One connec- • • tions. surface of the ligament is in contact with the dura mater; and between the opposite surface and the vertebrae are the large veins issuing from the bones. Dissection.— To see the intervertebral substance, the ante- To see the in- rior and posterior common ligaments must be taken away. One vertebra should be detached from the interveninsf fibro- sub- ° stance. cartilage to obtain a horizontal view of it; and two other vertebrae should be sawn vertically to see the difference in the consistence, and the arrangement of the laminae. The intervertebral substance is placed between the con- inter- tiguous surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the axis sub- to the sacrum. Taking the shape of the vertebrae it forms has the an almost circular disc between those bones ; and it is con- Jjjj|pe of nected, in front and behind, with the anterior and posterior bones» common ligaments, and, on the side, with the stellate liga- ments of the heads of the ribs. These masses are thicker and gives between the lumbar and cervical, than between the dorsal curves to vertebrae; and where the spinal column is arched forwards, spine, as in the loins and neck, they are deepest at the anterior edge. By means of the dissections before made, the interverte- Consti- bral substance may be observed to consist of two distinct plrts\ parts; an external, firm and laminar, and an internal, soft and elastic. The outer laminar part forms more than half of the disc, the outer and is composed of a series of plates of fibro-cartilage, alter- of lami- nating with strata of fibrous tissue. The strata are arranged ; ° o how ar- in layers one within another, like the scales of an onion, and ranged; are connected by their edges to the bodies of the vertebrae ; but all have not a vertical position between the vertebrae, for not ver- tical ;