DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 578 nerve in second nerve of the plexus, or from the loop between it and domen" the third, and appears about the middle of the outer border thereach °^ Psoas- ^ne nerve tnen takes an oblique course across thigh, the iliacus to the interval between the anterior spinous processes of the ilium, and leaves the abdomen beneath Poupart's ligament, to be distributed on the outer aspect of the limb. Origin The anterior crural nerve is by far the largest offset of nerve! the plexus, and supplies branches to the extensor muscles of the knee joint, and the front of the thigh. Taking origin from the third and fourth nerves, and receiving a fasciculus also from the second, this large nerve appears towards the tathe°n ^ower Part °^^ne psoas, and then lies in the hollow between abdo- that muscle and the iliacus. It passes from the abdomen men; m * its beneath Poupart's ligament; but before its final branching branches t^ thigh, the nerve furnishes the following twigs : — to ilia- Some small branches are given to the iliacus from the €US' outer side of the nerve, whilst it lies in contact with that muscle. toi«mo- A branch to the femoral artery is distributed around tery.r" the upper part of that vessel : its place of origin varies much. obtura- The obturator nerve appertains to the adductor muscles of nerve in the thigh. Derived from the third and fourth nerves in the donfen; plexus, it is directed beneath the psoas to the inner or pelvic border; escaped from oeneath that muscle the nerve crosses the pelvic cavity below the external iliac, but above the ob- toj-each turator vessels, and enters the thigh through the aperture in thigh; the upper part of the thyroid foramen. Occasionally the obturator gives origin to the following branch: — its ac- The accessory obturator nerve arises near the beginning c6Ssory branch of the trunk of the obturator, or from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus. Its course is along the inner border of the psoas, beneath the investing fascia, and over the surface supplies of the os pubis to the thigh, where it ends by joining the ob- turator nerve, and supplying the hip joint. Sympa- GaNGLIATED CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. The lumbar thetic cord in part of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic in the abdomen ciomen is placed on the side of the spinal column, and is continuous upwards, beneath the inner arch of the diaphragm, with the thoracic, and downwards with the pelvic part of the same