DISSECTION OF THE FACE. *34 Acces- The Appendages of the Eye consist of the eyebrow, the pans of eyelid, and the lachrymal apparatus. Some of these can be e eye* seen now on the opposite side of the face ; but the apparatus for the tears will be dissected after the orbit has been com- pleted. Eye- The eyebrow (supercilium) is a curved eminence just above the eye, which corresponds to the orbital arch of the frontal bone. Each consists of thickened integuments, and its prominence is also due to subjacent fat and the orbicularis palpebrarum. Each is furnished with long coarse hairs, that are directed outwards, and towards one another. Eyelids. The eyelids are two semilunar folds in front of the eye, which are freely moveable, and can be approached over the upper eyeball, or can be separated so as partly to lay it bare. The largest upper lid is the largest and the more moveable of the two, and descends below the middle of the eyeball when the two meet; it is also provided with a special muscle to raise it. The interval between the lids, when they are open, is named Jissura palpebrarum. Externally and internally they are united by a commissure or canthus. shape of The free margin is thicker than the rest of the lid, and is arg" semilunar in form for the greater part ; but towards the inner side, or about a quarter of an inch from the commissure, it becomes straight: at the spot where these differently Pane shaped parts join is a small white eminence, in which is the punctum lachrymale, or the opening of the canal for the where tears. This margin is provided anteriorly with the eye- and lashes, and posteriorly with the openings of the Meibomian tures. glands : but both the cilia and the Meibomian glands are absent from the part of the lid which is internal to the open- ing of the lachrymal canal. Eye- The eyelashes (cilia) are two or more rows of long hairs, which are fixed into the anterior edge of the free border of the lid ; they are largest in the upper lid, and diminish in length from the centre towards the sides. The cilia are so arranged as to be convex towards one another. Differ- Structure of the Eyelids. — Each lid consists funda- in eye- mentally of a piece of cartilage attached to the bones by hds* ligaments. Superficial to this is the integument, with a layer of fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and beneath it a mucous lining of the conjunctiva. The upper lid has also in