516 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. duct, may be traced to the liver and the gall bladder, and a considerable branch of it is to be pursued, beneath the py- lorus, to the stomach, duodenum, and pancreas. Lastly, the splenic artery, that lies along the upper border of the pan- creas, is to be cleaned, and its branches to the pancreas, stomach, and spleen defined. The veins will be dissected for the most part with the arteries, but the origin of the vena portas is to be made out beneath the pancreas. Jhis; The cosliac axis is the first visceral branch of the abdo- trunk the three m^na^ aorta> an^ arises from that vessel between the pillars fonow- of the diaphragm. It is a short thick trunk, about half an esm~h" *ncn l°n£> which projects above the upper border of the pancreas, and is surrounded by the nerves of the solar plexus of the sympathetic. Its branches — coronary, hepatic, and splenic, — radiate from the trunk (whence the name axis) to their distribution to the viscera in the upper part of the ab.domen. Coro. \t 1^ coronary artery is the smallest of the three nary, & & gwin branches, and passes between the layers of the little omen- tum to the left orifice of the stomach. At that spot it fur- nishes some oesophageal branches, and then turns from left to right, along the upper border of the stomach, to anastomose with a branch (pyloric) from the hepatic artery. Its offsets to the oesophagus and the stomach are thus disposed of: — offsets to a. The oesophageal branches ascend on the gullet through phagus the opening in the diaphragm, and after supplying that tube, anastomose on it with branches from the thoracic aorta, and to b. The gastric branches are given to both sides of the mach stomach as the artery lies along it, and those to the left end communicate with twigs (vasa brevia) of the splenic artery. Splenic 2. The splenic artery is the largest branch of the coeliac artery axis in the adult. It is a tortuous artery, and runs almost horizontally to the left, along the upper border of the pan- creas, to the spleen. Near this body it divides into its supplies terminal branches (splenic), which are about six in number spleen, (from four to ten), and enter the substance of the spleen by the concave surface towards the stomach. In its course the vessel is accompanied by the splenic vein, which is below it, and it distributes branches to the pancreas and the stomach. the pan- a. Pancreatic branches, — Numerous small branches are creas by