MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 201 yellowish line, surrounding a centre or nucleus of whitish matter ; and this toothed appearance has been named corpus clentatum. The zigzag bounding line forms a capsule or j,^ bag, with the dilated part towards the surface, and the j^c open narrowed part or neck open and directed backward. A band a band of fibres issues from the nucleus by the aperture in the from jt. posterior part of the capsule, and unites with the longitudinal fibres of the pyramid investing the corpus olivare, to form the olivary fasciculus, or the fillet, and through it to reach the cerebrum. Dissection. — For the purpose of seeing the arrangement Dissec- of the fibres of the lateral column and the restiform body, lateral the anterior pyramid is to be cut across on the left side, be- u?orm's~ tween its decussation and the olivary body, and to be raised pieces* together with this body towards the pons. Afterwards the remaining part of the pyramid is to be separated by dividing the fibres it receives from the decussation. The lateral tract of the medulla is continuous inferiorly Lateral with the part of the spinal cord between the anterior and cord posterior roots of the nerves, and is prolonged superiorly in greater part to the cerebrum, but it gives an offset to the cerebellum. Soon after entering the medulla oblongata, it is divided into three sets of fibres, external and internal, and middle. The external fibres are both superficial and deep, and, joining the restiform body, reach the cerebellum ; the are much internal offset enters the pyramid of the opposite side ; wrhilst medulla, the middle fibres, the continuation of the column, ascend beneath the olivary body, and leaving the surface of the *n^ass medulla at the pons, incline backwards and inwards to the floor of the fourth ventricle (where they form the eminentia teres), in their course to the cerebrum. The decussation of the pyramids is formed by the crossing Decussa- of the internal fibres of the lateral columns before they enter pyramids the pyramid of the opposite side. This interweaving of the by late- fibreS occupies the anterior groove of the medulla oblongata, lumns. at the distance of three quarters of an inch from the pons, and is about a quarter of an inch in length. In it will be found three or four bundles of fibres from each side. The restiform body is divided between the cerebrum and Resti- the cerebellum. Inferiorly, it is continuous with the poste- body rior column of the cord; and accessory fibres are continued