DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 510 moid the intestinal tube, arches are formed by the arteries destined flexure. _ _ \ . . J tor the supply ot the intestine. Branch The superior hemorrhoidal artery enters between the tum. " layers of the meso-rectum, and is distributed to the lower part of the great intestine : it will be described in the dis- section of the pelvis, inferior The inferior mesenteric vein begins in the part of the terfcen" great intestine to which its companion artery is distributed, 16 ' and ascends along the psoas muscle, away from the artery, to open into the splenic vein beneath the pancreas. Occa- sionally it joins the superior mesenteric vein. Veins of The mesenteric veins are without valves, and may be in- \vithout jected from the trunk to the branches like an artery. Lymph Lymphatic glands are found by the side of the descending glands c°l°n an(^ tne sigm°id flexure. The lymphatics from those parts, after passing through the glands, enter the left lumbar lymphatic glands, some Sympathetic Nerve. — The following plexuses of the 5feth"se8 sympathetic, derived from the solar plexus beneath the thetfc" stomach, are in connection with the vessels that are now viscera, dissected, viz. superior mesenteric, aortic, spermatic, inferior mesenteric, and hypogastric. The remaining parts of the sympathetic nerve in the abdomen will be subsequently referred to. Dissec- Dissection.— On the two mesenteric arteries the dissector aortic has already made out the plexuses of nerves that are dis- tributed to the intestinal tube beyond the duodenum : and it now remains to trace, on the aorta itself, the connecting nerves between the mesenteric plexuses. By taking the peritoneum from the aorta between the mesenteric vessels, the aortic plexus will appear: from the upper part of this plexus an offset is to be followed along the spermatic artery; this may be done, on the left side, where the vessel is partly laid bare. of hypo. By removing the serous membrane from the front of the plexus, sacrum, and following downwards, over the iliac arteries, the nerves from the aortic plexus and the lumbar ganglia, the dissector will arrive at the hypogastric plexus of the pelvis. Supe- The superior mesenteric plexus is a large offset on the nor me- 1 1 ° plexus0 mesen^eric artery and its branches, and is distributed to the