139 THE NOSE. dental arch has its convexity turned forwards; and, commonly, ment in the arch in the upper maxilla overhangs that in the lowerJdW' maxilla when the jaws are in contact. The teeth are similar in the half of each jaw, and have received the following names: — the most anterior two are incisors, and the one different next behind is the canine tooth; two, still farther back, are the bicuspid teeth, and the last three are molar teeth. More- over, the last molar tooth has been also called " dens sapi- entias," from the late period of its appearance. The names Use in applied to the teeth indicate very nearly the part they per- tion. form in mastication; thus the incisor and canine teeth act as dividers of the food, whilst the bicuspid and molar teeth serve to grind the aliment. The several parts of the teeth, viz. the crown, fang, and Fuller r 7 n notice neck ; the general and special characters of these parts, and eise-^ of the different groups of the teeth ; and the structure of the different components of a tooth,'must be referred to else- where.* Section XIII. DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. To obtain a view of the interior of the nose, it will be neces- sary to make a longitudinal section through the base of the skull. Whilst the student examines the boundaries of the nose, he should be provided with a section of the skull. Dissection.—Before making the necessary sawing of the Dissec- bone, the loose part of the lower jaw on the right side fore saw- should be taken away; further, the tongue, hyoid bone, and bone, larynx, all united, may be detached from the opposite half of the lower jaw, and laid aside till the dissector is ready to use them. The saw being placed on the right side of the crista galli cut of the ethmoid bone, is to be carried vertically through the the bone frontal and nasal bones, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, saw. and part of the body of the sphenoid bone. Now the roof of the mouth is to be turned upwards, and the soft parts to be * For this information the student may refer to the account of the teeth that has been given by Dr. Sharpey, in QuairCs Anatomy, fifth edition.