82 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. process to the hyoid bone, the carotid artery is crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles with the hypo-glossal nerve; and still higher it enters the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and the external jugular vein. The external carotid is also crossed by the beneath branches of veins joining the internal jugular trunk. At first the artery is situate over the superior laryngeal nerve, and is unsupported by muscular fibre, though it rests against the pharynx ; but above the angle of the jaw it is placed over the styloid process and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and on which separate it from the internal carotid. To the inner side?" side °f tne vessel at first is the pharynx, and still higher are the ramus of the jaw and the stylo-maxillary ligament. In certain conditions a companion vein from the temporal and internal maxillary (p. 32.) will accompany the arterial trunk. its The branches of the external carotid are numerous, and es are1" are classed into an anterior, posterior, and ascending set. The anterior, anterior set comprise branches to the thyroid body, the tongue, and the face, viz. superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries; poste- in the posterior set are the occipital and posterior auricu- la* lar branches; and the ascending set include the ascending ascend- pharyngeal, temporal, and internal maxillary arteries. Be- sides these, the carotid gives other branches to the sterno- mastoid muscle and the parotid gland, change The regular origin of the branches, as this will be described in origin may De departed from by means of the closer aggre- andin gation of the branches on the trunk of the carotid. And number, further5 the usual number may be diminished by two or more taking origin in common; or the number may be increased by some of the secondary offsets being transferred to the parent trunk. Branch- All the branches, except the ascending pharyngeal, lingual, es now . t , seen are and internal maxillary, may now be examined; but those three will be afterwards described with the regions they occupy. superior The superior thyroid artery arises near the cornu of the os thyroid, jjyoides, an(j |urns downwards on the inner side of the com- mon carotid artery, passing beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno- hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, to the thyroid body, to has off- which it is distributed on the anterior aspect. This branch sa*to ,g gUper£cia] jn the anterior triangle, and furnishes offsets to