563 THE DIAPHRAGM. the arch reaches higher on the right than the left side Height (p. 337.). The height of the arch is constantly varying with expira- the change in the condition of the diaphragm in respiration, being carried upwards or downwards from the average level. In forced expiration the muscle ascends and reaches the upper border of the fourth rib on the right, and the fifth rib on the left side. In forced inspiration, it descends, and and its slope would be represented by a line drawn from the tion. ensiform cartilage towards the tenth rib. The following parts, that have been mentioned incidentally special in describing the diaphragm, are now to be noticed more bTex-0 fully: they are the central tendon, the pillars, and the arches ammed' and apertures. The central tendon (tendo diaphragmatis, cordiform ten- central don), occupying the middle of the diaphragm, is surrounded by muscular fibres. It is of a pearly white colour, and its tendinous fibres cross in different planes and in different directions. In form it resembles a trefoil leaf; of its three like a segments the central one is the largest, whilst the left is the leaf, smallest. The pillars (crura appendices) are two large muscular Two and tendinous processes, one on each side of the abdominalpll,ars' aorta. They are pointed and tendinous below, wrhere they with are attached to the lumbar vertebras, but large and fleshy resent above ; and between them is a tendinous arch over the aorta. In each pillar the fleshy fibres, that succeed to the tendon, Arrange- pass upwards and forwards, diverging from each other, fibres in The external and middle join the central tendon without intermixing. But the internal fibres of opposite sides cross as they ° < A A ascend one another in the following manner: those of the right side, to the °# tendon. for instance, ascend by the side of the aorta, and pass to the left of the middle line, decussating between that vessel and the opening of the oesophagus with those of its fellow; having changed sides, these fibres are directed upwards to the central tendon around the oesophagean opening, which they limit on the left. The fibres of the other crus may be traced in the same way, to form the right half of the oeso- phagean opening. In the decussation between the aorta and the oesophagus the fasciculus of fibres from the right crus is larger than that from the left, and is anterior to it. The pillars differ somewhat on opposite sides. The right Differ- „ ences in o o 2