121 GANGLION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. cardiac branch of the vagus, with the external laryngeal, and with others in the recurrent nerve. neck* The MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION (gang, thyroideum) is of Middle small size, and is situate opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, f&on.; usually on or near the inferior thyroid artery. It is of a situa- roundish shape, and lies beneath the great cervical vessels. Its branches are the following: —- Connecting branches with the spinal nerves pass outwards, and Is joined sink between the borders of the longus colli and anterior scalenus nerves",3 to join the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. Branches for distribution.— These consist of nerves to the and gives thyroid body, together with the middle cardiac nerve. offsets, 1. The thyroid branches ramify around the inferior thyroid thyroid artery, and end in the thyroid body ; they join the external laryn- j!gancil" geal and recurrent laryngeal nerves. 2. The middle or great cardiac nerve descends to the thorax and a across the subclavian artery; its termination in the cardiac plexus nerve, will be seen in the chest. In the neck it communicates with the upper cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The INFERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is irregular in Shape, Inferior and occupies the interval between the first rib and the trans- gansllon verse process of the last cervical vertebra, its position being internal to the superior intercostal artery. Oftentimes it is on extends, in front of the neck of the rib, to join the first swel- nrstrio. ling of the knotted cord in the thorax. One or two filaments around the trunk of the subclavian artery likewise connect these ganglia, and supply filaments to that bloodvessel. The Brancn- . . . es to branches of this ganglion are very similar to those of the biood- other ganglia. Connecting branches join the last two cervical nerves. Other and nerves accompany the vertebral artery in its canal, forming a nerves plexus — vertebral, around it, and communicate with the spinal nerves as high as the fourth. Only one branch for distribution, the inferior cardiac nerve, and one issues from the lower ganglion. It lies beneath the subclavian cardfac° artery, where it joins the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and then Plexus- enters the thorax to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. Directions.—All the parts, on the right half of the head and neck, are to be preserved during the examination of those on the left half.