542 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. lobe is further subdivided into three others, viz. the square lobe, the Spigelian lobe, and the caudate lobe, left, The left lobe is smaller and thinner than the right, and has a slight depression inferiorly where it touches the stomach. right; The right lobe forms the greater part of the liver, and is last sub. separated from the left by the longitudinal fissure on the divided r r J & into one aspect, and by the suspensory ligament on the other. To it the gall-bladder is attached ; and the following lobes are projections on its under surface. square, The square lobe (lobulus quadrat us) is situate between the gall-bladder and the longitudinal fissure. It reaches anteriorly to the margin of the liver, and posteriorly to the fissure (transverse) by which the vessels enter the interior of the viscus. Spige- The Spigelian lobe lies behind the transverse fissure, and forms a roundish projection on the surface. On its left side is the longitudinal fissure, and on its right, the vena cava inferior. andcau-, The caudate lobe is a slight elongated eminence, that is date j ° ° lobe, j directed from the Spigelian lobe behind the transverse J fissure, so as to form the posterior boundary of that sulcus. Where the fissure terminates, this projection subsides in the right lobe. Three Fissures,— Extending horizontally half across the right fissures, ^ ^e \[YeY, between the Spigelian and caudate lobes on the one hand., and the square lobe on the other, is the portal, transverse or portal fissure. This fissure or hilus is nearer verse, the posterior than the anterior border of the liver, and con- tains the vessels, nerves, ducts, and lymphatics of the viscus. At its left end, it is united at a right angle with the longitu- dinal fissure. longitu- The longitudinal fissure extends from the front to the dmal; back of the liver between the right and left lobes. In the part anterior to the transverse fissure (fissure for the umbi- lical vein) is the remnant of the umbilical vein, which is called round ligament, and is oftentimes arched over by a piece of the hepatic substance (pons hepatis). In the part behind the transverse fissure (fissure for the ductus venosus) is a small obliterated cord that remains from the ductus venosus of the foetus.