229 THE CEREBELLUM. Q 3 ing different bands, viz. the fornix, the taenia semicircularis, in fornix and the peduncles of the pineal body. Other longitudinal acces- fibres may also be enumerated on the upper and under sur- parts; faces of the corpus callosum, along the middle line, together and°n' with the band of the convolution of the corpus callosum : all corpus these last are connected with the anterior perforated spot of cs^' the base of the brain. Structure of the optic thalamus. — On making sections of Optic the optic thalamus on the side on which it is entire (the left), mus - differs this body will be found to consist of lavers of gray and above t i -, . -, n i and white substance, at the upper and inner parts; and ot the below. medullary fibres (tegmentum) of the peduncle of the cere- brum, at the lower and outer parts. Corpus striatum. — By slicing through the corona radiata section r m J & ° of corpus on the right side, so as to expose the extra-ventricular part g™tum (nucleus lenticularis) of the corpus striatum, the extent and outside, form of that mass, and the situation of the anterior commis- sure, will be apparent. Crus cerebri.—A section may be made through the right Section] J ° ° of crus peduncle of the cerebrum, to see the disposition and the cerebri, thickness of the two layers of its longitudinal fibres, and the situation of the locus niger between them. Dissection. — The cerebellum is to be detached from the Proceed- remains of the cerebrum, by carrying the knife through prepare the optic thalamus, so that the cerebellum with the corpora beiium. quadrigemina, the crura cerebri, the pons, and the medulla oblongata, may remain connected together. When the cerebellum, united with the other parts men- Parts to be sepa- tioned above, has been detached from the cerebrum, all the rated fr°m one pia mater is to be carefully removed from the fissure on its another, under surface, and the different bodies in that fissure are to be separated from one another. Lastly the handle of the scalpel should be passed along a sulcus, at the circumference of the cerebellum, between the upper and under surfaces. Section V. THE CEREBELLUM. The cerebellum, little brain, is flattened from above down- Form wards, so as to be widest from side to side, and measures about four inches in this last direction. This part of the position