340 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the ligamentum latum pulmonis, which intervenes between the lung and the side of the pericardium. Along The mediastinum. — The thoracic partition, or the me- Sbeftthe diastinum, is formed by the approximation of the pleural a^arSu"1 bags along the middle line, and is constructed of two layers !!°n' of membrane, one bein^ derived from each sac. But the their 7 ° fnentge" *w0 s^ra^ ^° n°t approximate equally closely throughout; for about midway between the sternum and the spine they are widely separated from one another by the heart. In front of the heart and behind it, however, portions of the mediastinum may still be distinctly seen with the contiguous strata near one another, to which the terms " anterior and posterior mediastina " are sometimes applied; but it should not be forgotten that these are only parts of one great mediasti- num or septum reaching from the sternum to the spine. Part of The part in front of the heart (anterior mediastinum) ex- in front tends from the pericardium to the back of the sternum, and heart is formed by the pleural bag on each side. Behind the anspaceS second piece of the sternum the bags touch one another, but glassur" above and below that spot they are separated by an interval, shape, rj-^.g interpleural space in the anterior part of the medias- tinum is narrowed at the centre, and is inclined below to the left of the middle line. In the upper part of the space are the remains of the thymus gland, and the origin of some of the hyoid and laryngeal muscles; and in the lower part is some cellular tissue, together with the triangularis sterni muscle of the left side. Part The part behind the heart (posterior mediastinum) inter- heart en- venes between the back of the pericardium with the roots of larger* the lungs, and the spinal column. Its lateral boundaries are space. ^e p}eurai sacs. and here these are separated by a larger interpleural space than in the part of the mediastinum in front of the heart. If the pleura be divided behind the lung on The con. the right side, the extent of the space will appear. In this the space are contained the different bodies that lie on the front space. ^ ^e spine, and pass through or out of the thoracic cavity, viz. the aorta, the vena azygos and the thoracic duct, the oesophagus with its nerves, the trachea, the splanchnic nerves at the lower part, and some lymphatic glands. - clean Dissection.—The pleura and the fat are now to be cleaned of the from the side of the pericardium; and the root of the lung