354 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. these give attachment by their free ends to the little ten- dinous cords of the valve of the auriculo-ventricular opening. Opening The auriculo-ventricular orifice is situate in the base of auricle; the ventricle near the right, or the free border of the heart, position; and is opposite the centre of the sternum, between the third costal cartilages : it is slightly larger than the corresponding form; aperture of the left side of the heart. It is oval from side to side, and its shape is maintained by a strong fibrous band that surrounds it. Prolonged from the circumference of the opening is a thin membranous valve, which projects into the cavity of the ventricle. Near its attachment to the heart the valve is undivided, but it is serrated, or divided into three dbUath" cn*e^ Pom^s a* ^s free margin, and is named tricuspid ; to tricuspid this margin are attached small tendinous cords (chordae tendineas), that unite it to the muscular bundles of the ventricle. Tricus- The tricuspid valve is constructed by the lining membrane vafve; of the heart, with fibrous tissue derived frdm the circumfe- fo°rmed- rence °f the auriculo-ventricular opening. Its three slips or divi- ' tongues are thus placed: — One is next the front of the ven- sions; tricle ; another is in contact with the posterior wall, and the remaining one, the largest and most moveable, is interposed between the apertures into the auricle and the pulmonary artery. The central part of each segment is strong, whilst the points are thin and notched; and between the primary divisions there are sometimes secondary points (Kiirschner). attach- The tendinous cords that keep the valve in position ascend ment of .... tendi- from the musculi papillares in the intervals between the nous cords, pieces of the valve, and are connected with the two segments between which they lie*: they end on the surface of the valve turned away from the opening, in three different ways ; some reaching the attached upper margin of the valve, others entering the central thickened part of the segment, and the rest, that' are much finer, ending in the thin point of the and use. tongue of the valve. During the contraction of the ventricle the valve is raised by the blood, so as to close the opening * The papillary muscles are collected into two principal groups, whose tendons enter the interval on each side of the right or anterior tongue of the valve. In the interval between the left and the posterior segment of the valve the tendinous cords are very small, and are con- nected with the septum.