214 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. smaller hollows or ventricles by the before mentioned con- necting pieces. And the whole, except the foot stalk, is surrounded by a convoluted crust. Funda- The fundamental parts of the hemisphere are the crus bodies, cerebri, and the two masses of gray substance (corpus stri- atum and optic thalamus), which are situate above the crus : the two last bodies are sometimes called ganglia of the brain, because the fibres of the peduncle, whilst passing through and com-them, are increased in number. The connecting pieces, sures. which are named commissures, pass from hemisphere to hemisphere, across the middle line of the brain, or connect together the parts of the same half of the cerebrum: some of the commissural pieces serve as bounding parts of the ventricles. In conducting the dissection of the cerebrum, the student will have to learn the form and situation of the several constituent parts, and afterwards to trace the connections between these by means of fibres. Centrum Hemisphere above the ventricles. — In the right hemi- minus sphere, which has been cut through above the level of the hemi- convolution of the corpus callosum, the surface displays a sphere. wj1«^e central mass of an oval shape (centrum ovale minus), that sends projections into the several convolutions. In a fresh brain, this surface is studded with drops of blood which escape from the divided vessels. Centrum When the hemispheres have been sliced off to the level of majus the corpus callosum, a much larger white surface comes into is deeper. vjew^ nas been named larger oval centre (centrum ovale, Vieussens). The white mass in each hemisphere may be further seen to be continuous across the middle line of the brain, where it is connected by a narrowed part,—the corpus callosum. Corpus The corpus callosum reaches from the one half of the sum°.~ cerebrum to the other, and forms the roof of a space (lateral ventricle) in each hemisphere. But between the halves of the brain, where it occupies the longitudinal fissure, this situa. body is but of small extent. Here it is about four inches in length, and somewhat arched from before backwards; it is form. a]g0 narrower jn front than behind, and extends nearer to the anterior than the posterior part of the cerebrum, upper On the upper surface the fibres are seen to be directed Surface