508 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. divide and unite in the same way as before. This process is repeated four or five times between the origin and the dis- tribution of the arteries, but at each branching the size of Distri- the vessel diminishes. From the last set of arches, twigs on the are sent to the intestine ; these pass on both aspects of the gut* tube, and anastomose round it, supplying its structure. Arteries The branches to the large intestine are three in number, gut?rge ileo-colic, right colic, and middle colic arteries, ileocolic a- The ileo-colic artery arises from the right side of the branch mesenteric trunk ; it descends to the caecum, and divides into branches, that encircle the head of the colon, like the tube of the small intestine. A descending oifset is dis- ends on tributed to the lower part of the ileum, and to the crecum caecum. the vermiform appendix ; whilst an ascending offset supplies the beginning of the ascending colon, and anasto- moses with the right colic artery. Right b. The right colic artery is commonly an offset of the pre- branch ceding, instead of a separate branch from the trunk. Its ascincu course is to the right or ascending colon ; near this it coton. divides into an ascending and a descending piece, and anas- tomoses with the ileo-colic artery on the one side, and the middle colic on the other. This artery gives ramifications, to the ascending colon. Middle c. The middle colic branch arises from the upper part of branch the superior mesenteric artery, opposite the transverse meso- toStSrans- colon. Entering between the layers of that fold of the peri- coion. toneum, the vessel divides into two large diverging branches : — the right branch, anastomoses with the artery to the ascending colon, and the left inosculates on the descending colon with a branch (left colic) of the inferior mesenteric They artery. The intestinal twigs to the transverse colon are £ches supplied from these two divisions, but before entering the entering gut they are united in arches like those to the small in- intes- . tine. testme. Supe- The superior mesenteric vein commences in that part of senteric the intestinal tube to which the artery is distributed, and its vem" radicles unite into one trunk. Thus formed, the vein accom- panies the artery beneath the pancreas, and there joins the splenic vein to form the vena portas. Mesen. The mesenteric lymphatic glands are numerous between glands m the layers of the mesentery, and are lodged in the intervals