66 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. joins external jugular. In the neck the anterior and external subcla- . vian jugular veins communicate, lnere are two anterior veins, one for each side, though one is usually larger than the other, and at the bottom of the neck they are joined by a transverse branch. sterno^ The sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle forms the superficial muscle prominence of the side of the neck, and divides the lateral surface of the neck into two triangular spaces. The muscle is narrower in the centre than at the ends, and is attached to the trunk by two heads of origin, which are separated by a has its cellular interval. The inner head is fixed by a tendon to the origin at J sternum, anterior part of the first piece of the sternum, and the outer head has a wide attachment to the sternal third of the clavicle. From this Origin the heads are directed upwards, the internal passing backwards and the external almost vertically, and are blended about the middle of the neck in a roundish muscle. Near the nead the muscle ends in a tendon, and in- which is then inserted into the outer aspect of the base of the sertion . . . at skuii. mastoid process, and by a tnin aponeurotic part into a rough surface behind that process, as well as into the outer part of Guide to the upper curved line of the occipital bone. The borders of artery" the muscle correspond to the triangular spaces of the neck, and the anterior one is the guide to the position of the Position common carotid arterv. On its cutaneous surface the sterno- to other * parts, mastoid is covered by the common integuments and pla- tysma, by the external jugular vein and superficial branches of the cervical plexus (across the middle part), and by the deep fascia. If the muscle be cut through below and raised, it will be seen to lie on the following parts: — the clavicular origin lies over the anterior scalenus and omo-hyoid muscles ; and the sternal attachment conceals the depressors of the hyoid bone, and the common carotid artery with its vein and nerves. After the union of the heads, the muscle is placed over the cervical plexus and the middle scalenus, and near the skull, on the digastric and splenius muscles, with the occipital artery, and on a part of the parotid gland. The spinal accessory nerve perforates the muscular fibres about the upper third. The extent of the attachment to the clavicle varies, and in some bodies it may reach even to the trapezius, omo- The omo-hyoid muscle crosses beneath the sterno-mas- muscie toideus, and consists of two fleshy bellies united by a small