505 LIGAMENTS OF THE LIVER. c. The transverse meso-colon is a more perfect fold than Trans- either of the others connected with the large intestine, and meso. serves as a partition between the small intestine and the stomach, liver, and spleen. By one side it is fixed to the colon, and by the other side to the abdominal wall below the pancreas. It is formed of two layers of peritoneum, as be- fore said, which enclose the vessels of the colon. Small processes of the peritoneum are attached along the Appen- tube of the great intestine, chiefly to the transverse colon; ePi- • 7 i p ploicse. they are the appendices epiplo'icce, and contain fat. Folds of the small intestine. — The small intestine is not Perito- enveloped by the peritoneum after the same manner through covering ~A • • m of small all its extent. For whilst the jejunum and ileum are at-intes- tached to the abdominal wall by one fold (mesentery), the duodenum has special connections with the serous membrane. Serous covering of the duodenum. — The first part of the Perito- duodenum is surrounded by peritoneum, like the stomach; the duode. next part is covered only in front; and the last part, that crosses the aorta, is but slightly in contact with the serous membrane, for at first it lies between the strata of the trans- verse meso-colon, and then beneath the upper part of the superior mesenteric artery. The mesentery supports the rest of the small intestine (je- Mesen- junum and ileum), and is stronger than any other fold of the ter> serous membrane. Its inner end is narrow, and is attached Form, to the spine, from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the junction of the right os ilii with the sacrum. The Attach- other end of the fold is wide, and is connected with the in- testine. Between its two layers are the superior mesenteric Parts vessels and nerves, with lymphatic glands and lacteals. ed in it. Ligaments of the liver.—The reflections of the peritoneum Pen- between the liver and the wall of the abdominal cavity are folds of named ligaments. There is a suspensory fold along the upper e lver* part, containing the obliterated umbilical vein; and there is a coronary ligament along the posterior border. The suspensory or falciform ligament is placed between Supen- the upper convex surface of the liver, and the parietes of the gament. abdomen. It is falciform in shape, and has the base turned shape, forwards, and the apex backwards. The lower border is Attach- concave, and is attached to the liver; whilst the opposite menU border is convex, and is connected to the abdominal wall, on