8 DISSECTION OP THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. lary ; Brandies are given from it to the orbicularis and corrugator supercilii, and some twigs (palpebral) descend to the eyelid. Tempo- The superficial temporal nerves are derived from the nerves; second and third trunks of the fifth nerve, and from the facial nerve. from a. The temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve (second trunk of the fifth) is usually a slender twig, which perforates the temporal aponeurosis about a finger's breadth above the zygoma. When become cutaneous, the nerve is distributed on the temple, and communicates with the facial nerve, also sometimes with the next, from in- b. The auriculo-temp oral branch of the inferior maxillary maxii- nerve (third trunk of the fifth) is near the ear, and accom- panies the temporal artery to the top of the head. As soon as the nerve emerges from beneath the parotid gland, it divides into two terminal branches:—the more posterior branch is the smaller of the two, and supplies the attrahens aurem muscle and the integument above the ear; the other branch ascends vertically to the top of the head, and is dis- tributed over the epicranial and temporal aponeuroses. The nerve also furnishes an auricular branch (upper) to the an- terior part of the pinna, above the auditory meatus, and from c. The temporal branches of the facial nerve are directed nerve, upwards over the temporal aponeurosis to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle. They will be described with the dis- section of the trunk of the facial nerve. Poste- The posterior auricular nerve lies behind the ear with the rkuiar" artery of the same name. It arises from the facial nerve "asVe close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and turns upwards in front of the mastoid process. Soon after the nerve becomes superficial, it communicates with the great auricular nerve, and divides into an occipital and an auricular branch, which are distributed as their names express:— occipital The occipital branch is long and slender, and ends in the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It lies near the occipital bone, enveloped in dense fibrous structure, and furnishes offsets to the integuments, and auri- The auricular branch ascends to the back of the ear, supplying the retrahent muscle and the posterior aspect of the pinna. Great The great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus is seen to some extent at the lower part of the ear, but its anatomy branch, auricu-