769 THE VITREOUS BODY. choroid coats should be cut through about two lines behind the cornea (p. 759.) ; and on removing carefully the cornea, and the ciliary ligament and ciliary processes, the vitreous body will become apparent. The vitreous body is globular in form, and fills four Part of fifths of the ball of the eye, reaching forwards nearly to the filled by iris. In front the vitreous body is slightly hollowed, and In front receives the lens with its capsule, to which it is closely \se^ united. The fluid of the vitreous body has nearly the same , . . -. . Struc- composition as the aqueous humour, and is contained in the ture; meshes of a close web of fibrous tissue. Enveloping the tissue whole is a thin membrane named hyaloid. ing The hyaloid membrane is the fine transparent covering of Hyaioid the vitreous body. It passes continuously over the surface J^e. of that mass; and it is supposed by some to send inwards processes towards the centre, which divide the vitreous sub- stance into segments, as in an orange. At its outer surface Connec- it is united to the retina by a layer of transparent cells; and outer at the inner aspect are a few delicate nuclei. At the bottom fnner. of the eyeball, opposite the optic nerve, the membrane is more closely joined to the parts around ; for at that spot in pr0Cess the fetus it was reflected inwards, through the centre of the iureous vitreous mass, along the blood-vessels supplying the back oflnass' the lens. This membrane and the vitreous mass are extra- vascular, and receive their nutritive material from the vessels of the ciliary processes and the retina. Suspensory ligament of the lens (Retzius). — This is the suspen- transparent membranous structure, situate around the lens gament, at the front of the hyaloid membrane, that intervenes between extent, the anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina and the lens. This thin membrane is fibrous and elastic and IS COn- nature, nected to the plaited part of the choroid coat (corpus cili- are) by a granular material. After the ciliary processes of the choroid coat are detached from it, dark lines of pigment cover the surface; and when these are washed away plaits or is mark- folds, ciliary processes, come into view, which resemble the fold? processes of the choroid coat, but are less prominent and longer: these two sets of folds are dovetailed together, the that are fitted prominences of one membrane being received into hollows between ciliary on the other. pro- Canal of Petit. — Around the margin of the lens is a canai'of 3d " Petit;