THE URINARY BLADDER. 615 a. The longitudinal fibres form a continuous covering, and external extend from the apex to the base : above they are connected tudinat, with the urachus, and below they are attached to the upper part of the prostate gland, with the exception of an anterior fasciculus on each side, which is united to the back of the os pubis, through the anterior true ligament of the bladder. On the front and back of the bladder the muscular layer is stronger, and its fibres more vertical, than on the lateral parts. Sometimes this outer layer of fibres has been called forms detrusor urines, from its action in the expulsion of the urine, urinae; b. The circular fibres are thin, and scattered on the body internal •'or circu- of the bladder; but around the cervix they are collected i»r gives J rise to into a thick bundle, which is called the sphincter vesicce. In sv^inc- some instances the fibres are hypertrophied, and project into the interior of the organ, forming the fasciculated bladder; and in other bodies the mucous coat may be forced outwards here and there, between the fibres, in the form of sacs, producing the sacculated bladder. c. The third set of muscular fibres is continued from the other n muscular openings 01 the ureters to the prostate gland, and will be fibres, seen when the bladder is opened. Cellular coat. — This stratum is placed between the mus- cellular cular and mucous layers, and is enumerated amongst thecoat* coats of the bladder; it is composed of areolar and elastic tissues as in other hollow viscera, and in it the blood-vessels ramify. Dissection. — The bladder is now to be opened by an 0pen incision down the front; and the same cut is to be continued ladder, along the upper part of the prostate gland. The mucous membrane of the bladder is continuous pos- Mucous teriorly with that lining the ureters, and anteriorly with that of the urethra. It is very slightly united to the muscular has folds layer in consequence of the intervention of the submucous stratum, and is thrown into numerous folds, in the flaccid state of the viscus, except over a small triangular surface except behind the opening into the urethra. The membrane is soft °pot.n and smooth to the feel, and of a pale rose colour in the healthy state. Its surface is studded with small mucous Follicles, follicles, particularly towards the neck of the bladder. A Epithe- spheroidal epithelium covers the surface. Interior of the bladder.—Within the bladder the following interior R R 4