DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 174 the upper border. Some fibrous and elastic tissue — hyo- epiglottidean ligament — likewise connects the front of the epiglottis to the hyoid bone. consti- Structure of the Trachea.—The anterior part of the trachea, trachea is formed of a series of pieces of cartilage (segments of rings), which are connected together by fibrous tissue. The interval at the back of the tube, between the cartilages, is closed by fibrous membrane, and by muscular fibres and muciparous glands. And the tube is lined by the mucous ^membrane with a subjacent elastic tissue. Carti- Cartilages,—The pieces of cartilage vary in number from Form, sixteen to twenty. Each forms an incomplete ring, which occupies about three fourths of a circle; and each is convex Pecuiia- forwards, forming the front and sides of the air tube. At rities P the extremities of the trachea, both above and below, these cartilaginous pieces are least constant in size and form; for towards the larynx they increase in depth, whilst the lowest piece of cartilage is shaped like the letter V: at the ex- tremes, also, of the tube, the cartilages may be slit at their are con- ends, or may be blended together. A fibrous tissue is con- tained in n ^ fibrous tinued from one to another on both aspects, though in tissue. . . greatest quantity externally, so as to incase and unite them, and is extended across the posterior part of the air tube. Dissec- Dissection. — On removing the fibrous membrane and the muciparous glands from between the cartilages at the back of the trachea, the muscular fibres will appear. After the muscular fibres have been examined, they may be cut through to see the elastic tissue and the mucous membrane, Muscu- Muscular fibres.—Between the ends of the cartilages is a dosebres continuous layer of transverse unstriped fibres, which are behind1, attached on the sides to the truncated ends, and the inner surface of the cartilages.* By the one surface the fibres are in contact with the fibrous membrane and the glands, and by the other with the next structure. . Elastic The elastic tissue forms a complete lining to the tracheal lineT tube, beneath the mucous membrane ; though at the pos- trachea. * Some fine longitudinal fibres are said to be found superficial to the transverse in some instances (Kramer) ; they are arranged in scattered bundles, and are attached to the fibrous tissue.—See Kullikers Jnatomie, p. 305. (Zweiter Band).