676 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. obturator nerve beneath; its tendon is also to be detached from that of the adductor magnus to see the branches of the and ad- profunda artery. Now, the adductor brevis will be laid bretil bare, with a part of the obturator nerve crossing over it to enter the plexus at the inner side of the thigh, and with a deeper part of the same nerve beneath it; the muscle should be separated from the subjacent adductor magnus, where the Artieu- lower branch of the nerve and an artery issue. In this last to knee- step of the dissection the student should seek a small articular joint. forancn 0f tne obturator nerve, that descends on and in the fibres of the adductor magnus to the knee-joint. Acces- The accessory obturator nerve* (Schmidt) is derived from turator" the trunk of the obturator near the lumbar plexus (p. 578.), nerve and passes from the abdomen over the brim of the pelvis. In the thigh this branch turns beneath the pectineus and is often joins the superficial part of the obturator nerve: at the same absent. . t SUpp]_jes an 0ffset to the under surface of the pectineus, and another to the hip-joint with the articular artery. When the nerve is small, one or more of these offsets are wanting. Adduc- The adductor brevis has a thin fleshy and aponeurotic brevis attachment to the front of the os pubis. External in position at the to the gracilis, with which it is united, the muscle arises from orlgin the front of the symphysis and the ramus of the pubes, reaching upwards to the adductor longus, but not quite so low as the and wide muscle with which it is conjoined. It is inserted behind the fnser! pectineus into all the line leading from the linea aspera ^lont* . towards the small trochanter. In front of the muscle are front, the pectineus and the adductor longus ; but it is gradually uncovered by the latter below, and the contiguous borders of the two are side by side at their insertion into the femur: on this aspect, too, are the superficial piece of the obturator behind, nerve, and the profunda artery. Behind the muscle is the adductor magnus, with the deep piece of the obturator nerve, and at In contact with the upper border is the obturator externus, upper border, and the internal circumflex artery passes between the two. * This small nerve is often absent; it was found only four or five times in nine or ten bodies that were examined by its discoverer. The name given to it by Schmidt refers to this irregularity, viz. nerv. ad obturatorem accessorius inconstans.— Commentarius de Nervis Lumbalibus.