DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 670 Lay bare Dissection.—The common tendon of the vasti and rectus mon°m" can be demonstrated, when the expansion from it over the of the knee-joint is divided along the middle of the patella to the soJs.n" head of the tibia. By reflecting inwards and outwards that thin prolongation the tendon will be laid bare. A strong transverse band will be likewise seen on each side of the patella ; the outer of the two is the strongest. Tendon The tendon of the extensor muscles'of the leg is common exten- as before said, to the rectus, the vastus externus, and the sors; . . _ _. . . » m /% united vastus internus and crureus. Its position is in tront of the knee-joint, to which it serves the office of an anterior attach- ligament. Wide above where the muscular fibres terminate, ments; ° it narrows as it descends over the joint, and is inserted in- feriorly into the prominence of the tubercle of the tibia and bursa the bone below it for an inch. Close to its attachment to beneath. ^e tibia a synovial bursa is beneath it; and in its fibres the patella is situate, like a sesamoid bone in other situations. Expan- (See Ligament of the Patella.) From the upper part of the from tendon an aponeurotic expansion is derived : this prolonga- tion, which is strongest on the inner side, is united,with the fascia lata and the other tendinous offsets to form a capsule around the joint, and is fixed below to the heads of the tibia and fibula. small Subcrureus muscle,—Beneath the united vastus and cru- reus m* reus, near the knee-joint, is a thin subcrural band of pale muscle, £kreg> ji is fout a part of the muscle on the front of the femur, which is separated from the rest of the fibres by a ends on cellular layer. Attached therefore to the front of the femur of the0 in its lower fourth, it ends in aponeurotic fibres on the outer iomt" surface of the synovial sac of the knee-joint, inter- Intermuscular septa.— The processes of the fascia lata s^epta?1^ that limit laterally the extensor muscles of the leg, are thus are two: named, and are fixed to the linea aspera, and the lines lead- ing from it to the condyles of the femur, the outer The external septum is the strongest, and reaches from strong- the outer condyle of the femur to the insertion of the gluteus est; maximus. It is situate between the vastus externus and the short head of the biceps, to which it gives origin ; and is perforated near the outer condyle by the upper external ar- the inner ticular vessels. The inner partition is very thin along the tinctd.ls" side of the vastus internus ; and, between the inner condyle