118 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. the skull, is now to be more completely cleaned. At its inner border the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve, which joins in the loop of the atlas, is to be found. Rectus The rectus capitis lateralis is a small thin muscle, is first which is analogous to an inter-transverse muscle. It arises inter trans verse muscle. trans. from the anterior root, and the tip of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the jugular eminence of the occipital bone, close behind the foramen lacerum. On the anterior surface rests the jugular vein; and the posterior is in contact with the vertebral artery. To the inner side is the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve. Dissec- Dissection.—For the purpose of tracing backwards the tion of . first anterior branch of the first cervical nerve to its ganglion, nerve. # m ° ° divide the rectus lateralis muscle, observing the branch of nerve to it; then cut off the end of the transverse process of the atlas, and remove the vertebral artery, so as to bring into view the nerve as it lies on the first vertebra, sub. The anterior division of the first, or sub-occipital nerve, occipital . n nerve is a slender nerve that arises from the common trunk on the lies on arch of the atlas. From that origin it is directed forwards atlas on the atlas, beneath the vertebral artery, to the inner side of the rectus lateralis. Here the nerve bends down in front of the transverse process, and forms a loop by uniting with forms a the second cervical nerve. Branches pass between this loop with and the vagus, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. As the nerve passes forwards, it supplies the rectus lateralis muscle, and Branch- sends a filament along the side of the vertebral artery. es. Sympa- Sympathetic Nerve. — In the neck, the sympathetic thetic . . , nerve in nerve consists, on each side, of a gangliated cord, which lies close to the vertebral column, and is continuous with the has three similar cord in the thorax. On this part of the nerve are ganglia, ^ree ganglia ; one near the skull, another on the neck of the first rib, and a third midway between the two ; these are named respectively superior, inferior, and middle ganglion. From the ganglia proceed some branches, that are connected with the spinal and most of the cranial nerves, and other branches that are distributed to viscera, and joins Besides the ganglia above mentioned, there are other on'rfih ganglionic masses, in the head and neck, in connection with nerve* the three trunks of the fifth nerve.