THE SPINAL CORD. 431 examined, the medulla occupies about two thirds of the length of the canal formed by the vertebrae, and is much smaller than the bony case that surrounds it. The extent of the cord is from the level of the atlas to the its ex- lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, but its termination tent inferiorly may be a little higher or lower than that spot, varies Its length is usually about sixteen or seventeen inches. Length. Superiorly the cord joins the medulla oblongata; and infe- inferior riorly it becomes pointed, being sometimes marked by One tion in or two swellings, and ends by the fibrous prolongation of the Suit pia mater, named the central ligament of the cord. In the and in embryo, before the third month, the medulla reaches all the bryo.m~ length of the spinal canal, but it afterwards gradually recedes from below, as the surrounding bones increase in size, until it takes the position it has in the adult. The size of the spinal cord is much increased opposite the its size origin of the nerves for the supply of the limbs. There are creased therefore two enlargements on it: — one corresponds to the tnheere lower cervical vertebra?, reaching as high as the third ; the of [IIs other is smaller, and is on a level with the last dorsal verte- aSat. . bra. In the cervical enlargement, the greatest thickness is tachetL from side to side; but in the inferior swelling the measure- ment of the cord is greatest from before backwards. Whilst the pia mater remains on the cord, the anterior Anterior surface is distinguished from the posterior by the central Kin- fibrous band and the anterior spinal artery; and by the fromhed irregular line of the anterior roots, which approaches the Sor?" centre towards the lower end. Dissection. — For the examination of the structure the Dissec. student should possess a piece of the cord which has been ^Von- hardened in spirit, for that which is obtained from the spinal 0fcord!s canal, at this period, is not fitted for the purpose of dissec- tion. Supposing the pia mater removed from the surface of the cord, without the roots of the nerves being detached, the student will be able to observe the following divisions in it: — Fissures of the Cord. — On both the anterior and pos- Fissures terior aspects of the cord is a median longitudinal cleft, the cordlre, anterior and posterior median fissures, which mark its divi- sion into halves; and along the line of the posterior roots of the nerves, in each half, is another slit, the lateral fissure.