DISSECTION OF THE MOUTH. 138 terior of the cavity, and is reflected over the tongue. Ante- riorly it is continuous with the tegument, and posteriorly with the lining of the pharynx, differs in On tracing its disposition, the membrane is seen to form a parts, small fold—frsenulum, between the lip and the gum of the cor- on roof, responding jaw. On the bony part of the roof it is thick and thrown into folds, and covers vessels, nerves, cellular tissue and glands ; but on the soft palate it is smooth and thinner. Along the middle of the palate is a ridge, which ends in floor, front in a small papilla. In the floor of the mouth, the membrane forms the frsenum linguae beneath the tip of the tongue, and sends tubes into the openings of the Whartonian and sublingual ducts ; whilst on each side of the fraenum it andnps *s ra^se(^ ^nto a crest by the subjacent sublingual gland. On the interior of the cheek and lips the mucous lining is smooth, and is separated from the muscles by small buccal and labial glands in addition to the ordinary submucous tissue. Over the whole oral cavity, but especially on the lips, are found papillas for the purpose of touch. The epithelium covering the membrane is of the scaly variety, cheek; The cheek extends from the commissure of the lips to the extent ramus of the lower jaw, and is attached, above and below, to the alveolar process of the jaw on the outer aspect. The and chief constituent of the cheek is the fleshy part of the bucci- ture." nator muscle: on the inner surface of this is the mucous membrane; and on the outer, the integuments, with some muscles, vessels, and nerves. The parotid duct perforates the cheek opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, and receives a lining of the mucous membrane. Lips, The lips surround the opening of the mouth ; they consist formed of the fleshy part of the orbicularis oris muscle, covered ex- byorbi- J r , cuiaris; ternally by integument, and internally by mucous membrane. The lower lip is the larger and more moveable of the two. Between the muscular structure and the mucous covering are the labial glands; and in the substance of the lip, nearer the contains inner than the outer aspect, and at the line of junction of the artery. ^ two parts of the orbicularis, is the arch of the coronary artery. Teeth, Teeth.—In the adult there are sixteen teeth in each jaw, number which are set in the alveolar border of the maxilla, in the range-" form of an arch, and are surrounded by the gums. Each