DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 346 three quarters in length, three inches and a half in width, and two inches and a half in thickness, situation Position and direction, — The heart lies beneath the lower in the . chest two thirds of the sternum, and projects on each side of it, and ob- but more on the left than the right side. Its axis is not sitionf ° parallel to that of the body, but is inclined obliquely across it; and its left margin is undermost, whilst the right is foremost. placed The heart has not a vertical direction in the chest, with almost horizon- the base upwards and the apex down, but almost a hori- zontal one, so that the base is directed backwards to the right, and the apex forwards to the left side.- Limits Limits, — The limits of the whole heart are the follow- ing:— of base The base is opposite the spinal column, and corresponds to the interval between the fifth and the eighth dorsal ver- and tebras. The apex strikes the wall of the thorax during life apex just below the fifth rib, near its junction with the cartilage, and at a spot on the surface, " two inches below the nipple and one on the sternal side " (Williams). of upper The upper limit would be a line across the sternum on a level with the upper border of the third costal cartilage. And the lower limit, a line across the sternum, at the junc- tion of the xiphoid cartilage, from the articulations of the sixth and seventh cartilages of the right side to the spot where the apex touches. lower - Its lateral limits are the following. On the right it pro* jects from one . to one inch and a half beyond the middle line of the sternum, and its increase in this direction is con- stantly varying wdth the degree of distension of the right half of the heart. On the left side the heart projects three inches to three inches and a half from the centre of the sternum. only Position to wall. — In consequence of the direction of the some A touch neart in the thorax, only some parts can be near, or in con- thewaii. tact with the parietes in front: thus the base must be directed away from the sternum and the costal cartilages; and the left border will be undermost and deep in the cavity, whilst the right half will be forwards and in contact largely with the anterior wall.* * If the dissector wishes for farther information respecting the cor-