700 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. ous off- popliteal to tlie integument on the outer part of the leg in the sets' upper half. Articu- The articular hranch of the obturator nerve perforates the nerve of adductor magnus, and is conducted by the popliteal artery to the turator. back of the knee-joint. After supplying filaments to the vessel, the nerve enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. Lymph- The lymphatic glands of the popliteal space are situate glands around the large arterial trunk ; two or three are ranged on the the sides, whilst one is superficial to, and another beneath a tery' the vessel: they are joined by the deep lymphatic vessels of the lower limb, as well as by the superficial accompanying the saphenous vein. Dissect Dissection,—Now the anatomy of the popliteal space has of the been learnt, the student may proceed with the dissection of thigh. ^ Q£ foe thigh. The piece of skin therefore that re- mains between the buttock and the popliteal space, should be divided and reflected to the sides. Seek out In the fat on the sides of the limb offsets of the internal ous and external cutaneous nerves of the front of the thigh may be found, and along the middle line, some filaments from the small sciatic nerve, clean Lastly, remove the deep fascia of the limb, taking care of and the small sciatic nerve; and then clean the hamstring nerves* muscles, and trace into them branches of the great sciatic nerve. Three The MUSCLES ON THE BACK OF THE THIGH act as flexors of on back the leg. They extend from the pelvis to the bones of the leg, and are named hamstrings from their cord-like appear- ance on the sides of the ham: they are three in number, situa- viz. biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus ; the first llon' of these lies on the outer, and the others on the inner side of the popliteal space. Biceps The biceps has two heads of origin, long and short, which a7ongby are attached to the pelvis and the femur. The long head arises from the middle impression on the back of the tubero- sity of the ischium, in common with the semitendinosus mus- anda cle; the short head is fixed to the femur below the gluteus short . . n i head; maximus, viz. to the linea aspera, to nearly the whole of the line leading inferiorly to the outer condyle, and to the ex- ternal intermuscular septum. The fibres from these sources are collected together to form the belly of the muscle, and end