ULNAR ARTERY AND NERVE. 307 in size, and passes downwards, with a branch of the ulnar the deep nerve, between the abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, to inosculate with the deep palmar arch of the radial artery. b. The digital branches are four in number, and supply Four . , ' i o \ digital both sides of the three inner fingers and one side of the branch- index finger. The branch to the inner side of the hand and the little finger is undivided in its course; but the others in the correspond to the three inner interosseous spaces, and bifur- cate anteriorly to supply the contiguous sides of the above- said digits. In the hand these branches are accompanied by the digital nerves, which they sometimes pierce. Near the root of the fingers each receives a communicating branch from the vessels of the deep arch; but the artery for the inner side of the little finger has its communicating offset about the middle of the hand. From the point of bifurcation the branches extend along the Termi- sides of the fingers, accompanied by the digital nerves, and on the Sdes ofn last phalanx the vessels of opposite sides unite in an arch, from lers?n" whose convexity offsets proceed to supply the papillae of the ball of the finger, as well as the pulp beneath the nail. Collateral branches are furnished to the finger and the sheath of the tendons ; and some small twigs are supplied to the phalangeal articulations from a small arterial arch on the bone, close behind each joint. Palmar Part of the Ulnar Nerve.—The ulnar nerve ulnar divides on the annular ligament or near it, into a superficial the hand and a deep branch; these are distributed to one finger and a half, and to some of the muscles of the hand. The deep branch accompanies the profunda artery to the has a muscles, and will be subsequently dissected with that vessel. The superficial branch furnishes an offset to the palmaris superfi- brevis muscle, and some filaments to the integument of the °ia part" inner part of the hand, and then ends in two digital nerves for the supply of both sides of the little finger and half the next: — Digital nerves.—The more internal nerve is undivided, The last like the corresponding artery. The other is directed to the fw^dT- cleft between the ring and little fingers, where it bifurcates SerJes. for the supply of their opposed sides. In the palm of the for little hand this last branch is connected with a digital branch of and half the median nerve. Along the sides of the fingers the digital next*