176 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Inse tion Connec- vertebrae (sixth, fifth, fourth, and third). Both parts of the inser- muscle are blended above, and the whole is inserted by four tlon* slips into the lower border of the bodies of the four upper cervical vertebras. Some of the lowest fibres of the muscle, those which sometimes extend to the neck of the first rib, are attached separately by tendon to the transverse processes Parts in of one or two of the lower cervical vertebras. In contact contact . . _ r>-i« i • i i with it. with the anterior surface 01 this muscle is the pharynx. The inner border is at some distance, inferiorly, from the. muscle of the opposite side, but, superiorly, only the pointed anterior common ligament of the spine separates the two. The outer border is contiguous to the scalenus, to the vertebral vessels, and to the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. Rectus The rectus capitis anticus major is external to the pre- capitis 1.1 . ,-r... major, ceding muscle, and is largest at its upper end. Its origin is Origin, pointed tendinous slips from the summits of the trans- verse processes of four cervical vertebrae (sixth, fifth, fourth, and third); and the fibres ascend to be inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen tions. magnum. The anterior surface of the muscle is covered by the pharynx, and by the internal carotid artery and the numerous nerves near the base of the skull. This muscle partly conceals the following one. At its insertion the rectus is fleshy, and reaches from the middle line to the tem- poral bone. Rectus The rectus capitis anticus minor is a small flat muscle, minor that arises from the transverse process, and partly from the neath anterior arch (body) of the atlas ; and ascends to be inserted ing.Ce " into the basilar process of the occipital bone, between the foramen magnum and the preceding muscle, and half an inch from its fellow. The anterior division of the sub- occipital nerve lies between the borders of this muscle and the rectus capitis lateralis. Dissec- Dissection.—The small intertransversales will come into view, when the other muscles have been removed from the front and back of the transverse processes. By tracing to- wards the spine the anterior division of one of the cervical nerves, the muscles will be readily found, for they are placed on the sides of the nerve. After the muscles and nerves have been examined, the tips of the transverse processes may be cut off to lay bare the vertebral artery. tion.