131 INTERIOR OF PHARYNX. K 2 externally, with this muscle are all the deep vessels and contigu- nerves of the neck; and internally, it is lined by the apo- parts, neurosis and the mucous membrane. The upper border consists of the arched fibres which are directed backwards from the pterygoid plate, and above it the levator and tensor palati muscles are seen. The lower border has been seen to be overlaid by the middle constrictor muscle. The attach- ment to the pterygo-maxillary ligament corresponds to the origin of the buccinator muscle. Dissection.—Open the pharynx by an incision along its Dissec middle, and, after removing the tow from the interior, keep it open with hooks. A better view of the cavity will be obtained by partly dividing the occipital attachment on each side. The interior of the pharynx is wider from side to side interior than from before back. Its greatest width is opposite the rynx. hyoid bone, from which spot it diminishes both upwards and downwards, but much more rapidly in the latter than in the former direction. In it the following objects are to be objects noticed:—At the top are the posterior apertures of the noted, nares, which are separated by the septum nasi; and below them is the soft palate, partly closing the cavity of the mouth. By the side of the aperture from each nostril is the trumpet-shaped end of the Eustachian tube. Below the soft palate is the opening into the mouth—isthmus faucium ; and on each side of this is the tonsil, which is placed in a hollow between two prominences, named pillars of the soft palate, one proceeding from the soft palate to the side of the tongue, and another from the same part to the side of the pharynx. Next in order, below the mouth, is the aperture of the larynx, and close in front of it is the epiglottis, or the valve that assists to close the opening during deglutition. And lowest of all is the opening from the pharynx into the oesophagus. The apertures into the pharynx then are seven in number, seven and have the following position and boundaries :— tSres, The nares or the posterior openings of the nasal fossae are ^'res. two in number. Each is of an oval form, corresponding to the shape of the osseous parts that bound it in the dried skull, and is lined by mucous membrane. They are sepa- rated by the vomer, or the posterior part of the septum narium.