PLANTAR VESSELS AND NERVE. 725 3 a 3 the next, in the same manner as the radial artery in the hand is distributed to one digit and a half. Besides these, it fur- nishes a communicating branch to join the plantar arch. The digital branch (art. magna pollicis) extends to the its digital front of the §pace, and divides into collateral branches for the great toe and the next. Near the front of the metatarsal bone it sends inwards, beneath the flexor muscles, the digital branch for the inner side of the great toe. These arteries have the same arrangement along the toes on the ° digits. as the other digital branches. The deep branch of the external plantar nerve passes with External the arch of the artery, and ends internally in the adductor nerve pollicis. In addition it furnishes branches to all the inter- the deep . . muscles. ossei, one or both in the external space excepted ; to the transversalis pedis; and to the two external lumbrical muscles. Dissection. — It will be needful to remove the transver- Dissec- salis pedis muscle, to see a ligamentous band across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The transverse metatarsal ligament is a strong fibrous Trans- band, like that in the hand (p. 314.), that connects together meta- tarsal li- the anterior extremities of all the metatarsal bones. A thin gament. fascia that covers the interossei muscles is connected to its hinder part. It is concealed by the transversalis pedis, and by the tendons, vessels, and nerves of the toes. Dissection. — To complete the dissection of the last layer Dissect of muscles, the flexor brevis minimi digiti may be detached li^of and thrown forwards. Then the metatarsal ligament is to des.mus* be divided between the bones, the knife being carried directly backwards in the centre of each interosseous space except the first, in order that the two interossei muscles may be separated one from another. The fascia covering these muscles should be taken away, and the branches of the external plantar nerve to them dissected out. All the inter- ossei are visible in the sole of the foot. Fourth layer of muscles.—In the fourth and last layer Fourth of the foot are contained the interossei muscles, and the muscles, tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus muscles. The interossei muscles are situate in the intervals be- interos- tween the metatarsal bones : their arrangement corresponds S61'are closely to that of the interossei in the hand, and like them