DISSECTION OF THE AKM. 276 passing between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, end as the others in the axillary glands. A lymphatic gland is com- monly found as low in the limb as the elbow, where it lies in front of the inner condyle of the humerus. The su- Cutaneous Nerves. — The superficial nerves of the arm perficial # 1 > arede aPPear on *ne mner and outer sides, and spread so as to rived cover the circumference of the limb. All with one exception from m m . L (intercosto-humeral) are derived from the brachial plexus, brachial plexus, except either as distinct branches, or as offsets of other nerves. one. On the outer side of the limb are branches of the musculo- spinal and musculocutaneous nerves; on the inner side are two internal cutaneous nerves (large and small), and a third internal cutaneous from the musculo-spiral, together with the intercosto-humeral nerve. ternafX" External cutaneous Nerves. — The external cutaneous cuta- branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are two in number, and ap- neous ... . of mus- pear at the outer side of the limb in the spot before mentioned. spiral, The upper one turns forwards with the cephalic vein, and reaches to the front of the elbow, supplying the anterior part of the arm. The lower pierces the fascia somewhat farther down, viz. about the middle of the outer surface of the arm, and after supplying some cutaneous filaments to that part of the limb, is continued to the fore-arm. and one The cutaneous part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve pierces the of mus. . . cuio-cu- fascia in front of the elbow, and at the outer side of the tendon of taneous. ^e biceps muscle. It lies beneath the median cephalic vein, and divides into branches for the fore-arm. Two in- Internal cutaneous Nerves.—The larger internal cutaneous ternal . . ° cuta- nerve perforates the fascia m two parts, or as one trunk that brachial divides almost directly into two. The external branch lies be- piexus. nea^ tne median basilic vein, and is directed to the front of the Large fQre -arm: but the internal branch winds to the back of the fore- arm, over the prominence of the inner condyle of the humerus. A cutaneous offset of this nerve pierces the fascia near the axilla, and reaches as far, or nearly as far as the elbow : it supplies the integuments over the inner part of the biceps muscle. and^ Xhe small internal cutaneous nerve (Wrisberg) appears below the preceding, and extends to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus, where it ends in filaments over the back of the olecranon. The nerve gives offsets to the posterior surface of the lower third of the arm, and joins, above the elbow, the inner division of the larger internal cutaneous nerve. Cuta- The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, after neous of . , " . * , , * musculo- it becomes subcutaneous (in the upper third), winds to the back 01 spiral. ^e arm^ an(j extends nearly as far as the olecranon.