DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 714 corresponding to the offsets of the artery: branches connect them also with the saphenous veins. Poste- The posterior tibial nerve is a continuation of the internal tibial popliteal, and reaches, like the artery, from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the interval between the os calcis and the inner malleolus. Whilst beneath the annular liga- Extent ment or somewhat higher than it, the nerve divides into the and con- internal and external plantar branches of the foot. Its con- nections. nectjons with surrounding parts are the same as those of the artery; but its position to the vessel changes, for it lies on Position the inner side of the posterior tibial artery above the origin artery, of the peroneal offset, but on the outer side thence to the ter- Branch- mination. Its lateral branches are chiefly muscular. Muscu- Muscular branches enter the deep flexors, and arise either at deep0 the seParate po^ts along the trunk, or together from the internal flexors, popliteal nerve. There is an offset for each muscle, except the popliteus, but the branch for the tibialis is the largest, and that for the flexor pollicis lies on the peroneal artery. Cuta- A cutaneous nerve of the sole of the foot pierces the internal an- the foot! nular ligament, and ends in the integument of the inner and under part of the heel; this nerve will be followed to its termination in the dissection of the foot. internal The internal annular ligament is placed between the heel annular ^e jnner ankle, and serves to confine the tendons of ment' the deep flexor muscles of the foot and toes. Attached by a Attach- pointed part to the internal malleolus, the fibres diverge from it, and are inserted into the os calcis. One border (upper) is continuous with the fascia of the leg; and the op- posite gives attachment to the abductor pollicis muscle of Pr°- „ the foot. From the under or deep surface are given off cesses of A ° ratePthe Processes> tnat separate, and form sheaths for the tendons, tendons, When the sheaths are opened, the innermost will be found to forming 1 7 sheaths; contain the tibialis posticus, which is lodged in a groove in their po- the malleolus : immediately behind this is another space for sition; f A the flexor digitorum; and about three quarters of an inch nearer the os calcis, is the interval in which the flexor lined by pollicis lies, contained in a groove in the astragalus. Each synovial # mem- sheath is lined bv a synovial membrane. brane Tibial Vessels beneath the ligament.—The posterior tibial vessels ^sels in passing beneath the ligament lie between the tendons of nerve tfiQ flexor pollicis and flexor digitorum, but rather nearer the