231 LOBES OF THE CEREBELLUM. q 4 ing eminences, which may be easily separated from one form another with the handle of the scalpel: — Most anteriorly is process' a narrow body, the uvula, which is named from its resem- Uvula, blance to the same part in the throat; it is longer from, before backwards than from side to side, and is divided into laminae. Its anterior projection into the fourth ventricle is nodule, named nodule, or laminated tubercle; and on its side is a ridge of gray matter, which is notched on the surface (fur- furrowed roived band), and unites it with the almond-like lobe of the hemisphere. Connected to the nodule is a thin white layer on each side, the medullary velum ; but this and the fur- velum, rowed band will be seen in a subsequent dissection (p. 232.). Behind the uvula is a tongue-shaped body, named pyramid, pyramid, which is elongated from side to side, and is marked by transverse lamina?. Still farther back are certain transverse and corn- pieces extending between the posterior lobes of the hemi- Turls. spheres, of which they were considered by Keil to be the commissures. Lobes of the Hemisphere.—Each hemisphere is sub- seven A lobes in divided into lobes, both on the upper and the under aspect; each_ and issuing from its anterior part is a large stalk-like process, sphere, which is subdivided into three pieces, and connects the cere- bellum with other parts, viz. an upper peduncle to the cere- and brum, a middle one to the pons, and an inferior one to the Peedgun~ medulla oblongata. On the upper surface there are two lobes, anterior and Two . lobes on posterior, which are separated by a sulcus, but the interval upper between them is not well marked. The anterior or square lobe extends back to a level with the posterior edge of the vermiform process ; and the posterior reaches thence to the great horizontal fissure at the circumference. On the under surface of the cerebellum, there are three three on under lobes that are separated, as above, by sulci amongst the surface, laminae, but these are not more distinct than on the upper surface: — Beginning behind, the student will meet first the posterior pos- . . terior, lobe, which joins the commissural laminae behind the pyramid in the vallecula. Next in order is the slender lobe, which IS slender, connected with the posterior part of the pyramid, as well as with the other transverse laminae behind that body. And