DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 228 their ac- and in the optic thalamus, they receive accessory bundles bandsT from the superior peduncle of the cerebellum (p. 233.), from the fillet of the olivary body, from one pair of the corpora Tnthe quadrigemina, and from the corpora geniculata. On escaping sphere from tne striate body and the thalamus, the fibres radiate tend to" into tne anterior, middle, and posterior parts of the cerebral hemisphere, forming the corona radiata. In the hemisphere the fibres are continued to the convolutions, but before reaching the circumference of the brain they decussate with the converging fibres of the corpus callosum. Their expan- sion in the hemisphere resembles a fan bent down in front and behind, forming thus a layer which is concave on the under side. Fibres Their extent.—It must not be supposed that all the fibres convolu tions, reaching of the peduncle reach the surface of the brain, nor that all through- t|lose at ^e cjrcumference are originally derived from the peduncle ; for some of the fibres of the crus cerebri end in the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus, especially the former; and others extend only from those ganglionic bodies to the surface of the hemisphere. Thus, in addition to the fibres that extend throughout, some connect the peduncle of the cerebrum with the ganglia, and others connect the ganglia with the convolutions on the exterior, source Their source. — The fibres thus entering inferiorly the cord1. cerebrum through its peduncle, and continued thence to the periphery of the hemisphere, are derived from all three divisions of the medulla oblongata, viz. anterior pyramid, lateral column, and restiform body, and therefore directly from all the divisions of the spinal cord (p. 200.). The decussations between the fibres of opposite sides have been before referred to (pp. 201. 208.). com- B. The transverse commissural fibres connect the hemi- missural _. trans- spheres of the cerebrum across the middle line. These verse , . , fibres, fibres give rise to the great commissure^ or the corpus cal- losum (p. 214.), and to the anterior and posterior com- missures (p. 223.). All these bodies have been already examined. Com- C. Longitudinal fibres. — Other connecting fibres pass lUngitt? from before backwards, uniting together parts of the same fibres, hemisphere, and having mostly a circular arrangement. Are The fibres of this system are collected chiefly in the follow- round J J