DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 328 shut out from this articulation by means of a piece of fibro- cartilage. external The external lateral ligament is a short and strong band, lateral, ^aj. intervenes between the styloid process of the radius and the upper part of the scaphoid bone, internal The internal lateral ligament is smaller than the external, but is longer than it. It is attached by one end to the sty- loid process of the ulna, and by the other to the rough, upper part of the cuneiform bone. Some of the anterior fibres are continued to the pisiform bone, anterior The anterior ligament takes origin from the end of the and radius, and is inserted into the anterior surface of the first row of carpal bones, except the os pisiforme. post*- The posterior ligament is membranous, like the anterior, ment!ga" and its fibres are directed downwards and inwards. Supe- riorly it is attached to the lower end of the radius, and in- feriorly it is fixed, after the manner of the anterior ligament, to the first row of carpal bones, on the posterior aspect. Dissec- Dissection. — To see the form of the articulating surfaces, the joint may be opened by a transverse incision through the posterior ligament, near the bones of the carpus, surface Articular surfaces. — The end of the radius, and the fibro- dius. cartilage uniting it with the ulna, form an arch for the re- ception of the carpal bones; and the surface of the radius is divided by a prominent line into an external triangular, of first and an internal square impression. The three bones of the caJpaf first carpal row constitute a convex eminence, which is re- bones. cejve(j jn{0 the hollow before mentioned, and the different surfaces of both touch in this way;—the scaphoid bone cor- responds to the external mark of the radius, the semilunar bone to the square impression, and the cuneiform bone is in contact with the triangular fibro-cartilage. synovial The synovial membrane has the arrangement common to simple joints. This joint sometimes communicates with the lower radio-ulnar articulation, by means of an aperture in the fibro-cartilage separating the two. Lower^ Lower Radio-ulnar Articulation.-—In this articula- radius tion the convexity of the end of the ulna is received into a and ulna . joined by concavity on the radius;—an arrangement just the opposite to that which exists between the upper ends of the bones. The chief bond of union between the bones is a strong fibro-