DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 100 named the palato- and styloglossus. The parts in contact with from attach- one surface of the hyo-glossus have been already enume- rated ; and those beneath the muscle are portions of both the genio-hyo-glossus, and the middle constrictor, together with tact°with t^le ^Sual ar*ery. Along the anterior border is the genio- many hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the posterior pass the lingual artery, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid liga- ment. stylo- The stylo-glossus is a slender muscle, whose attachments giossus expressed by its name. Arising from the styloid process near the apex, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, the comes to muscle is continued forwards to the side of the tongue. side of , tongue. Here it gives fibres to the dorsum, and, crossing the pre- ceding, turns to the under surface, and extends to the tip of the tongue. Beneath the jaw this muscle is crossed by the gustatory nerve. Genio- The genio-hyoid muscle arises from the lower of the two hvoideus tu];)ercjes on f.jie jnner aspect of the symphysis of the jaw, along and is inserted into the middle and lower part of the hyoid line of bone. Covered by the mylo-hyoideus, this muscle, rests on the genio-hyo-glossus. The inner border is close to its fellow of the opposite side, and the two are often united. Genio- The genio-hyo-glossus is the largest muscle of this giossus region ; it has a triangular form, the apex being at the jaw, and the base at the tongue, and is in contact along the middle line with the corresponding muscle of the other side. It takes origin from the upper tubercle behind the symphysis con- of the jaw. From this spot the fibres radiate, the posterior nected . with passing downwards to their insertion, by a membrane, into hyofd the body of the hyoid bone, the anterior forwards to the tip and ' of the tongue, and the intermediate to the whole length of tongue. ^e tongue, from root to point. Lying along the middle of Contigu- the tongue, it is in contact with its fellow, whilst the lower parts, border of the muscle corresponds to the genio-hyoideus, and the upper to the framum linguae. On its outer side are the ranine vessels and the hyo-glossus muscle, and the ninth nerve perforates the posterior fibres. Lingual The lingual artery is one of the anterior branches of the artery external carotid, and arises between the superior thyroid and ascends facial branches. At first it is directed inwards above the os tongue hyoides, but is afterwards inclined slightly upwards beneath