757 CORNEA. 3 c 3 of the bundles of fibrous tissue between the funiculi of the nerve. Other smaller apertures for the passage of the nutri- tive vessels and nerves are situate around that for the optic nerve. In front is the large rounded hole into which the and in 0 front. cornea is received: it measures about half an inch trans- versely, and rather less from above down. On the outer Outer surface this coat is smooth, except where the muscles are inner , . . t surface. attached; but on the inner aspect it is covered with a floc- culent cellular layer, and with the ends of ruptured vessels and nerves, and is of a dark colour. The sclerotic covering is thickest at the back of the eyeball, but it becomes thinner Thick- ness. and whiter towards the cornea, where it is visible as the " white of the eye;" but where it joins the cornea it becomes again somewhat thickened. Structure. — The sclerotic coat is formed of layers of Formed . • • rti of white white fibrous tissue, mixed with yellow or elastic fibres, and yel- low tis- Though interlaced with one another, the fibres have rather sue a longitudinal direction towards the back of the ball, and a transverse one at the outer surface near the cornea. A few with pig- irregularly shaped pigment cells are scattered amongst the ceils, fibres towards the cornea. Cornea. — This firm transparent membrane (cornea pel- Cornea: lucida) fits into the front of the eyeball, of which it forms about one fifth. Its shape is circular, though, when viewed extent in front, particularly in the ox, it appears largest in the form, transverse direction in consequence of the sclerotic structure reaching further on it above and below than on the sides. It is smooth and soft to the touch, is convex anteriorly but Curve, concave posteriorly, and is of equal thickness throughout. Its anterior is of rather less extent than its posterior surface. Surface. At the circumference it is blended with the sclerotic coat by continuity of tissue. This clear and diaphanous structure, resembling in appear- situation ance the glass of a watch, bounds the anterior chamber of Sthent the eyeball, and gives passage to the rays of light entering sclerotlc' the organ. When the cornea is supported by the aqueous jts ac_ humour, it deflects the rays of light transmitted to the eye, forays and thus influences by its greater or smaller convexity the of llghu different degrees of sight at a distance. After death it be- comes flaccid from the transudation of the aqueous humour;