137 CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. connections in the neck,, it may be remarked, that the size of oesopha- gus. this tube is less than that of the pharynx, and that the walls are flaccid. On dissection the tube will be found to consist of two Formed layers of muscular fibres, with a lining of mucous mem- layers of J ? fibres; brane. The external layer is formed of longitudinal fibres, which outer or commence opposite the cricoid cartilage by three bundles, dinai, anterior and two lateral; — the former is attached to the ridge at the back of the cartilage, and the others join the in- ferior constrictor. The internal layer, on the other hand, and in- is formed by circular fibres, which are continuous with those circular, of the constrictor. The structure of the oesophagus is de- scribed more fully in the dissection of the thorax. Section XII. CAVITY OF THE MOUTH. The cheeks, the lips, and the teeth, may be examined with the mouth, as all these may be considered accessory parts. The Mouth.—The cavity of the mouth is situate below Mouth, the nose, and extends from the lips in front to the isthmus of the fauces behind. Its boundaries are partly osseous and situa- partly muscular, and its size depends upon the position of the lower jaw, When the lower jaw is moderately removed form, from the upper one, the mouth is an oval cavity with the following boundaries. The roof is concave, and is formed and & -ip . bounda- by the hard and soft palate, and is limited anteriorly by ries. the arch of the teeth. In the floor is the tongue, bounded by the arch of the lower teeth; and beneath the tip of that body is the frsenum lingua?, with the sublingual gland on each side. Each lateral boundary consists of the cheek and the ramus of the lower jaw ; and in it, near the second molar tooth in the upper jaw, is the opening of the parotid duct. The anterior opening of the mouth is bounded by the lips, and the posterior corresponds to the pillars of the soft palate. The mucous membrane of the mouth is much thicker on Lining the hard than the soft parts of the cavity; it lines the in- mouth