405 SCAPULAR VESSELS AND NERVES. the larger rhomboid muscle is subcutaneous near the angle of the scapula. The OMO-HYOID MUSCLE Consists Of tWO fleshy bellies, Poste- rior anterior and posterior, which are united by an intervening beiiy of tendon (p. 66.). Only the posterior half is now seen. The hyoid- muscle arises from the upper border of the scapula, behind origin the notch, and from the ligament that converts the notch into a foramen. The fibres form a thin riband-like muscle,and termi- which is directed forwards across the lower part of the neck, nation, and ends anteriorly in a tendon beneath the sterno-mastoi- deus. This muscle is placed partly beneath the trapezius; Connec- and is partly superficial in the posterior triangular space of the neck, where it lies above the clavicle and the subclavian artery. It lies on the brachial plexus, and, near the scapula, on the suprascapular vessels and nerve. The suprascapular artery is a branch of the subclavian supra- trunk (p. 73.), and is directed almost horizontally outwards artery across the lower part of the neck to the back of the scapula, subcia- The vessel lies behind the clavicle, and courses along that bone, with the suprascapular nerve, but beneath the trapezius and omo-hyoid muscles, to the supraspinal fossa of the sea- ends on pula. Before entering the fossa it furnishes a small branch scapula, (supra-acromial) to the upper surface of the acromion. The suprascapular nerve is an offset of the brachial plexus Supra- . . scapular (p. 76.), and is inclined backwards to the superior costa ofnerve the scapula. It passes through the notch in the superior costa of the bone, and beneath the supraspinatus muscle ; its termination in the muscles on the dorsum of the scapula accom- will be seen in the dissection of the arm (p. 273.). artery. The transverse cervical artery is also a branch of the sub- Trans- clavian, and has the same direction as the suprascapular cervical branch, viz. towards the upper part of the scapula, but it is th^sub- placed at a greater height above the clavicle. Crossing the upper part of the space in which the subclavian artery lies, this branch passes beneath the trapezius, and divides into divides the two following branches — superficial cervical and posterior scapular: — a. The superficial cervical branch is distributed chiefly to the super- under surface of the trapezius, though it furnishes offsets to the cervical levator anguli scapulae and the cervical glands. and b. The posterior scapular branch crosses beneath the elevator of P°sterior scapular D D 3