621 STRUCTURE OF THE PENIS. penis. In addition to white fibrous tissue, the trabecule in the contain elastic fibres and muscular fibre cells. —Miiller. The some cellular structure of the penis may be demonstrated by sec- fibres, tions of that body after it has been distended with air and dried. Blood-vessels. — The blood-vessels of the penis are large vessels . . r are erec- in size, and serve to nourish as well as minister to the iunc-tiie;j tion of the organ. Having entered the cavernous mass, they ramify in the interstices of the trabecular structure, and pro- duce the erectile tissue. The arteries of the corpora cavernosa are offsets of the Source . of the pudic, both at the root and along the body of the penis, arteries. Entering the cavernous structure, they divide into branches, which ramify in the trabecular, becoming finer and finer, until they cease in one of the two following ways: — The Termi- greater number of the vessels terminate in capillaries, as m in capil- other parts; but Valentin states that some of the smallest arterial branches open by large orifices into the veins in the in dilated intertrabecular spaces, without the intervention of capil- laries. Others of the terminal twigs end in tufts of short, slightly curled vessels — the helicine arteries of Miiller, or as the which project into the intertrabecular spaces, and become arteries, imbedded in the coat of the thin veins: these twisted vas- cular bodies have dilated csecal extremities, and do not com- municate with the veins. The helicine arteries exist in greatest number at the posterior part of each corpus caver- nosum. The veins fill the interspaces of the areolar structure, and veins are anastomose freely together to form venous plexuses. In andform these spaces the walls of the veins are very thin, because plexuses they receive support from the surrounding fibrous structure. Into the large radicles of the veins the capillaries pour their contents ; and the erectile condition of the corpus cavernosum is produced by the distension of those receptacles. By means of the apertures in the septum the veins of opposite sides communicate freely. Most of the veins of the corpus cavernosum issue along Ending the upper and under aspects of the penis, to end in the veins! dorsal vein ; but some escape near the roots of the body, and join the pudic vein and the prostatic plexus. Corpus spongiosum urethrce. — This constituent part of Spongy