MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. 163 the other. A few of the oblique fibres of the muscle are usually continued round the cartilage to join the thyro- arytenoid muscle, or to blend with the fibres in the aryteno- epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. Dissection. — To bring into view the remaining muscles, Dissec- ° ... tion of which are somewhat concealed by the thyroid cartilage, it internal will be necessary to remove the right half of the thyroid, by cutting through it near the middle line, after its small cornu has been detached from the cricoid cartilage. By the removal of a little cellular membrane, the dissector will de- fine inferiorly the lateral crico-arytsenoid muscle ; above it, the thyro-arytenoideus muscle; and still higher, the thin muscular fibres in the fold of mucous membrane between the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage. The crico-arym:noideus lateralis is a small lengthened Lateral band, which arises from the lateral part of the upper border aryta- of the cricoid cartilage ; its fibres are directed backwards to be inserted, with the thyro-arytenoid muscle, into the pro- jection on the outer side of the base of the arytenoid carti- lage, as well as into the contiguous part of the cartilage on the anterior aspect. This muscle is concealed by the crico- is be* 1 t J neath thyroideus, and its upper border is contiguous to the sue- J,^™^ ceeding muscle. The thyro-arytjenoideus muscle extends backwards in Thyro- the interior of the larynx from the thyroid to the arytenoid noideus. cartilage ; it is thick below, but thin and expanded above. The muscle arises from the thyroid cartilage near the middle line, for about the lower half of its depth, and from the crico-thyroid ligament. The fibres are directed backwards, some with different directions; the external ascend somewhat, and cend to are inserted into the upper part of the arytenoid cartilage Up' on its anterior and outer aspect; but the internal and lower others fibres are transverse, and form a thick bundle, which IS base of inserted into the anterior part of the base of that cartilage, nSd"" as well as into the anterior surface, and some fibres are lage!" attached to the vocal cord. By its outer aspect the muscle connec- is in contact with the thyroid cartilage ; and the inner sur-tlons* face rests on the vocal cords, and on the ventricle of the larynx and its pouch. The depressor of the epiglottis (reflector epiglottidis, Depres- thyro-aryteno-epiglottideus) is the thin muscular layer, epiglot- „ tis M 2