FEMORAL HERNIA. 491 ing in it around the vessels ; and internal to the vein, it covers a space named crural ring, and a lymphatic gland that occupies that space. The piece of the layer that forms stretches over the crural ring is named by M. Cloquet cruraie. septum cruraie, and is described by him as being concave towards the abdomen, and convex towards the thigh: some apertures exist in it for the ducts of the inguinal glands, and one gland is generally attached to its under surface. The fascia transversalis has been before described Fascia ^ trans- (p. 476.). When traced down to Poupart's ligament, it may versaiis. be seen to join the iliac fascia external to the situation of the large iliac artery; but internal to that spot it is con- tinued downwards to the thigh, in front of the femoral vessels, and forms the anterior part of the crural or femoral sheath. The iliac fascia covers the iliacus muscle, and lies beneath mac fas- the iliac vessels. At Poupart's ligament its disposition is found to resemble that of the transversalis fascia; for ex- ternal to the iliac vessels it joins that fascia along the line of Poupart's ligament; but, internal to the spot mentioned, it is prolonged behind the vessels into the posterior part of ■ the crural sheath. The crural or femoral sheath is the loose membrane that sheath encloses the femoral vessels as these enter the thigh : it IS ral ves- derived from the membranes that line the abdomen ; — its formed anterior half being continuous with the fascia transversalis, of pre-ets and its posterior half with the fascia iliaca. The whole ofceding' the upper part of the sheath is not filled by the vessels, for a space (crural ring) remains on the inner side of the vein, which contains a gland, and through which the intestine descends in femoral hernia. The crural ring is partly described in the dissection of the a space thigh, but its boundaries are better seen in the examination side of of the abdomen. It is the interval in the sheath, at the inner seis\T~ side of the femoral vein ; it is about half an inch wide, and ral ring, is filled by a lymphatic gland. Internally, it is bounded by size and Gimbernat's ligament and the conjoined tendon, and exter- ries. nally by the femoral vein. In front is Poupart's ligament with the deep arch, and behind is the pubes. Along the front of the space is the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female.