CUTANEOUS VEINS OF THE ARM. 275 T 2 The external branch (median cephalic) is usually longer than the other, and by its union with the radial vein gives rise to the cephalic vein of the arm. Branches. — The median cephalic vein is directed obliquely Position outwards, and lies over the hollow between the biceps and nections the outer mass of muscles of the fore-arm. Beneath it is dian ce- mi • • i phalic, the musculo-cutaneous nerve. This vein is altogether re- moved from the brachial artery, and is generally smaller than the median basilic vein. If opened with a lancet, it does not often yield much blood, in consequence of its being removed from the influence of external pressure by its posi- tion in a hollow between muscles. The median basilic vein and of is usually more horizontal in direction than the preceding, dian ba- and crosses the brachial artery as it bends to the inner side vein, of the limb. It is larger than the corresponding vein of the outer side of the arm, and is firmly supported by the fascia beneath. Branches of the internal cutaneous nerve lie beneath it, and some small twigs of the same nerve are generally placed over it. Only the aponeurosis of the arm, strengthened by fibres from the tendon of the biceps, inter- venes between the vein and the brachial vessels. The median basilic is the vein on which the operation of Ven.e- 1 section bloodletting is commonly practised, by reason of its size and superficial position, and the facility with which it may be h compressed: but from the close proximity of the vein to the brachial vessels, the spot chosen for the venesection should not be immediately over the trunk of the artery. The basilic vein, commencing near the inner condyle of Basilic . _ J vein on the humerus in the manner before said, ascends near the inner side of inner border of the biceps muscle to the middle of the arm, the arm. where it passes beneath the deep fascia, and is continuous with the axillary vein. In this course it lies over, or to the inner side of the brachial artery. The cephalic vein is chiefly derived from the external Cephalic vein at branch of the median, for the radial vein is oftentimes very outer side of small. It is continued to the shoulder along the outer side the arm. of the biceps, and sinks between the deltoid and pectoral muscles, near the clavicle, to open into the axillary vein. The superficial lymphatics of the arm lie for the most |^r" part along the basilic vein, and enter into the glands of the lympha- n tlCS' axilla. A few lymphatics accompany the cephalic vein, and