THE URETER. 553 may be seen to form an arborescent appearance on the surface of the kidney. The ureter is the tube by which the fluid secreted in the Ureter- kidney is conveyed to the bladder. Its anatomy must be °ffice; ' studied afterwards, when the body is in a suitable position. Between its origin and termination the duct measures from length, sixteen to eighteen inches in length. Its size corresponds size commonly to that of a large quill; but near the kidney it is vades* dilated into a funnel-shaped part, named pelvis, and near the bladder it is again somewhat dilated, though the lower aper- ture, by which it terminates, is the narrowest part of the tube. In its course from one viscus to another, the ureter is close course beneath the peritoneum, and is directed obliquely downwards and inwards along the posterior wall of the abdomen as far as the pelvis, where it becomes almost horizontal in direction in the posterior false ligament of the bladder. At first the and con- ureter is placed over the psoas muscle, inclining on the right nections- side towards the inferior vena cava; and then it lies over the common or the external iliac artery* being situate be- tween the vessel and the sigmoid flexure on the left side, and between it and the end of the ileum on the right side. Lastly, it will be subsequently seen to lie below the level of the obliterated hypogastric artery, in the posterior ligament of the bladder. About the middle of the psoas this excre- tory tube is crossed by the spermatic vessels. Sometimes Some the ureter is found divided into two for a certain distance. Part in the kidney. -Near the kidney the ureter is dilated Ureter into a pouch, named pelvis, in the hilum; and when traced SSL*, upwards into the viscus, it is found to begin by a set of cup- dilated shaped tubes, named calices, or infundibula, which vary in Key6 number from seven to thirteen. Each cup-shaped part em- which ' braces the rounded end of a pyramidal mass, and receives ^ the urine that flows through the apertures in that projection; ™^ and sometimes a calix surrounds two or more papillse. The several calices are united together to form two or three * In a dozen uninjected bodies that were examined for me by Mr S F. Statham, the ureter was found as frequently over the one as the other of the two vessels mentioned.