112 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. part of the tube of membrane that contains it; the other, much larger (petrous), is placed at the lower border of the and its petrous portion of the temporal bone. From the lower one, branch- a filament of communication with the sympathetic in the neck; also Jacobson's nerve, that enters an aperture in, or on one side of tlie crest of bone between the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. Sometimes there will exist a filament from the lower ganglion to join the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric, and another to end in the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric nerve. Dissec- Below the foramen of exit from the skull, the eighth nerve the has been sufficiently denuded, by the dissection of the in- in the ternal carotid, to examine its branches in the neck, with the exception of the inferior laryngeal nerve. But the connec- tions between the eighth, ninth, sympathetic, and first two spinal nerves should be traced out near the skull. Taking the pneumo-gastric nerve, it will be found to swell into a large oval body (lower ganglion), which is closely united with the ninth, and is connected by branches with the other nerves. The ninth nerve communicates also with the sym- pathetic and the spinal nerves. Lastly the student should trace the recurrent branch of the vagus from the lower part of the neck to the larynx. Eighth The eighth cranial nerve consists of three distinct nerve trunks, viz. glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory, which leave the cranium by the foramen lacerum jugulare (p. 21.). Outside the skull these nerves take dif- consists ferent directions according to their destination; thus the three' glosso-pharyngeal is inclined inwards to the tongue and ing- pharynx; the spinal accessory passes backwards to the sterno-mastoid and trapezius 'muscles; and the pneumo- gastric nerve descends to the thorax and the abdomen, ciosso- The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is the smallest of the pharyn- ^ree trunks, and in the jugular foramen is placed somewhat nerve? -n fron^. 0£ other two ; it lies in a groove in the lower has two border of' the petrous part of the temporal bone. In the fnforS aperture of exit, the nerve is marked by two ganglionic lacerum swellings, the upper one being the jugular, and the lower one the petrous ganglion, itsupper Ganglia. — The jugular ganglion (gang, superius) is of