DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 720 two in number, like the arteries, and have the same con- nections as those vessels, for each accompanies a plantar but the artery; but the larger nerve is found with the smaller inner is . n -, * largest, blood-vessel. Internal The internal plantar nerve courses with its artery be- nerve to three tween the short flexor and the abductor pollicis, and divides a half, into four digital branches for the supply of both sides of the three inner toes, and half the fourth ; it thus resembles the median nerve in the hand in the number and distribution of other its digital branches. Offsets are given by it to the short es. flexor and the abductor pollicis, and a few superficial twigs perforate the fascia. Digital The digital nerves have a numerical designation, and the nerves aredi- first is nearest the inner border of the foot. The branch to vided ex- cept the inner side of the great toe is undivided, but the others ' , are bifurcated at the clefts between the toes. Muscular muscular branch- branches are furnished by the nerves before they reach the toes ; thus, the first (most internal) supplies the flexor brevis pollicis; the second, the inner lumbrical muscle; and the third, the next lumbrical muscle. give cu- On the toes. — Each of the three outer nerves, being divided at the spot mentioned, supplies cutaneous offsets to the contiguous sides of two toes, and to the cutis beneath and ar- the nail; and articular filaments are distributed to the joints, ticular . ,i n offsets, as m the fingers. External The externalplantamerve furnishes the remaining digital nerve to one toe nerves, viz., to both sides of the little toe, and the outer side and a half; of the next, and ends in the deep muscles of the sole of the foot. This nerve corresponds in its arrangement to the ulnar nerve in the hand. It has the same course as the external has su- plantar artery, and divides at the outer margin of the flexor and deep brevis digitorum into a superficial and a deep portion: — part* the former gives origin to two digital nerves; but the latter accompanies the arch of the plantar artery into the foot, and will be afterwards dissected. Whilst the external plantar nerve is concealed by the short flexor of the toes, it Branch- gives muscular branches to the abductor minimi digiti and the flexor accessorius. Two The digital branches of the external plantar nerve are but branches two, and resemble those of the ulnar nerve in the hand, from su- .g un(j^v^e(j . |t is distributed to the outer side of the