87 INSERTION OF TEMPORAL MUSCLE. the muscle, let the coronoid process be sawn off by a cut passing from the centre of the sigmoid notch nearly to the last molar tooth, in order to include the whole of the insertion of the muscle; and in this proceeding, let the student be careful of the buccal artery and nerve issuing from beneath it. Lastly, the coronoid process should be raised in order that the extent of the lower fibres of the temporal muscle and their contiguity to the external pterygoid, close below them, may be observed. The temporal muscle has been before seen to occupy the Origin of upper part of the temporal fossa (p. 4.); and by the previous p0rai dissection it has been laid bare in the lower part of the fossa. The origin of the muscle is the following : — It occupies the whole of the temporal fossa, reaching up to the semicircular line on the side of the skull, and downwards to the crest on the outer aspect of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. From this extensive origin the fibres con- verge to a superficial tendon, which is inserted into all the imer- inner surface of the conoroid process, from the apex to near tlon' the last molar tooth. Behind the posterior border of the tendon are the masseteric vessels and nerve, and in front of it the buccal vessels and nerve: the last nerve occasionally perforates some of the fibres of the muscle. Dissection, — For the display of the pterygoid muscles, it To will be necessary to remove a piece of the ramus of the jaw. ptery- But first, the greater part of the temporal muscle is to be g°ld" detached from the subjacent bone with the handle of the scalpel, and the deep temporal vessels and nerves to be sought in the fibres of the muscle. A piece of the ramus of the jaw is next to be removed, but without injuring the vessels and nerves in contact with its inner surface, by sawing across the bone close to the condyle, and again close above the dental foramen ; and to make the dental vessels and nerve secure from injury, the handle of the scalpel may be inserted close beneath the bone and carried downwards to the entrance of the foramen. The masseteric artery and nerve are liable to be cut in sawing the bone ; should these be divided, turn them upwards for the present, and after- wards unite the ends. After the loose piece of bone has been removed, and the subjacent parts freed from fat, the pterygoid muscles will appear, — the external being directed