127 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. examination of the sterno-clavicular articulation. The viz. middle ganglion will be found in the cellular membrane near anViow- the inferior thyroid artery ; and the inferior one will be seen giif.an" on the neck of the first rib, after a piece of the subclavian artery has been cut out. The upper cardiac nerve will be found descending beneath the carotid sheath. The middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic Ganglia nerve are so similar to the corresponding ganglia of the right pathetic side, that the same description will suffice (p. 121.). The cardiac nerves are three in number on the left, as on cardiac the right side, viz. superior, middle, and inferior, but they nerves- present some peculiarities. The superior cardiac nerve has on both sides a similar course in upper, the neck; but the left in entering the chest is between the carotid and subclavian arteries, and parallel to them. The middle cardiac nerve frequently joins the next nerve, and Middle, passes beneath the subclavian artery to the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve is generally a small branch that enters Lower, the thorax conjoined with the preceeding, and ends in the cardiac plexus. Section XL DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. The pharynx, or the commencement of the alimentary passage, can be examined only when it has been separated from the rest of the body ; and it will therefore be necessary to cut through the base of the skull in the manner mentioned below, so as to have the anterior half of the skull, with which the pharynx is connected, detached from the posterior half. Dissection. —Preparatory to sawing the skull certain other to de- steps are necessary. In the first place, the block being re- ph°aryn moved from beneath the neck, the head is to be placed down- wards, so that it may stand on the cut surface of the skull. Next the trachea and oesophagus, together with the vagus and sympathetic nerves, are to be cut near the first rib (should these be still uncut), and all are to be separated from the spine as high as the basilar process of the occipital bone, but without disturbing, on the left side, the vessels and nerves near the skull. For the division of the skull, let the dissector chisel through partly ° divide