PONS VAROLII. 203 deposits. Cross sections would be required to see completely its arrangement. In the lower part of the medulla the gray substance has the some same arrangement as lower down in the cord, but it gradually ous^th loses the regular arrangement and becomes blended with the white ^0fdm substance. Thus the part corresponding to the central or trans- verse commissure of the cord is laid bare, behind, in the fourth ventricle, in consequence of the restiform bodies being removed from the middle line ; there it forms a stratum for the floor of that space and is continued specially amongst the fibres of the lateral tracts. The crescentic half of the gray matter of* the cord, more especially its hinder part, comes to occupy the restiform body, and then to be continued upwards amongst the fibres. In the restiform body it reaches the surface as a gray streak (gray tubercle of Rolando). The special deposits are at the fore and hinder parts : — Those Special behind are chiefly nerve nuclei, and will be noticed wii^h the fourth sits ; ventricle (p. 237.) ; those in front are in connection with the an- behmd' terior pyramids, or with fibres derived from these — Firstly, there before- is the thin wavy stratum, that" forms the corpus dentatum in the olivary body (p. 200.). Next, outside this, and towards its upper and outer end, is another small collection (olivennebenkern, Stil.), which appears as a flattened yellow streak, and has the same struc- ture as the dark stratum of the olivary body. Lastly, Stilling de- scribes one collection in the anterior pyramid, near the olivary body; and another, external to the nucleus by the side of the olivary body, in the fibres that are continued from the pyramid around the olivary body. PONS VAROLII. The pons, or annular protuberance (pons Varolii, no- Pons ? dus encephali), is situate above the medulla oblongata, and between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Whilst in its position, natural position it fills the hollow in front of the tentorium cerebelli. It is nearly of a square shape, though it is rather form, widest from side to side, and measures two inches in the last direction. The anterior surface is grooved along the middle surfaces line, and is received into the basilar hollow in the base of the skull. By the opposite surface the pons enters into the fourth ventricle, forming part of the floor of that space. The upper and border is longest and most curved, and arches over theborders' cerebral peduncles ; and the lower border overlays the pro-