DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 466 To de- On the right side, the margin of the external abdominal dominai ring may be defined to show the cord passing through it; nng* and on the left side, a thin fascia (intercolumnar), that is connected with the margin of that opening, is to be pre- served. Lastly, the dissector should make evident the free margin of the external oblique muscle between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. On side Muscles of the abdominal wall,—On the side of the abdo- three . .. flat mus- men are three large flat muscles, which are named from cles ° 7 their position to one another, and from the direction of their fibres. The most superficial muscle is the external oblique, the next one the internal oblique, and the last is the trans- and their versalis. Along the middle line the muscles have a vertical roses in- direction ; in front are the rectus and pyramidalis, and be- three ^ hind the quadratus lumborum ; these are incased by sheaths ones. derived from the aponeuroses of the lateral muscles. External The external oblique muscle is fleshy on the side, and muscle is aponeurotic on the fore part of the abdomen. It arises by Origin Aesfty points or digitations from the eight lower ribs; the ribT ^ve hignest pieces, attached to the outer surface and the borders of the ribs, alternate with similar parts of the serratus magnus ; and the three lowest, connected with the margins, interdigitate with the processes of origin of the latissimus dorsi muscle. From the attachment to the ribs, the fibres are directed over the side of the abdomen in the following manner:—the lower fibres descend almost verti- inser- cally to be inserted into the anterior half of the crest of the pXisnt° ilium, at the outer margin; whilst the upper and middle and^imea j^gg are continued forwards, the one set horizontally, the other obliquely, to the aponeurosis on the front of the belly. Aponeu- The aponeurosis of the muscle occupies the anterior part themus- of the abdomen, in front of a line from the eighth rib to the covers crest of the ilium, and is rather narrower about the centre, thebeiiy than either above or below. Along the middle line of the body this expansion ends in the linea alba, — the common Disposi- point of union of the aponeuroses of opposite sides. Above, aiSie it is thin, and is continued on the rectus muscle to the pec- k>w.be" toralis major and the ribs. Below, the fibres of the aponeu- rosis are stronger and more separate than above, and are directed obliquely downwards and inwards to the pelvis: some of them are fixed to the front of the pubes; whilst the