487 INTERNAL OR DIRECT HERNIA. vary according as the gut is forced through the part of the two space covered by the conjoined tendon, or through the part free from that tendon. Course and coverings of the hernia. — The common kind P°*eJj of internal hernia (inferior) passes through the inner part ^™°ore of the triangular space which is covered by the conjoined kiudare tendon, and then straight through the abdominal wall to the external ring; since it does not accompany the cord along the inguinal passage. The intestine in protruding carries perito- before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal cellular mem- and sub- . . jacent brane, and the fascia transversalis; next, it either elongates fat, the conjoined tendon, or, as is the case in a sudden rupture, trans- versalis, separates the fibres, and escapes between them. Then, the conjoin- intestine advances into the lower part of the inguinal canal don, where it is opposite the external abdominal ring; and it passes outwards through the ring, lying on the inner side of the cord, and receiving at the same time the covering of the sperma- fascia spermatica. Lastly, it is invested by the superficial suVer-013' fascia and the skin. In number the coverings of this in- f^cL, ternal hernia are the same as those in the external form;and skm* and in kind they are the same, with this exception, viz. that the conjoined tendon is substituted for the cremasteric covering. Seat of stricture. — The stricture in this form of hernia stric- occurs most frequently at the neck of the sac, next in fre- g"^_ quency at the margin of the fissured tendon, and last at the tion- external abdominal ring. The position of the openings in the abdominal wall should be kept in mind during attempts to reduce an internal hernia; and the straightness of the course of the intestine, in a comparison with an external hernia, should be remembered. Where it is necessary to open the its dM- hernial sac to relieve the structure, the cut is to be made slon" directly upwards, as in the external hernia. Variety of internal hernia.—-Another kind of internal Rarer hernia (superior) projects through the part of the area of internal the triangular space, where only the fascia transversalis is found. Its existence is dependant upon the position of the is farther obliterated hypogastric artery, behind the wall of the abdo- the pre" men (p. 489.). If this hernia existed, it is evident that it fn tife* would pierce the abdominal wall close to the epigastric la/space,