441 MUSCLES OF THE ANUS. he will divide the superficial hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. Muscles. — Connected with the lower end of the rectum Muscles are three muscles, two sphincters (external and internal) and tum.c" the levator ani. The external sphincter (sphincter ani externus) is a Exter- flat, thin, orbicular muscle, which is pointed in front and sphinc- behind, and surrounds the lower part of the rectum. As in rounds other orbicular muscles, the fibres form ellipses around a central aperture. The muscle arises posteriorly from the Origin, tip of the coccyx by a fibrous band, and from the superficial fascia in front of that bone. The fibres pass forwards to the anus, where they separate to encircle that aperture, and having again united in front of it, are inserted into the inser- superficial fascia and the central point of the perinaeum. The sphincter is close beneath the skin, and partly conceals connec- the levator ani. The outer border projects over the ischio- rectal fossa, and the inner is contiguous to the internal sphincter. The internal sphincter (sphincter ani internus) is internal v A ' sphinc- situate around the extremity of the intestine, internal to ter is . a Pa*e the preceding muscle, and will be seen by removing the £j^nd mucous membrane. The fibres of this muscle are pale, and the end r ' of the of a finer texture than those of the other sphincter. Some- gut. times they encircle the lower part of the rectum in the inserted form of a band, and are quite separate from the surrounding common muscular fibres; at other times they are connected before some- times. or behind with the contiguous muscles. The muscle may be considered to be only a band, about a third of an inch deep, of the circular fibres of the large intestine. The levator ani muscle can be seen now only in part, inser- J r 5 tion of and the external sphincter should be detached from the levator coccyx, that its insertion may be more apparent. The muscle descends from the inner aspect of the innominate bone to be inserted along the middle line, from the coccyx t0 coc- ° J cyx,to to the central point of the perinaeum. The most posterior \*D£™t fibres are connected to the side of the coccyx; and between oflt; that bone and the rectum the muscles of opposite sides are united in a central tendinous line. The middle fibres are to rec- i _ turn, blended with the anal muscles and the side of the intestine and to x . centre of (rectum). Whilst the anterior are joined with the fibres of peri- neeum.