17 MENINGEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. at the base of the cranium. The sinus passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Meningeal Arteries.— The arteries that supply the Arteries dura mater are found in all three fossae of the base of the mater skull, and may be accordingly named anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior meningeal are two very small branches which Anterior are derived from the ethmoidal arteries (p. 49.): they are geai. distributed to the dura mater near the ethmoid bone. The middle meningeal arteries are three in number; two, Middle that are named large and small, are derived from the in- geai. ternal maxillary trunk, and the third is an offset of the ascending pharyngeal artery. The large meningeal branch of the internal maxillary artery fr0m enters the skull by the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, ^axii^1 and ascends towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal lary» bone. At this spot the vessel enters a deep groove in the bone, and ends in ramifications that spread over the side of the head, some of these reaching to the top, and others towards the occiput. Two veins run with this artery. its veins; Branches. — As soon as the artery enters the cranial cavity, it gives furnishes branches for distribution to the dura mater and osseous t ™duraeS structure, and to the ganglion of the fifth nerve. One smallmater branch, petrosal, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and extends through and ear; the aqueduct of the same name till it meets the stylo-mastoid artery. One or two .branches also enter the orbit, and anastomose with the ophthalmic artery. The small meningeal branch is an offset of the large one outside small the skull, and is transmitted through the foramen ovale to the geai; membrane lining the middle fossa. The other meningeal branch from the ascending pharyngeal from artery, appears sometimes in the middle fossa of the skull, after ing phL passing through the foramen lacerum medium (basis cranii). ryngeai. The posterior meningeal branches are likewise small, and Poste- are furnished by the occipital and vertebral arteries, ningeal Those from the occipital, one on each side, enter the skull by from the jugular foramen ; and those from the vertebral arise opposite °ndPltal the foramen magnum. Both sets ramify in the posterior fossa of J^s" the skull. Meningeal Nerves. — The source of the nerves of the Nerves c