Divi. ' the skull, beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Like the cere- 230 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. sions. of cere, encephalon is situate in the posterior fossae of the base of brum, it is incompletely divided into two hemispheres,—the division being marked by a wide groove along the under surface, and by a notch, at the posterior part, which receives the falx cerebelli. No Upper Surface. — On the upper aspect the cerebellum groove . on the is raised in the centre, but is sloped towards the circum- upper 1 surface; ference. There is not any median sulcus on this aspect, halves and the halves are united by a central constricted part or joined by . , . . * median isthmus, the superior vermiform process. Separating this surface from the under one, at the circumference, is the horizontal fissure, which is wide in front, and extends back- wards from the pons to the middle line of the cerebellum. Laminae The surface of the cerebellum is marked by plates or and J r their laminae, instead of convolutions, which are notched on the ment. sides, and form segments of circles, with their convexity directed backwards, and with a concentric stratiform arrange- ment. On the upper aspect the laminae pass from the one hemisphere to the other, with only a slight bending forwards of the most anterior in the superior vermiform process; but on the under aspect they join the sides of the different bodies, sulci are or commissures, in the median fissure. Between the laminae or deep, are sulci or fissures, which are lined by the pia mater, and reach to different depths: the shallower of these separate the laminae; but the deeper limit the lobes, and reach down- wards to the white substance of the interior. Here and there the sulci are interrupted by cross laminae. a fissure The under surface is convex, being received into the fcent fossae of the skull, and is divided into hemispheres by a below, _ r J median hollow (vallecula), which is The central sulcus, or the vallecula, receives the medulla called 7 valley, oblongata, and is wider at the middle than at either the and con- anterior or the posterior part. In the bottom of the hollow tains ver- . 1 * miform is a mass, named inferior vermiform process, which corre- process. 1 sponds to the central part connecting the halves of the cerebellum on the upper surface: the two together consti- tute the general commissure of the halves of the cerebellum, tuentsof Constituents of vermiform process.—Entering into the vermi- constitution of the inferior vermiform process are the follow-