DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 662 Parts inguinal glands. At first the artery rests on the psoas it. muscle ; and it is subsequently placed over the pectineus, though at some distance from it in this position of the limb, and is separated from it by cellular tissue, and by the pro- funda vessels and the femoral vein. Its companion vein and the anterior crural nerve have the following position with Position respect to it: — the femoral vein is on the inner side and of vein r nerve cl°se to & at tne pubes, but lower down it is placed behind the artery; the anterior crural nerve is on the outer side, being distant about half an inch near Poupart's ligament, and some of the branches of the nerve approach the artery near the apex of the containing space. Branch- The branches of this part of the artery are the superficial es of this ^.-ii. part epigastric and circumflex iliac, two superficial pudic, and seen, the deep femoral branch : the cutaneous offsets have been seen (p. 648.), with the exception of the following, which is beneath the fascia lata, one ex. The external or superficial pudic artery (inferior) arises pudic, separately from, or in common with the other pudic branch beneath (superior) (p. 648.). The course of this artery is inwards fascia, over the pectineus muscle to the scrotum or the labium pudendi, according to the sex: it perforates the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh to reach its place of destina- tion. In the integument it anastomoses with branches of the superficial perinatal artery, and the The deep femoral branch, or the profunda, is the largest da. offset of the femoral artery*, and arises from the outer part of that vessel, one inch to two inches (Quain) below Pou- Origin part's ligament. This branch is consumed in the muscles of the thigh, and its distribution will be afterwards ascer- and po- tained. In the present dissection it is seen to be placed sition in , Scarpa's over the iliacus muscle, where it gives the external cir- triangle. cumflex artery to the outer part of the thigh; and then to be directed, with a large vein, beneath the trunks of the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur. Femoral Femoral Vein. — The principal vein of the limb, whilst first in- in the triangular space in the upper part of the thigh, has * Some anatomists apply the term common femoral to the part of the vessel above the origin of the profunda, and give the names super- ficial and deep femoral to the nearly equal parts into which it divides.