160 DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Perpen- Some perpendicular fibres, distinct from those of the genio-hyo- fibres, glossus, are said by anatomists to occupy more or less of the middle line of the tongue. A few of these appear to be present in the apex of the tongue, where they pass from the upper to the where lower surface, and give transit to the fasciculi of the transverse present. , muscle. Mucous ^ne mucous membrane is a continuation of that lining the brane- mouth, an^ is provided with a laminar epithelium : partly investing the tongue, it is reflected off at different points in the form of folds (p. 137.). At the epiglottis are three small glosso-epiglottid folds, connecting this to the root of the tongue, the central one of which is called the fraenum of the its epi- epiglottis. Like the membrane of the mouth, it is furnished theimm numerous muciparous glands, and some follicles. i\c\el°'~ f°^c^es occupy the dorsum of the tongue, between the papillae vallatae and the epiglottis, where they form a continuous stratum, some projecting under the mucous membrane. and The glands (lingual) are compound in structure, similar the^ase1 to t^lose °f tne ^Ps an(^ cheek, and are placed beneath the mucous membrane and follicles covering the posterior third of the dorsum of the tongue. A few are found in front of the caliciform papillae, where they project into the muscular substance. Some ducts open on the surface, and others into the hollows around the large papillae, or even into the fora- men caecum. Opposite the papillae vallatae, at the margin of the tongue, is another small collection of submucous glands, and be. '.Under the tip of the tongue, on each side of the fraenum, is tip! a collection of the same kind of glands, from which several ducts issue. Nerves Nerves.— There are three nerves distributed in each three half of the tongue, viz. the gustatory, the hypo-glossal, and sources, the glossopharyngeal, gusta- The gustatory nerve gives upwards filaments to the muscular tory' substance, and to the two smallest sets of papillae, conical and fungi- ninth, form; it also joins the hypo-glossal nerve. The hypo-glossal nerve is spent in long slender filaments that are furnished to the mus- andgios-cular substance of the tongue. The glossopharyngeal nerve ryngeai. divides into two branches near the border of the tongue: — One turns to the dorsum of the tongue, and ends in the mucous mem- brane behind the foramen caecum. The other passes beneath the tongue, and divides into filaments that enter the muscular sub-