DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. 690 Veins. The veins with the sciatic and pudic arteries receive con- tributing twigs corresponding to the branches of those arte- ries, and open into the internal iliac vein. Nerves Sciatic and Pudic Nerves.— The nerves appearing at from the back of the pelvis, below the pyriformis, are branches of plexus, the sacral plexus to the lower limb, or to parts beyond the gluteal region (p. 607.). Some small muscular branches are present at the same spot, small The small sciatic may be considered a cutaneous nerve of nerve the back of the thigh, for it supplies only one muscle — the acuta-fly gluteus maximus : it springs from the lower part of the nerve; sacral plexus, generally by two parts that remain sepa- rate. The nerve takes the course of the sciatic artery as far as the lower border of the great gluteus, where it gives many cutaneous branches upwards and downwards : much diminished in size at that spot, the nerve is continued along ends in the back of the thigh, beneath the fascia, and ends in the the leg ; integument of the posterior part of the leg. The branches that are distributed on or near the buttock are muscular and cutaneous. gives a. The muscular tranches (inferior gluteal) enter the under sur- esato°h" face of the gluteus maximus near the lower border. A separate rnaxi-S °ffse^ °ftne sacral plexus is usually furnished to the upper part of mus- the muscle. Cutane- b. The cutaneous branches are directed either upwards or down- nerves wards at the border of the gluteus. The upper set are distributed buttoclf m ^ne superficial fascia over the lower part of the muscle. The the t0 l°wer set supply the integument of the inner side of the thigh at thigh; the posterior aspect: one of these branches, which is larger than one of the others, is distributed to the genital organs, and is named inferior the last pU(iendai (p 446.) ; as it courses to the peringeum, it turns below pudTn- tne tuberosity of the ischium, and perforates the fascia lata only dal- when it has nearly reached the perinatal space. Sometimes the inferior pudendal is a distinct branch of the plexus. Great The great sciatic is the largest nerve in the body, and is nerve0; the source of all the muscular, and most of the cutaneous outline branches beyond the knee, a3 well as of the muscular branches at the back of the thigh. At its origin it appears to be a prolongation of the interlacement of the nerves of the sacral and end- plexus. After leaving the pelvis, it is directed through the mg' region of the buttock to the posterior part of the thigh, course where it divides into branches for the leg. In the part of