20 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. jaw, the lower part of the face, and the tongue. If the gan- glion be raised, the small root will be seen passing by it to enter the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve. Differ- Those branches of the ganglion that are unconnected with the the smaller or motor root, viz. the ophthalmic and superior es. maxillary, are solely nerves of sensation; but the inferior maxillary is a nerve both of sensation and motion, like a spinal nerve. It is not, however, the whole of the inferior maxillary nerve that so differs from the rest, for the motor root is mixed almost exclusively with the part of the trunk which supplies the muscles of the lower jaw ; and it is, there- fore, only that small part of the nerve that possesses a double function, and resembles a spinal nerve, oph- The ophthalmic nerve is the only one of the three trunks nerve of that needs a more special notice in this stage of the dissec- Intlrs°n tion. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and is continued through that space to the forehead. In form it is a fiat band, and in its course to the orbit the nerve is con- tained in the wall of the cavernous sinus, where it lies be- Suppiies neath the third and fourth nerves. In this situation it is dura -mater, joined by filaments of the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives a small recurrent filament to that part of the dura mater which forms the tentorium cerebelli (Arnold). Abdu- The sixth nerve enters the orbit through the sphenoidal cens ° L nerve fissure and supplies one of the orbital muscles. It pierces cavem- the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, and ous si- < A 7 nus. crosses the space of the cavernous sinus, instead of lying in the outer wall with the other nerves, in its course to the orbit. In the sinus, the nerve is placed close against the outer side of the carotid artery, where it is joined by one or two branches of the sympathetic nerve surrounding that vessel. seventh Seventh Nerve—This cranial nerve consists of two has two trunks, facial and auditory, and both enter the meatus audi- pd^t!5, torius internus. In the bottom of the meatus they separate ; the facial nerve courses through the aqueduct of Fallopius to the face, whilst the auditory nerve is distributed to the internal ear. Eighth Eighth Nerve. — There are three trunks here combined has three in this nerve, viz. glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory. All three pass through the central com-