DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 210 of gray matter, surrounded by the pia mater, and is lined by the membrane of the third ventricle as far as it is pervious. Pitui- The pituitary body will be very imperfectly seen when it body. has been removed from its resting-place : therefore it should be sometimes examined in the base of the skull, by removing the surrounding bone. Its use is unknown. This body is situate in the hollow in the centre of the sphenoid bone (the sella Turcica), and consists of two lobes, anterior and posterior. The anterior is the largest, and is hollowed out behind, where it receives the posterior lobe. In the adult this mass is firm and solid in texture, and red- dish in colour; but in the fetus it is hollow, and opens into the third ventricle through the infundibulum. struc- This structure is firm and reddish externally, but softer and yellowish internally. In it are large vesicular nucleated bodies, which are imbedded in a granular matrix. Dissec- Dissection. — To see the lamina cinerea and the anterior termination of the corpus callosum, the convolutions of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum may be removed on the left side, where they overlay those parts. The convolution (gyrus fornicatus) in contact with the corpus callosum may be divided, and its ends turned forwards and backwards. Gray The lamina cinerea is a thin layer of gray matter, that extends backwards from the anterior termination of the corpus callosum to the tuber cinereum. This structure closes the anterior part of the third ventricle, and is con- tinuous laterally with the anterior perforated spot. In con- sequence of its great thinness, this structure is often broken through in removing the brain, corpus" The corpus callostim is now seen to be bent in front, and then to be extended horizontally backwards in the longi- tudinal fissure to a spot within a quarter of an inch of the anterior commissure, where it presents a well-marked con- ends in- cave margin, to which the lamina cinerea is joined. A white jn two band, fillet or peduncle of the corpus callosum, is continued onwards, on each side, from the line of termination before alluded to, to the anterior perforated spot. To the anterior bend of the corpus callosum the term knee (genu) is applied, and to the prolonged central part the appellation beak (ros- andex. trum) has been given. Laterally, the corpus callosum teraiiy reaches into the anterior lobe, and bounds the lateral ven-