DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 146 con- mass is somewhat triangular in form, and of a greyish colour, nection ^ situa£ej for mos^ part? behind the branches of the palatine superior maxillary nerve to the palate, so as to surround es. " only part of their fibres ; and it is prolonged posteriorly into struc- the vidian nerve. Meckel's ganglion resembles the other ture* ganglionic masses of the fifth nerve in having sensory, motor, and sympathetic offsets or roots connected with it, and in this wise: — its sensory nerve fibres come from the fifth nerve, its motor fibres from the facial nerve through the vidian branch, and its sympathetic fibres are continued from the carotid plexus in the sheath of the vidian. Branch- The Branches of the ganglion are directed upwards to the eb given . downWards to the mouth; inwards to the nose; and backwards to the pharynx, and to the facial and sympathetic nerves. to the Branches to the orbit, — These are two or three in number, which ascend through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and end in the periosteum. It will be necessary to cut through the sphenoid bone to follow these nerves to their termination. to the Branches to the 'palate, — The nerves of the palate, though connected in part with the ganglionic mass, are the continua- tion of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary are nerve (p. 105.). Below the ganglion they are divided into three palatine nerves (large, small, and external), which are distributed to the roof of the mouth, the soft palate and tonsil, and the lining membrane of the nose. Large a. The large palatine nerve (anterior) reaches the roof of the mouth through the largest palatine canal, and extends forwards nearly to has the incisor teeth, where it joins the naso-palatine nerve. Whilst esto*" m its canal, the nerve furnishes two or more filaments {inferior nose, nasal) to the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones; and, in the roof of the mouth, it supplies the mucous membrane and glands, as well as an offset to the soft palate, small, b. The small palatine nerve (posterior) lies in the smaller canal, and ends inferiorly in the soft palate and the levator palati muscle ; it also supplies the uvula and tonsil, external c. The external palatine nerve is smaller than the other two, and paiatme. descends m ^he canai 0f the same name. Leaving the canal, the nerve is distributed to the velum palati and the tonsil. Nasal Branches to the nose.—The nasal branches, from three to branches j^^g^ are fQr ^e mogt parfc very small and Soft, and pass inwards through the spheno-palatine foramen. One