368 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. receives the cardiac veins, and opens into the right auricle. A cross brancli is found connecting the two above the heart.* This This occasional condition in the adult is a regular one in a very in fetus, early period of the fetus ; and is also persistent in some mammalia. How The changes that take place in the veins during the growth of changed tne fetus, so as to produce the arrangement common in the adult, into one. COncern mostly the trunk on the left side. The following concise statement may serve as an outline of them. First the cross branch between the two enlarges and forms the future left innominate vein. And the trunk (left) below the cross branch disappears at its middle, and undergoes transformations at each end:— At the upper end it becomes converted into the superior intercostal vein. At the lower end it remains pervious for a short distance as the Forms coronary sinus ; and even the small oblique vein opening into the sinu?.ary end of that sinus in the adult (p. 349.), is a remnant of the part of the trunk of the vein that lay beneath the heart. Inferior The inferior or ascending cava enters the right auricle as cava* soon as it has pierced the diaphragm. No branches open into the vein in the thorax. The anatomy of this vein will be given with that of the vessels of the abdomen. Four The pulmonary veins are two on each side ; they issue from nary the fissure of the root of the lung, and end in the left auricle ; veins. their position to the other vessels of the root has been noticed at p. 343. Right The right veins are longer than the left, and lie beneath longest, the right auricle of the heart. The superior one receives its roots from the upper and middle pulmonic lobes, and the inferior vein is formed by branches of the lower lobe. Left. The left veins cross in front of the descending aorta ; and one springs from each lobe of the lung. Their Peculiarities in number. — The number of the pulmonary veins varies^ may be altered, by the union of those of the left side into one ; or by the want of union on the right side, from which three trunks result, corresponding to three lobes. But other peculiarities may be found as to number, for six or seven veins, taking both sides together, have been observed, and a bronchial vein has been found opening into one of the left veins. * An example of those two large vessels " double vena cava," opening into the heart in the adult, has been given to the College Museum by Dr. Sharpey. The student may consult an excellent paper by Mr. John Marshall, on the development of the veins of the neck,—Philosoph. Trans, for 1850.