608 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. one to The nerve to the obturator internus muscle arises from the tor, part of the plexus resulting from the union of the lumbo- sacral with the first sacral nerve; it leaves the pelvis with the pudic artery, and winds over the spine of the ischium and through the small sacro-sciatic notch to enter the peri- natal surface of the muscle. pW°for ^e nerves to the piriformis are commonly two in number, mis. and arise from separate parts of the plexus : they enter the muscle at its visceral aspect. Pudic The pudic nerve, like the artery of the same name, sup- plies the rectum, the perineum, and the genital organs, now The nerve arises at the lower part of the plexus as this is seen * l at.its about to pass from the pelvis, and then accompanies its origin. *- artery through the small sacro-sciatic notch to the perinseum. (See p. 453.) es"to the remaining branches of the plexus, viz., the small and HmtT great sciatic nerves, with small muscular offsets to the gemelli after- and quadratus femoris, are described with the lower limb.— See Dissection of the Buttock. Superior The superior gluteal nerve is a branch of the lumbo-sacral nerve cord, and arises from it opposite the upper part of the large ends in sacro-sciatic notch. It passes outwards above the pyriformis gluteal A t t . muscles, muscle to the back of the pelvis, where it ends chiefly in branches for the two smaller gluteal muscles. Trace Dissection. — Besides the large plexus of the sympathetic sympa- by the side of the bladder, the student will have to dissect thetic. the part of the gangliated cord that lies in front of the sacrum : its several ganglia (three or four), and their branches will come into view, on the removal of the cellular membrane. fheScTn Sympathetic Nerve. — In the pelvis the sympathetic the pel- nerve consists of a gangliated cord on each side, and of two VIS. o o 7 lateral plexuses for the supply of the viscera. The,. The gangliated cord lies on the front of the sacrum and gangh- u ° ated internal to the series of apertures in that bone. It is con- cord i 1 tinuous superiorly with the lumbar part of the cord by a j^ins one single or double internodal piece; whilst inferiorly the cords s^side* of opposite sides converge, and are united in front of the where coccyx by means of a loop, on which is situate a single me- gifon" C^an Sangli°n> 9an9' impar* Each cord is marked by gan- glia at intervals, the number varying from three to five. Offsets From the ganglia branches of communication pass to the