287 SHOULDER JOINT. which it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. In this extent the nerve gives muscular branches, and cutaneous nerves to both the inner and outer parts of Branch- A es. the arm. a. The internal cutaneous branch of the arm is of small size, and internal arises in the axillary space, in common with the branch to the inner neous head of the triceps •; it is directed across the posterior boundary of branch* the axillary space to the inner side of the arm, where it becomes cutaneous in the upper third, and is distributed as before said (p. 276.). b. The muscular branches to the triceps are numerous, and sup- Branch- ply all the three heads. One slender offset, that is distributed to triceps!6 the inner head, arises in common with the preceding cutaneous branch, and lies close to the ulnar nerve, till it enters the muscu- lar fibres at the lower third of the arm. And a long slender branch, that appears as if it ended in the triceps, can be followed down- wards to the anconeus muscle. On the outer part of the limb brachi- the musculo-spiral nerve supplies the brachialis anticus, and two muscles muscles of the fore-arm—supinator longus and extensor carpi ^mDre" radialis longior. c. The external cutaneous branches are two in number : they Two perforate the outer head of the triceps at its attachment to the cute.nal humerus, and are distributed in the integument of the arm and neous- fore-arm (p. 276.). Dissection. — Now the dissection of the arm has been Dissec- completed as far as the elbow, it will be advisable to examine the*" °f next the shoulder joint. For this purpose the tendons of the }iS]der surrounding muscles, viz. those of the subscapularis, supra and infra spinatus, and teres minor, must be detached from the joint. On the removal of the cellular membrane and some loose fibrous tissue, the articular capsule, with a thick- ened band on the fore part, will be ready prepared. Shoulder Joint. — The joint is formed between the head shoulder of the humerus and the glenoid fossa of the scapula, these how ' parts being enclosed in a fibrous capsule. This articulation has great extent of movement; and the bones entering into its formation are but slightly bound together by ligamentous bands, for, on the removal of the muscles, the articular sur- face of the humerus drops from the other with great readi- ness. A ligamentous band (glenoid ligament) deepens the shallow cavity for the reception of the large head of the humerus.