BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 73 The vertebral vein issues with its accompanying artery, to Verte- which it is superficial in the neck, and is directed over the vein, . . • i and subclavian artery to join the subclavian vein ; it receives the branch- deep cervical vein and the branch that accompanies the ascending cervical artery. 2. The internal mammary branch leaves the lower part internal mamma- of the subclavian artery, and coursing downwards beneath ry artery • in the the clavicle and subjacent muscle, and the subclavian vein, neck enters the thorax between the first rib and the bag of the pleura. As the artery is about to enter the chest, it is crossed (superficially) by the phrenic nerve. The distribu- tion of the vessel to the walls of the chest and abdomen will be seen with the dissection of those parts. 3. Thyroid axis. — This is a short thick trunk, that arises Thyroid from the front of the artery near the anterior scalenus muscle, and soon divides into three branches : — one to the divides thyroid body, and two to the scapula that run outwards three, across the neck. On the left side of the body the thoracic duct lies in front of the thyroid axis. a. The supra-scapular branch courses outwards across the lower Supra- part of the posterior triangular space of the neck, behind the branch^ clavicle and subclavian muscle, to the superior costa of the scapula, and entering the supra-spinal fossa is distributed on the dorsum of that bone. The connections of this artery are seen in the dissec- tion of the back. b. The transverse cervical branch, usually larger than the pre- Trans- ceding, takes a similar direction, though higher in the neck, and cervical ends beneath the border of the trapezius muscle in the superficial brauch- cervical and posterior scapular arteries. (See " Dissection of the Back.") • In its course outwards this artery crosses the anterior scalenus, the phrenic nerve, and the brachial plexus, and lies in the upper part of the space that contains the third part of the subclavian artery. Some small branches are supplied by it to the Offsets, posterior triangular space of the neck. Though the transverse cervical artery supplies ordinarily the Place of posterior scapular branch, there are many examples in which, varies, though holding its usual position in the neck, it is too small in size to give origin to so large an offset. In such instances the diminished artery ends in the trapezius muscle, whilst the posterior scapular branch arises separately from the third, or even the second part of the subclavian artery. c. The inferior thyroid branch is the largest offset of the thyroid inferior axis. Directed inwards to the thyroid body, the artery passes be- branch*