THE PANCREAS. 537 of the duodenum, and projects above and below the body of of the the gland, like the head of a hammer beyond the handle ; and the lower projecting piece is directed to the left along the duodenum as far as the superior mesenteric vessels, be- neath which it passes. The left extremity, or the tail, is 0f the rounded, and touches the spleen. The body of the gland is and of narrowest a little to the right of the vertebral column, and the body* is thickest at the upper border ; it measures about one inch and a half in breadth, and from half an inch to an inch in thickness. Its connections with surrounding parts are described at p. 514. Dissection,—Let the pancreas be placed on the anterior Trace surface, and the excretory duct contained in its substance be ducthe traced, posteriorly, from right to left. The duct will be recognised by its white colour. Structure. — The pancreas is a compound gland, and IS It is a provided with a special duct. It is destitute of a distinct p0™nd capsule, but it is surrounded by cellular tissue, which pro- wfthout jects into the interior, and connects together the lobules, capsule?* The fluid secreted by it assists in the digestion of the ali- ment. The glandular structure is soft and loose in texture, and Texture is of a reddish, or greyish white colour. It consists of colour; lobules, which are united into larger masses by cellular tis- sue, vessels, and ducts. In analysing a lobule it will be COnsti- found to consist ultimately, as in the parotid, of the branch- ii£°the ings of the excretory duct, which end in closed vesicular gilST extremities, and are surrounded by a plexus of vessels. The duct of the pancreas (canal of Wirsung) extends the The duct entire length of the gland, and is somewhat nearer the lower gland; than the upper border. It begins in the tail of the pancreas, extent; where it presents a bifurcated extremity ; as it continues onwards to the head of the gland, it receives many branches, branch- and it finally ends by opening into the duodenum, either in es; union with, or separate from the common bile duct (p. 529.). termi- Of the tributary branches the largest is derived from the head of the pancreas. The duct measures one line or one size and line and a half in diameter near the duodenum, and is formed tureV of a fibrous and a mucous coat: the latter is lined by a cylindrical epithelium, and is provided with small compound glands in the duct, and its largest branches. Occasionally there are two pancreatic ducts: or the branch Cities'-