DEEP MUSCLES OF THE URETHRA. 451 G G 2 parts, viz. one of transverse fibres, both above and below has two the urethra, which are connected on each side to the arch of the pubes ; and a deeper layer of circular fibres. The transverse part of the muscle arises by aponeurotic Jerras"s" fibres from the descending ramus of the pubes, for the dis- tance of half or three quarters of an inch ; but this attach- £r°™g> ment is not evident unless the muscle has been dissected from behind. From this origin the fibres pass inwards, and separate near the urethra into two layers, of which one passes over, the other under that canal; in the middle line and these unite, sometimes by tendinous bands, with the muscle middle of the opposite side. Or the fibres may be described as ex- tending across the perinseum from the one lateral attachment over and to the other, and enclosing the tube of the urethra in their ure- passage like the sphincter ani encircles the rectum. The deeper circular part surrounds the urethra between circular the bulb and the prostate ; its fibres do not reach outwards part' to the bone, but are blended with the transverse fibres of the other portion of the muscle.* The glands of Cowper will be found by cutting through cow- the transverse muscle: they are situate below the mem- gTands. branous part of the urethra, one on each side of the middle situa- tion and line, and close behind the bulb. Each gland is about the size, size of a pea, and is made up of many small lobules. Con- nected with each is a minute duct, nearly an inch in length, Length which perforates obliquely the wall of the urethra (corp US mina- spongiosum), and opens into the urethral canal about half an tliTduct. inch in front of the triangular ligament: the aperture of the duct in the ordinary condition of the parts does not admit a bristle. These bodies are sometimes so small as to escape detection, and they appear to decrease in size with advancing age. Dissection, — The student may complete the examination Dissee- of the perinaeum by tracing out the pudic vessels and nerve, thTpu- and their remaining branches. From the point of its divi- seised nerve. * Further information respecting this muscle may be obtained by consulting the Septemdecim Tabula; of Santorini; a Paper by Wilson (James), in the first volume of the Med. Chirur. Transactions; the Work of Mr. Guthrie, On the Anatomy and Diseases of the Neck of the Bladder and Urethra; and the Treatise of J. Muller, Ueber die Organ- ischen Nerven der erectilen Mdnnlichen Geschlechts Organe, 8fc.