DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. 46 Upper The superior oblique muscle is thin and narrow, and muscle passes through a pulley at the inner angle of the orbit, before reaching the eyeball. The muscle arises from the inner part of the optic foramen, and ends anteriorly in a rounded enters a tendon, which, after passing through the pulley, is reflected pulley. between the superior rectus and the globe of the eye, and inser- is inserted into the sclerotic coat behind the middle of the eyeball. The fourth nerve is supplied to the orbital sur- connec- face of the muscle, and the nasal nerve lies below it. tions. W\m insertion of the muscle lies between the superior and the external rectus, and near the tendon of the inferior oblique. Pulley The pulley, or trochlea, is a fibro-cartilaginous ring about muscle, two lines and a half in length, which is attached to the de- pression of the frontal bone at the inner angle of the orbit by fibrous tissue. A fibrous prolongation is continued from the anterior margin of the pulley on the tendon as far as the eye- ball ; and a synovial membrane lines the ring, to facilitate the movement of the tendon through it. To see the synovial membrane and the tendon this prolongation must be taken away. pissec- Dissection. — The superior rectus muscle is next to be cut across about the middle, and turned backwards, when a branch of the third nerve to its under surface will be found. The nasal nerve and the ophthalmic artery and vein will be now seen crossing inwards above the optic nerve: these should be traced forwards to the inner angle, and backwards To find to the posterior part of the orbit. By taking away some of cuiar the fat between the optic nerve and the external rectus, at luon. the back of the orbit, the small lenticular ganglion and its branches will be discovered: the student will find the ciliary branches, that lie along the side of the optic nerve, the best guide to the ganglion. Tne dissector should then find the branches from the nasal and third nerves to the ganglion. And, lastly, he should separate from one another the nasal, third, and sixth nerves, as they enter the orbit between the heads of the external rectus muscle. Third The third nerve is highest in position in the wall of the nerve cavernous sinus, but at the sphenoidal fissure it descends below the fourth, and the two branches (frontal and lachry- asit mal) of the ophthalmic nerve. The nerve enters the orbit