DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 554 larger tubes; and these are finally blended in the excretory duct or the ureter. Two Structure. — The ureter consists of an external or muscu- coatsin ureter, lar, and an internal or mucous coat. The muscular covering iarUand" forms a dense bluish-white layer, which is composed of an mucous. externai or longitudinal, and an internal or circular stratum. The mucous coat is thrown into longitudinal folds during the contracted state of the ureter? and is lined by an epithelium of the spheroidal form. The ca- The calices resemble the rest of the duct in having a mus- twoS als° cular and a mucous coat. Around the pyramid the enve- loping tunic of the kidney is continuous with the calyx; and at the apex of that body, the mucous lining is prolonged into the uriniferal tubes through the small openings of the papilla. THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULE. Useun- This small body, whose use is unknown, has received its nown* name from its position in the abdomen. Its vessels and nerves are numerous, but it is not provided with any excre- No duet, tory duct. situa- It is situate, one on each side, on the front of the upper extremity of the kidney; and without care it may be re- moved with the surrounding fat, which it resembles. Its form and colour is yellowish ; and its form resembles that of a cocked colour, m hat. The upper part is convex, but the base or lower part size and is hollowed, where it touches the kidney. Its size in the adult is about one inch and a half in depth, and rather less in width ; and its weight is between one and two drachms, but the left is commonly larger than the right capsule. Connec- Some cellular tissue attaches the supra-renal body to the tions. r ... kidney, and large vessels and nerves retain it in situation. The connections with the surrounding parts are the same as those of the upper end of the kidney. Thus this body rests on the diaphragm on both sides ; whilst above the right one is the liver, and above the left the pancreas and the spleen. On the inner side of the right capsule is the vena cava, with part of the solar plexus ; and internal to the left is the aorta, with the same plexus of nerves. a cap- . Structure. — By means of a perpendicular section, the