117 HYPO-GLOSSAL NERVE. to the vagus; it is then continued over the lower ganglion fora- of the nerve, and blends with the trunk of the vagus only beyond the ganglion. It gives offsets to join the pharyngeal how and upper laryngeal branches of the vagus ; and according to Bendz, offsets from it may be traced into many other branches of the same nerve. The spinal part is much larger, is round and cord-like, Spinal and is connected with the smaller piece, whilst it is passing Foramen, through the foramen lacerum. Beyond the foramen the nerve takes a backward course in the through the sterno-mastoid muscle, and across the side of the crosses neck to the trapezius muscle. At first it is somewhat con- [°ape_ cealed by the jugular vein, but it then passes either over or Z1US> under that vein, to take the course above indicated. The connections and distribution of the nerve beyond the sterno- mastoideus have been already examined. This nerve furnishes muscular offsets to the sterno-mas- supplies toideus and the trapezius. The hypo-glossal or ninth nerve, after passing from Ninth the cranium by the anterior condyloid foramen, lies deeply neive beneath the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein. It then comes forwards between the vein and the artery, turn- ing round the outer side of the vagus, to which it is inti- mately united. The nerve next descends in the neck, and crosses J # ... inwards becomes superficial below the digastric muscle, in the anterior to r ° 7 tongue. triangular space. From this spot the nerve is directed in- wards to the tongue and its muscles. The branches of this nerve are furnished to the muscles Branch- on the fore part of the windpipe, and to the muscular sub- withm i stance of the tongue ; but there are also some branches con- necting it with other nerves near the skull. Connecting branches.—ISTear the skull the hypo-glossal is con- theva- nected by branches with the vagus nerve, and the two are almost guS' inseparably united. Rather lower down, the nerve has connecting branches with the sympa- sympathetic, and with the loop of the first two spinal nerves. and spi- The branches for distribution to parts around are included and'sup. in the description of the dissections of the neck, submaxillary mUesscles. region, and tongue. Dissection. — The small rectus capitis lateralis muscle, pissec- between the transverse process of the atlas and the base of rectus lateralis. I 3