189 CAROTID AKTEEIES. ophthalmic artery, before it ends in the following terminal branches to the cerebrum. L The anterior cerebral artery supplies the inner part of ^jtertor the cerebral hemisphere. The vessel of each side is directed supplies 1 inner forwards to the median fissure between the hemispheres; g^.of and as the two are about to enter it, they are united by a sPhere ? 7 J J coramu- short thick artery, the anterior communicating. Each artery ^Jjjlg then runs forwards in the fissure, and bends round the ante- rior part of the corpus callosum, so as to be placed on its upper aspect in the natural position of the brain. Still con- tinuing backwards nearly to the posterior extremity of the hemisphere, the vessel gives off numerous branches, which anastomose with the other cerebral arteries. It supplies other branches, thus: — Near its commencement the artery furnishes many smallits off- . sets, branches to the part of the brain contiguous to the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius (anterior perforated space) ; and it distributes also some branches to the under part of the anterior lobe. 2. The middle cerebral artery is the largest offset of the Middle . « cerebral internal carotid, and supplies the outer side of the hemi- artery sphere. Passing outwards in the fissure of Sylvius, the artery divides in it into many large branches that issue at the outer end of that groove, and spreading over the ex- ^rin ternal aspect of the hemisphere of the cerebrum, inosculate of with the other two cerebral arteries at the front, the back, sphere, and the upper part of the brain. Only the remaining fine offsets require notice: A set of small branches arises at the inner end of the fissure of Offsets. Sylvius, and enter the cerebral substance through the part called locus perforatus anticus. 3. The posterior communicating artery is a small twig Poste- that is directed backwards parallel to the third nerve, and on municat- its inner side, to join the posterior cerebral artery (of the mg* basilar) near the pons. 4. The choroid artery (anterior) is small in size, and ^™id arises either from the trunk of the carotid, or from the middle cerebral artery. It passes backwards on the outer side of the preceding, and finds its way between the hemi- sphere and the crus cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. Circle of Willis,—This term has been applied to the chain circle of Willis;