DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 116 superior laryngeal nerve, but below it, this branch reaches the side thyroid" °^ ^e larynx> and gives offsets to the pharyngeal plexus. Finally, and thy- the nerve is continued beneath the sterno-thyroideus, to supply body. the crico-thyroid muscle and the thyroid body. Near its origin this branch communicates with the sympathetic nerve (superficial cardiac branch). Branch- 3. Cardiac branches. — Some small cardiac nerves arise from the heart pneumo-gastric at the upper part of the neck, and join branches and^ow (car(^ac) °ftne sympathetic. At the lower part of the neck, on er part of each side, there is a single cardiac nerve; that of the right side enters the chest, and joins one of the deep nerves of the heart from the sympathetic; and on the left side, the corresponding nerve terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus of the thorax. Another 4. The inferior laryngeal or recurrent nerve of the right side branch , . J U b . . . _ , * . & tola- leaves the pneumo-gastric trunk opposite the subclavian artery, rynx' and winding round that vessel, takes an upward course in the ends neck to the larynx. To reach its destination, the nerve ascends cies in" beneath the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and interior, ketween the trachea and the oesophagus. At the larynx it enters beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and it will be It has afterwards followed into the interior. The following branches arise from it: — branches a. Some cardiac branches leave the nerve as it turns round the ' subclavian artery; these enter the thorax, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic, to tra- b. Muscular branches spring from the recurrent nerve whilst it and ceso- lies between the trachea and the oesophagus, and are distributed to phagus. those tubes. Near the larynx also some filaments are fur- nished to the inferior constrictor muscle. Left re. On the left side of the body the recurrent nerve arises in the nerve, thorax, opposite the arch of the aorta, around which it turns. In the neck its position is between the trachea and the oesophagus, as on the right side. spinal The spinal accessory nerve passes through the foramen acces- sory in lacerum witb the pneumo-gastric, but is not marked by any has two ganglion while in the foramen. This nerve is constructed of parts two parts, viz. accessory to the vagus, and spinal, which have a different origin and distribution. See Origin of the cranial nerves. acces- The part accessor?/ to the vagus is the smaller of the two, vagus° and finally blends with the vagus beyond the skull. In the men. in fora. foramen lacerum it lies close to the vagus ; and here it joins the upper ganglion of that nerve by one or two filaments. Having passed through the foramen, this part is applied