LUMBAR ARTERIES. 579 p p 2 cord. It lies along the inner border of the psoas muscle, joins n i 1.1 . that in nearer the front of the vertebrae than the like part in the thorax; thorax, and is somewhat concealed on the right side by the vena cava. Each cord presents four or five oblong ganglia |j*sfi^r opposite the bodies of the vertebrae; and from these, connect- ganglia; ing branches to the spinal nerves, and branches of distribu- tion are supplied. a. Connecting branches. — From each ganglion two small their branches are directed backwards, along the centre of the to either body of the vertebra, with the lumbar artery; these unite spinal with the anterior division of a spinal nerve near the inter- vertebral foramen, or they are often divided between two spinal nerves. The connecting branches are longest in the lumbar region, in consequence of the cord being carried for- wards by the psoas muscle to the fore part of the vertebras. b. Branches for distribution, — Most of the internal or the branches throw themselves into the aortic and hypogastric for the plexuses, and so reach the viscera indirectly. Some filaments ofthlf , , i i • i• viscera. enter the vertebrae and their connecting ligaments. Last dorsal nerve.—The anterior division of the last dorsal This, nerve resembles the other intercostal nerves in its distribu- Hkethe tion, but differs from them in not being contained in an in- costal, tercostal space. Lying below the last rib, the nerve is directed outwards across the upper part of the quadratus lumborum, and beneath the fascia covering that muscle. At Course ' _ „ _ n . . ■ wall the outer border oi the quadratus it pierces the posterior of the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum), men.' enters the wall of the abdomen, and ends in an abdominal and a cutaneous branch (p. 462.). Near the spine it fur- nishes a small branch to the quadratus muscle; and it may communicate by means of this with the first lumbar nerve. An offset from the first lumbar artery accompanies the nerve. The lumbar arteries are some of the parietal branches Five in of the aorta (p. 566.), and are furnished to the spinal canal on each and the wall of the abdomen : they resemble the aortic inter- '.. ' J like the costal branches in their course and distribution. Commonly j,1^- five in number on each side, these arteries arise opposite the centre of the vertebrae, and the vessels of opposite sides are« sometimes joined in a common trunk: they then pass back- Course wards in the hollow of the vertebrae, beneath the pillar of the %