2 DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. retrahent muscle, is behind the ear. There are other special muscles of the cartilage of the ear, which will be afterwards described. Dissec- Dissection.—When the ear has been drawn down by upper hooks, the position of the two upper muscles will be indi- ' cated by a slight prominence between it and the head; and the extent of their muscular fibres will be reached by means of the two following incisions, made no deeper than ■ the skin. One of these is to be directed upwards along the cutaneous ridge before-mentioned and the side of the head, for about three inches; and the other, from before back- wards close above the ear, for nearly the same distance, so that the two may join at a right angle. On carefully raising the flaps of skin from below upwards, and removing some sub- jacent tissue, the thin muscular fibres will come into view— the more anterior constituting the attrahens, and the pos- terior the attollens aurem muscle, ofpos- When the ear is drawn forwards, a ridge marks in like terior . / ° muscle, manner the situation of the posterior muscle. To remove the integuments, let the scalpel be carried down, about an inch behind the ear, from the transverse cut above, as far as to a level with the lobule of the ear, and then forwards below the lobule. After the piece of skin included by these cuts is reflected towards the ear, the retrahent muscle will be easily found beneath the subcutaneous tissue, for it is stronger though deeper than the others. Attra- The attrahens aurem is a small fan-shaped muscle that hens- ... aurem arises from the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, near its muscle • t anterior part. Its fibres are directed backwards, and are inserted into the projection on the front of the rim of the is united ear. This muscle is united with the following at its origin, next. but a cellular interval exists between them near the ear. Beneath it are the temporal vessels. Attoi- The attollens aurem has the same form as the preced- lens r aurem {ncr though its fibres are longer and more marked. Arising muscle. D ° ° o also from the tendon of the occipito-frontalis, the fibres con- verge to their insertion into the inner or cranial surface of the pinna of the ear, into an eminence corresponding to the navicular fossa on the opposite aspect, hens*" RETRAHENS aurem (muscitli retrahentes, Alb.) con- aurem sists of two or three roundish, but separate bundles of fibres,