DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 400 Dissec- Dissection. — The cellular membrane is now to be taken tlon' from the trapezius and latissimus dorsi in the direction of the fibres of each, viz. from the shoulder to the spinal column; and the upper limb is to be carried backwards or forwards according as it may be necessary to put on the stretch the different portions of the muscles. Some of the cutaneous nerves may be left, in order that they may be traced afterwards through the muscles to their origin. Two' First Layer of Muscles. — Two muscles, the trapezius in first and the latissimus dorsi, are present in this^tayer. Trape- * TRAPEZIUS muscle is triangular in shape, with the zius- base towards the spine, but the two muscles taken together have a trapezoid form. The muscle has an extensive apo- Origin neurotic origin along the middle line, from the head to the ofic?eu loins, viz. from the spines of the dorsal vertebrse and their supraspinous ligament; from the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra; from the ligamentum nuchas between the last point and the head; and lastly from the inner third of the superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone. From this origin the fibres are directed outwards, inser- converging to the shoulder, and are inserted into the outer fiesny. third of the clavicle, at its posterior aspect; into the pos- terior border of the acromion; and into the upper edge of Connec- the spine of the scapula. The muscle is subcutaneous. At its origin it is tendinous between the sixth cervical and the third dorsal vertebra, as well as at its attachment to the head ; and at the outer side the lowest fleshy fibres end in a small triangular tendon, that glides over the smooth surface at the root of the spine of the scapula. The anterior border bounds behind the posterior triangular space of the side of the neck. By its insertion the trapezius corresponds to the origin of the deltoid muscle. Trace Dissection. — The fibres of the trapezius are to be divided acces! near the scapula, and over the spinal accessory nerve, so sory* that the ramifications of that nerve in the muscle, and its junction with the branches of the cervical plexus may be traced. A small artery to the trapezius (art. superficialis colli) accompanies the nerve. Spinal The spinal accessory nerve (p. 116.), having crossed the sory posterior triangle of the neck, enters beneath the trapezius, trape- and forms a plexiform arrangement with branches of the zius.