304 DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. to the the middle of the fore-arm the nutrient vessels of the bones bones. . arise Irom the artery. Where it is about to turn backwards, it furnishes twigs to the pronator quadratus, and one branch is continued beneath that muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. Anterior The anterior interosseous nerve is derived from the median interos- nervl ^2.)> an(* accompanies the artery of the same name to proni" tlie Pronator quadratus muscle, on the under surface of tor. which it ends. Some lateral branches are distributed by it to the deep flexor muscles. Section V. THE PALM OF THE HAND. Dissec- Dissection.—Without any change in the position of the seek the nan(^> tne skin *s to De reflected from the palm by means of neous two incisions. One is to be carried along the centre of the hand from the wrist to the fingers; and the other is to be made, from side to side, at the termination of the first. In raising the inner flap, the small palmaris brevis muscle will be recognised at the inner margin of ♦the hand, near the wrist. In the fat the ramifications of the small branches (palmar) of the median and ulnar nerves are to be found. Define The student should remove the fat from the small muscle, nerves. marPfas". and from the strong palmar fascia in the centre of the cia. hand, and should be careful not to destroy a thin transverse band of tissue (transverse ligament), that passes across the roots of the fingers. When cleaning the fat from the palmar fascia he will recognise the digital vessels and nerves, and must direct his attention especially to two : — viz. those of the inner side of the little finger and outer side of the index finger, which appear farther back than the rest, and are most likely to be injured, and ex- Lastly, the skin and the fat may be reflected from the digital thumb and the fingers by an incision along each, so as to expose the sheaths of the tendons with the collateral vessels and nerves. Two cu- Cutaneous palmar nerves.—Two named cutaneous nerves ramify palmar8 m the palm of the hand. a. One of these is an offset of the median nerves. nerve (p> 302.), and crosses the annular ligament: it extends to about the middle of the palm, and is connected with the palmar