30 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. small vein named angular (p. 7.). It then crosses over the fromay elevator °f tne upper lip, and separating from the artery artery; COurses beneath the zygomatic muscle to the side of the jaw. Afterwards it has a short course in the neck to join the internal jugular vein, is joined Branches —At the inner side of the orbit it receives veins from branch- the lower eyelid (inferior palpebral) and the side of the nose. b Below the orbit it is joined by the infra-orbital vein, also by a large branch that comes from the pterygoid region (anterior in- ternal maxillary) ; and thence to its termination by veins corre- sponding to the branches of the artery both in the face and neck. Trans- The transverse facial is a branch of the temporal artery, facial and appears in the face at the anterior border of the parotid artel> gland. It lies by the side of the parotid duct, with branches of the facial nerve, and distributes offsets to the muscles and integuments; some branches anastomose with the facial artery. Lay bare Dissection, — The parotid gland may next be displayed. rotX To see the gland, raise the skin from its surface towards the ear by means of a cut from the base of the jaw to the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; this cut may be united with that made for the dissection of the posterior muscle of the ear. A strong fascia covers the gland, and is connected above and behind to the zygoma and the cartilage of the ear, but in front is continued over the face. After the fascia has been removed, the superficial connections of the gland will appear. The great auricular nerve will be also seen ascending to the lobe of the ear. Parotid The parotid is the largest of the salivary glands ; it gland' occupies the space between the ear and the lower jaw, and is named from its position. Its excretory duct enters the mouth through the middle of the cheek, irregu- The shape of the gland is irregular, and is determined shape; somewhat by the bounding parts. Thus inferiorly, where there is not any resisting structure, the gland projects into the neck, and comes into close proximity with the sub- maxillary gland, though separated from it by a process of is lodged the cervical fascia: a line from the angle of the jaw to the thelaw sterno-mastoid muscle marks usually the extent of the and ear; parot^ .Q direction. Above, the parotid is limited by the zygoma and the temporal bone; and at the posterior part