DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 6 anastomose freely over the side of the head. Only two small branches, the supra-orbital and frontal, come from the former ; whilst the temporal, occipital, and posterior auricular arteries are offsets of the latter, supra- The supra-orbital branch of artery leaves the orbit through orbital . . ... artery, the notch in the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead. Some of its branches are superficial to the occipito-frontalis, and ascend towards the top of the head, whilst others remain beneath the muscle, and supply it, the periosteum, and the bone. Frontal The frontal branch is close to the inner angle of the orbit, dlteri* and is much smaller than the preceding. It soon ends ill branches for the supply of the muscles, integuments, and periosteum. superfi- The superficial temporal artery is the terminal branch of poraihasthe external carotid. After ascending over the zygoma for about two inches, the vessel divides on the temporal fascia into anterior and posterior branches, anterior The anterior division runs forward with a serpentine course to the forehead, supplying muscular, cutaneous, and pericranial off- sets, and anastomoses with the supra-orbital artery. It is this branch that is opened when blood is taken from the temporal artery. poste- The posterior division is larger than the other, and arches back- nor pai t. war(jg akove ^e ear towards the occipital artery, with which it anastomoses. Its branches are similar to those of the other divi- sion, and it communicates moreover with the artery of the opposite side over the top of the head. ocdpi- Occipital Artery.— The terminal part of this artery, after tery.1" perforating the trapezius, divides into large and tortuous branches, which spread over the back of the head and the occipito-frontalis muscle. Communications are established by means of these branches with the artery of the opposite side, with the posterior division of the temporal, and with the following artery. Some offsets pass deeply to supply the muscle, the pericranium, and the bone. Poste- The posterior auricular artery appears in front of the ricuiar." mastoid process, and divides into two branches. One (mas- toid) is directed backwards to supply the occipito-frontalis, and anastomose with the occipital artery. The other (auri- cular) is furnished to the retrahent muscle and back of the