39 THE FACIAL NERVE. D 4 the meatus auditorius, but it does not give rise to a complete tube, for the upper and posterior part of that canal is closed by fibrous tissue. On the posterior aspect of the concha is a strong vertical process of cartilage. In the piece of cartilage that forms the under-part of the its fis- meatus are two fissures (Santorini); one is at the base of the tragus, the other passes from before backwards. Ligaments connect the pinna with the head, and pass from Liga- one point of the cartilage to another. The external ligaments are the condensed bands of fibrous Ex- ° ternal; tissue that extend between the same points as the external muscles (p. 2.), though commonly only an anterior and pos- terior are described. The chief special ligament crosses special, the interval between the tragus and the beginning of the helix, and completes the tube of the meatus. The facial nerve (portio dura) is a part of the seventh outline cranial nerve, and confers motor power on the muscles of nerve. the face. Numerous communications take place between it and the fifth nerve, and the chief of these are found above and below the orbit, and on the side of the lower jaw. Dissection. — The facial nerve is to be displayed on the Dissec- . tion of right side of the face if time still serves (see p. 1.). Part of nerve the nerve is concealed by the parotid gland, but the greater part is anterior to the glandular mass. To expose its ramifications beyond the parotid gland, let beyond r J. r & parotid, the skin be raised from the face in the same manner as on the left side. The different branches of the nerve are then to be sought as they escape from beneath the anterior border of the gland, and to be followed forwards to their termination. The highest branches that go to the temple have been already partly dissected above the zygoma ; and their j unction with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary, and with the supra-orbital nerve has been seen. Other still smaller branches are to be traced to the outer part of the orbit, where they enter the eyelids and communicate with the other nerves in them ; and by means of this set, whilst they cross the malar bone, a junction is formed with the sub- cutaneous malar nerve (of the fifth). With the duct of the parotid are two or more large branches, that are to be followed below the orbit to their junction with the infra-