SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. 147 of these is the nasopalatine nerve. Their distribution is mentioned below. a. The superior nasal branches (anterior) are distributed in the Superior mucous membrane on the two upper spongy bones, and a few fila- ments reach the back part of the septum narium. b. The naso-palatine nerve (nerve of Cotunnius) crosses the roof Naso- ii • n i i i • Palatine- of the nasal fossa to reach the septum nasi, and] descends on this partition to near the front. The nerve now enters a special canal, by the side of the septum, that of the left side of the body being anterior to the other, and is conveyed to the roof of the mouth, where it lies in the centre of the anterior palatine foramen. Finally, the nerves of opposite sides are united in the mouth, and are distributed in the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth ; at their distribution they are connected with the great palatine nerves. On the septum narium, filaments are supplied by the naso-palatine nerve to the mucous membrane. To follow the nerve to its termination, the canal in the roof of the mouth ought to be opened. The posterior branches are two: a pharyngeal branch, Branch- and the vidian nerve. wards are a. The pharyngeal branch is very small, and is directed through to pha- the pterygopalatine canal to the mucous membrane of the pharynx ryux near the Eustachian tube, in which it ends. b. The vidian nerve passes backwards through the vidian canal, and the and sends some small filaments, through the bone, to the membrane and of the back part of the roof of the nose (upper posterior nasal t^Ttfc ~ branches). At its exit from the canal, the nerve furnishes a soft f^oueh reddish offset (carotid branch) to join the sympathetic on the outer ^nvi"' side of the carotid artery. The continuation of the nerve enters the cranium through the cartilaginous substance closing the fora- men lacerum medium (basis cranii), and is directed backwards in a groove on the surface of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it takes the name of large superficial petrosal nerve. Lastly it is continued through the hiatus Fallopii, to join the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve. Whilst in the temporal bone, the vidian receives a twig from the tympanic nerve. The vidian nerve may be considered to consist of motor and Vidian sympathetic fibres in the same sheath, which may be combined pound here in the same manner as in the connecting branches between nerve- the sympathetic and spinal nerves. Directions. — The student may now direct his attention to the remaining nerves and vessels that are distributed in the nasal cavity. Dissection. — The nasal nerve is to be sought in the nose ° othe l 2