INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 107 The stylo-pharyngeus muscle resembles the other sty- stylo- loid muscles in its elongated form. The fibres arise from geus.yn the root of the styloid process on the inner surface, and Origin, descend, between the superior and middle constrictors, to be inserted partly into the pharynx, and partly into the upper inser- border of the thyroid cartilage. The muscle lies below the 1°^- stylo-glossus, and between the carotid arteries; and the clr^tid. glossopharyngeal nerve turns over the lower part of its arteries- fleshy belly. The stylo-hyoid ligament is a fibrous band, that extends gtyio-^ from the tip of the styloid process to the small cornu of the gament. os hyoides. Its position is between the stylo glossus and lies by i , i i-i . i side of stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and over the internal carotid preced- artery, whilst the lower end is beneath the hyo-glossusm*' muscle. To the posterior border the middle constrictor muscle is attached. It is frequently cartilaginous or osseous in part of, or in all its extent. The INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Supplies parts within the Internal head, viz. the brain and the orbit, and takes a circuitous artery, course through, and along the base of the skull, before it terminates in the brain. Dissection. — The part of the arterial trunk in the base of some the skull, and its offset to the orbit, have been already exa- already mined, whilst the part in the neck, and in the temporal bone remains to be dissected. Its branches to the brain are de- scribed with that part. For the display of the cervical part of the artery there is D'ssec- . . 5 . , . . tion of now but little dissection required, since by detaching the carotid . . . in the styloid process at its root, and throwing it with its attached neck; muscles to the middle line, the internal carotid artery and jugular vein may be followed upwards to the skull. Only a dense fascia now conceals them, which is to be taken away carefully, so that the branches of the eighth and ninth nerves, that are in contact with the vessels near the base of the skull, may not be injured. In the fascia, and superficial to the artery, are the pharyngeal branch of the vagus (near the skull), and the glossopharyngeal nerve and its branches ; whilst the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus is beneath the artery. Between the vein and artery, near the skull, are the vagus, hypo-glossal, and sympathetic nerves; and crossing