SCAPULAR LIGAMENTS. fasciculus (posterior proper ligament) will be found over the notch in the superior costa. Ligaments of the Clavicle and Scapula. — The Vnio,n of the cla- clavicle is connected to the scapula by a distinct articulation vicle ?nd x J scapula. with the acromion, and by a strong ligament (coraco-clavi- cular) between it and the coracoid process. The coraco-clavicular ligament consists of two parts, each Coraco- having a different direction and designation. The posterior lar, piece, called conoid from its shape, is fixed by its apex to the conical posterior and inner part of the coracoid process, and by its base to the tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle, at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone. The anterior part, trapezoid ligament, is external to the conoid piece: it is connected inferiorly to the inner border and a of the coracoid process, and superiorly to the line on the piece, under surface of the clavicle, which extends outwards from the tubercle before mentioned. The two parts of the liga- ment are united posteriorly, but are separated by an interval in front. Acromioclavicular articulation. — The articular surfaces Joint of the clavicle, and the acromion process of the scapula, acro- are retained in contact by some scattered fibres, which form a kind of capsule for the joint. Some of the fibres are superior stronger above and below, and are thus considered to consti- ferior" tute a superior and an inferior ligament. An inter articular fibro.' fibro-cartilage is generally found between the bones only at the upper part of the joint; but sometimes it forms a com- plete interarticular septum. If the fibro-cartilage is perfect, there are two synovial membranes ; if it is imperfect, there and sy- is only one present in the joint. The joint should be opened sac. to see the cartilage and the synovial membrane. The special ligaments of the scapula are two in number, Liga- anterior and posterior, and extend from one part to another scapula, of the bone. The posterior ligament is a round fasciculus of fibres Poste- across the notch in the upper costa of the scapula. By one n°r and end it is attached to the base of the coracoid process, and by the other to the costa behind the notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the suprascapular nerve passes.