THE IRIS. 763 anterior part of the choroid coat, which it partly closes, and is pierced by an aperture for the transmission of the rays of light. It is circular in form, is variously coloured in different form; individuals, and is immersed in the aqueous humour. By its circumference the iris is connected with the pos- ^cth"- terior elastic layer of the cornea and the ciliary ligament, and by means of the last body with the sclerotic coat close to the cornea. The aperture in it is named the pupil of the gjtua-^ eye ; this is slightly internal to the centre, and is nearly jjj^f circular in form, but its size is constantly varying (from -±j trai to ^ of an inch) by the contraction and relaxation of the ture. muscular fibres, according to the degree of light acting on the optic nerve. The anterior surface is free in the aqueous Anterior r 1 surface; humour, and is marked by lines converging towards the pupil. The posterior surface is blended at the circumference v™te- with the ciliary processes; but it is free internally, and is covered with a thick layer of pigment, to which the name uvea has been applied. Structure, — The iris is composed of some unstriped mus- Eie- cular fibres of a peculiar character, of a plexus of blood- struc- vessels, and of pigment cells between the vascular twigs. Muscular fibres. — On examining the iris in an albino, Muscu- its fibres will be found interlacing and converging towards b^thm!8 the pupil, where they are connected in a more or less per- and Ef- fect ring of fibres around that aperture.* Besides these cular' muscular fibres, Mr. Bowman finds other hair-like fibres, unbranched, whose nature is unknown. Enlargement of the pupil may be effected by shortening of the radiating fibres, J1^^ and diminution, by contraction of the circular ring. The movements of the iris regulate the quantity of light admitted use. into the eye. The pigment cells in the iris are irregular in shape, like ^jg^jJJ* those in the choroid coat, and are scattered through the termine r the tissue. The colour of the anterior and posterior surfaces colour, appears to be dependent upon the difference in their number and arrangement. The arteries of the iris have a looped arrangement, some- Arteries A ° 7 are ra- thing like the muscular fibres : they are derived chiefly from bating * In one instance Mr. Bowman says there was " at the very verge of the pupil an appearance of a set of circular fibres."