DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 730 its upper The upper part is attached laterally to the bones of the ' leg, and possesses a separate sheath for the tibialis anticus. and The lower part is in front of the tarsal bones. It is in- lower ■* part. serted externally into the upper surface of the os calcis, in front of the depression for the interosseous ligament; and, internally, by a thin and widened piece into the plantar Sheaths fascia and the inner malleolus. In this part of the ligament each!m there are three sheaths: the inner one is for the tibialis anticus; the next for the extensor pollicis; and the outer one for the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus. Sepa- rate synovial membranes lubricate the sheaths. External The external annular ligament is attached on the one side annular ^ ^e outer malleolus, and on the other to the outer surface ment* of the os calcis; it contains the tendons of the peronei muscles in one sheath, which is lined by a synovial mem- brane. Muscles The muscles on the front of the leg are three in front of number; they are flexors of the ankle and extensors of the and foot, toes. The large muscle next the tibia is the tibialis anticus ; that next the fibula, the extensor longus digitorum, — its lower part with a separate tendon to the fifth metatarsal bone being called peroneus tertius; and the one between these, in the lower half of the leg, is the extensor pollicis. On the dorsum of the foot is only one muscle, the extensor brevis digitorum. Tibialis The tibialis anticus reaches the tarsus: it is thick and amicus, flggky jn tne Upper? but tendinous in the lower part of the origin, leg- It arises from the outer tuberosity and the two upper thirds of the tibia, from the contiguous part of the interos- seous ligament, and from the fascia of the leg and the inter- muscular septum between it and the next muscle. After passing through the innermost compartment in the annular inser- ligament, the tendon is inserted into the under surface of the tlon' internal cuneiform bone, and sends forwards a process to the Parts metatarsal bone of the great toe. The muscle is subfascial, beneath jt j«eg ^ grgt external to the tibia, resting on the interosseous and on membrane, but it is then placed successively over the end the sides. 0f tne tibia, the ankle-joint, and the inner line of the tarsal bones. The outer border touches the extensor muscles of the toes, and partly conceals the anterior tibial vessels as low as the foot.