PARIETES OF THE THORAX. 389 are the two layers of intercostal muscles, with the inter- parts vening nerves and arteries. At the base of the thorax is mg the the diaphragm, which bounds the cavity in this direction. Intercostal Muscles. — The anterior part of these inter- costal muscles has been described with the wall of the thorax in muscles, the dissection of the upper limb (p. 261.). The posterior part of the same muscles may now be examined from the inner side. The internal intercostal muscle is fixed to the inner inner . layer margin of the ribs bounding the intercostal space. Begin- ning at the sternum, it reaches backwards only to the angle reaches of the ribs in the middle spaces, but above and below the head of muscular fibres approach nearer the spine. Where the muscle ceases, a thin fascia is prolonged from it to the spine. The inner surface is lined by the pleura, and the opposite surface is in contact with the intercostal nerve c0nnec- and vessels. tlons* The infra-costal muscles are small slips of fleshy fibres, infra- that are situate on the inner surface of the ribs, where the position internal intercostals cease. Apparently part of the inner attach- intercostals, they arise from the inner surface of one rib, and ments' are attached below to the upper border and internal surface of the rib next succeeding. They are uncertain in number, irregu- but there may be nine : they are smaller above than below,lantles- and the upper and lower may pass over more than one space. External intercostal muscle. — Between the posterior outer border of the internal muscle and the spine, when the fascia layer and the muscles above referred to have been removed, the external intercostal muscle will be seen. Its attachments extends are connected above and below with the margins of two con- head of tiguous ribs, and its fibres cross those of the internal mus- the nb* cular layer. Whilst this muscle extends backwards to the spinal column, it does not reach farther forwards than the cartilages of the ribs, as before seen (p. 261.). Dissection. — In a few spaces the internal intercostal Trace muscle may be cut through, and the intercostal nerve and nerves* artery traced outwards. The intercostal nerves are the anterior primary branches inter- of the dorsal nerves. In distribution they differ from the nerves