53 THE NECK. E 3 them. In their course inwards, the canals lie along the tendo palpebrarum, one above and the other below it, and they are somewhat arched with the concavity towards the tendon. Internally, they open near together into the lachrymal sac rather above its middle. The canal in the Differ- upper eyelid is longer and more arched than that in the the two lower lid. The lachrymal sac and duct extend from the inner part of Recep- the orbit to the nose, and convey the tears into the latter the tears, cavity. They form one tube, of which the upper dilated part is the sac, and the lower constricted end the duct. * The sac is situate in the hollow formed by the os unguis situa- and nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. Externally, the sac, it is crossed by the tendo palpebrarum, and is covered by an Stei" expansion, derived from that tendon, which is fixed to the part* margins of the bony groove. If the aponeurotic covering be removed, the mucous membrane lining the interior will be seen. Into the outer side of the sac the lachrymal canals open. The duct (ductus ad nasum) is the narrowed part of the canal tube, that reaches to the nose. It is entirely encased by \TtheS bone, and in length, size, and direction, it corresponds to the nose* passage of the same name in the dried skull. In the nasal cavity it opens into the front of the inferior meatus, and a bent probe introduced through the nostril may be readily passed into it from that meatus. The examination of the eyeball must be made on the Ana- fresh eye of either the ox or the sheep; but this may be eyebaSf omitted with more advantage to the student till the dissection wards, of the head and neck has been completed. The eyeball is described at the end of the book. Section V. DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Position.—For the dissection of the right side of the neck position let the head be supported at a moderate height, and let the pan.6 face be turned to the left side, and fastened in that position with hooks. To obtain a good view of the neck, the right arm should be drawn under the body, so that the point of the shoulder may be depressed, and the parts put on the stretch.