THE TONGUE. 153 Section XV. DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. Directions. — The tongue and larynx are to remain con- nected whilst the student learns the general form, and the structure of the first. Dissection^—The ends of the extrinsic lingual muscles Dissec- that have been detached, may be cut off, but enough of each should be left to trace it afterwards into the substance of the tongue. The tongue occupies the floor of the mouth, and is rather Tongue, ovoidal in shape, with the larger end turned backwards. It is free over the greater part of the surface; but at the situa- hinder part, and at the posterior two-thirds of the under f0rm?nd surface, it gives attachment to the muscles and the mucous membrane that fix it to the parts around. The apex or tip of the tongue is in contact with the incisor connec- teeth; and the base, which looks towards the pharynx, IS apex, attached to the hyoid bone, and is likewise connected with base" the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane — a central and two lateral. The upper surface or dorsum of the tongue Upper is somewhat convex, and is received into the hollow of the roof of the mouth; in the anterior two-thirds it is divided into two equal parts by a median groove, which ends a little in front of a hollow named foramen caecum. This aspect is rough and covered with papillae over the anterior two thirds; but is smoother at the posterior third, though even here the surface is irregular, in consequence of projecting muciparous glands. The under surface, free only in part, gives attach- Under ment to the mucous membrane, and to the different lingual muscles that are connected with the hyoid bone and the jaw; and in front of these muscles is the fold of the mucous membrane named frsenum linguae. The borders of the Borders, tongue are thick and round at the base of the organ, where they are marked by vertical ridges and furrows, but gradually become thinner near the apex. Papillce. — On the dorsum of the tongue are the following Kinds of kinds of papillae ; the conical and filiform, the fungiform, and the caliciform.