445 SUPERFICIAL PERINEAL VESSELS AND NERVES. wards, through the scrotum, to the penis and the front of the abdomen. Dissection. — The superficial vessels and nerves are to be Dissec- traced beneath the superficial fascia, on the right side of the nerves; perineum, by cutting through it there in the same manner seis on" as on the left side. One long slender artery is the superficial side? perineal, which gives a transverse branch near its com- mencement : sometimes there are two superficial branches. Two superficial perinasal nerves are to be found with the artery; and the inferior pudendal is to be traced forwards to the scrotum. Communications are to be sought between these nerves anteriorly, and between one of the perinaeal and the inferior haemorrhoidal posteriorly; and all the nerves are to be followed back to their origin. Arteries. — The arteries beneath the fascia, viz. super- super- ficial and transverse perinaeal, are branches of the pudic, and vessels are two or three in number. of pudlc* The superficial perinaeal branch is given off from the pudic artery super- in front of the branch to the rectum. Perforating usually the base perinasal of the triangular ligament, it turns forwards over or under the transverse muscle, and beneath the superficial fascia, to the back of the scrotum, where it ends in flexuous branches for that part, ends in As the vessel lies beneath the fascia, internal to the rami of the scrotum' ischium and pubes, it supplies offsets to the muscles beneath; and sup- and in front, it anastomoses with the external or superficial pudic muscles! arteries. Sometimes there is a second superficial perinaeal branch. At the origin of the superficial perinaeal, some other muscular other branches pass inwards to the front of the levator ani. larSCU" The transverse artery of the perinaeum arises from the preceding, esfnch" or at the same spot, and is directed transversely to the middle of Trans- the perinaeal space, where it is distributed to the integuments and Irtery. the transverse muscles. It anastomoses with the one of the oppo- site side. Branches of veins correspond to those of the artery, and veins open into the trunk of the pudic vein. Series? Nerves. — There are three long cutaneous nerves of the cuta- scrotum, viz. the inferior pudendal from the small sciatic, Selves and two superficial perinaeal branches from the pudic nerve, tum. The superficial perinceal nerves, two in number, are two su- named anterior and posterior from their relative position at peffnseai • their origin: they arise from the perinaeal branch of the pudic nerve.