712 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. pointed processes of attachment to the bones—that to the tibia being the highest, between which the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards. The The aponeurosis covering the tibialis is attached laterally covered to the bones, but has a defined border inferiorly over the aponeu- muscle. By one surface it gives origin to the flexors of the rosls' toes, and by the other to the tibialis. The posterior tibial artery is one of the branches re- sulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal trunk. The Extent, artery extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower part of the internal annular ligament, where it ends in two plantar branches for the sole of the Course, foot. At its origin the artery lies midway between the tibia and fibula, but as it approaches the lower part of the leg it gradually inclines inwards; and at its termination it is placed below the tibia, in the centre of the hollow between the heel and the inner ankle. Parts As far as the middle (in length) of the leg the vessel is the up- concealed by two muscles of the calf, viz. the gastrocnemius Fowe" and soleus ; but below that spot, as it lies between the tendo half* Achillis and the inner edge of the tibia, it is covered only by the integuments and the deep fascia. At its termination it Parts is beneath the annular ligament. For the greatest part of it. its extent the arterial trunk lies over the tibialis posticus, but afterwards on the flexor digitorum, and on the lower end of the tibia and the ankle joint. Veins. Venae comites (posterior tibial veins) closely surround Nerye. the vessel. The posterior tibial nerve is at first internal to the artery, but at the distance of one inch and a half it has crossed to the outer side, and retains that position throughout. Branch- This artery supplies branches to the muscles and the tibia, and a large peroneal trunk to the outer side of the leg. Muscu- Muscular branches supply the deep layer of muscles and the lar' soleus; an offset from a branch to the latter muscle pierces the fleshy attachment to the tibia, and ascends to the knee-joint. Nutri- A nutritious artery of the tibia is uncertain in its place of origin : tibia.t& passing through the tibialis, it enters the canal on the posterior surface of the bone, and ramifies in the interior. Commu- A communicating branch to the peroneal arises opposite the lower mcating. ^ of ^ tib^ and passes outwards beneath the flexor pollicis, to unite in an arch with a corresponding offset of the peroneal artery.