715 THE PLANTAR FASCIA. latter. The artery supplies here small offsets to the tarsus, beneath and the ankle-joint. Occasionally the artery divides beneath merit! or even above the ligament. The nerve is nearer than the artery to the os calcis ; but it is sometimes bifurcated beneath the ligament, so that a nerve may lie on each side of the tibial vessels. Section V. THE SOLE OP THE FOOT. Position. — The foot is to be placed over a block of some Position thickness with the sole towards the dissector, and the part is part, to be made tense by fastening down, and separating the toes. Dissection. — The skin is to be raised as two flaps, inner Raise and outer, by means of one incision along the centre of thethe skm sole from the heel to the anterior part, and by another across the foot at the root of the toes. Afterwards the skin is to be removed from each toe, and the lateral digital vessels and nerves are to be dissected out at the same time. In the fat and dis. near the heel the student should follow the cutaneous nerve taneous of the sole of the foot (p. 714.) and trace out, at a little dis- nerves* tance from each border of the foot, some small branches of the plantar nerves and arteries. The subcutaneous fat of the sole of the foot is very subcu- abundant, and forms the thickest cushion over the parts of fatf°US the surface that press most on the ground in standing, viz. over the os calcis, and the line of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. Dissection. — The fat should now be removed, and the Lay bare the plantar fascia be laid bare. Begin the dissection near the plantar heel, and follow forwards the fascia toward the toes, to each of which a process is to be traced. In the intervals between these processes the digital nerves and arteries will be found, and the covered by much cellular and fibrous tissue; but the vessels vessels and nerves to the inner side of the great toe, and the outer nerves, side of the little toe, pierce the fascia farther back than the rest. The student is next to dissect a transverse fibrous band Define between the toes, over the digital vessels and nerves ; and mint of the toes.