DIVISIONS OF THE HEART. 347 Component parts. — The heart is a double organ, and is The made up of two similar halves, right and left. In each half double, are two hollow portions, an auricle and a ventricle; tl^se communicate, and are provided with vessels for the entrance and exit of the blood. The right half receives black blood each by the systemic veins, and sends the same to the lungs having by means of the pulmonary artery; but the left half is sup- ncie and plied with red blood from the lungs by the pulmonary tricie. veins, and distributes its contents over the body through the aorta. On the surface of the heart are certain grooves, indicatory Groove* of this division. Thus passing circularly round the heart, position nearer the base than the apex, is a groove which cuts off, as °f it were, the thin auricular, from the fleshy ventricular part. This auricular portion is placed at the base of the organ, auricles and is subdivided into two halves (right and left) by a median partition. In like manner the ventricular portion and ven- 4 A tricles, is parted into right and left ventricles by a septum: the situation of the median partition between the ventricles is recognised by a longitudinal sulcus on the surface. But it and par- may be seen that this sulcus does not occupy the mid space between either on the anterior or the posterior aspect, but is nearer the left border of the heart, in front, and the right border behind; so that most of the anterior surface is formed by right the right, and the greater part of the posterior surface by front.1" the left ventricle. The auricles are two (right and left), as before said, and Number are placed so deeply at the base of the heart, behind the aorta aSono?" and the pulmonary artery, that only the tip of the right one auricles, comes forwards to the sternum. They receive their appella- tion from the resemblance that the tips or appendices, that project forwards on the sides of the arteries, bear to the dog's ears. The auricles are much thinner than the ven- Veins tricles, and are recipients of blood from large veins. Of the {hdr two, the right is rather the larger and the more anterior;cavlties- it is joined by the upper and the lower cava, and by the Rlsht* respondence of the different portions of the heart to points of the wall of the thorax, he may refer to the Papers by Dr. Sibson, in vol. xii. of the Trans, of the Provincial Med. and Surg. Association.