114 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. in fora men la- stylo- 2. Some muscular branches enter the stylo-pharyngeus, whilst geus^n" the nerve is in contact with it. pharynx 3. Branches to the pharynx form the pharyngeal plexus by and pha- . . . , n ,i i n« • i ryngeal uniting with nerves irom the sympathetic and vagus. JLnis plexus plexus, .g 0pp0g^e middle constrictor, and branches are furnished by it to the muscles, and to the pharyngeal mucous membrane be- tween the tongue and the hyoid bone, the ton- 4^ rpke f0nsiintic branches supply the tonsil and the arches of the soft palate. On the former they form a kind of plexus — circulus tonsillaris. and the £# Zingual branches. — The terminal branches of the nerve sup- tongue. ° r ply the root, and the posterior part of the tongue, as well as the lateral surface. The distribution of these is described with the tongue (Section 15.). vagus The pneumo-gastric nerve (vagus nerve) is the largest nerve . . of the three trunks of the eighth cranial nerve, and occupies the same sheath of dura mater as the spinal accessory. In cerum, the foramen it has a distinct ganglion (gang, of the root), to which the small part of the spinal accessory nerve is con- nected. and in When the nerve has escaped from the foramen, it receives the neck, m A the small part of the spinal accessory, and swells into a large ganglion (gang, of the trunk). Here the nerve lies between the carotid artery and the jugular vein, and communicates with the several nerves at this part. To reach the thorax, courses the vagus descends, almost vertically, between the internal to the ° . J thorax, jugular vein and the internal and common carotid arteries, and enters that cavity, on the right side, by crossing over the subclavian artery. ganglion Ganglia. — The ganglion of the root (gang, superius) is of ramen a greyisft colour, and in texture is like the ganglion on the posterior root of the spinal nerves. The small branches of the vagus in the foramen lacerum come from this ganglion. The ganglion of the trunk (gang, inferius) is cylindrical in another form, is reddish in colour, and is nearly an inch in length. below. ' J *. to It communicates with the hypo-glossal, spinal, and sympa- thetic nerves. All the fibres of the trunk of the nerve are not surrounded by the ganglionic substance, for those derived from the spinal accessory nerve pass by the ganglion without being inclosed in it. Branch- The same arrangement may be made of the branches of the pneumo-gastric in the neck, as was adopted for the