STRUCTURE OF THE LIVER. 545 ent vessels of the liver minutely injected, and should be provided with a microscope. Constituents of the lobules.—Each lobule or elementary a lobule piece of the liver is composed of hepatic secretory cells, that distinct t • tit gland. are arranged in lines so as to leave intervals between them; and is provided with a capillary network of vessels, and with radicles of an excretory duct* Cells of the lobules. — The hepatic or biliary cells, under Biliary n . n . cells of the microscope, are seen to be of an irregular form, being the io- rounded or flattened, elongated, or many sided; and to pos- Situation sess a bright nucleated nucleus, or even more than one. In and ° ' form; size they vary from x^g-Q- to g-^-oth °f an mcn 5 tney are °f a size and yellowish colour, and enclose a half fluid substance, probably tents; the elements of the bile, together with fatty and yellow colouring particles. These nucleated cells adhere together by their surfaces so as to form rows, with spaces between them, which radiate from the centre to the circumference: and this linear arrangement is oftentimes less regular at the outer third of the lobule. The cells are connected with the connec- origin of the ducts, and are concerned in the secretion of the ducts, bile. Arrangement of the vessels. — The disposition of the seve- Arrange- ral vessels is the following : The smallest branches of the its ves- ... . sels, vena portce. after uniting in a circle around the lobule, viz. . . vena where they are named interlobular, enter its substance, and porta?, form therein a network of capillaries near the circumference. The hepatic vein occupies the centre of the lobule, and its 5|Patic radicles communicate with the portal plexus; it issues from the base of the lobule as the intralobular vein. The radicles and bile duct, of the bile duct are supposed to form a plexus in the lobule; connected with these are the secretory hepatic or biliary cells that produce the bile. The roots of the bile duct leave the lobule at its circumference, and are joined in an inter- lobular plexus outside it, like the portal vessels. From the facts above stated respecting the arrangement Use of of the vessels, it appears that the portal capillaries conduct seis, the blood from which bile is secreted; that the hepatic vein carries back the superfluous blood; and that the secreted bile is conveyed away by the branches of the biliary duct. Vessels of the Liver. — Two sets of vessels ramify in Arrange, jrned N N