DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 724 the deep may be seen, the flexor brevis and adductor pollicis are to be and cut through at their posterior part, and thrown towards the toes, but the nerves supplying them are to be preserved. Beneath the adductor is the plantar arch, and the external plantar nerve, with their branches; and in the first inter- osseous space is the part of the dorsal artery of the foot that enters the sole. All these vessels and nerves require careful cleaning. The muscles projecting between the metatarsal bones are the interossei. Arch of The plantar arch is the part of the external plantar artery plantar that extends obliquely from the base of the metatarsal bone artery. ^ ^ jj^tle toe to the back of the first interosseous space (p. 719.) : internally the arch is completed by a communi- Extent eating branch from the dorsal artery of the foot. It is placed nections across the tarsal ends of the metatarsal bones in contact with muscles, the interossei, being between the third and fourth layers of muscles in the foot. From the front or convexity of the Branch- arch the digital branches are supplied, and from the opposite es* side small muscular branches arise. From the under part P0Ste- are given off three small arteries, the posterior perforating, foratmg" which pass to the dorsum of the foot through the three outer intermetatarsal spaces, and anastomose with the interosseous branches of the anterior tibial artery. Digital The digital branches are four in number, and supply both to three sides of the three outer toes, and half of the next. The one toes and to the outer side of the little toe is single ; the others lie in next. the three outer metatarsal spaces, and bifurcate in front to Anterior supply the contiguous sides of two toes. Where they divide, mgoff^ they send small communicating branches — anterior perfo- sets' rating, to the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot. Distri- On the toes. — On the sides of the toes the disposition of bution. ^e arteries is like that in the hand:—they extend to the last phalanx, where they unite in an arch, and give offsets to the ball of the toe; and near the front of both the metatarsal and the next phalanx, they form anastomotic loops beneath the tendons, from which the phalangeal articulations are supplied. Ending The dorsal artery of the foot enters the sole at the pos- dorsaf terior part of the first (inner) intermetatarsal space, and sup- theToot; plies digital offsets to both sides of the great toe and to half