DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 710 stronger, and is marked by some transverse fibres near the malleoli, which give it the appearance of an annular liga- ment in that situation. Inferiorly it joins the annular liga- ment between the heel and the inner ankle, clean Dissection, — The deep layer of muscles, and the trunks muscles? and offsets of the posterior tibial and peroneal vessels, and the posterior tibial nerve, will be made ready for examination by the removal of the fascia and the cellular membrane. A muscle between the bones (tibialis posticus) is partly con- cealed by an aponeurosis which gives origin to the muscles on its sides, and will not fully appear till after this has been divided. Four Deep layer of muscles. — The deep flexor muscles at muscles back 0f the ieg are four jn number, viz. popliteus, flexor faver. longus pollicis, flexor longus digitorum, and tibialis posticus. The first of these is close to the knee-joint; it crosses the bones, and is covered by a special aponeurosis. The flexors Position lie on the bones, that of the great toe being on the fibula, and that of the other toes on the tibia. And the last muscle destina- covers the interosseous membrane. "With the exception of tlon* the popliteus, all enter the sole of the foot, and have a fleshy part parallel to the bones of the leg, and a tendinous part beneath the tarsus. Popii- The popliteus arises within the capsule of the knee- aSses joint; it is attached by a tendon to the fore part of an knee? oblong depression on the outer surface of the external J0lnt* condyle of the femur, below the external lateral ligament. External to the capsule of the joint the tendon gives origin to the fleshy fibres which radiate from it, and are inserted into the tibia above the oblique line on the posterior surface, inserted The muscle lies on the tibia, and is covered by a fascia, de- tlbia. rived in great part from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. On it lie the popliteal vessels and nerve, with the Parts gastrocnemius and plantaris. Along the upper border are around ^q lower articular vessels and nerve of the inner side of the knee. The insertion of the muscle corresponds to the attachment of the soleus to the tibia ; and the origin will be seen with the dissection of the ligaments of the knee-joint. Flexor The flexor longus pollicis pedis arises below the soleus pomcis from the lower half of the posterior surface of the fibula ex- tached cept an inch below, from the intermuscular septum between