45 LEVATOR PALPEBRiE SUPERIORIS. in direction and size, and leaves the orbit by the supra-orbital branch notch. It then turns upwards on the forehead, and supplies the orbital external part of the head (p. 7.). Whilst in the notch, the nerve notch* gives downwards palpebral filaments to the upper lid. 2. The lachrymal nerve, after entering the orbit in a Lachry- separate tube of the dura mater, is directed forwards in the nerve outer part of the cavity, and beneath the lachrymal gland, to the upper eyelid, where it pierces the palpebral ligament, ends in * and is distributed to the structures of the lid. The nerve furnishes branches to the lachrymal gland, and near its off- the gland it sends downwards one or two small filaments to com- Join Su- municate with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve, ^axii- Occasionally this nerve takes also a twig of origin from the fourth lary- nerve. 3. The nasal nerve is not visible at this stage of the dis- section : it will be noticed afterwards at p. 47. Dissection, — Divide the frontal, nerve about its middle, Dissec- and throw the ends forwards and backwards: by raising the tI0n* posterior part of the nerve, the distinct origin of the nasal branch from the ophthalmic trunk will be seen. The lachrymal nerve may remain uncut. The LEVATOR PALPEBRiE SUPERIORIS is the most Superficial Elevator muscle, and is attached posteriorly to the roof of the orbit eyelid" in front of the optic foramen. The muscle widens as it ex- tends forwards, and in front of the eyeball it turns down- wards, to be inserted by a wide tendon into the upper border is at- of the tarsal cartilage. By one surface the muscle is in con- to tarsal tact with the frontal nerve and the periosteum, and by the fage- other, with the superior rectus muscle. If it is cut across is wgh- about the centre, a small branch of the third nerve will be til inlls" seen entering the under surface. The rectus superior is the upper of the four muscles upper that lie around the globe of the eye. It arises from the muscle, upper part of the optic foramen, and is connected with the origin, other recti muscles around the optic nerve. Near the front of the eye the fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted, inser- like the other recti, into the sclerotic coat behind the union tlon* of this with the cornea. The ocular surface of the muscle Position is in contact with the globe of the eye, and some vessels and parts!!" nerves to be afterwards seen ; the other surface is covered by the preceding muscle.