SUPERFICIAL VESSELS AND FASCIA. 649 surface of the lower limb; whilst the upper or transverse lvmpha- tics. set are joined by the lymphatics of the penis, and those of the lower part of the abdomen. The glands vary much in both number and size, and not unfrequently those by the side of the vein are united together. Dissection. — The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is Raise to be detached from the subjacent fascia lata, by means of stratum incisions similar to those for reflecting the subcutaneous super- stratum, except that the lower cut across the thigh is not to fascia, be made so far down. The handle of the scalpel is to be employed in the separation, and the dissector is to endeavour to avoid cutting the nerves and vessels. Internal to the saphenous vein a thin membrane can be easily raised, but external to that vessel there scarcely exists a continuous layer distinct from the fascia lata. In reflecting the stratum the margin of an aperture (saphenous) in the fascia lata will be apparent. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia is a very thin Deep membraniform stratum, which is most evident near Poupart's thTsu- ligament, and on the inner side of the saphenous vein, fasdaal About one inch below the ligament it conceals the large saphenous opening in the fascia lata, that transmits the saphenous vein, and some of the ducts of the lymphatic glands. As it stretches across the opening it is connected covers to the circumference, — internally by loose cellular mem™ nous brane, but externally by firm fibrous bands; and it is also opemng' connected with the loose sheath of the femoral vessels that appears in that aperture. The part of this stratum over the saphenous opening is perforated by many small apertures for the transmission of the ducts of the glands, and has been named cribriform fascia, from its sieve-like appearance. In and is a hernial protrusion through that opening the cribriform criori- portion is projected forwards by the gut, and forms one of fascia, the coverings. Dissection. — Now the student has observed the disposi- Dissec- tion of the superficial fascia near Poupart's ligament, he the front may proceed to examine the remainder of this subcutaneous thigh, covering. of the thigh, together with the vessels and the nerves in it. To raise the skin from the front of the thigh, a cut is to To take be carried along the centre of the limb, over the knee-joint, skm^the