DISSECTION OF THE LEG. 740 and alar occasioned by the fat at this spot, which is continuous with ments. the former below the patella. Dissect Dissection. — The ligamentous structures within the cap- liga- sule will be brought into view, whilst the limb is still in the same position, by detaching the patella and its ligament, and clearing away the fat that is behind it; but in this step the student must be careful of a small transverse band that con- nects anteriorly the interarticular cartilages. The remains of the capsule and the synovial membrane are finally to be cleared away from both the crucial ligaments and the inter- articular cartilages, other h- Ligamentsivithin the capsule.—The remaining ligamentous within structures, although within the capsule, are external to the suie.cap sac of the synovial membrane which is reflected over them : they consist of the crucial ligaments in the middle line: of two flat plates of fibro-cartilage, the interarticular or semi- lunar, on the head of the tibia ; and of the transverse liga- ment between the fore part of the last. Two The crucial ligaments are two strong fibrous processes, liga. which intervene between the ends of the tibia and femur, and chiefly maintain those bones in contact. They cross one another somewhat like the legs of the letter X, from which circumstance they have received their name. One is an- terior to the other in position at the attachment to the tibia. Anterior a. The anterior ligament is oblique in its direction, and is lique"; smaller than the posterior. Inferiorly it is attached to the its at- tach- inner lip of the hollow in front of the spine of the tibia, close ' to the inner articular surface; and superiorly it is inserted into the back part of the outer condyle of the femur, on the inner surface, and slightly into the interval between the con- dyles. posterior b. The posterior ligament is almost vertical between the is verti- cai.. bones at the back of the joint. By the lower end it is fixed to the back of the depression behind the spine of the tibia, at the margin of the bone ; and by the upper extremity it is inserted into the fore part of the hollow between the con- dyles of the femur, and into the contiguous surface of the inner condyle. Their The use of these ligaments in the movements of the joint, flexion after the other ligaments have been cut through, should be