442 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. the opposite muscle, in front of the rectum, in the central point of the perineum. This muscle bounds the ischio- rectal fossa on the inner side. Arteries Arteries. — The inferior hemorrhoidal is the only named space, branch of the pudic artery that is now dissected. Some other small branches of the pudic and sciatic are also seen. Inferior The inferior hcemorrhoidal artery arises from the trunk. rhoTdai" of the pudic, internal to the tuberosity of the ischium ; it divides into branches that pass inwards across the ischio- endson rectal fossa, and end in the skin, and the sphincter and andTits levator ani muscles. On the rectum this artery anastomoses muscle. w£tk t^e Upper anc[ middle hemorrhoidal branches, and with the artery of the opposite side. In a well-injected body, some cutaneous branches may be seen to run forwards to the anterior part of the perineum, and to communicate with Branch the superficial perineal branch. A vein accompanies the of vein. artery. other Other small branches of the pudic artery cross the front pudic. of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supply the anterior part of the levator ani muscle. Branch- Branches of the sciatic artery appear on the inner aspect the°sci- of the gluteus maximus at the back of the fossa; some end at,c* in that muscle, and others are continued round its border to the surface. Nerves. Nerves.—The branches of nerves are the inferior hemor- rhoidal, an offset of the fourth sacral nerve, and some branches of the small sciatic nerve, inferior The inferior hcemorrhoidal nerve is most frequently a rXai" branch of the pudic, though it may have a separate origin artery1 of from the sacral plexus. Accompanying the artery of the name, same name across the ischio-rectal fossa, it reaches the Termi- margin of the anus, where it terminates in offsets to the nation. ° ? integument and the sphincter muscle. Other cutaneous offsets of the nerve turn forwards over the fossa, and com- municate with the superficial perineal nerve, and with the inferior pudendal (of the small sciatic) on the margin of the thigh. Branch The hcemorrhoidal branch of the fourth sacral nerve nerve™1 reaches the ischio-rectal fossa by piercing the fibres of the coccygeus, or by passing between that muscle and the levator ani. Appearing in the posterior part of the fossa, close to