CARDIAC NERVES. 373 b b 3 side of the body enter, the arch maybe cut through a second time, to the left of the junction of the ligamentum arteriosum with it; and that ligament is to be divided, so as to allow the transverse part of the arch to be turned upwards with the great vessels attached to it. The lymphatic glands and the cellular tissue are to be cleared away, as on the opposite side, from the nerves; and the nerves are to be followed downwards to the heart, chiefly to the posterior coronary plexus. In the deep cardiac plexus are united the several cardiac Nerves entering nerves derived from the ganglia of the sympathetic in the the deep neck, except the highest nerve of the left side; and in it are plexus, also collected all the cardiac branches of the vagus nerve both in the neck and the chest, with the exception of its lowest cervical cardiac branch of the left side. This large its situ. 0 ation; centre is situate between the trachea and the arch of the aorta, above the branches of the pulmonary artery; and from it nerves are furnished to the heart and the lungs. The several nerves entering the plexus are not intermingled is form- ° r 3 edoftwo in a ganglionic mass in front of the trachea; but those of Parts> ° ° • right the right side unite together on the corresponding part ofand left- the air tube, and those of the left half of the neck have a like disposition on their side. a. The right part of the plexus is above the right branch of the Right pulmonary artery, and receives the nerves of the right side, viz. formed.™ the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic in the neck, the cardiac branches of the trunk of the vagus, both in the neck and chest, and the cardiac offsets of its recurrent branch. The branches of Branch, this half of the plexus are distributed mostly to the right side of distri- the heart. From its lower end cardiac nerves pass downwards be- I^heart fore and behind the right branch of the pulmonary artery. Those in front of that vessel run on the trunk of the pulmonary artery nearly to the heart, where they send a few twigs behind the vessel, to join the plexus on the posterior coronary artery; and lastly, in the they appear between the aorta and the pulmonary artery, to end in coronary the anterior coronary plexus (p. 350.). The other nerves, those P^xus- that are behind the branch of the pulmonary artery, supply the to root0 right auricle of the heart. Offsets are also sent laterally on the ung' branch of that artery to the nerves of the root of the lung. b. The left half of the plexus is close to the ligamentum arterio- Left J r ,° part; sum, and rather on the left of the trachea. In it are collected the nerves cardiac nerves of the sympathetic cord of the left side of the neck, \ng it" except the highest, and in addition it has numerous and large