693 SACRO-SCIATIC LIGAMENTS. (p. 678.) divides finally into two parts. One ascends beneath flex the quadratus, in this position of the body, to the pit of the artery trochanter, where it anastomoses with the sciatic artery, and supplies the bone. The other passes between the quadratus ends in and adductor magnus to the hamstring muscles, and commu- branch- . es. nicates likewise with the sciatic artery, The obturator externus has been dissected at its origin ootura- in the front of the thigh (p. 681.). In the part of its course temus now laid bare, the muscle winds backwards below the hip- joint, and ascends from that position to be inserted into the is insert- pit at the root of the great trochanter. On the back of the the tro- pelvis the obturator externus is covered by the quadratus, except near the femur, where the upper border is in contact tions. with the inferior gemellus. The sacro-sciatic ligaments pass from the innominate sacro- bone to the sacrum and the coccyx; they are two in number, and are named large and small. The large or posterior ligament is attached internally to Attach- the lower posterior spine of the ilium, and to the side of the ™fetheS sacrum and coccyx; and externally it is inserted into an im- 0{nreg#e pression on the anterior and inner part of the tuberosity of the ischium. It is wide next the sacrum, but is contracted Form; towards the middle, and is expanded again at the ischial tuberosity; from its outer attachment it sends upwards a gives a prolongation along the ramus of the ischium. On the cuta- gation. neous surface are the branches of the sacral nerves ; and the gluteus maximus conceals and takes origin from it. The small ligament will be seen on dividing the other small near the tuberosity of the ischium. At the sacrum and men"t coccyx it is united with the large ligamentous band, but at attach- the opposite end it is inserted into the spine of the ischium. ments; It is less strong than the superficial ligament, by which it is concealed, and rests on the coccygeus muscle. These ligaments convert the large sacro-sciatic notch of they the dried pelvis into two apertures or foramina by their to\w"se attachments to the bones. Between the insertion of both notches * into the innominate bone (the spine and tuberosity) is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, which contains the internal ob- small, turator muscle with its nerve, and the pudic vessels and contents, nerve. Whilst above the smaller ligament is the large sacro- sciatic foramen, which gives passage to the pyriformis iarge, y y 3