DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 616 of the parts are to be remarked, viz., the orifices of the ureters and urethra, the triangular space, and the muscles of the ureters. Opening Orifices. —At the lower and anterior part of the bladder ofure- . J r tbra is the orifice of the urethra, surrounded by the prostate gland. The mucous membrane presents here some longi- tudinal folds, and the aperture is partly closed by a small with its prominence below, uvula vesicce, occasioned by a thickening of the submucous tissue. This eminence is placed in front of the middle lobe of the prostate, and from its anterior part a slight ridge is continued to the floor of the urethra. Open- About an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra, thls °f and rather more than that distance apart, are the two narrow ureters. 0penjngS 0f j.]^ ureters. These excretory tubes for the urine perforate the wall of the bladder obliquely, lying in it for the distance of nearly an inch, and therefore the reflux of fluid through them towards the kidney is prevented, as the bladder is distended: they terminate on each side by a contracted slit-like opening in the centre of a prominence. Trigone Triangular surface. — Immediately behind the orifice of bladder; the urethra is a smooth triangularly-shaped part of the bladder, which is named trigone (trigonum vesicae). Its how apex reaches the prostate, and its base the ureters; or its bound- koun(jarjes may ke marked out by a line on each side from the urethra to the ureter, and by a transverse one behind part cor- between the ureters. This space corresponds to the interval ingex- at the base of the bladder, between the prostate in front and the vesiculae and vasa deferentia on the sides; and over it the mucous coat is closely united to the fibrous and muscular, so as to prevent the accidental folds found in the other parts of the empty bladder. To ex- Dissection.— The muscles of the ureters will come into muscles view on the removal of the mucous membrane, along a line ters. from the urethra to the opening of the ureter of each side : the fibres are best marked in a muscular bladder. . These The muscles of the ureters are " two strong fleshy columns, pa*sC es which descend from the orifices of the ureters towards the from orifice of the bladder," where they become blended into one. ureters a Where these columns unite, they are most fleshy, and their fibres are more intricate ; then directing their course towards to the^ the lower and backmost part of the prostate, they degenerate