161 THE LARYNX. stance, and supply the papillae caliciformes, as well as the mucous membrane covering the lateral part of the tongue. Vessels. — The arteries are derived chiefly from the lingual Arteries artery of each side; these, together with the veins, have been veins. examined, p. 100. After supplying the muscular substance the vessels enter the papillae, and end as before said. Section XVI. DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. The larynx is the upper dilated part of the air tube, in outline which the voice is produced. This organ of the voice con- rynx. sists of several cartilages, which are united together by liga- mentous bands; of muscles to move the cartilages ; and of vessels and nerves. The whole is lined by mucous mem- brane. Dissection. — The tongue may now be removed from the oissec- ■ . J tiou. larynx by cutting through its root, but this is to be done without injuring the epiglottis. The parts that are now to be described would be much better seen on a fresh larynx. Occupying the middle line of the neck, the larynx is Situa- placed in front of the pharynx, and between the carotid connec- vessels. It is pyramidal in form. Its base is turned up- wards, and is attached to the hyoid bone, and to it the epi- glottis is connected; whilst its apex is directed downwards, and is continuous with the trachea. The front is prominent along the middle line of the neck; and the posterior surface-" is covered by the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The is very larynx is very moveable, and during deglutition is elevated able!e~ and depressed by the different extrinsic muscles that are connected with it and the hyoid bone. Muscles. — The special muscles of the larynx pass from six spe- one cartilage to another, and modify by their action the cies of condition of the vocal apparatus. Commonly six muscles are described, but the number is stated differently by anato - mists. Three are outside the cartilages, and three are more or less concealed by the thyroid cartilage ; most of them are in pairs, and alike on the two sides of the body. Directions, — On one side of the larynx, say the right, the muscles may be dissected, and on the opposite side the nerves M