DISSECTION OP THE THOEAX. 344 arch of cross the arch of the aorta:—the nerve most to the left, and the largest, is the vagus; that to the right of the vagus, and the next largest in size, is the phrenic nerve. Between the preceding, and close to the coats of the artery, are the two following small nerves, the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, and the cardiac branch of the left vagus ; of the two, the last is the smallest, and to the right of the other. Dissect The two cardiac nerves of the vagus and sympathetic c2frfi~ are to be followed onwards to a small plexus (superficial Inarch cardiac) in the concavity of the aorta. An offset of the ' plexus is to be traced downwards between the pulmonary artery and the aorta, towards the anterior coronary artery of the heart; and another prolongation is to be found coming forwards by the side of the arterial duct, from the deep cardiac plexus, to join the superficial one. When the peri- cardium is opened, the nerves will be followed on the heart, but their dissection is difficult, and will require some care. Oftentimes these small nerves are destroyed in inject- ing the body. Connec. The periccirdimn is larger than the viscus it contains, the peri- Occupying the interpleural space, it is situate behind the cardium. e „ sternum, and projects below on each side 01 that bone, but much more towards the left than the right side. Some- what conical in form, the wider part of the bag is turned towards the diaphragm, and the narrower part upwards towards the large vessels of the heart. Laterally, the peri- cardium is covered by the pleura, and the phrenic nerve and vessels lie in contact with it. Its anterior and posterior surfaces correspond to the objects contained in the fore and hinder part of the interpleural space; and on the anterior aspect the bag is partly covered by the margins of the lungs, ribro- especially the left, in the manner stated. This envelope of case?s tne ne&rt consists of a fibrous structure, which is lined in- ternally by a serous membrane. Fibrous The fibrous part surrounds the heart entirely, and is gives pierced by the different vessels entering that organ. It toeve&- gives prolongations around the vessels that pass through it, sels" and the strongest of these sheaths is that on the aorta. In- Joins feriorly, it is united by fibres to the central tendon of the phragm. diaphragm; but on the left side it extends beyond the limit