DISSECTION OF THE EAE. nd si- zontally in front of the vestibular space. The base of this aation body is turned to the meatus auditorius internus, and is perforated by small apertures ; whilst the apex is directed to the upper and anterior part of the inner wall of the tym- panum, opposite the canal for the tensor tympani muscle. Its length is about a quarter of an inch, and its width at the lesem- base is about the same. Resembling a snail-shell in con- ies a nail- struction, the cochlea consists of a tube wound spirally round hell m 7 ... ome a central part or axis ; but it differs from a shell in the fact espects. n . of the tube being subdivided into two by a partition, and in the circumstance of the central part or axis being much thicker. >arts of In the description of the cochlea it will be necessary to hecoch- 1 J ?a. notice separately the axis or centre, the spiral tube, and the partition with the two passages. i. spiral The spiral tube forms two turns and a half around the ube . ' losed axis, and terminates above in a closed extremity, named the ,t one nd ^ cupola. When measured along the outer side, the tube is ums;2 about one inch and a half long; its diameter at the begin- nentUre" ning is about one-tenth of an inch, but it gradually dimi- nishes to half that size towards the opposite end. Of the turns that the tube makes, the first is much the largest: this projects at its commencement into the tympanum, and gives rise to the eminence of the promontory on the inner wall of that cavity. The second turn is included within the first. The last half turn bends sharply round, and presents a free s du semilunar margin at one side. In the recent bone the tube ntotwo. is divided into two passages (scalse) by a septum : in the dry bone a remnant of this partition is seen in the form of a thin plate of bone (lamina spiralis) ; and, on the outer wall, op- posite this ridge of bone, is a slight groove. a central The axis or modiolus (collumella) consists of the bony sub- ax^ °r stance included within the coils of the spiral tube: it is limited externally by a condensed stratum — the wrall of the spiral tube; and is formed internally of a porous material, is porous Its shape is conical, and its size diminishes rapidly towards nicaiT the last half turn of the spiral tube, where it is very thin but how it not porous, and may be said to end; though it is commonly de- ?hTthe scr^e(^ as being continued upwards from this spot to the tip buium1" °* ^e cocn^ea? anc* as being bent and enlarged, and pre-