517 BRANCHES OF THE CCELIAC AXIS. supplied to the gland as the artery lies along it: and one of large these, art pancreatica magna, arises near the left end of the small gland, and runs to the right, with the duct, in the substance wl&s' of the viscus. b. The branches for the stomach arise from the divisions and the of the artery near the spleen. Some of these, vasa brevia, byvasa brevia turn upwards to the left end of the stomach, between or be- neath the gastro-splenic omentum, and ramify in the coats of that organ. Another branch, art. gastro-epiploica sinis- and ieft tra, which is larger than the others, turns to the right, along epiploic, the great curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, and inosculates with the right gastro- epiploic branch of the hepatic artery. This artery distri- butes twigs to both surfaces of the stomach, as well as be- tween the pieces of peritoneum forming the great omentum. 3. The hepatic artery is the largest, in the fetus, of the Hepatic three branches into which the coeliac axis divides; but in the adult it is intermediate in size between the other two, and is encircled by the largest plexus of nerves. In its course to courses the liver, the vessel is first bent to the right towards the uverf small end of the stomach, where it supplies its principal branches (superior pyloric and gastro-epiploic). It then ascends between the layers of the little omentum, on the left side of the bile duct and the vena portae, and divides in which - ^ hit. i • it ends, near the transverse hssure oi the liver into two large termi- nal arteries — the right and left hepatic. Its branches are and sup- distributed not only to the liver, but freely to the stomach, phes the duodenum, and the pancreas. a. The superior pyloric branch descends to the upper offsets to border of the stomach, and running from right to left anas- mach. tomoses with the coronary artery; it distributes small arterial twigs on both the anterior and the posterior aspect of the stomach. b. The right gastro-epiploic branch* (art. gast. epiploica Branch- dextra) is a trunk of considerable size, which descends be- stomach, neath the duodenum near the pylorus, then turns from right duode- to left along the great curvature of the stomach, between the viz.— pieces of the great omentum, and inosculates with the left * Frequently this artery is named gastro-duodenal as far as to the spot where it gives off the branch to the duodenum and pancreas. %