DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 182 Joint at Sterno-clavicular Articulation—The internal end sternal pit... end of of the clavicle is received on a fibro-cartilaore, and is re- clavicle. .... . tamed in position by a capsular ligament, by a band to the first rib, and by another between the ends of the two clavicles. Dissec- Dissection.—For the examination of the ligaments in the tion. ^ . . sterno-clavicular articulation, take the piece of the sternum that was laid aside for that purpose; and should the liga- ments have become dry, they ought first to be moistened for a short time. The several ligaments will appear after the removal of the cellular membrane. Capsular Capsular ligament. — This a thin membranous expansion, ment. that contains the articular ends of the bones, and the fibro- cartilage. It is attached near the articular surface of each bone, and is thinner before than behind. Sometimes the stronger fibres, that exist in front and at the back, are de- scribed as separate ligaments, inter- The interclavicular ligament extends above the sternum, clavicu- iar, between the ends of the clavicles. The fibres do not cross in a straight line, but dip into the hollow between the clavicular bones, and are connected with the upper part of the sternum, and cos- The costo-clavicular ligament is a short strong band of cuiar n- oblique fibres intervening between the first rib and the gament. c|av*c|e^ lnferiorly it is fixed to the upper surface of the cartilage of the first rib, and superiorly to a tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle near its sternal end. The sub- clavius muscle is in front of the ligament. Sometimes the clavicle touches the rib, and is provided with an articular surface and a synovial membrane at that spot. Fibro- The inter articular fibro-cartilage will come into view by lage. cutting the ligaments before described, and raising the cla- vicle. It is flat, and almost circular in form, but is thicker at the circumference than the centre. By its upper surface the cartilage is united to the head of the clavicle, which is imbedded in it; and by the opposite surface it is connected with the cartilage of the first rib. At its circumference it joins the capsule of the joint. Sometimes there is an aper- ture in the centre of the cartilage. Two sy- Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation, ni°em- one being on each side of the fibro-cartilage. The sac in branes. contact wjt^ ^ gternum js looser than that touching the clavicle.