283 BRACHIALIS ANTICUS. arises with the preceding, and is concealed at first by the axillary vein. It is directed inwards, either beneath or through the vein, and joins with the intercosto-humeral nerve. Afterwards it lies along the inner part of the arm, b^eath as far as the middle, where it perforates the fascia to end in fascia, the integument (p. 276.). The musculo-cutaneous nerve (nerv. perforans, Casserii) Muscu- is so named from supplying both muscles and integument: neous it ends on the surface of the fore-arm, and supplies offsets to the arm. the flexors of the elbow joint whilst it is passing through the upper arm. It leaves the outer cord of the brachial plexus opposite the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and perforates directly the coraco-brachialis; it is then directed obliquely to the outer side of the arm, between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles. Near the elbow, its continuation has been seen to become a cutaneous nerve of the fore-arm. The nerve furnishes branches to the muscles in front of its mus- cular the humerus, viz. to the coraco-brachialis, as it passes branch- ' . es. through the fibres, and to the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles, where it lies between them. Before perforating the coraco-brachialis, the nerve gives a separate twig to that muscle and the short head of the biceps; and sometimes there is a large branch of communication with the median nerve after it has pierced the muscle. Dissection. — The brachialis anticus muscle will be brought Dissec- into view by cutting through the tendon of the biceps near U°n' the elbow, and turning upwards this muscle. The cellular membrane should be taken from the surface, and the lateral extent of the muscle defined; so as to show that it reaches the intermuscular septum largely on the inner side, but only for a short distance, above, on the outer side. The brachialis anticus covers the elbow joint, and the Brachia. lower half of the front of the humerus. It arises from all cus?ntl" that surface of the bone below the insertion of the deltoid 0risin* muscle, and from the intermuscular septa on the sides, though in very unequal proportions. The fleshy fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the impression on the ulna inser- before the coronoid process. This muscle is concealed by the biceps, by the brachial artery, and by the median, and the musculo-cutaneous and musculo-spiral nerves; and it