669 MUSCLES IN FRONT OF THE THIGH. separably united, but if the student wishes to make two dis- tinct parts, he may carry the scalpel through the fibres in a line with the inner border of the patella. The vastus externus is one of the parts of the strong vastus externus extensor muscle of the leg, and its attachment to the femur is very narrow in comparison with its size and thickness. It has a lengthened origin externally (beginning above) from the root of the neck of the femur ; from the front and origin; the outer surface of the root of the great trochanter; from the line connecting the trochanter with the linea aspera ; from the outer margin of the linea aspera ; from two-thirds of the line extending downwards to the outer condyle ; and, lastly, from the external intermuscular septum. Inferiorly the fibres of the muscle end in an aponeurosis ; and this but is blends with the tendons of the rectus and vastus internus to below, form a common tendon. The muscle is pointed at the upper sertion!" part, but enlarged below, where it produces the prominence on the outer side of the thigh. Its cutaneous surface IS Parts in aponeurotic at the upper part, and is covered by the rectus SThe and tensor vaginas femoris muscles ; but the deep surface surfaces- rests on the vastus and crureus, and on branches of the ex- ternal circumflex artery and the anterior crural nerve. The vastus internus and crureus are inseparably united, vastus and will be here described as one muscle. The fleshy maSS and cru- arises from the anterior and lateral surfaces of the femur,reus' One except at the ends, and its limits may be thus indicated : — mass on 1 ' J the front It reaches upwards as far as the anterior intertrochanteric ?f tne A femur. line and the trochanter ; downwards, to about two inches Its ori_ from the articular end of the femur ; outwards, to the vastus sm; externus ; and inwards, to the internal margin of the linea aspera as well as the lines continued from it towards the ends of the bone, viz. towards the small trochanter in one direction, and the inner condyle of the femur in the opposite direction. At the lower end of the muscle the fibres termi- insertion nate in a cutaneous aponeurosis that blends in the common common tendon of insertion. The upper part of the muscular mass tendon* . . Upper is buried beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles ; but the Part i« deep, lower part is superficial, and projects more than the vastus bQut the externus at the opposite side of the thigh. The adductor super muscles are almost inseparably joined with the vastus along their attachment to the linea aspera.