732 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. is the at its origin. It arises from the lower fourth of the anterior part of surface of the fibula, from the lower end of the interosseous tensor, ligament, and from the intermuscular septum between it and the peroneal muscles; and it is inserted by a tendon into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. This muscle has the same connections in the leg as the lower part of the long extensor, and is contained in the same space in the annular ligament. Anterior The anterior tibial artery extends from the bifurcation tibial artery; of the popliteal trunk to the front of the ankle-joint, where it loses the name tibial, and becomes the dorsal artery of the course foot. The course of the artery is at first forwards, through and ex- _ ' tent; the aperture m the upper part 01 the interosseous membrane, and then along the front of that membrane and the tibia to the foot. A line from the inner side of the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle will mark the position of the vessel, connec- In the upper third of the leg the artery lies between the with tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum; and in around, the lower two thirds between the tibial muscle and the extensor proprius pollicis, but towards the lower end of the vessel, this last muscle becomes superficial, and crosses to its inner side. The artery rests on the interosseous mem- brane in two thirds of its extent, and is overlapped by the fleshy bellies of the contiguous muscles, so that it is at a great depth from the surface; but it is in front of the tibia and the ankle-joint in the lower third, and is comparatively superficial, for it here lies between only the tendons of the muscles. Position Vense comites closely entwine around the artery, covering it very closely with cross branches on the upper part. The and anterior tibial nerve approaches the tibial vessels about the nerve' middle third of the leg, and continues with them, crossing once or twice. At the lower end of the artery the nerve is on the outer side, branch- Branches. — In the leg the anterior tibial artery furnishes mostly muscular offsets, but near the knee and ankle-joints other named branches take origin, and a cutaneous branch accompanies the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Recur- A recurrent branch leaves the trunk as soon as it appears above rent* the interosseous membrane, and ascends in the tibialis anticus