MUSCLES OF THE MOUTH. 27 The inner margin of the muscle is free, and bounds the Connect aperture of the mouth; whilst the outer edge blends with blend's the different muscles that elevate or depress the lips and the other angle of the mouth. Beneath the orbicularis in each lip is the coronary artery, with the mucous membrane and the labial glands. The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS extends vertically from Elevator the lower margin of the orbit to the orbicularis oris. It i°ipUpper arises from the upper maxillary and malar bones, above the infra-orbital foramen, and is inserted into the orbicularis oris, passes between the middle line and the angle of the mouth. Near orbit to the orbit the muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis pal- pebrarum, but below that spot it is subcutaneous. By its connec. inner side it joins the common elevator of the ala of the tloas* nose and the upper lip; and to its outer side lie the zygo- matic muscles. Beneath it are the infra-orbital vessels and The levator anguli oris has well-marked fibres, and is Elevator partly concealed by the preceding muscle. Arising from angle the canine fossa, beneath the infra-orbital foramen, its fibres spread out towards the angle of the mouth, where they are superficial to the buccinator, and mix with the rest of the mixes • witn de~ muscles, but the greater number are continued into the de- pressor .. . -. , , ,. of angle. pressor anguli oris and the lower hp. The depressor labii inferioris is opposite the elevator of Depres- the upper lip, and has much yellow fat mixed with its fibres." lower lip The muscle takes its origin from the front of the lower jaw, and ascends to be blended with the orbicularis in the lower lip. Its inner border is contiguous to the muscle of the is in the . . i till middle opposite side, and its outer is overlapped by the depressor of chin, anguli oris. The depressor anguli oris is triangular in shape, and Depres- passes from the oblique line on the outer surface of the lower angle* jaw to the angle of the mouth, where its fibres are continued into the elevators of the angle. This muscle conceals the is a labial branch of the inferior dental vessels and nerve. At muscle, its origin the depressor is united with the platysma myoides, and at its insertion with the risorius muscle. The Levator menti is a small muscle on the side of the Elevator fraenuin of the lower lip, which corresponds to the depressor ofchln* of the ala of the nose in the upper lip. When the mucous