DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 186 similar white mass (crus cerebelli); and behind it is the enlarged upper part of the cord. Cerebei- The cerebellum, or the small brain, is divided into two lum. 7 7 halves by a median fissure, and each half will be subsequently seen to be subdivided into lobes. Cere- The cerebrum, or the large brain, is also divided into two halves by a longitudinal fissure in the middle line. Each half is further subdivided into anterior, middle, and posterior and its lobes. Between the anterior and the middle lobe is the great di- visions, fissure of Sylvius, but the limit between the middle and the posterior is an imaginary line corresponding to the anterior part of the small brain. In the centre of the cerebrum, be- tween the hemispheres and in front of the pons, are several small bodies that will be afterwards enumerated. Arteries Arteries of the Brain.— The brain is supplied with brain, blood by the two vertebral, and the two internal carotid arteries. Verte- The vertebral artery is a branch of the subclavian artery, and enters the spinal canal by piercing the membrane be- endsin tween the atlas and the occipital bone. Then ascending to sl ar' the brain, round the side of the medulla oblongata, the artery enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and is blended with its fellow in one trunk (basilar) at the lower border of winds the pons. As the vessel winds round the upper part of the medulla, cord, it lies between the roots of the ninth and suboccipital nerves; but it is afterwards internal to the ninth. Branch- Branches. — Between its entrance into the spinal canal and its termination, each artery furnishes offsets to the spinal cord, to the dura mater, and to the cerebellum. to spinal 1, The posterior spinal branch is of inconsiderable size, and arises opposite the posterior part of the cord : it descends anterior along the side of the cord, behind the nerves, anastomosing with its fellow, and with branches that enter by the inter- vertebral foramina. poste- 2. The anterior spinal branch is as small as the preceding, nor' and is an offset opposite the front of the spinal cord. This small branch joins the corresponding twig of the opposite side, and the resulting vessel is continued along the middle of the cord on its anterior aspect. o^ura 3, The posterior meningeal artery leaves the vertebral