DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 716 when this has been defined, to remove the fat from the toes to see the sheaths of the tendons. Plantar Plantar fascia, — The special fascia of the sole of the fascia. foot is of a pearly white colour and great strength, and sends septa between the muscles. Its thickness varies in different parts of the foot; and from this circumstance, and from the existence of longitudinal depressions, where the two chief Division intermuscular septa are attached, the fascia is divided into a parts, central and two lateral parts. Central The central part, which is much the thickest, is pointed at its attachment to the os calcis, but widens and becomes thinner as it extends forwards. A slight depression, corre- sponding to an intermuscular septum, marks its limit on each divides side. Opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones it divides into five m 1 1 pieces, into five processes, which are continued onwards to the toes, one to each. If one of the processes be divided longitu- Termi. dinally, and its parts reflected to the sides, it will be seen to of the join, at the centre, the sheath of the flexor tendons, whilst pieces. . . it is attached on the sides to the margins of the metatarsal bone, and to the ligament uniting one of these bones to an- Arched other. Where the processes separate from one another the over ves- digital vessels and nerves and the lumbricales muscles be- sels. come superficial, and transverse fibres arch over the intervals between them. inner The lateral parts of the fascia are thinner than the central the piece. On the inner margin of the foot the fascia has but little strength, and is continued to the dorsum; but on the outer outer side it is increased in thickness, and presents a strong pdrt* band between the os calcis and the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. Expose Dissection. — To examine the septa, a longitudinal incision e septa. ^ ma(je a]ong centre of the foot, and a transverse one near the calcaneum. On detaching the fascia from the subjacent flexor brevis digitorum, by carrying the scalpel from before backwards, the processes will appear on the sides of that muscle. Two The intermuscular septa pass down on the sides of the muscu- flexor brevis digitorum, and thus isolate the central muscle septa; in the superficial layer of the sole of the foot. The inner inner one lies between the short flexor and the abductor pollicis, and is perforated by the internal plantar nerve, and by the