THE WALL OF THE THORAX. 261 two. The fibres converge towards the base and the angles of the scapula, but from a difference in their direction, the muscle appears to consist of three parts. The upper part is and fibres attached internally to the first two ribs and to an aponeurotic seem to arch between them; and externally to an impression on the three ventral surface of the upper angle of the scapula. A middle part, which is very thin, extends from the second, third, and fourth ribs to the base of the shoulder bone. And a lower part, which is the strongest, is connected on the one side with four ribs (fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth), where it digitates with like processes of origin of the external oblique muscle ; and, on the other side, it is fixed into the rough surface of bone on the costal aspect of the lower angle of the scapula. The muscle is applied against the ribs and the conneo. intercostal muscles, and is partly concealed by the pectoral the mus- muscles and the axillary vessels and nerves : in the ordinary *J position of the arm, the scapula and the subscapularis muscle are in contact with it. Dissection. — The intercostal muscles will be brought into Dissec- view by detaching the processes of origin of the serratus of the from the ribs, and taking the cellular membrane from the costal external layer of those muscles. Towards the front of the chest a thin aponeurosis, that is continued forwards from the external fleshy stratum to the sternum, is to be retained. Some of the lateral cutaneous nerves should be preserved. The intercostal muscles are named from their position inter- between the ribs. There are two layers in each space; but muscles neither stratum occupies the whole length of a space, for one layers in (the external) stops short of the middle line in front, and the space, other (internal) fails to reach the middle line behind. Their number, and their depth and size are determined by the inter- costal spaces. And the direction of the fibres differs in each stratum; for, whilst those of the external muscle pass very obliquely downwards and forwards, those of the internal layer have an opposite though less oblique direction, so that the fibres cross. The external muscle is fixed to the outer margins of the outer ribs of the corresponding space, and consists of fleshy and layer tendinous fibres. Posteriorly the fibres begin at the tubercle iS defi. of the rib, and anteriorly they end short of the middle line, Srty • but after a different manner in the upper and lower spaces.