736 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. External Muscles on the outer part of the leg. — Only two of the muscles are found in this situation : they are named peronei leg* from their attachment to the fibula, and are distinguished by terms (longus and brevis) expressive of their relative length. Intermuscular processes of fascia, which are attached to the fibula, isolate these muscles from others, viz. from the soleus and flexor pollicis behind, and from the extensor longus digitorum in front. Pero- The peroneus longus is the more superficial of the two gu"s lon" muscles, and passes round the outer border of the foot into the sole to end in the cuneiform and metatarsal bones. It arises from the head of the fibula, from the outer surface of Origin the shaft of the bone for two thirds of its length, and from ftbuia; the fascia and the intermuscular septa. Inferiorly it ends in a tendon which is contained, with that of the peroneus brevis, in the groove at the back of the external malleolus, and the sheath of the external annular ligament. After- wards the tendon is continued in a separate sheath, below that of the peroneus brevis, along the side of the os calcis to the groove in the outer border of the cuboid bone, by which insertion it enters the sole of the foot. Its position in the foot, and bones of its insertion into the tarsal and the metatarsal bones, are the foot, described in page 727. In the leg the muscle is immediately Position beneath the fascia, and lies on the peroneus brevis. Be- Lg. neath its annular ligament it is placed over the middle piece of the external lateral ligament of the ankle, with the peroneus brevis, and surrounded by a single synovial mem- brane common to both. The extensor longus digitorum and the soleus muscles are fixed to the fibula laterally with respect to it, one being on each side. Perone. The peroneus brevis reaches the outer side of the foot, isSattacVhS;and is connected with the metatarsal bone of the little toe. fibula. It is smaller than the preceding muscle, and inferior to it in position. The muscle arises from the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula for about the two lower thirds, and from the intermuscular septa. Its tendon passes, with that of the peroneus longus, beneath the external annular ligament, and is placed next the fibula as it turns below this bone. Escaped from the ligament, the tendon enters a distinct fibrous sheath, which conducts it along the tarsus to its and bone insertion into the base of the metatarsal bone of the little of the