DISSECTION OF THE FORE ARM. 296 palmar great irregularity in the proportion between its fleshy and muscle n , ,-. tendinous parts. Its origin is like that 01 the preceding muscle, viz. from the common tendon, the fascia, and the annular' inte™uscu^ar septa. Its long thin tendon is continued Nga- through the centre of the fore-arm, and over the annular ment ° ' fn fasTia8 ^&ament *° en(^ m the palmar fascia. The palmaris is of palm, situate between the flexor carpi radialis and flexor carpi ulnaris muscles, and rests on the flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor The flexor carpi ulnaris has an aponeurotic attach- carpi L ulnaris. ment to the inner condyle of the humerus; to the inner side Origin. J m 7 of the olecranon ; and to the ridge of the ulna, between the internal and external surfaces, for three fourths of its length. The fibres are continued vertically downwards or obliquely forwards to a tendon, which occupies the anterior aspect of the muscle in its lower half, and some join it as low as the insertion wrist; and the tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone, formPlsl whilst an offset is sent to the annular ligament, and to the muscles of the little finger. One surface of the muscle is in contact with the fascia; and its tendon may be taken as the guide to the ulnar artery, since it can be readily felt through Adjacent the skin. To its radial side are the palmaris and flexor *5artb* digitorum sublimis muscles, but below the middle of the fore-arm the ulnar artery and nerve are placed along it. When the attachment to the inner condyle has been divided, and the subjacent parts cleaned, the muscle will be seen to conceal the flexor digitorum sublimis and flexor profundus, the ulnar nerve, and the ulnar vessels in part. Between the attachments to the condyle and the olecranon the ulnar nerve enters the fore-arm. Course The radial artery is one of the vessels derived from the tent of" bifurcation of the brachial trunk, and its destination is the diaiar- palm of the hand. It is first placed along the outer side of tery* the fore-arm as far as the end of the radius ; it then winds backwards below the end of that bone ; and it enters finally the palm of the hand through the first interosseous space. In consequence of this circuitous course the artery will be found in three different regions; viz. the front of the fore- arm, the back of the wrist, and the palm of the hand, situation In the front of the fore-arm.—In this part of the limb the fore- position of the artery will be marked, on the surface, by a line drawn from the centre of the hollow of the elbow to