AXILLARY ARTERY. 255 tube of membrane that surrounds the femoral vessels in the upper part of the thigh. The front of the sheath is strongest strong- near the subclavius muscle, where it forms a strong band front! over the axillary blood vessels. The anterior part of the tube is perforated by the acromial thoracic artery and the anterior thoracic nerve. Dissection. — The tube of fascia around the vessels will be Dissec- demonstrated by making a transverse cut in the membrane costo°-f near the clavicle, so that the handle of the scalpel can be EMd passed beneath it around the vessels and nerves. By raising the lower border of the subclavius, this muscle will be seen to be incased by fascia, viz. in front by the costo-coracoid membrane, and behind by a strong process of the deep cer- vical fascia, that descends beneath the muscle to join the membrane in this position. After the costo-coracoid membrane has been examined, clean the remains of it are to be taken away ; and the upper part of the axillary vessels and nerves, with their branches, is to be carfully cleaned. The subclavius muscle is thin and roundish in form, and subcia- is placed between the clavicle and the first rib. It arises by muscle a tendon from the first rib, at the junction of the osseous and cartilaginous parts, and in front of the costo-clavicular liga- ment. The fibres ascend obliquely, and are inserted into a is at- tached to groove on the under surface of the clavicle which reaches clavicle between the two tubercles, internal and external, for the at- rib. tachment of the costo and coraco-clavicular ligaments. The muscle overhangs the large vessels and nerves of the limb, and is enclosed, as before said, in a sheath of fascia. The axillary artery is the continuation of the subcla- Axillary vian vessel onwards through the axilla to the upper limb ; anery ls and the part of the vessel, to which this name is applied, ex- tends from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the teres major muscle. In its course through the axillary space, its direction is dependant upon the position of the limb to the trunk; for when the arm lies by the side of f£ehedin the body the vessel is curved, its convexity being upwards, axilla- and in proportion as the limb is removed to a right angle with the chest the artery becomes straight. In the upper part of the axilla the vessel is deeply placed, but it becomes