DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 474 the hinder stratum of the sheath, for this is fixed to the mar- gin of the thorax. Below, midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, the internal oblique fails to incase the rec- tus, and passes altogether in front of it with the other apo- i?efi- neuroses ; the spot where the sheath ceases inferiorly will be cient in- ferioriy. seen to be marked by a white, well-defined margin (the fold of Douglas) when the outer edge of the muscle is raised. Where the sheath is deficient, the rectus is in contact with the fascia transversalis. Lmeaj The Linece transversa are the tendinous intersections that trans. versa? cross the surface of the rectus. There are usually three of are three these lines at the following spots : one is opposite the umbi- or more. m A 1 situa- licus, another at the ensiform cartilage, and the third mid- tlon* way between the other two. If there is a greater number, the additional one will be below the umbilicus. These markings seldom extend the whole breadth or depth of the muscular fibres, more particularly above and below. Linea Linea semilunaris. — This line which was before alluded semi- lunaris to with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, is at edge corresponds to the outer edge of the rectus, and reaches tus. from the eighth rib to the outer part of the crest of the pubes : it marks the line of the division of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle. Pyrami- The pyramid alis muscle is triangular in form, and is muscle, placed in front of the rectus near the pelvis. The muscle Attach- arises by its base from the front of the os pubis, and is pubesto inserted by its apex into the linea alba, about midway be- and^imea tween ^e umbilicus and the pubes. This small muscle is often absent. Nerves Nerves.—Between the internal oblique and transversalis of ab- muscles, are the intercostal nerves ; and near the pelvis, are ' ; the two branches of the lumbar plexus. Some arteries ac- company the intercostal nerves, but they will be referred to with the vessels of the abdominal wall (p. 480.), inter- a. The six lower intercostal nerves (p. 389.) enter the costal p . i ner es wall 0f the abdomen at the anterior part of the intercostal are be- spaces. Placed between the two deepest lateral muscles, the oblique nerves are directed forwards to the edge of the rectus, and trans- then through this muscle to become cutaneous along the versahs. front Q£ ^Q abdomen. About midway between the spine and the linea alba, the nerves furnish cutaneous branches to