531 GLANDS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. by the villi of the mucous membrane, and have around them the apertures of the crypts of Lieberkuhn. These glands closed are small sacs, which contain an opaque whitish granular sacs% fluid, but have not an aperture into the intestine. The glands of Peyer (glandulae agminatas) are found Glands chiefly in the ileum, in the form of oval patches, which mea- sure from half an inch to two inches or more in length, size; and about half an inch in width. These glands are situate sima- on the part of the intestine opposite to the attachment of the mesentery, and their direction is longitudinal in the gut. Usually they are from twenty to thirty in number. In the number; lower part of the ileum the patches are largest and most pecu- numerous ; but they decrease in number and size upwards from that spot, till at the lower part of the jejunum they become irregular in forim, and may consist only of small roundish masses. A patch, when examined with the microscope, appears to Compo- be. only a collection of the solitary glands, for it consists of a a gland number of small flattened vesicles or sacs, which are round or oval in form, and are covered by the mucous membrane. Like the glands referred to, the vesicles contain a whitish same as consistent fluid, and are commonly without any aperture, the soii- though they have been found with openings into the intes- Sands, tine. Around the vesicles is a circle of apertures of the crypts before described. The mucous membrane over them is a little hollowed, and may in some instances be furnished with villi. Between the vesicles the lining membrane of the bowel has the same appearance as in other parts. Glands of Brunner.—Directions have been already given Com- how to display these glands (p. 528.). They are small com- guTds, pound glands, similar to the buccal and labial glands of the Brun- mouth, which exist only in the duodenum. Near the pylorus these bodies are most numerous, and there they are visible without a lens, being nearly as large as hemp seed. When compo- examined more minutely, the glands are found to consist of lobules, with appertaining little excretory tubes; and each Aper. ends on the surface of the mucous membrane by a duct, their whose aperture is slightly larger than the mouths of the con- tiguous crypts of Lieberkuhn. In the small secretory cells of the gland the epithelium is laminar. Epithelium. — The epithelial lining of the mucous mem- The ePu M M 2 thelium