745 LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. tip of the malleolus to the outer surface of the os calcis, about the middle. The posterior part is the strongest, and is a"^0P°s~ almost horizontal in direction ; it is connected externally to the pit on the under surface of the malleolus, and is inserted into the posterior surface of the astragalus, extending to the groove for the flexor proprius pollicis tendon. The posterior and middle fasciculi are in contact with the peronei muscles. Connec- tions. The middle part is altogether removed from the synovial membrane of the ankle-joint; and both it and the under sur- face of the posterior piece are in contact with the synovial membrane between the astragalus and the os calcis. Dissection. — Dividing the ligaments of the ankle-joint, ^pen the separate the astragalus from the bones of the leg, to see the i°int- osseous surfaces entering into the joint. Articular surfaces. — On the tibia there are two articular surfaces J m of the faces, one of which corresponds to the end of its shaft, and bones in 1 7 thejoint, the other to the malleolus; but on the fibula only the surface of the malleolus, that is turned to the astragalus, is tipped with cartilage. The astragalus has a central articular sur- face, that touches the end of the tibia; and on the sides are similar articular impressions that are in contact with the malleoli, but the outer one is the largest. The synovial membrane of the joint lines the capsule, and synovial sends a process upwards to the lower peroneo-tibial articula- tion. Articulations of the astragalus and os calcis. — Articuia- These two chief bones of the tarsus are united to one another, the two as well as to the bones in front of them, by separate arti- bones, culations. Dissection.—All the rest of the joints of the foot will be Dissec- demonstrated by removing from both the dorsum and the thejoints sole the parts that have been already examined, and then tarsus, cleaning the ligaments. Between the different tarsal bones bands of ligament extend, which will be defined by remov- ing the cellular membrane from the intervals between them. a. The astragalus with the os calcis. — These bones are Astra- kept together by a strong interosseous ligament; and there SlTos is also a thin band both on the outer side and behind. The posterior ligament consists of a few fibres between posteri- * ° or, ex- the bones, where they are grooved by the tendon of the ^™a,» flexor pollicis ; and the external ligament is connected to the