177 CERVICAL NERVES. The intertransverse muscles are slender fleshy slips inter- that occupy the intervals between the transverse processes, verse In the neck there are seven pairs — one for each space. The first pair is between the atlas and the axis, whilst the Number r 7 and at- last is between the last cervical, and the first dorsal vertebra.tach- ments. One set is attached to the anterior, and the other to the pos- terior tubercles on the tips of the transverse processes. Be- tween the muscles, except in the first two spaces, is the anterior division of a cervical nerve ; and beneath the pos- terior muscle is the other division of the same nerve. In Peculia- rities. the upper intertransverse space the posterior muscle is often wanting ; and, in the lowest space, the muscle of the anterior set is smaller than the others, or it may-be absent. Cervical nerves at their exit from the spinal canal, — The Cervical cervical nerves issue from the spinal canal through the inter- their f0- vertebral foramina, with two exceptions, and bifurcate into give an anterior and a posterior trunk. The anterior division passes outwards between the inter- anterior transverse muscles, and joins the plexuses in the neck (p. 75.). The posterior division turns to the back beneath the pos- and Pos- _ _ _ . ill terior di- terior intertransverse muscle, and the other muscles attached vision. to the posterior roots of the transverse processes ; here it will be found close to the bone between the articular pro- cesses of the vertebra. Peculiarities in first two. — The first two nerves leave the First two nerves spinal canal above the posterior arches of the first two ver- differ tebrse, and divide at the back of the neck into anterior and posterior trunks. Anterior division.—The anterior part of the first or sub- in both occipital nerve has been examined (p. 118). The anterior tnden°r division of the second nerve, after perforating the membrane between the posterior arches of the first and second vertebrae, is directed forwards, outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the intertransverse muscle of the first space, to join the cer- vical plexus. The posterior divisions of the first two nerves are described P?^erior in the dissection of the back. sions. The vertebral artery has been seen at its origin in the Verte- bral ar- neck (p. 72.), and its termination will be described with the teryin vessels of the brain. Entering the foramen in the trans- ramina