DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 326 Lower Articular surfaces of the bones.—The humerus presents the hu- inferiorly two distinct articular surfaces for the bones of the Onenu- fore-arm. The one for the radius is on the outer side, and radius^ consists of a rounded eminence (capitellum) on the front of the bone, which is covered with cartilage only on the an- terior aspect: between it and the surface that corresponds to for°ther tne u*na *s a s^ghfc hollow. The surface in contact with the ulna; uina is limited internally and externally by a prominent ridge, and is hollowed out in the centre like a pulley (trochlea): the external ridge corresponds to the interval also for between the heads of the radius and ulna. On the front of coronoid . . _ . process, the humerus, above the articular surface, is a depression that receives the coronoid process during flexure of the joint; and oie- and on the posterior aspect is a large fossa for the reception of the olecranon in extension of the fore-arm. End of On the end of the ulna there is a large excavation named the ulna. sigmoid cavity, which is narrow in the centre, but expanded in front and behind. A slightly raised line extends from front to back through the cavity, and is received into the hollow of the trochlea of the humerus, in the motions of the joint. End of The end of the radius presents a circular depression, with radius, a raised margin. It touches the humerus only in the bent state of the joint; in that state the depression of the radius is fitted on the eminence of the humerus, and the bone is thus supported during rotation of the limb. Radius Union of the Eadius and Ulna— The radius is con- to uina. nected with the ulna, both at the upper and lower ends, by means of distinct ligaments and a synovial membrane; and the shafts of the bones are further united by an interosseous ligament. At the Upper radio-ulnar articulation.—In this joint the head end by °f tne radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and is kept in place by the following ligamentous band:—■ orbicu- The annular or orbicular ligament is a strong fasciculus mentga of fibres, about a quarter of an inch wide, which is placed over the prominence of the head of the radius, and is attached to the anterior and posterior edges of the small around sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Its upper border is connected of the with the ligaments of the elbow joint; but the lower is free> bone,