681 OBTURATOR MUSCLE AND VESSELS. the point of junction of the middle with the lower third of the thigh, and is larger than is necessary for the passage of the vessels. On the outside it is bounded by the vastus bounda- internus, but on the inside, by the tendon of the adductor nes* magnus, with some fibres added from that of the long adductor. The psoas and iliacus arise separately in the abdomen pSOas (p. 572.), but are united in the thigh. The conjoined crural acusln portion of these muscles comes beneath Poupart's ligament, thfgh. and descends to be inserted by a tendon into the back of inser- the small trochanter of the femur, as well as by fleshy fibres femur.to into a special surface of the bone in front of and below that eminence. Beneath the ligament the muscles occupy the Parts interval between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the anterior around- superior spinous process of the ilium. On the front of the psoas is the femoral artery, and between the two muscles lies the anterior crural nerve; whilst the fleshy mass covers the capsule of the hip-joint and an intervening bursa. The pectineus and the internal circumflex artery are contiguous to the inner border; and the sartorius and vastus internus, to the outer edge of the muscles. The obturator externus is of a conical form, with the obtura- base at the pelvis and the apex at the femur. The fibres of ternus"; the muscle take origin from the outer surface of the obturator origin, membrane for the anterior two-thirds; and from the bone bounding internally the foramen of the same name, though unequally, for opposite the symphysis pubis the attachment is an inch wide, but lower down only half that width. From that spot the fibres are directed obliquely outwards and backwards to be inserted by a tendon into the pit at the root inser- of the great trochanter. This muscle is concealed by the ^ ad pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus; it is ^;°r*t pierced by part of the obturator nerve, and covers the obtu- rator membrane and artery. As it courses backwards it is in contact with the inner, and the lower part of the hip- and it joint. The insertion of the muscle will be seen in the dis- hip-hes section of the buttock. joint- Dissection.—By detaching the obturator muscle in part Detach from the pelvis, the branches of the artery and nerve of the tor.ura" same name will be seen amongst its fibres. The obturator artery is a branch of the internal iliac in obtura-