MUSCLES OF THE NOSE. 25 cularis, near the inner angle of the orbit. Its fibres amggatorsu- from the inner part of the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone, and are directed thence outwards to join the orbi- is biend- cular muscle about the middle of the orbital arch. It IS orbicu- a short muscle, and is distinguished by the closeness of its fibres. Of the Nose.—The muscles of the nose are the follow- Four ing: pyramidalis nasi, compressor naris, levator alse nasi, JJfnose! with some fibres that dilate the nostril, and depressor alas nasi. The pyramidalis nasi is a small pyramidal slip that covers pyrami- the nasal bone, and appears to be a prolongation of the occi- naif pito-frontalis muscle. Over the cartilaginous part of the nose, naSa* its fibres end in an aponeurosis, which joins that of the com- bone* pressor naris. By the outer border the muscle is united with the orbicularis palpebrarum, and along the inner border is the muscle of the opposite side. Compressor Naris. — This muscle is not well seen till com- after the examination of the following one. Triangular in naris°r shape it arises by a point from the canine fossa of the upper maxillary bone. The fibres are directed inwards, spreading out at the same time, and end in an aponeurosis, which covers covers the cartilaginous part of the nose, and joins the tendon of of nos?.6 the opposite muscle. This muscle is partly concealed by the next one — the common elevator of the ala of the nose and the upper lip. The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS ALiEQUE NASI is placed by Elevator the side of the nose, and arises from the nasal process of the ofnosf upper maxillary bone, internal to the orbicularis. As the fibres descend from the inner part of the orbit, the most in- ternal are attached by a narrow slip to the wing of the nose, whilst the rest are blended inferiorly with those of the orbi- is part cularis oris. Near its origin the muscle is partly concealed of upper by the orbicularis palpebrarum, but in the rest of its extenthp' it is subcutaneous; its outer border joins the elevator of the upper lip. Dilatator Naris.—In the dense tissue on the outer side of Dilator the nostril, are found a few muscular fibres both in front and trii. . behind, to which the above name has been given by Theile: they are seldom visible without a lens. The anterior slip ^derior