199 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. o 4 The olivary body (corpus olivare) is the oval projection olivary close to the anterior pyramid. A shallow groove separates it from the pyramid, and a deeper and wider one is between it and the restiform body. This eminence is shorter than does not * . . reach the pyramid, and does not reach to the pons : its upper end is pons, most prominent, and arching round the lower end, or some~ some times over the surface, are some white fibres (fibrse arci- fibre? formes). c. Restiform body and posterior pyramid.—The restiform Resti- body (restis, a rope) forms the largest prominence on the half body is of the medulla oblongata, and cannot be seen satisfactorily est piece, except on a distinct preparation. This body is posterior to the lateral tract, and projects laterally, so as to give the greater width to the upper part of the medulla oblongata. The restiform swelling is continuous inferiorly with the of what ° . . Parts i(; posterior column of the spinal cord; and superiorly it consists, appears to be continued into the pons, like the other seg- ments of the medulla oblongata; but the disposition of its fibres at this part will be subsequently referred to. Below the level of the olivary body it is divided into two parts by a distinct groove on the surface ; one of these, the smaller and posterior of the two, is the funiculus gracilis, or the posterior pyramid ; and the anterior and larger part, has been named funiculus cuneatus (Burdach). Between the restiform bodies, at the back of the medulla, is the space of the fourth ventricle. The posterior pyramid (funic, gracilis) is a con- Poste- tinuation of that part of the spinal cord which is close to the ramidis close to posterior median fissure. By drawing forwards the medulla, posterior r . . . median or using a separate piece of hardened medulla, the pyramid fissure, will be seen to be slightly enlarged (clava) at the apex of the fourth ventricle, where the restiform bodies diverge, and then to become gradually indistinct on the surface of the corpus restiforme. Where the posterior pyramidal bodies separate they are con- obex nected by an intervening band or cross piece (obex, Riegel of the Germans), that closes behind the point of the fourth ventricle. A little higher on each side is a thin lamina of nervous substance (taenia, ligula), which is about a line in width, and forms part of tamia : the roof of the fourth ventricle; this membranous sheet is at- tached by one edge to the hinder part of the restiform body, but ofpyra- is free by the other, where it is connected with the vascular fold mids' of the ventricle.