VERTEBRAL ARTERIES. 187 trunk opposite the foramen magnum, and ramifies in the dura mater lining the fossae of the occipital bone. 4. The inferior cerebellar artery (posterior) is distributed ^r^h to the under surface of the cerebellum. Taking origin from under ° ° part of the end of the vertebral, or from the basilar artery, this f^bel" branch winds backwards round the side of the medulla, be- tween the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and enters the median fissure of the cerebellum. Directed on- wards along the fissure, the artery reaches the upper surface of the cerebellum, and there anastomoses with the superior cerebellar artery. A branch of this vessel ramifies over the under surface of the cerebellum, and ends externally by anastomosing with the upper cerebellar artery. As the vessel lies by the side of the aperture of the fourth ventricle, it gives a small offset to the choroid plexus of that cavity. The basilar artery is the vessel resulting from the union Basilar . artery. of the two vertebral arteries. It reaches from the lowrer to Extent the upper border of the pons, and ends at the last spot by and dividing into two branches (posterior cerebral) for the cere- brum. The vessel touches the basilar process of the occipital situa- bone, from that circumstance receiving its name, and corre- sponds to the median groove of the pons. On each side of, and almost parallel to it is the sixth nerve. Branches. — Besides the terminal branches mentioned Branch- es : above, the artery supplies transverse offsets to the pons and to the under part of the cerebellum, and a large branch to the upper surface of the cerebellum. 1. The transverse arteries of the pons are four or six Trans- verse to small twigs, that are named from their direction, and are dis- the pons tributed to the substance of the pons. One of these gives an offset to the internal auditory meatus along the seventh nerve. Resembling most this set of branches is the follow- ing artery, the inferior cerebellar (anterior): this arises and in- ferior ce- from the basilar trunk, and is directed outwards to the rebeiiar. under-surface of the cerebellum, at the anterior part, on which it is distributed. 2. The superior cerebellar artery is derived from the superior basilar so near its termination, that it is often described as iar. one of the final branches of that vessel. Its destination is the upper aspect of the cerebellum, to which it is directed backwards over the third nerve and the crus cerebri, but