DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 610 and the front of the prostate an offset (cavernous) is continued onwards pem°* to the dorsum of the penis, to supply the cavernous structure. On the penis the cavernous nerves join the pudic nerve. offsets In the female there are the following additional plexuses, female: for the supply of the viscera peculiar to that sex: — to the Ovarian plexus. — The principal nerves to the ovary are derived ovary' from the renal and aortic plexuses, and accompany the artery to that body; but the uterine nerves also supply some filaments to it. to the Vaginal plexus.— The nerves to the vagina are of large size, and vagina, plexiform, but consist in greater part of spinal nerve fibres : they end in the lower part of the tube, and to The uterine nerves are furnished to the uterus without admixture uterus, with the spinal nerves. The nerves ascend along the side of the uterus, and are, for the most part, long slender filaments, without ganglia or communications to their termination in the substance of the viscus. Some few nerves that surround the arteries are plexiform and ganglionic.—Beck. The Fallopian tube receives its branches from the uterine nerves, chain of The lymphatic glands of the pelvis form a chain in front pelvis; of the sacrum, and along the internal iliac artery. The effer- ent ducts of these bodies join the lumbar glands. Into these lympha- glands the deep lymphatics of the penis, those of the genital tering organs in the female, and the lymphatics of the viscera and the wall of the pelvis, are collected. Section V. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE MALE. Directions, — The bladder and the parts at its base, viz. the vesiculae seminales and the prostate gland, are to be taken first for examination.* Take out Dissection. — To study the form and structure of the the vis- cera. viscera, it will be necessary to remove them from the cavity of the pelvis. For this purpose the student should carry the scalpel around the pelvic outlet, close to the osseous boundaries, so as to detach the crura of the penis from the bones, and to divide the parts connected with the end of the rectum. * The anatomy of the viscera of the female is contained in section 6. p. 624.