DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 32 the artery is the trunk formed by the junction of the tem- poral and internal maxillary veins, from which the external jugular vein springs ; and opening into this common trunk are some veins from the parotid, whilst a branch through the gland connects it with the internal jugular vein.* Crossing the gland from behind forwards is the trunk of the facial nerve, which passes over the artery, and distributes its branches through the parotid. The superficial temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve likewise lies above the upper part of the glandular mass; and offsets of the great auricular nerve pierce the gland at the lower part, and join the facial. The The structure of the parotid resembles that of the other salivary formed glands. The glandular mass is divided into numerous small by ter~ lobules by intervening processes of fascia: and each lobule consists mination J 0 1 of the of a set of the closed terminal extremities of the excretory duct, ducts, . . i surrounded by capillary vessels. The size of these little closed sacs, which by their aggregation form the mass of the lobule, is about TJoo of an inch in diameter. From the lobules issue small ducts, which unite to form larger tubes, and finally all the ducts of the gland are collected into one. and the An examination of the common duct (duct of Stenson) will show duct has composed of an external thick fibrous coat, and of an coats. internal mucous coat which is covered with columnar epithelium. Vessels The parotid receives its arteries from the external carotid, nerves, and its nerves from the sympathetic, facial, and great auri- cular. Its lymphatics join those of the neck. Molar Two or three small glands (molar) lie along the origin of the glands, buccinator, and open into the mouth near the last molar tooth by separate ducts. Nasal Cartilages of the Nose.—These close the nasal aperture carti- lages, which exists in the skeleton, and form part of the outer nose and of the septum. They are five in number, two on each * Oftentimes a different arrangement of these veins will be found. In such case the external jugular is continued from the occipital (half or all) and posterior auricular veins. Whilst the temporal and internal maxillary veins unite to form a trunk (temporo-maxillary), that receives the facial below the jaw, and opens into the internal jugular vein oppo- site the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. When this condition exists, the temporo-maxillary trunk accompanies the external carotid artery.