591 PROSTATE AND VESICUL^E : CONNECTIONS. side of the bladder behind the obliterated vessel is covered by peritoneum, but the rest is uncovered. The neck (cervix) is the narrow anterior part of the Neck, bladder that joins the urethra. It is surrounded by the prostate gland. The position of the bladder in the pelvis is not the same Position 1 x m in pelvis in adult as in early life. For in the child this viscus pro- varies J t *- with age. jects above the brim of the pelvis into the hypogastric region of the abdomen, and the cervix is, the lowest part. But in the adult the bladder is concealed by the larger pelvic bones, and the base or fundus projects inferiorly. The ureter enters the posterior ligament of the bladder, Ureter 1 ° in pelvis, after crossing the common or the external iliac artery, and forms an arch below the level of the obliterated hypogastric vessel; it reaches forwards to enter the bladder near the ?nd en- ' trance lower part, and somewhat on the side, at the distance of jj}a^der about two inches and a half from the prostate gland. The prostate gland surrounds the neck of the bladder. Position of the It is placed below the level of the symphysis pubis, as well prostate; as posterior to it, and is supported by the rectum. Its shape form; is that of a cone with the base turned backwards, and its size equals a large horse chesnut. In the present position of axis-, the pelvis, a line through the middle of the gland would be directed obliquely downwards and backwards, though in the erect state of the body, it would be almost horizontal. The upper surface is about three quarters of an inch be- upper low the symphysis pubis, and is connected to it by the an- terior ligaments x>f the bladder. On this aspect are branches of the dorsal vein of the penis. The under surface has the greatest extent, and is con- under J & \ surface. tiguous to the rectum; this is the part that is felt by the finger introduced into the bowel through the anus. The apex touches the fascia of the pelvis that closes the ap?x 1 L and base. interval between the rami of the pubes ; and the base sur- rounds the vesicular seminales with the vasa deferentia, and limits anteriorly the triangular space at the base of the bladder. The prostate is enveloped by a sheath obtained from the Ifc is _, contain- recto-vesical fascia (p. 585.), and a plexus of veins (prostatic) l£™t* surrounds it: through the middle of the gland the urethra takes its course to the penis. The size of the prostate alters size may