PLANTAR VESSELS AND NERVES. 719 flexors of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the small lum- bricales, should be freed from cellular membrane. The plantar arteries are the terminal branches of the Two plantar posterior tibial trunk. They are two in number, and are arteries: named external and internal from their relative position in the sole of the foot. Of the two the former is the larger ; inner and it forms the plantar arch of arteries, from which digital outer, branches are furnished to the toes. The internal artery is commonly inconsiderable in size, internal J J 7 small ; and is directed forwards, under cover of the abductor pollicis, to the root of the great toe : here it ends either in small ends on ' _ . side of branches to the side of the foot, or m digital branches to the foot, the two inner toes which anastomose with the external plantar artery. The external artery has an arched course in the foot, with External . artery the concavity of the arch turned inwards, and supplies has . m 11 curved branches to the toes. Starting from the inner part of the course; foot, the vessel is first directed outwards across the sole, and then obliquely forwards towards the root of the great toe, or to the side on which it began, so that the vessel twice crosses the foot. In the first half of its extent, the artery is com- paratively superficial, and extends from the inner side of the partly calcaneum to the base of the metatarsal bone of the little ficFai* toe; in the other half it lies deeply in the foot, in contact partly with the interosseous muscles, and forms the plantar arch deep' between the little and the great toe. Only the first part of the artery is now laid bare; the re- Super- maining part, that supplies the digital branches, will be part, noticed after the examination of the third layer of muscles (p. 719.). As far as the metatarsal bone of the little toe, Connec- the vessel is concealed by the abductor pollicis and the flexortl0ns* brevis digitorum, but for a short distance near its termination it lies in the interval between the last muscle and the abductor minimi digiti. In this extent it is placed on the os veins calcis, and the flexor accessorius; and it is accompanied nerve, by venas comites, and the external plantar nerve. It sup- plies offsets to the muscles between which it lies, and some Branch- branches to the outer side of the foot for anastomosis with the peroneal artery. The plantar nerves are derived from the bifurcation of pian^r the posterior tibial nerve behind the inner ankle. They are afs^twa,