DISSECTION OP THE LEG. 708 the inner head that has been cut, the cleaning the fibres of the muscle will be facilitated. Muscles Superficial Layer op Muscles.—In the calf of the leg Sciaiper there are three muscles, gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, layer* which are united in a common tendon, and extend the ankle : the two first are large, and give rise to the prominence on the surface, but the last is inconsiderable in size and is chiefly tendinous. Gastro- The gastrocnemius is the most superficial muscle ; united cnemius. m . below in the common tendon, it has above two distinct pieces or heads, which connect it with the condyles of the arises by femur. The inner head of origin is attached by a tendon to heads an impression at the posterior aspect of the inner condyle, femur, behind the insertion of the adductor magnus, and by fleshy fibres to the line above the condyle.' The outer head is fixed by a tendon to a pit on the outer surface of the correspond- ing condyle, above the attachment of the popliteus muscle, ends^be- These pieces are united along the middle line by a narrow Achniis ten(^mous S^P? an^ terminate inferiorly in the common tendon of insertion of the muscles of the superficial layer. Parts One surface is covered by the fascia; the other is in contact covered by it. with the soleus and the plantaris, and with the popliteal vessels and the internal popliteal nerve. The heads, by which the muscle arises, assist to form the lateral boundaries of the popliteal space: and the inner descends lower than the outer. In the tendon of the outer head is a piece of fibro-cartilage, or a sesamoid bone. Detach Dissection.—To see the soleus, the remaining head of the gastro- gastrocnemius is to be reflected by cutting it across, as well ' as the vessels and nerves it receives. After the muscle has been thrown down, the soleus and the plantaris must be cleaned. Soleus The soleus is a large flat muscle that is attached to both bones of the leg, and terminates, like the gastrocnemius, in is at- the strong common tendon. It arises from the head, and tached & boiesof ^e uPPer na^ °f tne posterior surface of the shaft of the the leg, fibula; from the oblique line across the tibia, and from the posterior edge of this bone in the middle third ; and, between the bones, from an aponeurotic arch over the large blood- and joins ves sels. Its fibres are directed downwards to the lower the ten- tendon. The superficial part of the soleus is in contact with