50 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. cavity. Posteriorly, it leaves the artery, and escapes from ends in the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, between the heads of the cavern- . ous si- external rectus. It ends in the cavernous sinus. nus. Optic The optic nerve is now seen to extend from the optic nerve foramen to the back of the eyeball. As the nerve enters the foramen, it is surrounded by the recti muscles ; and beyond that spot, as far as the eyeball, the ciliary arteries and nerves ends in entwine around it. It terminates in the retinal expansion of retina. the eye. Dissec- Dissection. — Take away the ophthalmic artery, and divide the optic nerve about its middle, together with its small Ciliary vessels and nerves. Turn forwards the eyeball, and fasten it in that position with hooks. On removing some fat, the three recti muscles—inner, outer, and inferior, and the lower division of the third nerve will appear. Lower The loiver division of the third nerve supplies three muscles of third in the orbit. Whilst entering this space between the heads of muscu. the external rectus, it lies below the nasal, and rather above the sixth nerve. Almost immediately afterwards the nerve divides into three large branches. One of these enters the internal rectus; another the inferior rectus; and the third, the longest and most external branch, is continued forwards and joins to the inferior oblique muscle. Soon after its origin, the lar gang- last nerve communicates with the lenticular ganglion, forming hon' the short root of that body, and furnishes two or more fila- ments to the inferior rectus, sixth The sixth nerve enters the orbit between the heads of enters the external rectus, below the other nerves in that interval, recteus!al and above the ophthalmic vein. In the orbit it is distributed to the external rectus muscle, straight Recti Muscles. — The internal, inferior, and external ofUeye!s rectus muscles are placed with reference to the eyeball as origin, their names express. They arise posteriorly from the cir- cumference of the optic foramen by a common attachment, that partly surrounds the optic nerve; and the external rectus has, moreover, an aditional fasciculus of origin, which is joined to that of the superior rectus, and separated from inSer. the common origin by a slight interval. The muscles are directed forwards, and have a tendinous insertion into the ball of the eye, about a quarter of an inch from the cornea. Between the heads of origin of the external rectus, the dif- tion.