69 i EXTERNAL ROTATOR MUSCLES. y y 2 its course now dissected, viz., to the lower border of the in the gluteus maximus, it lies in the hollow between the tuberosity of the ischium and the great trochanter, and rests on the external rotator muscles below the pyriformis. Oftentimes the nerve is divided into two large trunks at its origin, and one of them pierces the fibres of the pyriformis muscle. Commonly it does not supply any branch to the buttock, but No it may give origin to a few filaments to the hip-joint. in this The pudic nerve winds over the spine of the ischium with part* . -, , r . Pudic its companion artery and the nerve to the obturator interims nerve. muscle, and is distributed with the vessel to the perinaeum and the genital organs (p. 453.). No branch is supplied by it to the buttock. The remaining muscular and articular branches are derived other from the lower part of the sacral plexus. onhehes Some nerves to the hip-joint perforate the back of the plexUs' Nerves capsular ligament, and supply the articulation. to the A nerve to the superior gemellus is a very small twig, and arises separately from the lower part of the plexus. p|"°j A nerve to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus is a lus- slender branch; it passes with a companion artery beneath ^JieT-*0 the gemelli and the obturator internus, and ends in the two q„ad?a- muscles from which it receives its designation. This nerve tus* will be more fully seen in a subsequent dissection, when articular filaments from it to the hip-joint may be recog- nised. Dissection.—To see the remaining small rotator muscles, clean hook aside the great sciatic nerve, and take away the muscles, branches of the sciatic artery if it may be necessary. In cleaning these muscles the limb should be kept rotated in- wards. The gemelli are to be turned aside from the tendon of the obturator internus. The SUPERIOR GEMELLUS is the highest of the two muS- Superior cular slips along the sides of the tendon of the obturator gemellus muscle. Internally it is attached to the spine of the ischium, iS often and externally it is inserted with the obturator into the great dbsent' trochanter. Oftentimes this muscle is absent. The inferior gemellus is larger and more constant than inferior its fellow. Its origin is connected with the inner and hinder §eme us part of the tuberosity of the ischium, and its insertion is the inserted same as that of the obturator tendon. This muscle is placed turato?."