BRANCHES OF £?HE AORTA. 567 o o 4 almost transversely outwards to the supra-renal body, to which it is distributed. This artery anastomoses with the other branches supplied to the supra-renal body by the renal and phrenic arteries. It is of large size in the foetus. The spermatic artery is destined for the testicle, and is Sperm- remarkable in being small in size in proportion to its length ; artery is in leaving the cavity of the abdomen; and in having the able, part in the abdomen straight, but that in the cord tortuous. From its origin below the renal, the vessel passes downwards bourse along the posterior wall of the abdomen, beneath the peri- testicle, toneum, to the internal abdominal ring, where it enters the spermatic cord, as before described (p. 478.). In the course specified, the vessel passes first along the front of the psoas, crossing over the ureter; and as it leaves the abdomen it turns round the epigastric artery, but is separated from that vessel by the vas deferens. On the right side the artery crosses the vena cava. It is accompanied by the spermatic vein, and the spermatic plexus of nerves. In the female the corresponding artery (ovarian) descends in the 1 . . , f female. into the pelvis to the ovary and the uterus. In the foetus, before the testicle leaves the abdomen, the condi- spermatic artery is very short, but the vessel becomes elon- foetus, gated in proportion as the part supplied is removed from its former site. B. The parietal branches of the aorta are the phrenic, Branch- lumbar, and middle sacral arteries. wall of The diaphragmatic or inferior phrenic arteries are directed men. upwards and outwards along the under surface of the dia- Jhrenfc phragm, near the posterior part, and end in anastomotic and muscular branches. The left artery passes behind the ceso- course of phageal opening, and the right behind the vena cava. Each and ends in two branches : — one (internal) passes onwards to- Distri. wards the fore part of the diaphragm, and anastomoses with butlon- its fellow of the opposite side, and with the branch (musculo- phrenic) that is supplied to the diaphragm, from the internal mammary (p. 263.); the other (external) is larger, and is directed outwards to the side of the muscle, where it meets with the intercostal arteries. Small tranches supplied to the supra-renal body by the external Small division of this artery are named superior capsular. Some twigs