133 VELUM PENDULUM PALATI. slight contraction, and by a change in the direction of the muscular fibres. The soft palate (velum pendulum palati) is a moveable soft pa- structure between the mouth and the pharynx, which can backt«f either close the isthmus of the fauces, or cut off the passage to the nose, according as it is depressed or elevated. In the usual position of the soft palate (the state of relaxation) the anterior surface is somewhat curved, and is continuous with surfaces, the roof of the mouth, whilst the opposite surface is convex and turned to the pharynx. The upper border is fixed to borders ; the posterior margin of the hard palate; and each lateral part joins the pharynx. The lower border is free, and pre- from it sents in the centre a conical pendulous part — the uvula. Svufa. Along the middle line is a slight prominence, indicative of the original separation into two halves. Springing from the lower part of the soft palate, near to Arches the uvula, are two folds on each side, containing muscular pTiiars; fibres, which are directed downwards on the sides of the isthmus faucium. These are named arches or pillars of the palate, and are distinguished from one another by their relative position. The anterior one reaches the side of the anterior, tongue near its root, and the posterior, longer than the other, ppste- is continued to the side of the pharynx. As they diverge from their common origin' to their insertion, they limit a triangular space, in which the tonsil lies. The velum consists of an aponeurosis, together with Eie- muscles, vessels and nerves, and mucous glands; and the velum, whole is enveloped by the mucous membrane. Dissection. — Some of the muscles of the palate are readily Dissec- _. _ . . . . tionof displayed, but others require great care in their dissection, the mus- On the right side, the two principal muscles of the soft Levator palate—the elevator and tensor, are to be seen. These have tensor been partly dissected on the outside of the pharynx, but to haif.lght follow them to their destination, let the upper attachment of the pharynx on the same side, and the part of the superior constrictor, which arises from the internal pterygoid plate, be cut through. The levator will be fully laid bare by the removal of the mucous membrane and the muscular fibres covering its lower part; and the tendon of the tensor palati should be followed round the hamular process of the pterygoid K 3