DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 136 Azygos The azygos uvulae is situate along the middle line of the muscle -i . . ,-p,, , . P is single velum near its posterior aspect. Ine muscle consists or two middle; narrow slips of pale fibres, which arise from the spine at the posterior border of the hard palate, or from the contiguous aponeurosis, and end inferiorly in the tip of the uvula. Be- attach. hind this muscle, separating it from the mucous membrane, merits. < # 7 r ° is the thin stratum of the palato-pharyngeus. Tonsil The tonsil is a collection of muciparous follicles close above tween ^ the base of the tongue, and between the arches of the soft palate, palate. It is roundish in shape, but variable in size, and the apertures of the follicles are generally apparent on its sur- face. Externally the tonsil is opposite the superior con- strictor muscle, and the angle of the lower jaw; and when the tonsil is enlarged it may press against the carotid blood vessels. Vessels. Its arteries are numerous, and are derived from the facial, lin- gual, ascending pharyngeal, and internal maxillary branches of the external carotid; and its veins have a plexiform arrangement on Nerves, the outer side of the body. Nerves are furnished to it from the fifth and eighth cranial nerves. Mucous The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous an- braneof teriorly with the mucous lining of the mouth and nose. cont?-nx Covering the soft palate and its numerous small glands toUthen" (palatine), the membrane is continued to the tonsils on each tures". side, and is prolonged by the Eustachian tubes to the tym- panum. From the dorsum of the tongue it is continued over the epiglottis, forming three small folds, and then lines the pharynx. In front of each arytenoid cartilage it encloses a mass of muciparous glands (arytenoid), and sends another prolongation into the larynx. Inferiorly, it is continued by the oesophagus to the stomach, supe- The mucous membrane is thicker, redder, and better pro- haTco- vided with glands' in the upper, than in the lower part of inferior- the pharynx ; and its character, near the different apertures, epithe- resembles that of the membranes lining the cavities opening llum* into the pharynx. Its epithelium is scaly below the palate, that is to say, in the part through which the food passes ; but columnar, and ciliated above that spot, where only the air is transmitted. Begin- Beginning of the oesophagus.—In addition to what has nmg ° been said of the commencement of the oesophagus, and its