192 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. lies on end than in the middle, which is lodged in a sulcus on the lobe, under aspect of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, and is kept in position by the reflection of the arachnoid membrane over it. When the so-called nerve is raised from its sulcus, it may be seen to be prismatic in form, the apex of the prism being directed downwards (in this position), forms Anteriorlv, the nervous substance swells into the olfactory olfactory J ' . J bulb, bulb, a mass of grey matter, that rests on the ethmoid bone, and distributes nerves to the nose. Posteriorly, the olfac- tory process is connected to the cerebrum by three roots of origin, external, internal, and middle. has The external or long root is a slender white band, which external 17 passes along the outer part of the anterior perforated space, and across the fissure of Sylvius, and disappears by sinking into the substance of the middle lobe of the cerebrum, internal The internal or short root is also white and delicate, and and comes from the inner part of the anterior lobe of the cere- brum. middle The middle or qreii root is connected with a conical ele- root. . . vation at the posterior part of the sulcus which lodges the nerve. Deep Deep origin.—The external root is said to be connected with onsin* the corpus striatum and the anterior commissure, and with the white matter covering the end of the hippocampus major. The inner root joins a band of white fibres connected with a convolution (gyrus fornicatus) to be afterwards examined. And the middle root is continuous with the grey matter of the convolutions, optic The second or optic nerve is the largest of the cranial nerves, except the fifth, and appears as a flat band on the crus cerebri. Anteriorly the nerves of opposite sides are part can. united in a commissure. The part of the nerve posterior to the commissure is named optic tract; but the part beyond the commissural union, which is round and firm from being invested by a neurilemmar sheath of dura mater, is called part, optic nerve. The destination of the nerve is to the eyeball. Tract' The tract is the flattened part of the nerve, winding round the peduncle of the cerebrum, which is destitute of neuri- lemma. In front it ends in the commissure, and behind it splits into two parts at its attachment to the brain. As the tract reaches forwards it crosses the crus cerebri, to which it is attached by its outer or anterior edge; and in front of that of the nerve