654 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. internally with the ramus of the ischium and the os pubis; and in front with Poupart's ligament, between the pubes Differ- and the iliac crest. At the lower part of the thigh, behind enceat ■ ... . . , lower the knee-joint, it passes uninterruptedly to the leg; but in front of the articulation it is blended with an expansion from the extensor muscles, and is continued over the patella, but separated from the bone by a bursa, to be inserted into the heads of the tibia and fibula. cover Directions.—The flaps of skin that were removed from the . fascia the front of the thigh, to follow the cutaneous vessels and except , t above, nerves, are now to be replaced, and the saphenous opening is next to be learnt, saphe- The saphenous opening in the fascia lata receives its ap- opening; pellation from transmitting the saphenous vein. This aper- tion, ture is oval in form, and is situate rather to the inner side of and size, the middle line of the thigh ; it measures about half an inch in width and one inch and a half in length. Its upper ex- tremity (superior cornu) is at Poupart's ligament; and its lower extremity (inferior cornu) is distant from that struc- ture about one inch and a half, and presents a well defined margin. inner The inner margin of the opening is deficient in a firm or isnotm sharp edge, for the fascia constructing it is stretched over a sharp, subjacent muscle (pectineus), and is postc rior to the level of the femoral vessels. The outer bounding part is much stronger, and has a semilunar border, whose concavity is turned downwards and inwards : this is named from its outer is shape, falciform border or margin of the saphenous opening semi-j"1 (falciform process of Burns) ; it is superficial to the femoral lunar' vessels, and is connected by fibrous bands to their sheath, and and to the deep layer of the superficial fascia. If the outer jo|nes ° edge be traced upwards, it will be found to arch to the inner nat's ii-" side of the femoral vein, and to be blended with the base of gcment. Qjmj)erna^s ]igament (part of the insertion of Poupart's ligament) : the upper end of this border, where it is internal to the vessels, has been known as the femoral ligament. Tense- The rigidity of the margin of the saphenous opening is JhT °f much influenced by the position of the limb ; for if the finger depends be placed beneath the upper part of the falciform border, position whilst the limb is moved in different directions, the dissector limbf will perceive that this band is most unyielding when the