601 BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC. The ending of the vessel may be at any spot between the usual gndm^ place of origin and termination. at which r ° it ends. The brandies arising from the posterior division of the Branch- es of the internal iliac, are, ilio-lumbar, lateral sacral, and gluteal. posterior 1. The ilio-lumbar branch passes outwards beneath the Ilio_lum_ psoas muscle and the obturator nerve, but in front of the ^r has lumbo-sacral nerve, and divides into an ascending and a transverse branch in the iliac fossa. a. The ascending or lumbar offset, which is beneath the ascend- ° 7 ing and psoas, supplies that muscle and the quadratus lumborum, and anastomoses with the last lumbar artery: it sends a small spinal branch through the foramen between the sacrum and the last lumbar vertebra. b. The transverse or iliac part divides into branches that a trans- verse ramify in the iliacus muscle, some running over and some branch, beneath it. At the crest of the ilium these branches anasto- mose with the lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries; and some twigs from the deep branches communicate with the obturator artery, and enter the innominate bone. 2. The lateral sacral branches are two in number, su- Lateral perior and inferior, but the upper is the largest; they corre- arteries spond in situation to the lumbar arteries, and form a chain of anastomoses by the side of the apertures in the front of the sacrum. These branches supply the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and anastomose with the preceding, as well as with the middle sacral branch. A small spinalsupply spinal branch enters the spinal canal through each aperture in the branch, sacrum. 3. The gluteal artery is a short thick trunk, that appears Gluteal .. artery. to be the continuation of the posterior division of the internal iliac. Its destination is to the gluteal muscles on the dorsum of the innominate bone, and it is transmitted from the pelvis above the border of the pyriformis muscle, with its accom- panying vein and the superior gluteal nerve. In the pelvis this artery gives small branches to the con- small tiguous muscles, viz. the iliacus, pyriformis, and obturator, se and a nutritious artery to the os ilii^ The branches from the anterior division of the internal Branch- iliac artery are the following: — anterior 1. The vesical arteries are named superior and inferior, vesical arteries ;