180 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ternaiiy form, and assist to retain the skull in position during the same rotatory and nodding movements of the head. Between the occipital bone and the second vertebra are three strong liga- ments — a central one, and two lateral or check ligaments; and, moreover, the odontoid process of the axis is fixed against the anterior arch of the atlas by a strong transverse ligament. Dissec- Dissection. — Supposing the laminae of the cervical ver- tlon* tebras to be removed, except from the first three bones, the posterior arches of these vertebras are to be sawn through internal to their articular processes. Afterwards the ring of the occipital bone that bounds posteriorly the foramen magnum is to be taken away. Lastly, the student should detach the tube of dura mater from the interior of the spinal canal; and on raising, from below, the upper part of the posterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebras, the central ligamentous band between the occipital bone and the axis (occipito-axoid) will come into view. Between ci. Union of the occipital bone with the axis. — 1. The a-sd^isa1 central ligament (occipito-axoidean) is a strong thick band, cental which is connected with the posterior ligament of the bodies band. ^ ^e vertebras, and is rather pyramidal in form, with the base uppermost. Above, it is attached to the basilar process on the cranial aspect, and near the margin of the foramen magnum, extending as far on each side as the insertion of the check ligaments. From this spot it descends over the odontoid process, and, becoming narrower, is inserted into the transverse ligament of the atlas, and into the body of the axis. Occasionally a bursa is found between the trans- verse ligament of the atlas, and the superficial fibres of the occipito-axoidean ligament which are continued to the second vertebra. Dissec- Dissection.—After the removal of the occipito-axoidean tl0n' ligament, the following check ligaments will be partly seen, together with the transverse ligament. A band of fibres is to be defined, that passes upwards and downwards from the transverse ligament; but the upper offset may be cut through for the purpose of seeing the check ligaments. And two 2. The lateral odontoid or check ligaments are two strong check1 °r bundles of fibres, one on each side : each is attached by one ments. en^ to tfte rough side of the head of the odontoid process, and by the other to a depression on the inner surface of the