518 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. gastroepiploic branch of the splenic artery. On the sur- faces of the stomach, some branches are given upwards, and others downwards between the layers of the omentum. It furnishes the following branches to the stomach, and the pan- creas and the duodenum : — inferior Small inferior pyloric branches arise from it and end in the small pyloric, . „ i extremity ot the stomach. and pan- The pancreatico-duodenal branch (superior) leaves the trunk duode-0" opposite the lower border of the duodenum, and runs along the nal. curve of that intestine, lying between it and the pancreas ; it anas- tomoses below with the pancreatico-duodenal branch (inferior) of the superior mesenteric artery (p. 507.). Both the duodenum and the pancreas receive offsets from this vessel. On the posterior aspect of these viscera is another small artery with a similar posi- tion and distribution. Branch- c. The hepatic branches sink into the liver at the trans- es to the _ .. . . liver; verse fissure, and ramify in its substance, one for The right branch is divided when about to enter the liver lobVand* at the right end of the transverse fissure, and supplies the bladder, following small artery to the gall bladder. The cystic artery, on reaching the neck of the gall bladder, divides into two twigs that ramify on the opposite surfaces, and are distri- buted to the coats, and one The left branch is smaller than the other, and enters the left iobe^liver at the left end of the transverse fissure. A branch to the Spigelian lobe of the liver arises from this division of the artery. Three V Veins.—The veins of the viscera of this part of the abdo- veins, £*' 1.1.1 • i viz.- men are three in number, viz. the superior coronary, the splenic, and the portal vein, coronary The superior coronary vein lies along the upper border of from thej , . • -iiir» stomach; the stomach. It begins in the oesophagus and the leit part of the stomach, and joins the vena portae at the pylorus, splenic The splenic vein is of large size, and is formed by the spleen!16 union of branches that issue from the spleen. It takes much the same course as the artery, but is lower than it, and runs beneath the pancreas to the front of the vena cava, where it joins the superior mesenteric vein to form the vena portae. stomach, Between its origin and termination it receives branches creas. corresponding to the following arteries: vasa brevia, left gastroepiploic, and pancreatic; it is also joined by the infe- rior mesenteric vein about the middle of its length.