■ 480 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. of the femoral sheath, and is arched down on the inner side to be fixed to the bone, vessels Vessels in the Wall of the Abdomen. — On the side of mina?°" the abdomen are the intercostal and lumbar arteries, with the wal1, intercostal nerves; in the sheath of the rectus are the epi- gastric and internal mammary vessels ; and around the crest of the ilium is the circumflex iliac branch, inter- The intercostal arteries issue from the spaces between the arteries, ribs, and enter the abdominal wall between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles : they extend forwards with the nerves, supplying the contiguous muscles, and anastomose with the internal mammary, epigastric, and lumbar arteries. Lumbar. Lumbar artery. — The vessel that accompanies the last dorsal nerve is furnished by the first lumbar artery, internal ^e internal mammary artery.—The abdominal branch mamma- 0£ t^js vessei (p. 263.) enters the wall of the abdomen beneath the cartilage of the seventh rib. Descending for a short distance in the sheath of the rectus, the artery enters the substance of that muscle, and anastomoses in it with the epi- gastric artery. Muscu- The musculo-phrenic part of the same artery passes out- io-phre- war(js aiong the margin of the thorax to the last intercostal space: it appears on the under surface of the diaphragm at the ninth rib, and gives offsets to that muscle and the lower intercostal spaces. Epigas- The epigastric artery arises from the external iliac, about teryar" a quarter of an inch above Poupart's ligament; it ascends moses" m tne sheath of the rectus above the umbilicus, and divides tergal"" into branches that enter the muscle, and anastomose with the JUaryin internal mammary. In this course the vessel is first bent rectus.°f inwards, and ascends beneath the fascia transversalis ; but it perforates that fascia, and enters the sheath of the rectus connec- over the defined border at the posterior aspect. As it courses waiiSo? to the rectus, the artery passes beneath the cord and on the men°." inner side of the internal abdominal ring ; and is directed obliquely inwards, across the lower part of the abdomen, where it forms the outer boundary of a triangular space Branch- close to the edge of the rectus. The branches of the artery are numerous but inconsiderable in size; — Pubic a. The pubic branch is a small transverse artery, that runs be- hind Poupart's ligament to the posterior aspect of the pubes, and