DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 428 larger terior, and are formed by larger and more numerous fibrils, terior. They are attached to the side of the cord, between the pos- terior and lateral columns or pieces, in a straight line, which is coi- they keep even to the last nerve. In their course to the into two trunk of the nerve, the fibrils of the root pass outwards, con- verging to an aperture in the dura mater opposite the inter- that en- vertebral foramen ; as they approach that aperture they are inter1-? collected into two bundles which, lying side by side, receive bral gan- a sheath from the dura mater, and enter the intervertebral glion. ,. ganglion. Anterior The anterior or aganglionic roots arise from the side of without the cord by filaments that are attached irregularly — not in ganglion. a g^rajg^ \[ne^ an(j approach inferiorly the centre of the its fibres front of the cord. Taking the same direction as the poste- through ri°r r°ot to the intervertebral foramen, its fibrils enter a ratePa" distinct opening in, and have a separate sheath of the dura 5?dura6 mater : in their further course to the trunk of the nerve, mater, ^hey pass over the ganglion of the other root, without join- posterior ing it, and finally the two roots are blended beyond the beyond ganglion to form one trunk. cTfrac- Characters of the roots. — Besides the relative size be- rootf/ tween the two roots, the following characters are to be noted: — Some set Union of the fibrils. — The fibrils of the posterior root join. never join those of the anterior ; and the opposite ; but the anterior root of one nerve may receive offsets from the cor- responding root of the nerve above, and the same may occur in the posterior roots. Poste- Relative size of the roots. — The posterior root is larger 5*arges°tf than the anterior, except in the suboccipital nerve ; and the fi^st.pt in number of the fibrils is also greater. Further, the posterior uonabfy *s ProPorti°nan<y larger in the cervical than in any other largest set of the nerves : in the dorsal nerves there is but a very in neck. slight difference in favour of the hinder root. Roots Size of the roots along the cord. — Both roots are larger ibCoveSe wnere the nerves for the limbs arise, than at other parts of down, cord, and greater in the nerves to the lower than in those except to tne uPPer limDS ; so that the nerve roots increase in size dorsal from above down, except in the dorsal region, where they sacrai. are 0f much the same size from the second to the last, and at the lower extremity of the cord.