588 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. obliterated hypogastric artery, but at that vessel it is re- flected from the sides and summit of the bladder to the wall leaving of the pelvis and abdomen. All the anterior surface of the and bladder is therefore uncovered by peritoneum ; and when lower part the bladder is distended it rises above the pubes so as to unco- . r A vered. allow of its being opened in front without injury to the serous membrane. The The recto-vesical pouch is wide behind, where it corre- pouch r between sponds to the interval between the iliac arteries, and is nar- the rec- 1 m 7 biaddTr1 row *n ^ron^ between the rectum and the bladder. Anteriorly Extent it extends as far as, or even into the interval between the andWd£s vesicular seminales; it ends usually about one inch and a f??methe na^ from the tip of the coccyx, but sometimes it reaches the vary. prostate gland. The distance of the pouch from the anus is commonly about four inches ; but this will vary with the state of the bladder, for if this viscus is distended, the pouch of the peritoneum will be raised with it, and therefore be removed farther from the end of the intestine. Folds of False ligaments of the bladder. — Where the peritoneum liga- is reflected from the bladder to the wall of the cavity, it ments ., . . . of the gives rise to the false ligaments of that viscus. These are bladder, ° . ° viz— five in number : — two posterior, two lateral, and one supe- rior. twopos- The posterior ligament (one on each side) reaches from the back of the pelvis to the bladder, and contains the obli- terated hypogastric artery, the ureter, and some vessels and nerves. Between these is the hollow of the recto-vesical pouch. two ^ The lateral ligament, also one on a side, is a wide piece of peritoneum, that is reflected from the side of the bladder to the iliac fossa, and the wall of the pelvis. Along its line of attachment to the bladder is the obliterated hypogastric artery. and one The superior ligament is reflected from the upper part of superior. ^e tyffifa ^o the abdominal wall, along the same obliterated vessel. Extent The rectum, or the lower part of the great intestine, ex- rectum, tends from the junction between the sacrum and the ilium to the anus, and is kept in place by the peritoneum and the length, recto-vesical fascia. The intestine is about eight inches long, and takes a winding course, for it follows the curve