DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 408 lis and which divides the erector spinas into an outer piece or the sory sacro-lumbalis, and an inner piece or the longissimus dorsi. ' By sinking the knife into this interval, the sacro-lumbalis may be turned outwards, so as to uncover the fleshy slips of its accessory muscle, which are fixed to the angles of the offset ribs. A thin narrow muscle, the cervicalis ascendens, which neck.* IS continued from the sacro-lumbalis beyond the ribs, should be separated in the neck from the muscles around by the dissector of that part, vessels In dissecting the sacro-lumbalis muscle, the external nerves, branches of the dorsal nerves with their accompanying arteries will be found. Longis- Before the longissimus can be displayed, it will be needful dorsi to raise towards the spinous processes the thin muscular fonga-° fasciculus of the spinalis dorsi, which lies between it and the spines of the vertebras in the dorsal region. Then the at- tachments of the longissimus dorsi are to be traced out. Externally it has thin muscular processes of insertion into about the eight lower ribs. Internally it is inserted into the transverse processes of the lumbar and dorsal vertebrae by rounded tendons ; and for the purpose of seeing these tendons, the longissimus must be drawn away from the spinous pro- cesses, and its superficial aponeurosis must be cut through, below the ribs, in the line of separation between this muscle vessels and the multifidus spinas on its inner side. Between the nerves, longissimus and the multifidus spinas are the internal branches of the dorsal nerves, and those of the intercostal and lumbar arteries. Offsets The dissector of the neck should trace upwards a fleshy neck? prolongation of the longissimus beyond the ribs : this is blended at first with the fibres of the longissimus ; but it is afterwards divided like the splenius into a cranial part (tra- chelo-mastoid) and a cervical part (transversalis colli). Fourth Fourth Layer.—In this layer are included the spinalis muscles dorsi; the erector spinas, with its divisions and its accessory muscles to the neck; and the complexus muscle. Most of consists the vessels and nerves of the back are in connection with this layer of muscles, spinalis * The spinalis dorsi is found only by the sides of the spines of the dorsal vertebras, and is united with the lon- gissimus dorsi. Inferiorly it arises by tendinous processes