513 CONNECTIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. and the splenic vein; still lower (beyond the superior me- senteric artery) by the duodenum, and the left renal vein; and thence to its termination by the peritoneum and the aortic plexus. The vessel lies on the lumbar vertebras; and to its right side is the vena cava. Its branches are furnished Branch- & . es. to the viscera and the wall of the abdomen, but these will be enumerated farther on. The vena cava inferior commences on the right side of Vena J ° cava ; the fifth lumbar vertebrae by the union of the common iliac ext-ent and con- Veins, and reaches from that spot to the heart. In the abdo- nections; men this venous trunk is placed on the right side of the vertebral column ; and it and the aorta are concealed by the is by the same parts. As high as the crus of the diaphragm it is close the . aorta, to the aorta, but above that spot it ascends on the right of the crus, and is imbedded in the posterior part of the liver, except Lastly, it leaves the abdomen by an aperture in the ten- dinous part of the diaphragm, on the right of the aortic opening. The vena cava is joined by some branches from Branch, the abdominal viscera, and by others corresponding to the branches of the aorta that are supplied to the parietes of the abdomen. CONNECTIONS OF THE DUODENUM AND PANCREAS. Directions. — The situation, and the connections of the duodenum and pancreas should be next looked to. , Dissection. — To see satisfactorily the duodenum and the Remove • 'lit 111 intestine pancreas, the intestinal tube, beyond the duodenum, is to be removed in the following way:—one ligature is to be placed oh the upper part of the jejunum, another on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and the gut is to be cut through at the points at which it is tied. The detached piece of the intestinal tube can be taken away by cutting through the vessels and the peritoneum that connect it to the wall of the abdomen; after it has been separated, it is to be set aside for examination whilst the body is turned. To make the viscera fit for examination, the studentto see the duo- Should moderately inflate the stomach and duodenum from denum, the cut extremity of the latter; and whilst cleaning them, he is to be careful of the vessels and nerves. On turning upwards the stomach he will be able to trace the pancreas and Pan- r creas. L L