148 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. nerves behind the nasal bone, by gently detaching the lining mem- seisof brane, after having cut off the projecting bone. A branch nose. is given from the nerve to the septum, but probably this and the trunk of the nerve will be seen but imperfectly in the present condition of the part. The terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery and vein in the spheno-maxillary fossa are to be completely traced out. Nasal The nasal nerve (of the ophthalmic) has already been seen nerve m v ... in the orbit and skull, and at its termination in the face (p. 47.); and the part that connects the two through the lies be- nose is now to be learned. Entering the nasal fossa by an neath nasal aperture in the front of the ethmoid bone, the nerve gives a bone; . gives branch to the septum narium, and is then continued in a groove behind the os nasi to the lower margin of that bone, where it escapes to the surface of the nose. branch Branches. — The branch to the septum divides into filaments that to sep- . ■* turn ramify on the anterior part of that partition, and reach nearly to the lower part. and to One or two filaments are likewise furnished by the nerve to the wan. fore part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa; these extend as low as the inferior spongy bone. Branch- Terminal branches of the internal maxillary artery. — es of in- J 99 ternai The branches of the artery in the spheno-maxillary fossa, iary ar- which have not been hitherto seen, are the following: — teryare , . . . . . superior palatine, naso-palatme, pterygo-palatine, and vidian. palatine 1. The superior or descending palatine is the largest branch of the artery in the fossa, and accompanies the large palatine nerve in its canal. Arrived at the palate, the vessel is directed forwards in the roof of the mouth, and anastomoses, behind the incisor teeth, with the artery of the opposite side, and with a branch that descends from the nose through the anterior palatine canal. In its course the urtery supplies branches to the other palatine canals, which pass with the contained nerves to the soft palate and tonsil; and some offsets are furnished to the lining membrane of the nose. In the roof of the mouth the mucous membrane, glands, and gums, receive their branches from this artery. nasal 2. The nasal or spheno-palatine artery enters the nose through es, the spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches : —- Some of these are distributed on the spongy bones and the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and supply offsets to the membrane lining the pos- one to terior ethmoid cells. One long branch, artery of the septum (art. nasi,Um naso-palatina), runs on the partition between the nostrils to the anterior palatine canal, through which it anastomoses with the