DISSECTION OP THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 16 Cavern- B. The cavernous sinus, which has been so named from ous si- . ...... . nus the reticulate structure in its interior, is situate on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone. This space, resulting from the separation of the layers of the dura mater, is of an irregular shape, and extends from the sphenoidal fissure to has the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Exter- outer nally, the piece of dura mater bounding the sinus is of some thickness, and contains in its substance the third and fourth nerves, with the orbital trunk of the fifth nerve. The cavity of the sinus is larger behind than before, and in it are shreds contains of fibrous tissue with small vessels. Through the space artery winds the trunk of the internal carotid artery, with the sixth nerve; nerve on the outer side of the vessel; but these are shut out from the blood in the space by a thin lining membrane. The cavernous sinus receives the ophthalmic vein of the orbit, some small cerebral veins, and twigs from the pterygoid veins and com-outside the skull. It communicates with its fellow on the muni- . . cates opposite side by the circular and transverse sinuses, and its with fol- rjr J lowing blood is transmitted to the lateral sinus by the superior and viz. ' inferior petrosal channels. Circular The circular sinus lies around the pituitary body, and sinus' reaches from one cavernous sinus to the other across the middle line. Besides serving as the means of communication between those sinuses, it receives small veins from the pitui- tary body. This sinus is usually destroyed by the removal of the pituitary body. Trans- The transverse or basilar sinus crosses the basilar process sinus, of the occipital bone, on a level with the petrous part of the temporal bone, and joins the opposite cavernous sinuses. A second transverse sinus is sometimes found nearer the fora- men magnum. Superior The superior petrosal sinus lies in a groove in the upper petrosal, marg-n Qf ^Q petrous part 0f the temporal bone, and extends between the cavernous and lateral sinus. A small vein from the cerebellum, and another from the internal ear, are received into it. inferior The inferior petrosal sinus extends between the same petrosal. s^nuges as preceding, and lies along the line of junction of the petrous part of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital bone ; it is joined by a small vein from the outside of the skull, through the foramen lacerum medium