727 SUPERFICIAL VEINS AND NERVES. longus pollicis. Two offsets are directed forwards :—one is prolonged to the internal cuneiform bone; the other, much the largest, is attached to the middle and outer cuneiform, to the os cuboides, and to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Where the tendon is placed be- neath the articulation of the astragalus, it contains a sesa- moid bone, or a fibro-cartilage. The tendon of the peroneus longus muscle turns round insertion of ten- the cuboid bone, and placed in the groove on the under sur- don of . . . peroneus face, is continued inwards to be inserted into the internal longus. cuneiform bone, and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe; it sends a process also to the base of the second metatarsal bone. In the sole of the foot it is contained in a sheath which is formed, for the most part, by the fibres of the long plantar ligament prolonged to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. A separate synovial membrane lubricates the sheath. Where the tendon turns round the cuboid bone it is thickened, and contains fibro- cartilage or a sesamoid bone. Section VI. the front of the leg. Position. — The limb is to be raised to a convenient height position by putting blocks beneath the knee, and the foot is to be ifmb? extended in order that the muscles on the front of the leg may be put on the stretch. Dissection. — To enable the dissector to raise the skin Raise from the leg and foot, one incision should be made along the the skm' middle line, from the knee to the toes, and this should be intersected by cross cuts at the ankle and the web of the foot. After the flaps of skin are reflected, the cutaneous vessels seek the and nerves are to be looked for. At the inner part of the ousane" leg are some filaments from the great saphenous nerve, and "hTieg"1 at the outer side, others from the cutaneous ramifications of the external popliteal nerve. Perforating the fascia in the lower third, on the anterior aspect, is.the musculo-cutaneous nerve, whose branches should be pursued to the toes. 3 a 4