DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 64 high as the level of the cricoid cartilage, however, the vessels are covered by the depressor muscles of the os hyoides, but beyond that they are concealed only by the common coverings of the space, though, before the parts are displaced, the sterno- mastoid muscle will overhang or conceal the vessels somewhat higher — in some bodies to a level with the top of the thy- roid cartilage, and in others as far as the hyoid bone. For a short distance after its appearance from beneath the muscles at the root of the neck, the common carotid artery remains a single trunk, but opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage it divides into two large vessels, external itssitua-and internal carotid. From the place of division these bifurca- trunks are continued onwards, beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, to the interval between the jaw and the Position mastoid process. At first the trunks lie side by side, the trunks vessel destined for the internal parts of the head being the to one 1 ° another, more posterior of the two, but above the digastric muscle one becomes superficial to the other. The more superficial artery (external carotid) furnishes many branches to the neck and the outer part of the head, viz. some forwards to the larynx, tongue, and face; others backwards to the occiput Branch- and ear; and others upwards to the head. The deeper trunk (internal carotid) ascends to the head without branching, and changes is distributed to the interior of the skull. But the common place of carotid does not always branch, as here said, for it some- of caro- times ascends, without division (though very rarely), furnish- ing offsets to the neck and head. Or the point of branch- ing of the vessel may be removed from the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, either upwards or downwards, so that the trunk of the carotid may remain undivided till it is beyond the os hyoides, or end in branches opposite the cri- coid cartilage. The division beyond the usual place is more Jugular frequent than the branching short of that spot. In close contact with the outer side of both the common trunk and the internal carotid artery, is the large internal jugular vein, which receives, branches in the neck corresponding to some of the branches of the superficial artery; but in some cases alters the vein covers the artery, and the branches joining it position. akoye may form a kjn(j 0f plexus over the upper part of the common arterial trunk. Nerves In connection, more or less intimate, with the large ves- in con- ,