83 BRANCHES OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. the lowest constrictor as well as to the muscles beneath which it is continued, in addition to the following named branches: — a. The liyoid branch is very inconsiderable in size, and runs in- the wards below the hyoid bone ; it supplies the parts attached to that bone, bone, and anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. b. A branch for the sterno-mastoid muscle lies in front of the sterno- . .. . . _ mastoid sheath of the common carotid artery, and is distributed chiefly to muscle, the muscle from which it takes its name. c. The laryngeal branch pierces the membrane between the hyoid to ia-§ bone and thyroid cartilage, with the superior laryngeal nerve, and rynx'- ends in the interior of the larynx. d. A small crico-thyroid branch is placed on the membrane be- to crico- tween the cricoid and thyroid cartilages, and communicates with mem°-d the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming an arch. *>rane. The superior thyroid vein commences in the larynx and Accom- the thyroid body, and crosses the end of the common carotid vein, artery, to open into the internal jugular vein. The facial artery arises above the lingual, and is directed Facial upwards over the lower jaw to the face. In the neck the artery* artery passes beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and is afterwards received on the submaxillary gland, on which it makes a remarkable sigmoid turn. Its disposition supplies in the face has been examined (p. 25.). The cervical part in the of the artery gives branches to the pharynx, and to the parts below the jaw, viz.: — a. The inferior palatine branch ascends to the pharynx beneath to the the jaw, passing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus palate' muscles. In its course it furnishes a branch to the tonsil, and it is distributed to the soft palate. This branch frequently arises from the ascending pharyngeal artery. b. ' The tonsillar branch is smaller than the preceding, and ascends tonsil, between the internal pterygoid and stylo-glossus muscles. Oppo- site the tonsil it perforates the constrictor muscle, and ends in branches to that body. c. Glandular branches are supplied to the submaxillary gland, sub- and are given from the part of the artery in contact with it. laryll" d. The submental branch arises near the inferior maxilla, and gland passes forwards on the mylo-hyoideus to the anterior belly of the myio- digastric muscle, where it ends in branches; some of these turn m}uscie over the jaw to the chin and lower lip; and the rest supply the muscles between the jaw and the hyoid bone, one or two perfora- g 2