LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 639 between it and the bone, is the large sacro-sciatic foramen, and below it is the small foramen of the same name. Ligaments of the Innominate Bones. — The innomi- special nate bones are united in front, at the pubic symphysis, by an ments of interposed cartilage and special ligaments; and behind, each ral bones is connected with the transverse process of the last lumbar pelvis, vertebra by a band (ilio-lumbar). In the centre of the bone is a membranous structure closing the obturator aperture. The ilio-lumbar ligament is triangular in form and is mo divided into fasciculi. Internally it is attached to the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra; externally fixes the the fibres spread out, and are inserted into the crest of the hind, ilium, opposite the posterior part of the iliac fossa on the inner aspect. To the upper border of this ligament part of the fascia lumborum is attached : its posterior surface is covered by the erector spina?, and its anterior by the iliacus muscle. The obturator membrane closes the foramen of the same obtura- tor mem- name, and is composed of fibres crossing in different direc- brane . closes an tions. It is attached at the outer and upper part to the aperture rr r in front. bony margin 01 the foramen, except above where the obtu- rator vessels lie ; and is connected towards the inner part to the pelvic aspect of the bone. The surfaces of the ligament give attachment to the obturator muscles. Branches of the obturator artery and nerve perforate it. Pubic Articulation (symphysis pubis). — The oval sur- Union faces of the ossa pubis are united by cartilage, and by fibres ossa^ in front of, and above the bones. They are also connected by a strong sub-pubic ligament. The anterior pubic ligament is very strong, and is formed b\nnt^rior of different layers of fibres. The superficial are oblique, and cross one another, uniting with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; but the deeper fibres are transverse, and pass between the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones. Some of the deeper fibres contain cartilage cells —Kolliker. There is not any posterior band; but beneath the periosteum there are a few scattered fibro- cartilaginous fibres, as in front, in contact with the carti- lage.