311 MUSCLES OF THE THUMB. is superficial to the rest. It arises from the upper part of the annular ligament at the radial side, and from the ridge of the os trapezium, and is inserted into the outer part of the Attach- base of the first phalanx of the thumb. The muscle is sub- Isthe cutaneous, and rests on the opponens pollicis: it is often- perficiai times connected at its origin with a slip from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi. Dissection.—The opponens pollicis will be seen on cutting pissec-; through the abductor. To separate the opponens from the short flexor on the inner side, the student should begin near the farther end of the metacarpal bone, where there is usually a cellular interval. The opponens pollicis arises from the lower part of the oppo- nens fix- annular ligament beneath the preceding, and from the os edtome. to . o tacarpal trapezium and its ridge ; it is inserted into the front and the bone, outer border of the metacarpal bone in the whole length. This muscle is partly concealed by the preceding, though it is larger and projects on each side. Along its inner border beneath is the flexor brevis pollicis. An insertion into the internal oimer' sesamoid bone is described by Theile. The PLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS is the largest of the short Flexor muscles of the thumb : it consists of two parts (inner and outer) at the insertion, but these are partly united at the origin. The outer head, the smallest, arises partly be- arises by neath the opponens from about the two outer thirds of heads, the annular ligament, at the lowest part, and from the os magnum. The inner head has a wide origin from the os trapezoides and os magnum, from the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, and from the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. The heads are soon blended in one mass ; and this is inserted by two parts into the sides of the base and is n . inserted of the first phalanx of the the thumb,—the inner piece being by two united with the adductor, and the outer with the abductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is connected with each lateral piece at its insertion. The tendon of the long flexor lies on it is this muscle, and afterwards occupies the interval between its theP m processes of insertion ; and the deep palmar arch comes from beneath the inner head. The abductor pollicis is pointed at the thumb, and Adduc- wide at the opposite end. Its origin is fixed to the lower crosses two thirds of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger, on the third x 4