CONTENTS OF THE ORBIT. 43 The periosteum of the orbit is continuous with the dura perios- mater of the brain through the sphenoidal fissure. It incases 0rbit.of the contents of the orbit like a sac, and adheres but loosely to the bones. Apertures exist posteriorly in the membrane Aper- for the entrance of the different nerves and vessels ; and on it.esm the sides prolongations of the membrane accompany the vessels and nerves that leave the cavity. Dissection.—The periosteum is next to be divided along open the middle of the orbit, and to be cut away. After the teum!" removal of a little fat, the following nerves, vessels, and muscles come into view : — The frontal nerve and vessels lie in the centre, the lachry- Position mal nerve and vessels close to the outer wall of the cavity, ofpdrts* and the small fourth nerve at the back of the orbit. These nerves enter the orbit above the muscles. The superior oblique muscle is recognised by the fourth nerve entering it: the levator palpebrae and superior rectus are beneath the frontal nerve ; and the external rectus is partly seen below the lachrymal nerve. In the outer part of the orbit, near its front, is the lachrymal gland. The frontal and lachrymal nerves should be followed for- clean wards to their exit from the orbit, and all of them backwards parts, through the sphenoidal fissure to the wall of the cavernous sinus. In tracing them back, it will be expedient to remove the projecting clinoid process, should this still remain ; and some care and trouble will be necessary in order to follow the lachrymal nerve to its commencement. The muscles and vessels, referred to above, are to be cleaned, but it is not requisite to take all the fat from the orbit in this stage of the dissection. Contents of the orbit.—Besides the eyeball and the lachry - in the mal gland, there is a great quantity of granular fat in the eyeball, orbit. Connected wTith the eye are six muscles — four seven straight and two oblique ; and there is also an elevator of the upper eyelid in the cavity. The nerves in this small several space are numerous, viz. the second, third, fourth, ophthalmic nerves! (of the fifth), and sixth nerve, and their general distribution is as follows :—the second nerve enters theej^eball, the third their is furnished to all the muscles but two, the fourth enters the bufion; superior oblique (one of the two excepted), and the sixth is spent in the external rectus muscle. The fifth nerve sup-