152 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. ture. he must previously open the small fissure that contains the muscle, by entering it from below through the carotid canal. Above this small branch is another minute nerve (small superficial petrosal nerve), that issues from the skull, and joins the back of the ganglion. A small twig is to be sought from the front of the ganglion to the tensor palati muscle, and another, near the same spot, to join the sympa- thetic nerve on the middle meningeal artery, otic The otic ganglion (gang, auriculare, Arnold) resembles ganglion ^ gangiia connected with the fifth nerve. It is a s'de of small reddish body, which is situate on the inner aspect of maxii- the inferior maxillary nerve, close to the skull, and surrounds lary* the origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle. By its inner surface the ganglion is in contact with the Eustachian tube, and at a little distance behind is seen the struc- middle meningeal artery. In this ganglion, as in the others above referred to, filaments from motor, sensory, and sympa- thetic nerves are blended. Some twigs are furnished by it to muscles. Branch- * a. Connecting branches — roots. — The ganglion is joined by a it with fasciculus from the motor part of the inferior maxillary nerve, and fifth' is closely united with the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, thus receiving two of its roots, motor and sensory, from the fifth sympa- nerve. Its connection with the sympathetic is established by a thetic, ... . . twig, that is received from the plexus on the middle meningeal and tym- artery. Further, the ganglion is connected with the tympanic nerves, nerve by means of the small superficial petrosal nerve, that joins the posterior part. other * b. Branches to muscles. — Two muscles receive their nerves eriterheS from the otic ganglion, viz. tensor tympani and circumflexus palati. muscles, nerve to the tensor tympani is directed backwards, and enters the bony canal that contains that muscle. The branch for the circumflexus, arising from the front of the ganglion, may be sup- posed to be derived from the internal pterygoid nerve. Nerve of The nerve of the internal pterygoid muscle is a long slen- ptery- der branch, that arises from the inner side of the inferior g°ld* maxillary nerve near the skull, and is directed downwards to the deep surface of the muscle. This nerve is joined by a fasciculus from the motor part of the fifth nerve. Directions. — The dissection of the left pterygo-maxillary region may be again repeated on this side of the body.