FLEXOR TENDONS OF THE FINGERS. 309 be followed to their termination. For that purpose the ulnar tion of artery should be cut through below the origin of the pro- tendons funda branch; and the small superficial volar branch (of the radial) having been also divided, the arch is to be thrown forwards to the fingers. The ulnar and median nerves are then to be cut below the annular ligament, and turned for- wards. A longitudinal incision is to be made through the centre of the annular ligament, without injuring the small muscles that arise from it, and the pieces of the ligament are to be thrown to the sides. Finally the sheaths of the fingers may be opened for the purpose of observing the insertion of the tendons. Flexor tendons.— Beneath the annular ligament the Synovial tendons of the deep and superficial flexors are surrounded by rounds a large and loose synovial membrane, which projects upwards into the fore-arm, and downwards into the hand, and sends an offset into the digital sheath of both the thumb and the little finger. In the hand the tendons of the deep flexor give attachment to the small lumbrical muscles. Tendons of the flexor sublimis. — Beneath the annular Tendons ligament, the tendons of the flexor sublimis are superficial ficial^ to those of the deep flexor ; and the four tendons are nearly on the same level, instead of being arranged in pairs as in the fore-arm. Crossing the palm of the hand, the tendons in the enter the sheaths of the fingers, and are inserted by two Inserl processes into the margins of the middle phalanx, about the tlon* centre. When first entering the digital sheath, the tendon of the flexor sublimis conceals that of the flexor profundus; but near the front of the first phalanx it is slit for the pas- Are slit sasre of the tendon of the latter muscle, deep Dissection,—To see the tendons of the deep flexors and Disse^ the lumbrical muscles, the flexor sublimis must be cut through tion- above the wrist, and thrown towards the fingers. There will be a little cellular tissue to take away. Tendons of the flexor profundus.—At the lower border of Tendons the annular ligament the tendinous mass of the flexor pro- flexor fundus is divided into four pieces ; but in the fore-arm only one tendon, that of the fore-finger, is distinct from the rest. From the ligament the four tendons are directed through cross the the hand to the fingers. At the root of the finger each enters the digital sheath with a tendon of the flexor sublimis, and