STRUCTURE OF THE LUNG. 379 hedral in form, except on the surface, and are distinct one from another, save through the channel of the air passage. The cells are clustered in groups around the terminal divi- position • it i on air sion of the air tube, and are situate both along tne sides tubes, and at the extremity of the passage, with which they com- municate by large orifices. In size, these small cells vary size, from J o to T^yth of an inch across, but they are larger on the surface and at the edges than in the deeper parts of the lung. The cell wall is formed by fibrous, with some scattered struc- fibres of elastic tissue, and is lined by a transparent mucous membrane possessing scaly epithelium.* Beneath the mucous lining is a network of the pulmonary vessels. Vessels of the lung. — Two sets of vessels are furnished to vessels . . . of the the lung, one being concerned in its function, the other in lung are its nutrition. The vessels that convey blood to the lung to tionai be aerated, or that carry the same away after it has been nutrient, subjected to the respiratory process, are named pulmonary; whilst the vessels connected with the nutrition of the struc- ture are called bronchial. a. The pulmonary artery after entering the lung, divides like the puimo- bronchus which it accompanies to the lobule. At the lobule the artery arterial branch is minutely subdivided and its ramifications, enter- ing the interlobular fissures, end in a capillary network in the wall of the air cells, beneath the mucous lining. The vascular circle around one cell communicates with the contiguous ones. The pulmonary veins begin in the arterial network before men- and vein; tioned, and the twigs issuing from the several lobules are united in larger tubes, which, in their course to the root of the lung, are not generally located with the arteries and the bronchi. Although the small lobular branches of the arteries remain separate from one another, the corresponding veins anastomose together. b. The bronchial arteries enter the lung on the air tube, and and supply offsets to those tubes and the contiguous bronchial glands, chial to the large bloodvessels, and to the interlobular cellular tissue of artery the lung. The bronchial vein begins by roots corresponding to the and branches of the artery, except in the smallest divisions of the air veln' tubes, the capillaries of which communicate with the pulmonary vessels—most probably the arteries. Nerves and lymphatics.—The lung receives nerves from the vagus Nerves, and the sympathetic, and the offsets follow the divisions of the air * Some excellent observers deny the existence of an epithelial mucous lining to the cells.