DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 530 some- of the intestine. Sometimes the pancreatic duct opens by a double, distinct orifice. Parts to Microscopic structure of the mucous membrane.—With in the the use of the microscope, and with fresh pieces of intestine, tine." the student will be able to make out the nature of the villi, the several glandular structures, and the epithelium. The vim Villi.—When the mucus is washed away from a piece of thesur- the lower part of the duodenum, and this is examined in face • water, the mucous membrane will be found to be studded over very thickly with small projections, which give it the appearance of velvet. Existing along the whole of the small intestine, both on the valves and between them, these their bodies are irregular in form, some being triangular, others size, ' conical or cylindrical with a large end. Their length is from one fourth to one third of a line. They are best and marked where the valvulae conniventes are largest; there number. ^q\y numher js estimated at 50 to 90 in a square line, but in the lower end of the ileum at only 40 to 70 in the same extent of the intestine.—Krause. eompo- Each villus is an extension of the mucous coat, which sltlon- contains a capillary net-work of arteries, mostly a single vein, and lacteal vessels. The entire surface of each is invested with columnar epithelium, several Glands.— In the glandular apparatus of the small intes- giands!f tine are included the crypts of Lieberkuhn, some solitary glands, and Peyer's and Brunner's glands, simple The crypts of Lieberkuhn are minute simple tubes, similar inbtheas to those in the stomach, though not so closely aggregated, but™ o?' and are found throughout the small intestine. These tubes so close; 0pen on the surface of the mucous membrane, by small orifices, between the villi and around the larger glands; but at the opposite end they are closed, and project into the sub- their mucous cellular layer. Their length is from ^th to ^th of size a line, and their diameter is ^th of a line. They are filled and with a fluid that contains granules, and are lined by a contents. . . - ,. columnar epithelium. Solitary The solitary glands are roundish white eminences, about glands; the size of mustard seed, if distended, which are scattered sima!nd along the small intestine, but in greatest numbers in the tl0n jejunum. Placed on any side of the intestine, or even on or between the valvulae conniventes, these bodies are covered