FACIAL NERVE OUTSIDE THE SKULL. 41 side of the head and face, whose ramifications extend as low pefcdm- as the meatus auditorius. As this trunk crosses over the external carotid artery, it sends downwards branches to join the auriculo-temporal division of the inferior maxillary nerve, and in front of the ear it gives some filaments to the tragus of the pinna. Three sets of branches, temporal, J^Jj™6 malar, and infra-orbital, are derived from the temporo- £granch- facial division. The temporal branches ascend obliquely over the zygoma Tempo- to the orbicular muscle and the anterior part of the occipito- branch- x es pass frontalis, in which they are united with offsets of the supra- to side of orbital nerve. The attrahens aurem muscle is. supplied by this set; and a junction takes place above the zygoma with the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The malar branches are directed to the outer angle of the Malar ° branch- Orbit, where they are distributed to the orbicular muscle and e«goto 7 J > eyelids. the eyelids. In the eyelids communications occur with the palpebral filaments of the fifth nerve (p. 37.); and near the outer part of the orbit, with the small subcutaneous malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. The infra-orbital branches are larger than the rest, and J"tf^"or* are furnished to the muscles and integument between the branch- © es are eye and mouth. Close to the orbit, and beneath the eleva- [JJj^ tor of the upper lip, a remarkable communication, infra- ^uat£d orbital plexus, is found between these nerves and the infra- orbital branches of the superior maxillary. After crossing the branches of the fifth nerve, some small offsets of the facial nerve pass inwards to the side of the nose, and others upwards to the inner angle of the orbit, to join the nasal and infra-trochlear branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The cervicofacial division of the portio dura is smaller Lower than the other trunk, and supplies nerves to the lower part of the face and to the upper part of the neck. Its highest branches join the lowest offsets of the temporo-facial division, and thus complete the network on the face. This trunk, whilst in the parotid, gives twigs to the gland, and is united also with the great auricular nerve. The branches that are dis- three tributed from it are, buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra- branch- maxillary. The buccal branches pass forwards to the angle of the buccal mouth, where they terminate in the orbicular muscle. On es to