756 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. optic nerve (retina). Within the nervous expansion are central transparent parts to bring the rays of light to a focus on it; and in front of these is a moveable curtain (iris) to regulate the formation of the image in the interior. To de- fend such delicate structures, certain denser strata or coats are arranged around it; and to absorb the superabundant rays of light entering the eyeball, one of them is covered by a layer of pigment cells. Number The coats of the eyeball, forming three strata, are arranged 0f COatS • 1 • V 1! .1 ., , one within another, and are named sclerotic, choroid, and and cen. retina. The transparent media in the interior are likewise tral parts. % three, viz. the lens, the aqueous humor, and the vitreous body. Dissection. — To obtain a general idea of the structures to be dissected, the student may destroy one eyeball for that purpose by cutting through it circularly: he will then be able to recognise generally the arrangement of the parts mentioned above, and their strength and appearance ; and will be better able to follow the directions that are after- wards given. sclerotic The sclerotic coat (cornea opaca) is the most external fibrous, stratum of the eyeball, and forms a firm, whitish, and opaque covering, which supports the more delicate structures within. Dissec- Dissection. — To examine the inner and outer surfaces of seethe this coat, and the cornea, it will be necessary to cut circularly interior. through the sclerotic or outer coat, with a blunt-pointed scissors, close to the cornea; and then to separate the cornea from the front of the eyeball, by destroying a structure that fixes it slightly; in raising the cornea, the student may ob- serve the aqueous fluid escape from the containing chamber. Lastly the other structures may be removed from the inte- rior of the sclerotic covering; and the central parts of the ball may be set aside for subsequent use. Form The sclerotic tunic of the eye is bell-shaped, and extends tent. " from the entrance of the optic nerve to the margin of the Aper- cornea, forming about four-fifths of the ball. At its posterior behind part and a little to the inner side of the centre (one tenth of an inch), the optic nerve is transmitted through an aper- ture in it: this opening decreases in size from without in- wards, and is cribriform when the nerve is drawn out — the lattice-like condition being due to the union with its margin