135 MUSCLES OF PALATE. K 4 (scaphoid fossa) at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, to the outer part of the Eustachian tube, and still farther out to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and to the front of the vaginal process of the temporal bone. Inferiorly the turns fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which is reflected round the hamular hamular process, and is inserted into about half an inch ofprocess' the posterior border of the palate, viz. from the central spine to a projecting point; whilst inferiorly the tendon joins the aponeurosis of the velum. As the tendon winds and ends round the bone, it is thrown into folds, and in the soft neurosis; palate it lies beneath the levator muscle. The Eustachian is deeper tube is directed inwards between this muscle and the pre- others, ceding one. Between the tendon and the hamular process is a small bursa. The palatoglossus muscle (constrictor isthmi faucium) paiato- is a small, fleshy band of fibres, which is contained in the glossus- anterior arch of the soft palate, and reaches to the side of the tongue. The muscles of opposite sides narrow the opening between the mouth and fauces, hence the name that has been applied to them. It is connected inferiorly with the lateral Attach- aspect and dorsum of the tongue; from this spot the fibres ments* ascend before the tonsil, to the anterior aspect of the soft palate, where they form a thin muscular stratum, and join those of the fellow muscle along the middle line. At its origin the muscle is blended with the glossal muscles, and at its insertion it is placed before the tensor palati. The palato-pharyngieus is much larger in size than the paiat0- preceding muscle ; it gives rise to the eminence of the pos- geusfn" terior pillar of the soft palate, and bounds the tonsil pos- in pil]ar teriorly. The muscle arises inferiorly from the posterior °aia°te. border of the thyroid cartilage, and some fibres blend with the contiguous portion of the pharynx. Ascending thence behind the tonsil, the fibres enter the side of the palate, and Attach- separate into two fleshy strata. The posterior of the two, ments* thin and in contact with the mucous membrane, joins at the middle line the corresponding muscle. The deeper or an- terior stratum, much the strongest, enters the substance of the palate between the levator and tensor, and joins also, at the middle line, the like part of the opposite muscle. In the palate the muscle encloses the levator palati and azygos muscles between its two strata.