STRUCTUKE OF THE TESTIS. 557 fibrous coat, let the testis be placed on its outer side, viz. seethe that on which the epididymis lies, and be fixed in that posi- ofthTre tion with pins. The fibrous coat may then be cut through testis" along the anterior part, and raised as far backwards as to the entrance of the blood-vessels : in this proceeding a number of fine bands will be seen traversing the substance of the testicle, and a short septal piece (mediastinum) will be observed at the back of the viscus, where the vessels enter. It will be necessary to remove part of the testicular mass of tubes, to bring into view the mediastinum, and to trace back some of the finer septa to it. The tunica albuginea, or the fibrous coat of the testicle, Fibrous is of a bluish-whire colour, and resembles in appearance and coat; structure the sclerotic coat of the eye-ball. This membrane tersT" supports the soft glandular part of the testicle, and main- use tains the shape of the organ by reason of its dense and un- yielding nature. Besides determining the general form, it sends inwards processes to support and separate the seminal Sends tubes. These several offsets of the membrane are seen in prrrds the dissection that has been made ; and one of them, which is cesses' larger than the rest, is placed at the back of the testicle, and is named mediastinum. The mediastinum testis (corpus Highmorianum) projects which into the gland for the distance of a few lines with the blood- ™ vessels. It is situate at the back of the testis, extending anT from the upper nearly to the lower part, and is larger and deeper above than below. When it is cut across it is seen to be formed of two lateral pieces, which are united anteriorly at an acute angle : to its front and sides the finer septal processes are connected : and in its interior are contained the blood-vessels, and a network of seminal ducts forming the rete testis. Of the finer processes of the tunica albuginea, which enter finer the testis, there are two kinds : those of one set are round septa< cord-like, but of different lengths, are fixed posteriorly to the mediastinum, and serve to maintain the shape of the testis ; those of the other, form delicate membranous septa, which divide the seminal tubes into masses named lobes, and are continued, like the rest, to join the mediastinum. Tunica vasculosa.—Within the tunica albuginea is a thin a va*. vascular layer, which has been named as above by Sir A i$£