THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. 407 muscle lies on the mass of the erector spinae, and from its upper border the vertebral aponeurosis is continued. * The vertebral aponeurosis is a fibrous expansion, which Verte- is spread over the fourth layer of muscles, and confines it aponeu- rosis. in the hollow by the side of the spinous processes. Attached Attach- inferiorly to the upper border of the inferior serratus, the ments* aponeurosis is continued beneath the superior serratus, and binds down the splenius muscle. Internally, it is fixed to the spines of the vertebrae, and externally it is inserted into the angles of the ribs. Dissection, — The superior serratus is to be cut through, J?j*sec- and the subjacent vertebral aponeurosis taken away, and then the splenius muscle will be denuded. The splenius muscle consists of cervical and cranial parts, Splenius which are named respectively splenius colli and splenius parts?0 capitis. The two are united at their origin. The splenius colli arises from the spines of three or four one to upper dorsal vertebras, beginning at the sixth. Ascending the neck' in the neck, the muscle is inserted by tendinous processes into the posterior tubercles on the tips of the transverse pro- cesses of the three upper cervical vertebrae, and behind the attachment of the elevator of the angle of the scapula. The splenius capitis arises from the spines of the last one cervical and two first dorsal vertebrae, and from the liga- head! mentum nuchae as high as the third cervical vertebra. The fleshy fibres ascend and are inserted into the apex and outer surface of the mastoid process, and into the ridge behind it for about an inch and a half. The splenius colli is smaller than the splenius capitis, and Their its fibres are more oblique. These muscles are beneath the tion"60" trapezius, the rhomboidei, and the serratus superior ; and other the insertion into the occipital bone is beneath the sterno- muscles' mastoideus. The complexus muscle can be seen above the upper border of the splenius capitis. Dissection, — To lay bare the fourth layer of muscles, the Dissec- splenii must be detached from the spinous processes, and fourth' thrown outwards. The serratus inferior is also to be detached layer' in the same way with the vertebral aponeurosis, and the cel- lular membrane is to be cleaned from the surface of the large mass of the erector spinae, that now comes into view. Opposite the last rib is the beg inning of a cellular interval, sacro- ' " lumba- D D 4