489 CORDS AND FOSSiE OF THE WALL. ment, with the femoral vessels; obturator hernia through obtura- the obturator foramen, with the artery of the same name;tor' and ischiadic hernia through the ischiadic notch. The ischia- . . die. femoral hernia, as the most important, will be noticed pre- sently ; but the student must refer to some special treatise * for his information respecting the other abdominal hernia. Dissection. — The abdomen may now be opened to see the Dissec- cords and the depressions on the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall, below the umbilicus. For that purpose a transverse cut is to be made through the umbilicus across the front of the abdomen. On holding up the lower part of the abdominal wall certain cords will be seen ascending to the umbilicus from the pelvis. Cords of the abdominal wall. — In the middle line of the Cords abdominal wall, at its posterior aspect, is the prominence of aodo- the remains of the urachus, which reaches from the summit men' of the bladder to the umbilicus. On each side is another one in middle cord, formed by the obliterated hypogastric artery; this is line> directed from the side of the pelvis to the umbilicus, and another it t i t • t i i • • 0n eaCh usually lies behind or close to the epigastric artery, near side, Poupart's ligament. Fossce. — When the disposition of the cords is such as forming •in -r~k t\VO fos- above mentioned, two fossae are seen near Poupart s liga- see. ment, one on each side of the obliterated hypogastric artery, corresponding to the situation of the internal and external abdominal rings, and to the places where the external and internal (common kind) herniae occur. But occasionally the Some- cord of the obliterated hypogastric is moved inwards from last cord the line of the epigastric artery, and comes to lie behind the inwards triangular space between this artery and the edge of the rectus, at the line of junction of the outer with the two inner thirds of the space. In this last case there would be a causing hollow or fossa at the lower part of the abdomen on each fossae, side of that cord, corresponding to the two subdivisions of the triangular space between the rectus and the epigastric artery, and to the spots at which the two kinds of internal hernia escape. When the hypogastric cord has the unusual position last mentioned, there may be three fossse at each side, on the lower part of the abdominal wall; one between * A Treatise on Ruptures, by W. Lawrence, F.R.S.