THE PHARYNX. 129 necessary to cut through the internal pterygoid muscle. Above the upper fibres of this constrictor, and near the base of the skull (petrous part of the temporal bone), will be found two small muscles of the palate:—one, tensor palati, lies between the internal pterygoid plate and the pterygoid muscle; and the other, levator palati, is rather farther back, and of larger size. The pharynx is the upper part of the alimentary tube, Pharynx which is situate behind the mouth, nose, and larynx. Through mouth the upper part of this passage, besides the food, the air is nose, transmitted in respiration. Its extent is from the base of Extent, the skull to the cricoid cartilage of the larynx, where it ends in the oesophagus. In form it is somewhat conical, and is so form, placed that the base or dilated part is upwards, and the apex or narrower part downwards. In length it measures about length; four inches and a half. The tube of the pharynx is incomplete in front, where it is an in- . t T . .* , . _ _ . . complete communicates with the cavities above mentioned, but is quite bag; closed behind. On each side of the pharynx are the trunks is he- tween of the carotid arteries, with the internal jugular vein and the biood- accompanying eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. Be- and in hind it is the spinal column, covered by the deep muscles, spinel viz. longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major. The wall of the pharynx is constructed in front by the Compo- larynx, the hyoid bone, and the tongue, and by the bony framework of the nasal cavity ; but behind it possesses thin, fleshy and membranous strata. In the posterior wall are three thin muscles, which are so arranged, that the lower overlays the middle, and the middle the upper muscle, like the disposition of scales ; and at the upper part the bag is farther completed by an aponeurotic expansion, which fixes it to the base of the skull. The whole is lined by mucous membrane. The aponeurosis of attachment is seen at the upper part of Aponeu- n rosis of the pharynx, where the muscular fibres are deficent, to con- pharynx, nect the muscular part to the base of the skull, and to com- plete the posterior boundary. Superiorly, it is fixed to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and to the petrous part of the temporal bone, as well as to ihe cartilage between them ; but inferiorly it becomes thin and cellular, and extends K