DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 512 intestine, viz. the left colic, the sigmoid, and the superior hemorrhoidal plexus. Union On the intestinal tube the nerves of one plexus join those nerves of another. Thus the superior mesenteric joins by one end intes- the nerves to the duodenum, and by the other the nerves to tube. the large intestine from the inferior mesenteric plexus. And the inferior mesenteric plexus communicates below with branches to the rectum from the pelvic centre. Hypo. The hypogastric plexus, or the large prevertebral centre plexus, for the supply of sympathetic nerves to the viscera of the tSiona" pelvis? is situate in front of the upper part of the sacrum and beneath the peritoneum. It is developed more on each side than in the centre ; and the nerves, which are large and flat, have a plexiform arrangement, but without any ganglionic in it masses on them. By its upper part the plexus receives on plexus each side the termination of the aortic plexus ; and it is joined by some filaments from one or two of the upper sacral and ganglia. Inferiorly the plexus ends in two parts, right and offsets* left, the last being the largest, which are continued forwards to pelvic with the branches of the internal iliac artery to the pelvic viscera. , , plexuses and the viscera. Parts^ Connections of the Aorta and Yena Cava.—The con- aorta nections of the abdominal aorta and of the vena cava may cava. be next looked to, before the viscera are removed from the body. Dissec- Dissection. — The part of the abdominal aorta below the see origin of the superior mesenteric artery has been laid bare by the previous dissection. To see it higher up, it will be necessary to detach the great omentum from the stomach, without injuring the gastro-epiploic artery, and after raising the stomach and the spleen, to remove the peritoneum from the surface of the pancreas. A short arterial trunk (coeliac axis) above the pancreas is not to be cleaned now, otherwise the nerves about it would be destroyed. The vena cava will be dissected at the same time as the aorta. Aorta The aorta enters the abdomen between the pillars of the middle diaphragm, and divides into iliac arteries opposite the left ° Spme' side of the fourth lumbar vertebra. At the diaphragm the * vessel occupies the middle line of the spine, but it gradually Parts inclines to the left as it descends. In the abdomen the aorta around. is covered at first by the solar plexus, and by the pancreas