6o8 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. ligament to the upper cornu of the saphenous opening. Extent, Anterior to the sheath at this part, and consequently to the around'8 space, are Poupart's ligament and the upper end of the falci- form margin of the saphenous opening; whilst behind it is the pectineus muscle, covered by fascia lata. On the inner side is Gimbernat's ligament, and on the outer side is the femoral vein. The aperture by which it communicates above with the cavity of the abdomen is named the crural ring. Through this canal or space the intestine in femoral hernia passes from the abdomen. Defini- Some writers apply the term crural canal to all the space in- term°f eluded in the sheath, and describe therefore the femoral vessels as canal1 heing in the crural canal; but the appellation crural canal is here here em- confined, as above stated, to the space in the sheath internal to the ployed. ? ■ «.' 1 vessels. Crural The crural or femoral ring is the upper opening of the nng' crural canal towards the abdominal cavity.* It is on a level Situa- * tion and wjth the base of Gimbernat's ligament, and is larger in the fjrm. . . female than in the male. It is oval in shape; and its greatest measurement is from side to side, in which direction struo it equals about half an inch. The structures that surround around, the opening, outside the crural sheath, are nearly similar to those bounding the crural canal, viz. in front the crural arch with the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female ; behind, the os pubis covered by fascia lata; on the outside the femoral vein ; and on the inside Gimber- nat's ligament. The position of the several vessels along the sides of the ring is stated at p. 492. Crural Septum crurale. — The part of the subperitoneal layer of septum, which is placed over the opening of the crural ring, has position; been named crural septum (Cloquet) from its position between the thigh and the abdomen. The situation of the how partition is now visible, but its characters are ascertained in formed. . . the dissection of the abdomen (p. 490.). Femoral Femoral Hernia.—This kind of hernia consists in a pro- hernia. . trusion ot the intestine into the thigh beneath Poupart's * Gimbernat used the name crural ring, and Mr. Lawrence proposes to call it femoral aperture. Might not the nomenclature employed be made more to resemble that used in describing inguinal hernia, by- calling this the internal crural aperture, and the saphenous opening the external crural aperture?