DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 332 tween the unciform and the last two metacarpal bones; and then cutting through, with care, the transverse ligaments joining the third and fourth bones, so as to allow the separa- tion of the fourth from the third metacarpal. Dissec- Dissection.—The articulating surfaces of the bones in the carpo-metacarpal articulation will be seen by cutting through the rest of the ligaments on the posterior aspect of the hand. Surface Articular surfaces.—The metacarpal bone of the fore- ends of finger presents a hollowed articular surface, which receives banes, the prominence of the os trapezoides, and articulates late- rally with the os trapezium and os magnum. That of the middle finger articulates with the os magnum. But the metacarpal bones of the ring and little finger are opposed to the unciform bone, and do not reach so far back as the other two. inter. Interosseous ligaments. — The interosseous ligaments be- i4Sa-0US tween the bases of the metacarpal bones may be demonstrated meta- by detaching one bone from another. On forcibly separating bones! the carpal bones, their strong interosseous ligaments will also carpal, appear, viz. one on each side of the os semilunare in the first row, and on each side of the os magnum in the second row. side Lateral union.—Where the metacarpal bones touch they union* ii • are covered by articular cartilage, and the surfaces are fur- nished with prolongations of the same synovial membrane, that serves for their articulation with the carpus. Dissec- Dissection.—For the examination of the joint between the fingerf head of the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the jomts. £ngerj fa wj]i foe requisite that the tendons and the tendinous expansion around it should be cleared away. A lateral ligament on each side, and an inferior thick band are to be defined. Another joint may be opened to see the articular surfaces. The same dissection may be made for the articulations between the phalanges of the finger. Meta- Union between the Metacarpal Bones and the First banes Phalanges. — In these joints the convex head of the meta- pha- carpal bone is received into the glenoid fossa of the phalanx, langes, an(j ^ ^ are retaine(j jn contact by the extensor and flexor tendons, and by the following ligaments : — Lateral The lateral ligaments are the same on both sides of the ments. joint. Each is triangular in form ; it is attached by its