DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 612 ture nales and the ejaculatory ducts from the bladder: it is a small piece of the gland between the neck of the bladder and the ejaculatory ducts, which extends transversely be- tween the lateral lobes. Oftentimes this middle lobe is enlarged in old people, and projects upwards into the bladder, so as to interfere with the flow of the urine from that viscus, or the passage of a catheter into it. Gland The urethra and the two common ejaculatory ducts are thre?ns contained in the substance of the gland: the former is tubes' transmitted through the gland from base to apex; and the latter perforate it obliquely to terminate in the urethral canal. true. Structure. — On a section the gland appears reddish in colour, and is very firm to the feel, though it is lacerable. It is made up of a mass of fibrous and muscular tissue with interspersed glandular structure; and the whole is enveloped by a fibrous coat. Fibrous Fibrous covering. — This forms a thin investment for the distinct gland, and sends offsets into the interior. It is quite dis- peivic tinct from the dense capsule derived from the pelvic fascia, and is separated from that by the plexus of veins. It is said to contain many pale contractile fibre cells. Muscu- Muscular tissue. — The firm fibrous looking part of the fibrous gland consists of pale muscular fibre cells, intermixed with tissue, nucjeaj.e(j fii3res an(j cellular tissue. Although interwoven How with one another, the fibres are arranged in bundles that arrang- . t* ed. radiate from the centre to the circumference, and thus favour the splitting of the gland in that direction instead of across.—Kolliker. This arrangement will be afterwards better seen when the urethra has been opened. Glands Glandular structure. — This element forms but about onlyfew'one third of the whole gland. The ducts are branched as in other glands; and when they are traced into the interior nature from the urethra, the final radicles will be found to be sur- ing; rounded by small sessile vesicles, which open into them, on ducts On the exterior of the vesicles and the ducts the blood- seis. vessels ramify; and lining the interior of the tubes is an epithelium of the columnar kind, which becomes laminar in the vesicles. The ducts of the gland are not collected into one excretory tube, but vary in number from twelve