272 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. anterior. The anterior ligament is triangular in form, and extends transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process. Externally it is inserted by its point or apex into the tip of the acromion ; and internally, where it is much wider, it is attached to all the outer border of the coracoid process, and extends backwards to the attachment of the capsule of the formed snou^er joint. This ligament overhangs the shoulder joint; of two it usually consists of two thickened bands, anterior and pos- pieces. Jt 7 * terior, with a thin intervening part. turn560" Dissection.—To lay bare the supraspinatus muscle, the the acromion process is to be sawn through, and removed with the outer end of the clavicle. A strong fascia covers the surface of the muscle; this is to be observed, and then taken away. supra- The supraspinatus muscle has the same form as the spinatus •fills the hollow of the bone that it fills. It arises from all the surface hollow name- °^ suPrasP^nal fossa of the scapula, except from the cer- vical part; from the upper side of the spine of the bone ; and from the fascia covering its surface. Its fibres end in a is in- tendon, that crosses over the shoulder joint, and is inserted intohu- into the upper impression on the great tuberosity of the Connec- numerus* The muscle is concealed by the trapezius and the tions. acromion process; and it rests upon the scapula, the shoulder joint, and the suprascapular vessels and nerve. Its tendon joins that of the infraspinatus, at the attachment to the humerus. Dissec- Dissection. — The vessels and nerves on the dorsum of the su°Pnra-f scapula will be traced by separating the supra, and infraspi- vesseis" natus muscles from the bone. In the supraspinal fossa are the suprascapular vessels and nerve, which are to be followed beneath the acromion to the infraspinal fossa ; and entering the infraspinal fossa, beneath the teres minor muscle, is the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. The anastomosis between the vessels should be carefully cleaned, supra- The suprascapular artery is derived from the subclavian scapular * 1 . i • i i i • i • artery trunk, and is one of the branches into which the thyroid axis subdivides (p. 73.). After a short course in the neck it crosses over the ligament at the superior costa, and enters gives a beneath the supraspinatus muscle. In that position it fur- supra_ spinal^ nishes a supraspinal branch for the supply of the muscle, and ends the bone, and the shoulder joint; and it ends in the infra-