EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 569 where it becomes femoral; and its direction would be indi- and ch- eated, on the surface of the abdomen, by a line from the left of the umbilicus to the middle of the space between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the ilium. The vessel lies connec- above the brim of the pelvis, in its course to Poupart's liga- with ment, and is covered closely by the peritoneum in all its around, extent. Near its origin it is crossed sometimes by the ureter ; and near Poupart's ligament the thick layer of sub- peritoneal fat conceals the artery, whilst the spermatic ves- sels, and part of the genito-crural nerve here lie on it for a short distance; before the artery leaves the abdomen, the circumflex iliac vein crosses it, and the vas deferens bends down along its inner side. To the outer side of the vessel is the psoas, except at its termination under Poupart's liga- ment, where that muscle lies beneath it. A cbain of lymph- atic glands is placed along the front and the inner side of the artery. The position of the external iliac vein is not and with the same on both sides. On the left side the vein is alto- gether internal to the artery; whilst on the right side the vein, though internal in position on the pubes, afterwards lies beneath the arterial trunk. Two large branches, epigastric and circumflex iliac, arise Two from the artery a few lines from its end, and are distributed es: to the wall of the abdomen (p. 480.) : but the number of the branches may be altered by the epigastric being transferred from it, or the other being divided into two. Some small unnamed twigs are given by it to the psoas muscle and the lymphatic glands. Peculiarities. — In position of usual branches. — The epigastric origin and circumflex branches may wander over the part of the artery vanes> between Poupart's ligament and one inch and a half, or two inches and a half above that band: of the two the epigastric arises highest. In unusual branches. — Though the trunk of the vessel is com- occa- monly free from any unusual branch, it may be occupied between "ranches the end and the middle by the obturator artery, or further on by from iL the internal circumflex artery of the thigh. Veins. — The veins of the abdomen correspond so closely veins of to the arteries, both in the number, extent, and connections domen", of the trunks, as to render unnecessary the same detail as in v?naPt the description of the arteries. Further, as the veins in- port£e- crease in size, from the circumference towards the centre of