265 SCAPULAR MUSCLES. Dissection. — The different muscles that have been traced Dissec. to the scapula in the dissection of the front of the thorax and muscles, the back, are now to be cleaned, and followed to their in- sertion into the bone. A small part of each, about an inch in length, should be left for the purpose of ascertaining more exactly the osseous attachment. The borders and the angles of the scapula have the fol- Muscles lowing muscles connected with them: — The upper margin of the scapula has but one muscle, the into the omo-hjoid, attached to it. At its origin that muscle is about oTthSens half an inch wide, and is connected to the edge of the bone scapula' behind the notch, but sometimes to the ligament (posterior proper) which converts the notch into a foramen. The lower margin, or costa, gives origin to the long head of the triceps, and to some fibres of the teres major; but these statements will be verified in the progress of the dis- section. The base of the bone has many muscles inserted into it. into the Between the superior angle and the spine, the levator anguli scapulae is inserted. Opposite the spine, the rhomboideus minor is fixed; and between the spine and the inferior angle the rhomboideus major is attached: the upper fibres of the last muscle often end in an aponeurotic arch, and are thus connected indirectly to the bone by means of an ex- pansion from it. Internal to these muscles, and inserted into the whole extent of the base of the scapula, is the ser- ratus magnus muscle. On the angles of the scapula the fibres of the serratus int0 the # . angles magnus are collected in this way : the highest fibres are of the fixed to the under surface of the upper angle, and the lower fibres are inserted into an impression on the corresponding aspect of the lower angle. On the outer surface of the inferior angle lies the teres major, which will be subsequently seen. The insertion of the small pectoral muscle into the an- into co- terior and upper part of the coracoid process may be now process, ascertained. Dissection,—By the separation of the serratus from the russec- subscapularis a thin fascia comes into view, that belongs to the last muscle, and is fixed to the bone around its margins. After the fascia has been observed, it may be removed; and