509 INFERIOR MESENTERIC VESSELS. between the branches of the vessels: along the large intestine are a few other lymphatic glands, meso-colic, which receive the lymphatics of the large intestine. The lactiferous or tic* of chyliferous vessels of the small intestine, and the lymphatics *£|ft0'f of the part of the large intestine supplied by the superior mesenteric artery, pass through the mesenteric glands to tine, reach the thoracic duct. Dissection.— By drawing the small intestine over to the Dissec. right side, the dissector will perceive the inferior mesenteric inferior artery on the front of the aorta, a little above the bifurcation teric. of the vessel. The peritoneum should be removed with care from the vessel, and its branches should be traced outwards to the remaining half of the large intestine : a part of the artery enters the pelvis, but this will be afterwards dissected. On the artery and its branches is the inferior mesenteric plexus of nerves. The mesenteric vein is likewise to be followed upwards to its junction with the splenic, or with the superior mesenteric vein. On the aorta the dissector will meet with a plexus of nerves which is to be left un- injured. The inferior mesenteric artery supplies branches to the inferior part of the large intestine beyond the transverse colon, and teric . , . . . artery. communicating with the superior mesenteric, assists to main- tain the chain of anastomosis along the intestinal tube. This vessel is of smaller size than the superior mesenteric, and arises from the aorta from one to two inches above the bifurcation. At first the vessel descends on the Place of aorta, and then crosses the left common iliac artery in its course course to the pelvis, where it ends in branches to the rectum (superior hemorrhoidal). The following branches and are furnished by it to the descending colon and the sigmoid es?nch" flexure. The left colic artery ascends in front of the left kidney, Left and divides into ascending and descending branches for the branch supply of the descending colon. By the ascending part it descend, anastomoses with the middle colic branch of the superior colon, mesenteric artery. The sigmoid artery is distributed to the sigmoid flexure, sigmoid Passing almost transversely outwards, it divides into branches, that anastomose above with the preceding colic branch, and below with the hemorrhoidal. Here, as in the rest of to sig.