322 DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. sertion upper third of the radius, reaching downwards to the inser- radius. tion of the pronator teres, and forwards to the tubercle and Oyer- the oblique line. This supinator is altogether concealed at 1>mg the posterior and external aspects of the limb by the muscles of the superficial layer ; and anteriorly the radial artery and and con- nerve lie over it. The lower border is contiguous to the tiguous . . . parts, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, only the posterior inter- osseous artery intervening. Through the substance of the muscle the posterior interosseous nerve winds to the back of the limb. The upper third of the radius is surrounded by the fleshy fibres of the muscle, except at the tubercle and along a slip of bone, beneath it, for about an inch and a half. Poste- The posterior interosseous artery is an offset from the teros.n" common interosseous trunk (p. 300.), and reaches the back artery of the fore-arm above the ligament between the bones. Passing between the contiguous borders of the supinator brevis and the extensor ossis metacarpi, the artery descends is be- between the superficial and deep layer of muscles nearly to theetwoi the wrist, where it ends by anastomosing with the carpal muscled and anterior interosseous arteries. It furnishes many mus- cular offsets, and the following recurrent branch : — its re. The recurrent branch springs from the artery near its branch! commencement, and ascends through some fibres of the supinator, but beneath the anconeus, to supply the elbow joint, and to anastomose with a long branch of the superior profunda artery in the last named muscle, interos- The posterior interosseous nerve takes its origin from the nervl musculo-spiral trunk in front of the outer condyle of the humerus, and winds backwards through the fibres of the Position supinator brevis. Escaped from the supinator, the nerve is de?us" placed between the superficial and deep layers of the muscles as far as the middle of the fore-arm. Much reduced in size at that spot, it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and runs on the interosseous mem- Termi- brane to the back of the carpus. Finally, the nerve en- o^back larges beneath the tendons of the extensor communis digi- tus, torum, and terminates in filaments to the ligaments and the articulations of the carpus. Its mus- Branches.— This nerve furnishes branches to all the &"tsa.r °ff" muscles of the deep layer; and to those of the superficial