FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. 717 tendon of the flexor pollicis longus. The outer one, between and the short flexor and the abductor minimi digiti, is pierced by °uter' the digital nerve and artery for the outer side of the little toe. A piece of fascia reaches across the foot from the one septum to the other, beneath the short flexor. The transverse ligament crosses the roots of the toes, and Trans- ■ is contained in the skin forming the rudimentary web of the ligament foot. It is a band of fibres which is attached at the ex- toes, tremities to the great and little toes, and is connected with the sheath of the tendons of each of the others, as it passes over it. Beneath it are the digital nerves and vessels. The sheaths of the flexor tendons are similar to those of sheaths the fingers though not so distinct, and serve to confine the tendons, tendons against the grooved bones. The sheath is weak opposite the articulations between the phalanges, but is strengthened by a band opposite the centre of both the meta- tarsal and the next phalanx. Each is lubricated by a syno- vial membrane, and contains tendons of the long and short flexor muscles. Dissection, — In the sole of the foot the muscles are Dissect numerous, and have been arranged in four layers. To pre- Payer of pare the first layer all the fascia must be taken away, but this muscles' dissection must be made with some care lest the digital branches of the plantar nerves, which become superficial to the muscles towards the toes, should be injured. The ten- dons of the short flexor muscle are to be followed to the toes, and the sheaths in which they are contained must be opened. First layer of muscles.—In the first layer, which is now Muscles visible, are three muscles, viz., the flexor brevis digitorum, four the abductor pollicis, and abductor minimi digiti: the short thTeeS' flexor of the toes is in the centre of the foot, and each of the in the others is in a line with the toe on which it acts. The abductor pollicis is the most internal of the muscles Abduc- of the superficial layer, and is bifurcated at its posterior at- hS??1"' tachment. It takes origin from the larger tubercle on the origin; under part of the os calcis; from the internal annular liga- ment, and the tendinous structures on the inner side of the foot as far as the internal cuneiform bone; and from the plantar fascia. In front the muscle ends in a tendon, which is joined by fibres of the short flexor of the great toe, and is inserted, inSer. with the tendon of the flexor into the inner side of the base tlon;