DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 402 processes of origin from as many of the lower ribs, which digitate with pieces of the external oblique muscle. All the fibres converge to the inferior angle of the scapula, and after crossing that point of bone are continued forwards to be inser- inserted, by means of a tendon, into the bottom of the bi- hume- cipital groove of the humerus (p. 260.). The muscle is sub- Connec- cutaneous, except a small part of the upper border which is tlons* covered by the trapezius; near the scapula there is a space between the two muscles, in which the ribs and the inter- costal and rhomboid muscles are seen. The lower or an- terior border is either parallel to the edge of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, in the interval between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, or it overlays that muscle. Frequently the latissimus has a distinct fleshy slip from the inferior angle of the scapula. Dissec- Dissection.—The latissimus is to be divided about mid- reflecc> wa7 between the spines of the vertebra and the angle of the mils!1" scapula, and is to be reflected inwards and outwards. In raising the inner part of the muscle, care must be taken not to destroy the thin lower serratus and the aponeurosis con- tinued upwards from it. In the interval between the last rib and the crest of the ilium the latissimus is adherent to the aponeurosis of the transversalis abdominis muscle, and should not be detached from it. Parts * Parts covered by the latissimus. — The latissimus dorsi COV6F(jd by the muscle lies on the erector spina?, on the serratus posticus simus. inferior, and on the lower ribs with their intercostal muscles. As it rests on the angle of the scapula, it conceals the teres major, and a part of the rhomboid muscle. Its relation to the teres is worthy of note: at the angle of the scapula it is in contact with the posterior surface of the teres, but nearer the humerus it turns round the muscle, and is inserted in Forms front of it. Between the angle of the scapula and the wan. humerus the latissimus forms part of the posterior boundary of the axilla. Dissec- Dissection. — After the latissimus dorsi has been reflected, tion of # 7 fascia the dissector of the abdomen should examine the disposi- lumbo- l rum; tion of the posterior tendon of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum) between the last rib and the innominate bone. cfesat- ^n t^ie sPot re^erre(^ to are parts of the abdominal muscles