155 STRUCTURE OF THE TONGUE. the common papillary elevation of limiting membrane is covered with smaller eminences, and each has its separate investment of epithelium, by which the brush-like appearance on the surface is produced. In the interior of the papilla the capillary vessels form a plexus, which furnishes a looped offset to each smaller* papillary projection; whilst the en- tering nerve sends offsets to the different subdivisions of the papilla, whose mode of ending in each is unknown, though Kolliker thinks he has seen it in the form of a loop, like that of the vessels. Structure. — The tongue consists of two symmetrical Parts _ i . . found in halves, and separating them is a fibrous structure in the tongue, middle line. Each half is made up of a mass of muscular fibre with interspersed fat; and entering it are the lingual vessels and nerves. The whole tongue is enveloped by the mucous membrane, and a special fibrous membrane attaches it to the hyoid bone. Dissection.—By the time the student has arrived at this Tongue' J best seen stage, the muscular fibres may have lost their colour; but, °!^resh with a fresh part, the facts here stated can be easily ascer- tained. To define the septum, and the membrane attaching the Define , . septum; tongue to the hyoid bone, the tongue is to be placed on its dorsum, and, the remains of the mylo and genio-hyoideus having been removed, the genio-hyo-glossi muscles are to be cleaned, and drawn from one another along the middle line. After separating these muscles, except in front, and cutting across their intercommunicating fibres, the edge of the sep- tum will appear; and by tracing then the hinder fibres of hyo- the two muscles towards the os hyoides, the hyo-glossal mem- brane membrane will be arrived at; but the membrane will be more completely denuded by cutting through the anterior fibres of the left hyo-glossus. At the front of the tongue the genio-hyo-glossus will be afterwards followed out. Outside this triangular muscle, in the middle line, is the and longitudinal bundle of the inferior lingualis, which may be IFngua- cleaned on the left side, though it will subsequently be better hs* seen on the right half. Fibrous tissue. — Along the middle line of the tongue is a Fibrous thin lamina of this tissue, forming a septum; at the root, IS tures in another fibrous structure, named the hyo-glossal membrane;tonsue •