198 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. fissure between the halves of the cerebellum. On the poste- rior aspect there are not any cross fibres of the pons, as in front, to mark the extent of the medulla. Division The medulla oblongata is divided into halves by a median halves by fissure in front and behind. The fissures are in a line with nssures. ^Qse ai0J1g the cord, and their extent is influenced by the cross fibres before alluded to on the surface ; for whilst the anterior one ceases at the pons in a dilated part (foramen caecum), the posterior is prolonged behind the pons, and into the groove in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Compo- Each half of the medulla is constituted of the three segments each" °f of the spinal cord, which are continued into it; and indi- half* cations of these are still to be seen on the surface, though the names are altered, and the fibres differently arranged. Thus at the middle line in front is the anterior pyramid cor- responding to the anterior column ; at the middle line behind the restiform body, continuous with the posterior column ; and between these are the fibres of the lateral tract, with an oval projecting body (corpus olivare), on their inner side. Anterior a. The anterior pyramid is the most internal eminence, fs'most and receives its name from its form and position. Situate on the side of the median fissure, it is internal to the olivary body, from which it is separated by a slight groove. In- feriorly, the pyramid is continuous with the anterior column of the cord, and is also connected internally with some and is decussating fibres across the anterior median fissure (decus- jntemai- sation of the pyramids). Enlarging as it ascends, this body fibres, enters the pons, but, before disappearing beneath the trans- verse fibres, it is somewhat constricted and rounded. Lateral j 0% Lateral tract and olivary body. — The lateral tract tract t i? v (funiculus lateralis), continuous with the lateral column of the cord, fills the interval between the anterior pyramid and the restiform body; but its width at the surface is not the same throughout. Opposite the lower part of the medulla varies in oblongata, it is equal in size to each of the other constituent slze bodies before and behind it; but near the pons its width is diminished, so that it occupies, on the surface, only the hollow between the outer side of the olivary, and the resti- and form body. Its direction also is not vertical, for it is inclined course. . ,. backwards above, as if it was pushed out of the straight line by the projecting olivary body.