DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 78 other two nerves to the sympathetic, and to the cranial nerves near the nerves. Q^ ^e skull, these will be afterwards referred to. Branch- B. External or Posterior Series.— 1. Muscular branches are other given from the second nerve to the sterno-mastoideus; from the muscles, ^ircj nerve to the levator anguli scapulae; and from the third and fourth nerves to the trapezius. Further, some small branches supply the substance of the middle scalenus. Branch- 2. Connecting branches from the spinal accessory nerve. — The fngTpi- communications between this cranial and the spinal nerves are nu- cessory. merous. First, in the sterno-mastoid muscle; next, in the posterior triangular space; and, lastly, beneath the trapezius. The union with those branches that are distributed to the trapezius has almost the appearance of a plexus. Common The common carotid artery is the chief vessel for the artery, supply of blood to the neck and head, and is remarkable in not furnishing collateral branches. The origin of the vessel is different on the two sides of the body, being, on the right, at the lower part of the neck, and on the left, in the thorax. Origin. The artery of the right side commences opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation at the bifurcation of the inno- minate artery, and ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage by dividing into the two trunks before seen, viz. Course, external and internal carotid arteries. The course of the artery is along the side of the trachea and larynx, gradually diverging from the vessel on the opposite side in consequence situa- of the increasing size of the larynx ; and its position will be marked by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. Contained in a sheath of cervical fascia, with the internal jugular vein to its outside, and the pneumo- gastric nerve between the two, the carotid artery has the Partsco- following connections with the surrounding parts : — As high ' as the cricoid cartilage the vessel is deeply placed, and is concealed by the common coverings of the skin platysma and fasciae, and by the muscles at the lower part of the neck, viz. sterno-mastoid (sternal origin), sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid; and beneath the muscles by the middle thy- roid vein. But above the cricoid cartilage to its termination the artery lies near the surface, and is covered only by the common investments of the part; superficial to it here is the descendens noni nerve, and crossing the upper part are the