DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. 320 and second phalanx of the thumb), about the middle of the fore- nerve, arm, should be carefully dissected. The separation of the muscles should be made, but that between the small muscles of the thumb, especially between the two highest, is not always very distinct. Five Deep layer of muscles. — In this layer there are five in the small muscles, viz. one supinator of the fore-arm, and four layer, special extensor muscles of the thumb and fore-finger. The highest muscle, that partly surrounds the upper end of the radius, is the supinator brevis. Below this are the three extensors of the thumb in the following order — one of the metacarpal bone, one of the first, and one of the second pha- lanx. On the ulna the indicator muscle is placed. Exten- The EXTENSOR OSSIS METACARPI POLLICIS (abductor pollicis tacarpi longus) is the largest and highest of the extensor muscles of has a the thumb, and is sometimes united with the supinator wide 1 attach, brevis, below which it lies. It arises from the posterior surfaces of the radius and ulna, about three inches from each, and from the intervening interosseous membrane. The tendon of the muscle is directed outwards over the radial extensors of the wrist, and through the outer compart- inser- ment in the annular ligament, to be inserted into the base of tion.; to ' the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The muscle is at first The ^ concealed by the common extensor of the fingers ; but it be- at first ^ comes cutaneous between the last muscle and the extensors of the wrist, about two inches above the end of the radius, after- Opposite the carpus the radial artery winds backwards super- beneath its tendon. The ulnar origin is higher than the radial, and begins close below the attachment of the an- coneus : between the contiguous borders of this muscle and the supinator brevis, the posterior interosseous artery appears. Exten- The EXTENSOR PRIMI INTERNODII POLLICIS is the Smallest first°pha- muscle of the deep layer, and its tendon is closely connected thumbf with that of the preceding extensor. Its origin is about two inches in extent—one from the radius, and one from the has a interosseous membrane, — close below the attachment of the origin, preceding muscle. Its fibres end in a tendon, which passes with pre-through the same space in the annular ligament as the inserf extensor of the metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the tion into metacarpal end of the first phalanx of the thumb. With thumb.