DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 788 spot it is a gelatinous-looking tissue, to which the authors above quoted have given the name cochlearis muscle* Two ^ Scalce of the cochlea.—These are the two passages into thecoch. which the spiral tube of the cochlea is divided by its septum. lear tube 1 J A They are placed the one above the other, and are named scala vestibuli and scala tympani; the former is nearest the that join apex of the cochlea. Above they communicate through the above, A J 0 and end aperture named belicotrema; and below they end differently rateiy; as the names express : one (scala vestibuli) opens into the front of the vestibule; the other (scala tympani) is shut out from the vestibular cavity, and is closed below by the mem- differ in- forane 0f the fenestra rotunda. On the whole they are extent, J at spots6 nearty eoiual in size> but eacn nas certain peculiarities: thus the vestibular scala is largest above and extends to the apex of the cochlea; whilst the tympanic scala is largest near the base, and connected with it is the small aqueduct of the cochlea, that is situate close to the ridge or crest near the beginning of the scala, and opens on the under aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Fibro- Lining membrane of the osseous labyrinth.—A thin mem- mem- brane of a fibro-serous character lines the vestibule, the semi- nnes the circular canals, and the scalae of the cochlea, and is likewise rinth; continued into the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea.f On the outer wall of the vestibule it closes the opening into the tympanic cavity. The outer surface of the membrane is has an adherent to the bone ; but the inner is covered by an epithe- Sum and Hum, and secretes a thin serous fluid, liquor Cotunnii, or a°fluidns perilymph. This fluid in the interior fills the scabs of the cochlea! cochlea, and surrounds the membranous labyrinth. Two B. The membranous labyrinth is constituted of sacs inCfluida containing fluid, over which the auditory nerve is expanded. rinthJ" The sacs are two in number, viz. the utricle and the saccule, * The muscular nature of this structure is questioned by Kolliker. He considers it rather ligamentous. f This membrane was considered by Breschet to be originally part of the fibro-serous lining of the skull. It is supposed by him that the membrane has been gradually enclosed by bone, until the connection between it and the parent structure has been obliterated, except by means of the small process that lines the aqueduct of the vestibule, — Hecherches Anatomiques et Physiologiques,