622 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. material the penis surrounds the urethra, and forms alone the bulb penis; and the glans penis (p. 594.). The urethra is not enveloped equally on all sides by this tissue, for, at the bulb, only a thin stratum is above the canal. Posteriorly an offset of the corpus spongiosum is continued beyond the bulb, around the urethra. itsstruo Structure. — The tissue of the corpus spongiosum is cavern^ similar to that of the corpus cavernosum: thus it consists of ous* a fibrous tunic, enclosing a trabecular structure, and has a plexiform arrangement of the blood-vessels. The The fibrous covering is less dense and strong than in the case°.US corpora cavernosa. A piece projects inwards from it in the imper- middle line, opposite the bulb, which reaches forwards a septum, short distance, and assists in dividing that body into two lobes. The trabecular bands are much finer, and more uniform in size, than those of the corpora cavernosa. Blood- Blood-vessels.—The terminal arrangement of the blood- likewlse vessels in the erectile structure of the corpus spongiosum is erectile, aimogt identical with that in the corpora cavernosa; but the and he- helicine terminations of the arteries are absent from the heme, j g]ans penig^ where the veins form a very close and regular plexus. Source The arteries are derived from the pudic on each side; rfes!^6" they are the artery of the bulb, and offsets from the dorsal artery, and enter the spongy structure — the first behind, and the latter in front. Kobelt describes another branch to the bulb, at the upper aspect. Termi- Most of the veins, including those of the glans, end in the nation o jargQ ^orsai vejn 0f ^he penis, and some communicate with vems' those of the cavernous body; others issue from the bulb, and terminate in the pudic vein and the prostatic plexus. Nerves. Nerves and lymphatics.—The nerves of the penis are large and are furnished both by the spinal and sympathetic nerves (pp. 453 —609.) : on the bulb of the urethra and the glans penis, they end Lymph- in Pacinian bodies. — Fick. The superficial lymphatics join the allcs' inguinal glands ; the deep accompany the veins beneath the arch of the pubes, to end in the glands in the pelvis. Rectum THE RECTUM. The lower end of the large intestine, that is contained in