DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 224 it in one half of its extent, the student should make the following dissection: — Toseeit, Dissection,—On the side on which the corpus striatum has Corpus been cut into, the commissure is to be followed into the striatum. interior of that body, by scraping away the gray matter (intra ventricular) with the handle of the scalpel. The commissure will be then seen to perforate the white fibres of the corpus striatum, and to pass through the other mass of gray matter (extra-ventricular) of the same body. Position; Free only in the middle line, where it lies before the pillars of the fornix, the anterior commissure perforates the and corpus striatum, and passes in succession through the intra- ventricular gray mass, the white fibres, and the extra-ventri- to roof cular grey matter. Lastly, the commissure pierces the white ferior stratum bounding externally the corpus striatum, and ends comu. jn roof 0f the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle. Poste- The posterior commissure of the cerebrum is smaller than missure. the anterior, and is placed above the opening into the fourth ventricle. Laterally it enters the substance of the optic thalamus. Thaia- The thalamus opticus (inferior ganglion of the cerebrum) opticus, will be best seen on that side on which the inferior cornu of Form the lateral ventricle has been opened. It is a square-shaped sition? body, which forms part of the lateral and third ventricles, and is unattached where it enters into those cavities, upper The upper surface projects in the floor of the lateral ventricle, and is marked, in front, by a prominence (anterior Under tubercle) near the tsenia semicircularis. The under surface forms part of the roof of the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, and into it the crus cerebri is inserted. By the inner inner side this body enters into the third ventricle ; and along its upper part, on this aspect, lies the peduncle of the outer pineal body. On the outer side are the corpus striatum, and anterior, the substance of the hemisphere. The anterior part looks to ter1oPr°s" the foramen of Monro. And the posterior part, which is parts* free in the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle, presents inferiorly two small roundish tubercles, internal and external geniculate bodies, with which the optic nerve is connected. Origin The origin of the optic nerve from the thalamus, and from nerve.10 the geniculate and quadrigeminal bodies, can now be well seen. At the back of the crus cerebri the optic tract