312 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. metacar- anterior aspect; and its insertion is attached, with that of the ' short flexor, to the inner side of the first phalanx of the thumb, joins The cutaneous surface is in contact with the tendons of the short flexor, flexor profundus and their lumbrical muscles ; and the deep deep in surface lies over (in this position) the abductor indicis in thehand. \ r / the first interosseous space, and the second and third meta- carpal bones and the intervening muscles. Two or Short Muscles of the Little Finger. — There are three muscles commonly two muscles in the ball of the little finsrer,—an to little J & ? finger, abductor and an adductor. Sometimes there is a short flexor muscle between the other two. An ab- The abductor minimi digiti is the most internal of the ductor short muscles. It arises from the pisiform bone and the is the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the temai. ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger; an offset is sent from it to the extensor tendon on the back of the phalanx. The palmaris brevis partly conceals the muscle. Flexor The flexor brevis minimi digiti appears to be only a brevis is . often ab- part of the abductor. Placed at the radial border of the sent. preceding muscle, it takes origin from the tip of the process of the unciform bone, and slightly from the annular ligament; is on the it is inserted with the abductor into the first phalanx. It lies side of on the adductor ; and near its origin it is separated from the Sing? abductor muscle by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. oppo- The adductor vel opponens digiti minimi resembles the opponens pollicis in being attached to all the length of the metacarpal bone. Its origin is from the process of the unci- form bone, and from the lower part of the annular ligament is fixed near it: its insertion is fixed into the ulnar margin of the tacarpai metacarpal bone of the little finger. This is partly overlaid is the tyy the preceding muscles; and beneath it the deep branches ternai.n" of the ulnar artery and nerve pass. Dissec. Dissection. — The radial artery comes into the palm of the deep hand between the first two metacarpal bones; and to lay it bare, it will be requisite to detach the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis at the origin. The deep palmar arch, and the branch of the ulnar nerve that accompanies it, inter, together with their offsets, are to be dissected out. A fascia, muscles, which covers the interossei muscles, is to be removed, when