THE SCALENI MUSCLES. 69 is necessary, the anterior scalenus may be cut through after the artery has been studied. From the cervical plexus, besides muscular branches, the of student should seek small twigs to join the descendens noni, plexus, and should define the roots of the phrenic nerve. Lastly, let the surface of the middle scalenus muscle be cleaned, as it lies beneath the cervical nerves. The scaleni muscles are usually described as three in How number, and are named, from their relative position, anterior, scaieni middle, and posterior: they extend from the first two ribs to certain of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. The scalenus anticus extends from the first rib to the scalenus lower cervical vertebrae, and is somewhat conical in shape. antlcus* It is attached by its apex to the inner border and the upper origin surface of the first rib, so as to surround the projection on first rib; this aspect of the bone; and by its base it is inserted into the inser- anterior roots of the transverse processes of four of the U°n ■ cervical vertebrae, viz. sixth, fifth, fourth, and third. More connec deeply seated below than above, the muscle is concealed by with the clavicle and the subjacent muscle (subclavius), and by vessels,' the clavicular part of the sterno-mastoid: the phrenic nerve lies along the cutaneous aspect of the muscle, and the sub- clavian vein crosses over it near the rib. Along the inner border is the internal jugular vein. Beneath the scalenus and are the pleura and the subclavian artery, and the nerves of nerves' the brachial plexus. The insertion into the vertebrae corre- sponds to the origin of the rectus capitis anticus major muscle. The scalenus medius muscle is larger than the anterior, scalenus and extends farthest of all on the vertebrae. Inferiorly it is origin, attached to the inner border of the first rib, and to a groove on the upper surface, which extends from the posterior tubercle to the smooth surface for the subclavian artery. The muscle ascends behind the spinal nerves, and is inserted inser- into the posterior parts of the tips of the transverse processes lon" of the lower six cervical vertebrae. In contact with the an- Parts in terior surface are the subclavian artery and the spinal nerves, with it. together with the sterno-mastoid muscle, whilst the posterior surface touches the posterior scalenus and the deep lateral muscles of the back of the neck. The outer border is per- forated by the nerves of the rhomboid and serratus muscles. F 3