DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 102 cavity of the mouth by the layer of mucous membrane. gives branches Branches are furnished to the surrounding parts, thus: — to the Two or more branches connect it with the submaxillary ganglion, ganglion near the gland 0f that name> - to ninth Farther forwards branches descend on the hyo-glossus to unite nerve, >m a ^jn(j 0f piexTls with twigs of the hypo-glossal nerve. to ma- Other filaments are supplied to the mucous membrane of the mem- mouth, to the gums, and to the sublingual gland. tothe* Lastly the branches for the tongue ascend through the papilla. muscuiar substance, and are distributed to the conical and fungiform papillse. Sub. Submaxillary ganglion. — Closely connected with the rydgan? gustatory nerve is this little ganglion, which resembles the 8llon' other ganglia connected with the three trunks of the fifth nerve in the fact of communicating with sensory, motory, nature; an^ sympathetic nerves. It is a small reddish body, about the size of the lenticular ganglion, and is placed above the deep process of the submaxillary gland. From the upper part offsets proceed to connect it with other nerves, and from the lower part arise the branches that are distributed to the parts around. joins Connection with nerves — roots. — Two or three branches, in the toryf" form of loops, pass from the ganglion to the gustatory nerve. At and^ym- Posteri°r part, the ganglion is further joined by an offset from pathetic tne chorda tympani (of the facial nerve) which lies in contact with nerves. . the gustatory. And its sympathetic branch comes from the nerves around the facial artery. Branch- Branches.—From the lower part of the ganglion five or six branches descend to the substance of the submaxillary gland ; and from the anterior part other large filaments are furnished to the mucous membrane of the mouth and to the Whartonian duct. Ninth The hypo-glossal or ninth nerve, after crossing the side between of the neck and the anterior triangle (p. 80.), enters between andhy- the small muscles of the submaxillary region. Here the oid bone nerve }jeg on t]ie hyo-glossus muscle, being concealed by the mylo-hyoideus ; but at the inner border of the hyo-glossus it enters the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, and is continued is lost in along the middle line of the tongue to the apex. The tolfgue.^ position of the ninth nerve is in the centre of the tongue, whilst the gustatory lies near the margin: the ninth supplies branches to the muscular structure, and the gustatory ends chiefly in the papillse.