FORM OF THE KIDNEY. 549 THE KIDNEY AND THE URETER. The organ for the secretion of urine has a characteristic Use and form : flattened on the sides, it is larger at the upper than form, at the lower extremity, and is hollowed out at the inner part of its circumference. For the purpose of distinguishing To dis- between the right and left kidneys, let the excavated margin right be supposed to be turned to the spinal column, whilst the left, ureter, or the excretory tube, is kept more posterior than the other vessels; and let that end be directed downwards, towards which the ureter is naturally inclined. With the special form above mentioned, the kidney is of Colour, a deep red colour, and presents an even surface. Its average size, length is about four inches, its breadth two, and its thickness about one inch; but the left is commonly longer and more slender than the right kidney. The usual weight of this and body is about five ounces and a half in the male, and rather less in the female. The upper extremity of the kidney is rounded, is thicker Extre- than the lower, and is surmounted by the supra-renal body ; mitles' the lower end is flat, and more pointed. The relative posi- tion with respect to the spinal column has been before detailed (p. 500.). On its anterior aspect the kidney is surfaces; convex, but on the opposite surface it is flattened. The borders, outer border is convex; but the inner is excavated, and is marked by a longitudinal fissure, hilum. In the interior of the kidney is a hollow, named sinus, into which the hilum leads, and in which the vessels and the duct are contained, before they pierce the renal substance. In the fissure of the kidney the several vessels are thus Contents placed with respect to one another: — The divisions of the fissure; renal vein are in front, the ureter is behind, and the branches their of the artery lie between the other two. On the vessels the r nerves and lymphatics ramify, and cellular structure sur- rounds the whole. Dissection, — To examine the interior of the kidney it Open the will be necessary to cut through it from the inner to the andney' outer border, and to remove the loose cellular membrane vessels, from the vessels, and the divisions of the excretory duct that enter the hilum. The hollow or sinus, that contains the blood-vessels, now comes into view. M N 3 position.