INTERIOR OF THE CEREBELLUM. 235 The fibres of the upper peduncle are continued into the of upper, crus cerebri, and thus form part of the diverging cerebral set of fibres; but before they reach their final destination there is a partial decussation of the fibres, so that those of the right half of the cerebellum are continued to the left half of the cerebrum, and vice versa. The fibres of the lower peduncle enter the cord, and con- and lower nect the cerebellum with all three portions of the half of the medulla oblongata of the same side; and so, indirectly, with the corresponding half of the cord, except the small posterior median column: for fibres connect it with the anterior pyramid, with the lateral tract or column, and with the resti- form body. The dentate body (corpus dentatum) is contained in the £orPus white fibres of the cerebellum, and resembles in structure tum. that in the corpus olivare of the medulla oblongata. This situa- body measures three fourths of an inch from before back- wards, and is situate near the inner part of the white centre. It consists of a thin, wavy, grayish-yellow stratum, which is struc- so arranged as to form a small capsule; this bag is open at the anterior part, and encloses a nucleus of whitish matter. Through its anterior aperture issues a band of fibres, from the nucleus, to join the superior peduncle. Dissection.—One other section must be made to show the Dissec- fourth ventricle and the structure of the vermiform process. Let the knife be carried vertically through the centre of the upper vermiform process (the cerebellum still resting on its under surface), and then, on separating the halves of the cerebellum, the structure of the central part, as well as the boundaries of the fourth ventricle, may be observed. Structure of the vermiform 'process. — The vermiform pro- vemn- cesses (upper and lower) of the cerebellum are united in one process central part; and this connects together the hemispheres, other Internally, the structure of this connecting piece is the same partS" as in the rest of the cerebellum, viz. a central white stalk, with lateral branches for the laminas. Here the branching appearance of a tree (arbor vitas) is best seen, in consequence of the stalks being longer, and the laminas more divided. The fourth ventricle (fossa rhomboidalis) is a space Fourth between the cerebellum and the posterior aspect of the cie.