4 STRUCTURE OF THE KIDNEY. 551 mid and its envelope, which correspond to one of the primary lobes, are distinct as in the organ in its lobular condition. Structure of the Kidney. — The substance of the tunes incased mixed with blood-vessels, lymphatics, nerves, and fine cellular 5&r* tissue. The whole is incased by a fibrous coat. coat- The fibrous coat is a white firm case, which is connected ^trous with the renal tissue by fine processes and vessels, but is readily detached from it by slight force. At the inner mar- ^sJsin gin of the kidney, it sinks into the hollow or sinus, and sends processes on the entering vessels: at the same spot it is continuous with the fibrous coat of the excretory duct. To obtain a knowledge of the anatomy of the secreting How the tubes, and to make out the disposition of the blood-vessels, to beey 1S the dissector will require a microscope and good fine injec- tions of the part. Arrangement.—The uriniferous tubes (tubuli uriniferi) Urini- * n ferous are the ramified terminations of the excretory duct, which tubes; pour out the urine. In the cortex of the kidney, where the Charac- tubes present closed extremities (tubes of Ferrein), they are coitex innumerable, are very convoluted, and of different sizes, ney; convo- though they average about -g-^th of an inch. In this part luted, they are closely surrounded by a plexus of blood-vessels, and rounded by ves- are usually distinct one from another. A certain number of seis; the tubes converge towards each pyramid, and having be- in pyra- come straight, are directed downwards, as a conical bundle, straight, to the apex of that body, where they open by somewhat dilated orifices. In the pyramid the tubes lie close together, fewer in and have but few vessels between them ; they further dimi- ancUe!- nish in number, from base to apex, by repeated unions, and ' are enveloped by a uniting or parenchymatous structure. w*£ths On a section of one of the pyramids, near the lower end, the inferior- number of tubes was estimated by Krause at a hundred in a square line. Structure and endmg of the tubes. — The tubes consist of struc- a thin basement membrane; and they are lined by an epithe- the wail Hum of the spheroidal kind, which forms three-fourths of the bide; " thickness of the wall, except in the pyramid, where it is thinner, and the cells smaller and flatter. The tubes termi- base- nate in free extremities; and each tube presents a dilated or mem. saccular part, which contains a small vascular Malpighian aJSepi- ) NN 4 thelium.