THE IXTEROSSEI MUSCLES. 315 the middle finger, one is connected with the radial side of the fore, and one with the ulnar side of the ring finger. They may be considered abductors from the middle line of the second finger: thus those attached to the fore and ring ^ch- fingers will draw those digits from the middle one ; and the fnd ac* o o y tion. two muscles that are connected with the middle finger will carry this to the right and left of a line passing through its centre. The first muscle of this set is noticed separately below, under the name abductor indicis. Both sets of muscles have a similar termination: — the Com: mon m- fibres end in a tendon, which is inserted into the side of the s^ioin 7 t of both first or metacarpal phalanx, and sends an expansion to join sets, the aponeurotic covering of that bone. The abductor indicis, or the first dorsal interosseous First dorsal muscle, arises from nearly the whole of the metacarpal bone mteros- of the index finger, and from the upper half of that of the thumb; and is inserted into the radial side of the first phalanx of the fore-finger. By the palmar surface the is a large muscle is in contact with the adductor and flexor brevis muscle pollicis; and by the opposite surface it is subcutaneous. P®tr^"by The radial artery perforates it to enter the palm. radial J 1 1 artery. Dissection.—The attachments of the annular ligament to Dissec- the carpal bones on each side may next be dissected out. To define the ligament the small muscles of the thumb and little finger must be taken from it. Before reading the description of this structure, the ends of the cut ligament should be placed in apposition. The anterior annular ligament is a firm ligamentous band Annular that arches over the flexor tendons of the fingers. It is of front' attached externally to the front of the os scaphoides, and to of wrist" the ridge of the os trapezium, and internally to the unciform and pisiform bones. By its upper border it is connected with the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and by its lower border with the palmar fascia. On the cutaneous surface lie the palmaris longus and the ulnar artery and nerve. Dissection.—Next follow the tendon of the flexor carpi Dissec- radialis to its insertion, and dissect oat more fully thetl0U' attachment of the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles to the bones of the fore-arm. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, in passing from insertion the fore-arm to the hand, lies in the groove in the os tra- don of