EIGHTH CRANIAL NERVE. Ill The vein corresponding to the pharyngeal artery receives its vein, branches from the cranium and the pharynx, and ends in the internal jugular vein. Dissection of the eighth nerve.—By the time the student Direc- has arrived at this stage of the dissection, it will not be concern- possible for him to trace the very minute filaments of the e?fnth nerve. eighth nerve in the foramen lacerum of the skull. The student is therefore recommended to omit, for the present, all the paragraphs marked with an asterisk. Afterwards, if a fresh piece of the skull can be obtained, in which the nerves have been hardened by spirit, and the bone softened by acid, he may return to the examination of the parts that are now passed over. * In the foramen lacerum. — Supposing the dissection of Dissec- the internal carotid to be made as it is described at page 108., opento let the student cut across with care the jugular vein near the Scerum. skull, and the internal carotid, if it is necessary. Let him then remove, bit by bit, with the bone forceps, or with a scalpel if the part has been softened, the ring of bone that bounds externally the jugular foramen, proceeding as far forwards as the crest of bone between the foramen and the aperture of the carotid canal. Between the ring of bone and the coat of the jugular vein, is the small auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve, which is directed backwards to a foramen near the styloid process. * First trace the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory Follow nerves through the canal, by opening the fibrous sheath that gSic°~ surrounds them. On the pneumo-gastric is a small ganglion, nafac-" from which filaments are to be sought passing to the smaller andtheir portion of the spinal accessory nerve, and to the ascending est"0*1" branch of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; the auricular branch, before referred to, also takes origin from this ganglion. Two parts, large and small, of the spinal accessory nerve should be defined: the former is to be shown joining the ganglion of the vagus, and then applying itself to the trunk of that nerve. A communication also exists between the two parts of the spinal accessory. * Next follow the glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the after- foramen, and take away any bone that overhangs it. This giosso'- nerve presents two'ganglia, as it passes from the skull: one geai5" (jugular), that is scarcely to be perceived, near the upper