502 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. it; but beyond that viscus, they are applied to one another to form the great omentum or epiploon. After descending in con- tact in that fold to the lower part of the abdomen, they may be traced in it backwards and upwards, and may be seen to separate to enclose the transverse colon like the stomach, and then to continue to the spine, giving rise to the transverse meso-colon. At the attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the spine, the two companion pieces will be found to separate, — one passing up- wards, the other downwards, forms The ascending piece is continued in front of the pancreas and omeCn-0f tne pi^ars of the diaphragm, and blends with the peritoneum on tum, posterior aspect of the liver : in its ascent it forms the posterior part of a pouch or bag, which is behind the stomach, and de« b. The descending piece or layer may be followed from the trans- overthe verse meso-colon along the middle line of the spine, over the duo- to^he116 denum and the great vessels on the spine (aorta and cava), till it pelvis, meets with the artery to the small intestine, along which it is continued to form the mesentery, as before explained in tracing the peritoneum in a circular direction. From the root of the mesen- teric artery the peritoneum descends to the pelvis, and partly covers the viscera in that cavity. Thus it surrounds the upper part of the rectum, and attaches this to the abdominal wall by the meso-rectum; next, it is continued forwards between the rectum and the bladder, or between the rectum and the uterus, where it forms a pouch; thence it passes from the pelvis over the back and sides of the bladder. Lastly, the serous membrane is continued to the inguinal region, where it presents the pouches before alluded to (p. 489.) ; and it can be traced upwards on the wall of the abdo- men and the diaphragm to the rest of the membrane on the upper surface of the liver. Chief Folds of the peritoneum, — After tracing the continuity of thedpe°rfi- the serous sac over the viscera, the student is to examine the toneum. c^ef f0^s or processes of the membrane, in connection with the alimentary tube. The pieces of the peritoneum that fix the liver, will be examined after: and the folds on the vis- cera of the pelvis will be learnt with the dissection of that cavity. on the Folds on the stomach.—The processes of the serous mem- stomach omenta, brane in connection with the stomach are named omenta. They are three in number : — one, small omentum, is attached to the upper curve, another, great omentum, to the lower curve, and the third, splenic omentum, is fixed to the great •end of the viscus. small The small or gastro-hepatic omentum is stretched between