FLEXOR MUSCLES OF THE FORE-ARM. 295 radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, which are on the same level; and deeper and larger than any of these is the flexor sublimis digitorum. The deep layer will be met with in a future dissection. The pronator radii teres arises from the inner condyle Pronator teres. of the humerus by the common tendon, and often by fleshy fibres from the ridge above the condyle; from the inner part of the coronoid process by a second tendinous slip ; and from origin, the fascia and the intermuscular septum between it and the next muscle. It is inserted by a rather flat tendon into an inser- impression, an inch in length, on the outer surface of the middle of the radius. The muscle is superficial, except at its insertion, where it is crossed by the radial artery, and concealed by the supinator longus of the outer set of mus- cles. The outer border constitutes one boundary of the triangular space in front of the elbow, and the inner border is contiguous to the flexor carpi radialis. By gently sepa- connec- rating the muscle from the rest, it will be found to lie on tl0ns" the brachialis anticus, on the flexor sublimis digitorum, and on the ulnar artery and the median nerve. The second small head of origin is directed inwards between the artery and the nerve. The flexor carpi radialis takes its origin from the Radiai common tendon, from the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and fhe wrist from the intermuscular septum on each side. The tendon of the muscle, becoming free from fleshy fibres about the middle of the fore-arm, passes through a groove in the os trapezium, outside the attachment of the anterior an- nular ligament, and is inserted into the bases of the meta- carpal bones of the index and middle fingers. This muscle is super- rests chiefly on the flexor sublimis digitorum, but near its origin it is in contact with the ulnar artery and the median nerve ; and at the lower part of the fore-arm it lies over the flexor longus pollicis, — a muscle of the deep layer. As low jS the as the middle of the fore-arm the muscle corresponds CX- fhe ra- ternally to the pronator teres, and below that point to the teryfr" radial artery, to which its tendon is taken as the guide. The ulnar border is at first in contact with the palmaris longus muscle, and then with the median nerve for about two inches above the wrist. The palmaris longus is often absent; or it may present Long u 4