40 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. orbital, nasal, and infra-trochlear nerves. The remaining branches to the lower part of the face are smaller in size: one joins with the buccal nerve at the lower part of the buccinator muscle ; and one or two others are to be traced forwards to the lower lip and to the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve, and of In order to trace backwards the trunk of the nerve through nerve in the gland, the integuments should be taken from the surface rotid.3" of the parotid as on the other side, and the gland removed piece by piece. In this proceeding the small branches of communication of the great auricular nerve with offsets of the facial, and the branches that dip down from the facial to the auriculotemporal nerve are to be sought. Lastly, the tip of the mastoid process is to be cut off with a chisel; and after turning it backwards with the sterno-mastoid muscle adhering to it, the small branches of the facial nerve to the back of the ear, and to the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, are to be looked for close to the base of the skull. Branch- The Nerve outside the Skull.—The nerve issues s?deUthe from the stylo-mastoid foramen, after traversing the aque- skulL duct of Fallopius, and furnishes immediately the three fol- lowing small branches: — Poste_ The posterior auricular branch turns upwards in front of ricuiar" the mastoid f^cess, where it communicates with the great branch. auricuiarj an(j with|pEi fcr^nch to the ear from the pneumo- gastric (eighth) nerve, and ends in auricular and mastoid offsets (p. 8.). Branch The branch to the digastric muscle generally arises in gastric, common with the next. It is distributed by many branches to the posterior belly of the muscle near its origin. Some- times one of these branches passes through the fleshy fibres, and descends to join the glossopharyngeal nerve. Branch The branch to the stylo-hyoideus is a long slender nerve, hyoid.0" that is directed inwards to its muscle, which it enters about the middle. This branch communicates with the sympa- thetic nerve on the external carotid artery. As soon as the facial nerve has given off those branches, it is directed forwards through the gland, and divides near the ramus of the jaw into two large trunks — temporo-facial and cervico-facial. The up- The temporo-facial division furnishes offsets -to the