688 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. Gluteus The gluteus minimus is likewise conical in shape, and mini- . _ , 17 mus. arises Irom the dorsum of the ilium between the curved Attach- lines on the bone. The fibres are collected on a tendon, which is inserted into an oblique impression along the fore part of the great trochanter, and is united inferiorly with is next that of the gluteus medius. One surface is in contact with thebone'the gluteus medius, and the gluteal vessels and nerve ; the other, with the hip-joint and the bone, and the outer head of and is the rectus femoris muscle. The anterior border is blended withed with the other gluteus ; and the posterior touches the pyri- peced- formjg muscle> Divide Dissection. — The smallest gluteal muscle should be cut gkrteus! through near the innominate bone, and the tendinous part of the rectus femoris, close above the hip-joint, defined. Whilst detaching the muscle from the parts beneath, the student cannot fail to notice the connection between its tendon and the capsule of the joint. The deep vessels to the articula- tion may be observed and followed after the muscle is re- moved. outer The outer head of the rectus femoris is a slip of tendon the rec- about an inch and a half long, that reaches outwards, almost where horizontally, above the margin of the acetabulum. In front ' it joins the other tendinous piece of the rectus, that is at- tached to the anterior inferior spine of the ilium ; and below it is connected by fibres with the capsule of the hip-joint. Origin The ptriformis arises in the pelvis from the front of the in the L pelvis, sacrum (p. 635 ), and comes from that cavity through the inser- great sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis it ends in a the tendon, and is inserted by it into the upper border of the great trochanter, between the gluteus medius and minimus, lies in and is frequently united with the latter. As the muscle sdauc passes through the sacro-sciatic notch it divides that space into two parts : the upper of these gives passage to the glu- teal vessels and nerve, and the lower to the sciatic and pudic position vessels and nerves. Its upper border is contiguous to the par°ts.er gluteus medius, and its slower edge to the gemellus superior. Like the other rotator muscles in this situation, it is covered by the gluteus maximus, and rests on the hip-joint. Dissect Dissection. — The pyriformis may be cut across, and vessels raised towards the sacrum, to allow the dissector to trace nerves, upwards the sciatic and pudic vessels, and the corresponding