519 VENA PORT^E AND BILE DUCTS. The vena porta conveys to the liver the blood that has vena been circulated through the following chylo-poietic viscera, resem- , . bles an viz. the alimentary canal, the pancreas, and the spleen. 1 his artery in vein commences by roots in the viscera above mentioned, branch. ing. like any other vein; but it is deficient in valves, and ramifies through the structure of the liver in the same manner as an artery. Its radicles communicate here and there on the in- testinal tube with small systemic veins, more particularly on the rectum. The vein results from the union of the splenic and supe- its ori- gin, rior mesenteric veins (p. 508.) ; and its origin is placed in front of the vena cava, but beneath the pancreas and about two inches from the right end. This vessel is about four ien§th, inches long, and is directed upwards in the small omentum, and ter- behind the bile duct and the hepatic artery, to the transverse don?" fissure of the liver, where it divides into a right and a left branch. In its course it is joined by the coronary or gastric vein? Acces- and by the cystic vein near the liver. branch- The right branch is sometimes joined by the cystic vein, T'ermi_ and enters the transverse fissure to ramify in the liver. branch- The left branch is distributed to the left part of the liver, j^feft. and gives a small branch to the Spigelian lobe of that viscus. Bile Ducts.—Two ducts issue at the transverse fissure common of the liver, one from each lobe, and unite to form the com- duct; mon hepatic duct: the excretory tube, thus formed, is an how inch and a half long. Below the length mentioned the ductr ' . receives that of the gall bladder, and the union of the two forms the common bile duct. The common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus), Common which is formed as above said, is about three inches long: it descends almost vertically beneath the upper transverse length piece of the duodenum, then between the pancreas and course, the vertical piece of the duodenum, and opens into this part of the intestine at the inner side, and above the middle. Before piercing the coats of the intestine, it is commonly Termi. joined by the pancreatic duct, but the two may enter the natlon- duodenum separately. Whilst in the small omentum, the duct lies to the right of the hepatic artery, and somewhat before the portal vein. L L 4