10 DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. than to examine the brain at this stage. Directions are given (p. 13.) for the preservation of the brain, after its re- moval, till it can be dissected. Dura The dura mater is the most external of the membranes mater- investing the brain. It is a strong, fibrous structure, that. serves as an internal periosteum to the bones, and supports Appear- the cerebral mass. The outer surface of the membrane is outlr°f rough, and presents, now it is separated from the bone, surface. numerous small fibrous and vascular processes; but these are most marked along the line of the sutures, where the attachment of the dura mater to the bone is much the most intimate. Ramifying on the upper part of the membrane are branches of the middle meningeal vessels, ascending towards the top of the head. Small granular fibrous bodies, glands of Pacchioni, are also seen along the middle line. The number of these bodies is very variable, and is increased with age. Occasionally the surface of the skull is indented by these so-called glands, cut Dissection.—For the purpose of seeing the interior of the through _ . . . the dura dura mater, divide this membrane with a scissors close to the margin of the skull, except in the middle line before and be- hind, where the superior longitudinal sinus lies. The cut membrane is then to be raised towards the top of the brain ; and on the right side the veins connecting it with the cere- bral hemisphere may be broken through. inner When the dura mater is cut through, its inner surface is seen to present a smooth and polished aspect; and this ap- pearance is due to an epithelial covering, similar to that lining serous membranes. struc- This external envelope of the brain consists of white fibrous tissue so disposed as to give rise to two distinct layers, viz., an external or endosteal, and an internal proper to the dura mater. At certain spots these layers are slightly separated, and form thereby the spaces or sinuses for the passage of the and pro- venous blood. Moreover, the innermost layer sends processes cesses. . between different parts of the brain, forming the falx, tento- rium, &c. Faix. The falx cerebri is the process of the dura mater, in shape like a sickle, that dips between the hemispheres of the cere- brum, along the middle line. Its form and extent will be evident if the right hemisphere is gently separated from it.