632 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. tened from above down; it is of a whitish colour, with either dimen- a smooth or a scarred surface. Its volume is variable, but sions in the virgin state it is about one inch and a half in length, and half that size in width, and a third in thickness; its weight weight. , . n & is nearly a quarter of an ounce. Connec- The ovary is connected with the broad ligament by its anterior margin, where the vessels enter it. Its outer end is rounded, and is connected with one of the fimbrise at the mouth of the Fallopian tube ; but the inner extremity is narrowed, and is attached to the side of the uterus by a fibrous cord, the ligament of the ovary, below the level of both the Fallopian tube and the round ligament. Glandu- Structure, — The ovary consists of a spongy vascular struc- tissue or stroma, which contains small vesicles, named ture. Graafian, and is enclosed within a fibrous tunic. The peri- toneum surrounds the wnole, except at the attached margin. a fibrous The special fibrous coat (tunica albuginea) is of some rounds thickness and of a whitish colour, whence its name, and is adherent to the contained stroma. Sometimes a yellow spot (corpus luteum) or some fibrous cicatrices may be seen in this covering. in the The Graafian vesicles are small round transparent bodies, are small and are from eight to twenty in number in women who have not borne children : they vary in size from a pin's head to a pea, and are scattered through the stroma of the ovary, size and They are largest in size towards the circumference of the number. -, * . . _ , organ, and sometimes they may be seen projecting through the fibrous coat. Coat? Each consists of a transparent coat, and contains a fluid. The coat of the vesicle, named ovi-capsule, is formed of fine fibro-cellular structure, and is connected to the stroma of the ovary by a network of blood-vessels : lining it is a layer of nucleated cells—the memhr. granulosa of Baer. The contents, fluid in the interior is transparent and albuminous; and in it is suspended the minute vesicular ovum, together with molecular granules, shed- When the Graafian vesicle is matured it bursts on the reside.a surface of the ovary, and the contained ovum escapes into the Fallopian tube. After the shedding of the ovum the Form- ruptured vesicle gives origin to a yellow substance, corpus corpus luteum, which changes finally into a cicatrix. luteum.