DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 560 fibrous tissue, and by the reflection of the tunica vaginalis, is but a After the removal of the serous membrane and fibrous tissue, single tube; the epididymis may be seen to be formed of a single tube, bent into a zigzag form, whose bends are united into one length mass by fibrous tissue. This tube, when unravelled, mea- sures twenty feet in length. The diameter of its canal is about -^th of an inch ; but there is a slight diminution in size towards the globus minor. Where The vas deferens begins opposite the lower end of the straight testis, at the termination of the globus minor of the epidi- vasde^ dymis. At first this part of the excretory duct is slightly ' wavy, but afterwards it becomes, for the most part, a firm round tube. In its course to the urethra, it ascends on the inner side of the testicle to reach the blood-vessels of the this spermatic cord, with which it enters the internal abdominal fntotae ring ; it is then directed along the side of the bladder, and ure ra' through the prostate, to open on the inner surface of the length latter (see Pelvic Viscera). The length of this part of and size. ^e excretory duct is about two feet, and the width of its canal about ^th of an inch. Near its termination the vas deferens becomes enlarged and tortuous ; but this condition will be referred to with the viscera of the pelvis. Vas Connected with the vas deferens, in the angle of union occa- between it and the epididymis, is sometimes found a small present; narrow csecal appendage, the vas aberrans of Haller. This tion and body is convoluted, and projects upwards for two or three inches amongst the vessels of the cord. Like the epididymis, it is much longer when it is unravelled, measuring sometimes fourteen inches, but it may not exceed an inch and a half in length. Its capacity is greatest at the free end. Its use is unknown. The vas aberrans may be found divided or doubled, Two Structure. — The excretory duct of the testis is formed form the chiefly by a thick5 muscular coat; this is covered externally by cellular tissue, and lined internally by epithelium. To the feel the duct is firm and wiry, like whip-cord; and on a section its wall is dense and of a yellow colour, but it is amuscu- thinnest at the head of the epididymis. The muscular coat is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres arranged in strata, so that externally and internally is a longitudinal layer, the latter being very thin, and between them is a