THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 279 the axilla; but the rest is superficial, except at the inser- round- tion, where it is covered by the brachial vessels and the me- parts, dian nerve. Perforating it is the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Along the inner border is the large artery of the limb with its nerves. The coraco-brachialis conceals the subscapular muscle, the anterior circumflex artery, and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. The brachial artery is a continuation of the axillary Brachial trunk, and supplies vessels to the upper limb. It begins at extends the lower border of the teres major muscle, and ends rather below the bend of the elbow, or " opposite the neck of the radius," in branches (radial and ulnar) for the fore-arm. In the upper part of its extent the vessel is internal to the Position humerus, but afterwards it is in front of that bone ; and its and si.' situation is indicated, on the surface, by the depression along in the the inner border of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. In its course the brachial artery is very superficial; for it Connec- is covered only by the integuments and the deep fascia, ex- with cept at the bend of the elbow, where it is crossed, in addi- fnddes tion, by the median basilic vein and the prolongation from fascUB' the tendon of the biceps. To the outer side of the vessel are the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles, the latter some- what overlapping it in the lower part of the arm. Poste- riorly, the artery has the following muscular connections: whilst it is inside the humerus it is placed over the long head of the triceps, and on the inner head of the same muscle ; but when the vessel has turned to the front of the bone, it lies on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis and on the brachialis anticus. Vence comites lie on the sides of the artery, encircling it with with branches; and the basilic vein is near the line of the artery in the lower half of the arm, but separated from it by the fascia. The nerves in relation with the artery are the and with following : — The internal cutaneous is in contact with the 5 vessel until it has perforated the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve lies to the inner side as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle ; and the mus- culo-spiral is behind the artery for a'distance of about two inches. The median nerve is close to the vessel in all its course, but alters its position in this way : — as low as the T 4 nerves.