555 THE TESTES. sur- supra-renal body will be seen to be formed of a firm external sole .„ or cortical part, and of an internal soft and dark material !Tnds The, whole is surrounded by a thin fibrous capsule, that sends processes into the interior and along the blood-vessels. Two dif. With the aid of a microscope, the nature of the two materials above noticed will be found to be as below stated : — The cortical part is yellowish in colour and striated. Its a corti- ultimate structure consists, according to Mr. Simon, of very which small closed tubes, about ^th of an inch in diameter, which " are arranged vertically around the central part, and surrounded bules' by blood-vessels. In these fine microscopic tubes there are contained bodies like nuclei, together with nucleated granular cells, granules, and particles of oil. ; The central soft part is of a black or dark brown hue ; it a„da is formed chiefly of a plexus of minute veins with some ele- ments similar to those in the cortical part. In the interior of part' the mass there is a space (? venous). ■ Blood-vessels.-Numerous branches of arteries are furnished to Arteries, the supra-renal body from the diaphragmatic and renal arteries, and from the aorta. In the interior of this body the arteries end m capillary plexuses that surround the small tubes above described. The veins onginate in the plexuses on the tubes, and the several Veins branches are collected into a trunk that opens on the right side into the vena cava, and on the left, into the renal vein. THE TESTES. The testes are two glandular organs for the secretion of situation the semen, and are lodged in the scrotum. Each is suspended scrotum by the spermatic cord, and its coverings (p. 477.), but the StoJSi left is usually lower than the right; and each is provided serous with an excretory duct named vas deferens. A serous sac sac" partly surrounds each organ. Dissection. -For the purpose of examining the serous To see covering of the testicle (tunica vaginalis), make an aperture serous into it and inflate it. The surface both of the sac and the SSC" spermatic cord are then to be cleaned, and the vessels of the latter are to be followed to their entrance into the testicle. The tunica vaginalis is a serous bag, which is continuous Serous with the peritoneal lining of the abdomen in the foetus, but bag becomes subsequently a distinct sac, in consequence of the obliteration of the tube that connected the two. It invests Partiy ,