613 THE VESICTJL^E SEMINALES. to twenty, and open into the prostatic part of the urethra Ducts J L L open into (p. 618.). urethra. Blood-vessels. — The arteries are unimportant, and are furnished Arteries, by the vesical and hemorrhoidal (p. 602.). The veins form a 7eins J ... . form a plexus around the gland, which communicates in front with the plexus, dorsal vein of the penis, and behind with a plexus of veins at the base of the bladder. In old men this vascular communication gives rise to considerable haemorrhage when it is cut in the operation of lithotomy. Vesicul^e Seminales. — These vesicles are two membra- Defim- tion. nous sacs, that are supposed to serve as reservoirs for the secreted semen. They are placed on the under part of the s^ua- bladder behind the prostate, and diverge from one another so as to limit laterally a triangular surface at this aspect of the viscus : their form and connections have been already described (p. 592.). Though sacculated behind, thevesicula Saccu- vr J & . lated. becomes straight and somewhat narrowed in front; and at the base of the prostate it is blended with the vas deferens to form the common ejaculatory duct. The vesicula seminalis consists, like the epididymis, of a formed tube bent into a zigzag form, so as to produce lateral sacs or coiled . . tube. pouches, which are bound together by fibrous tissue; this cellular structure will be shown by means of a cut into it. When the bends of the vesicle are undone, its formative tube, which is about the size of a quill, measures from four to six inches, and ends posteriorly in a closed extremity: Length, connected with the tube, at intervals, are some lateral csecal appendages. End of vas deferens. — Opposite the vesicula the vas End of deferens is increased in capacity, and is rather sacculated deferens, like the contiguous vesicle; but before it joins with the tube of that body to form the common ejaculatory duct, it diminishes in size, and becomes straight. Structure. — The seminal vesicle has the same number of vesicle coats, and the same in kind as the vas deferens (p. 560.). The case of the recto-vesical fascia, that contains the vesicles, special 7 and a is said (Kolliker) to contain well marked muscular fibre cells at the posterior part; and the membrane that joins them inferiorly, within the sheath, to have a similar struc- ture. The mucous membrane is thrown into ridges by the mucous coat. bending of the tube, and presents an areolar or honeycomb