MUSCLES IN FRONT OF THE LEG. 731 The EXTENSOR PROPR1US POLLICIS is deeply placed at its Extensor origin between the former muscle and the extensor longus digitorum, but its tendon becomes superficial on the dorsum of the foot. The muscle arises from the three middle fifths of the anterior surface of the fibula, and from the interosseous attached to hbula, ligament for the same distance. The tendon comes to the surface through a sheath in the lower part of the annular ligament, and then continues over the inner part of the tarsus to be inserted into the last phalanx of the great toe. The anterior tibial vessels are to the inner side of theam* great toe, muscle as low as the sheath in the ligament, but afterwards crosses ° 7 the to the outer side of the tendon, so that they are crossed by it vessels, beneath the ligament. The EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM, like the tibial muscle, Extensor longus is fleshy in the leg and tendinous on the foot. Its origin is arises from the tuberosity of the tibia (the outer part), from the fibula; head and three-fourths of the anterior surface of the fibula, from a small part (about an inch above) of the interosseous membrane, and from the fascia of the leg and the intermus- cular septum on each side. The tendon enters its sheath in inserted . into four the annular ligament with the peroneus tertius, and divides outer into four pieces. Below the ligament these tendons are continued to the four outer toes, and are inserted by pro- cesses into the middle and ungual phalanges. On the phalanges of the toes the tendons have the same Arrange- arrangement as in the hand. For, on the metatarsal pha- the ten- lanx, the tendons of the long and short extensor join with the toes, prolongations from the interossei and lumbricales to form a membranous expansion. At the further end of this phalanx the expansion divides into three parts — a central and two lateral; the central piece is inserted into the base of the middle phalanx, while the lateral ones unite at the front of that bone, and are fixed into the ungual phalanx. In the leg the muscle is placed between the peroneus on connec- the one side, and the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius the8 °f pollicis on the other; it lies on the fibula, and on the lower muscle< end of the tibia and the ankle-joint. On the foot the tendons rest on the extensor brevis digitorum; and the vessels and nerve of this part are internal to them. The peroneus tertius may be considered a part of the pero- extensor longus digitorum, from which it is seldom separate tertius