DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 388 ends in descends on the bodies of the vertebras, pierces the fibres of lunar the crus of the diaphragm, and ends in the semilunar gan- ganghon. ^j.^ Q£ ^e aJ^onien.—(gee ^ERVES OF THE ABDOMEN.) At the lower part of the thorax the nerve may be divided into large bundles, and it may present a ganglion, or more than one, on its different bundles, small b. The small splanchnic nerve is formed by roots from the splanch- x . . nic tenth, and eleventh ganglia, or their intervening cord : and in the thorax it communicates sometimes with the great joins splanchnic nerve. It is transmitted inferiorly through the plexus, crus of the diaphragm, and enters the part of the solar plexus by the side of the coeliac artery. smallest c. The smallest splanchnic nerve begins in the last gan- splanch- r, ° & . nic ends glion, and accompanies the other nerves through the dia- in renal 1 plexus., phragm. In the abdomen it ends in the renal plexus. When this nerve is absent, its place is taken by a branch of the preceding nerve. Position Parts in the upper aperture of the thorax. — The relative in the position of the several bodies that enter or leave the thorax aperture, by the upper opening may now be studied, in mid- In the middle line lie the trachea and the oesophagus, with the remains of the thymus gland. In front of those parts are the lower ends of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid mus- cles, and behind them is the longus colli muscle : between the two tubes is the recurrent nerve of the left side. Oneach On each side the bag of the pleura and the apex of the lung project into the neck ; and between the pleura and the trachea and oesophagus, are found the several vessels and nerves that pass from the thorax to the neck, or in the op- Partiy posite direction. On both sides, there is the innominate onVoth6 vein with the phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves, but ^part-farther back the objects on the two sides are different: — lynot. thus, on the right side, come the innominate artery and the cardiac nerves ; but on the left side, the left common carotid artery, the thoracic duct, and the left subclavian artery with the cardiac nerves. Lastly, altogether behind, on both sides, are the cord of the sympathetic, the first intercostal nerve, and the superior intercostal artery. PARIETES OF THE THORAX. soft Between the ribs, forming part of the wall of the thorax,