263 THE WALL OF THE THORAX. The triangularis sterni is a thin muscle, which is placed Triangu- inside the cavity of the thorax, and beneath the costal car- stemi tilages. It arises internally from the side of the xiphoid cartilage, from the side of the sternum as high as the third cartilage, and from the three or four lower sternal costal car- tilages. Its fibres are directed outwards, the upper being most oblique, and are inserted by fleshy fasciculi into the four or ^ inthe five lower true ribs, at the iunction of the bone and cartilage, andat- J . . tached to and into the aponeurosis in the intervals between the ribs, the ribs. The muscle is covered by the ribs and the internal inter- costal muscles, and by the internal mammary vessels and the intercostal nerves. It lies on the pleura ; its lower fibres Connec- are continuous with those of the transversalis abdominis. tlons" The internal mammary artery is a branch of the sub- internal clavian (p. 73.), and enters the thorax beneath the cartilage of the first rib. It is continued through the thorax, lying branch beneath the costal cartilages and about half an inch from the clavian; sternum, as far as the interval between the sixth and seventh ribs ; here it gives externally a large muscular branch (mus- culo-phrenic), and then passing beneath the seventh rib, courses enters the sheath of the rectus muscle of the wall of the abdor thorax to men. In this course in the chest the artery lies on the men." pleura and the triangularis sterni, and is crossed by the intercostal nerves. It is accompanied by two veins, and by a chain of lymphatic glands. The following branches take Branch- origin in the thorax: — a. A small branch (comes nervi phrenici) arises as soon as the to artery enters the chest, aiftl descends to the diaphragm along the nerve, phrenic nerve. b. A few small mediastinal branches are distributed to the remains medias- of the thymus gland, the pericardium, and the triangularis sternitmal' muscle. c. Two anterior intercostal branches turn outwards in each space, inter- one being placed on the border of each costal cartilage, and termi- and ' nate by anastomosing with the aortic intercostal arteries. ol. Perforating branches, one or two for each space, pierce the perfora- internal intercostal and pectoral muscles, and are distributed on branch- the surface of the body with the intercostal nerves. The lower es' branches supply the mamma in the female. e. The musculo-phrenic branch courses outwards beneath the Mus- cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and enters the wall of the phrenic abdomen by perforating the diaphragm. It supplies anteriorbranch* s 4