132 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. Eusta- The Eustachian tube is a canal, partly osseous, partly car- tubes ; tilaginous, by which the cavity of the tympanum communi- cates with the external air. Only the cartilaginous part that is external to the bone can now be seen, cartiia- If the mucous membrane be removed from the naris on ginous . . • part one side, the cartilaginous part of the tube will appear to be inch nearly an inch long. It is narrow superiorly, where it is fixed to the margins of a groove between the sphenoid and the petrous part of the temporal bone; and is directed down- wide war(^s t° the pharynx, where it ends by a wide aperture on opening; the inner surface of the internal pterygoid plate, rather above the inferior spongy bone of the nose. Its opening in the pharynx is oval in form; and the inner side, which is larger than the outer, projects forward, giving rise to a is a bent trumpet-shaped mouth. This part of the tube is constructed piece of x m x A lage" a triangular piece of cartilage, whose margins are bent downwards, and enclose a narrow space; but at the outer and under aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the space is Mucous limited by fibrous membrane. Closely united to the ptery- brane goid plate, the tube is covered by the mucous membrane ; and lines and through it the cavity of the tympanum receives its mucous lining from the pharynx, opening The isthmus faucium is a somewhat narrowed passage be- fauces. tween the mouth and the fauces, whose size is altered by the elevated or pendent position of the soft palate. The space is bounded below by the root of the tongue; above, by the soft palate; and on each side by the projecting arches of the soft palate, which are named pillars of the fauces. Upper The aperture of the larynx is wide in front, where it is o?ia-lng bounded by the epiglottis, and pointed behind, between the r>nx* arytenoid cartilages. The sides are sloped from before back, and are formed by folds of the mucous membrane extending between the arytenoid cartilages and the epiglottis. During respiration this aperture is unobstructed, but during the act of deglutition it is closed by the epiglottis. Begin. The opening into the cesophagus is the narrowest part of cesopha- the pharynx, and is opposite the cricoid cartilage, or the gus* fifth cervical vertebra. Internally, the mucous membrane of the oesophagus is paler than in the pharynx; and exter- nally, the point at which the pharynx ends is marked by a