REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 13 Its preservation.—-The brain may be immersed in spirit to How to harden the texture, and wood spirit may be used on account theServe of its cheapness, To allow the spirit to reach the interior of the ventricles, cut off the upper part of each hemisphere nearly to the level of the corpus callosum, and then open each lateral ventricle by a longitudinal incision, about two inches long, near the inner margin of the divided hemisphere. Now place the brain upside down on a piece of calico, long enough to wrap over it, and then set it aside in the spirit, together with the top of one hemisphere. Its examination. — At the end of one day the dissector To ex- should return to the examination of the other membranes amme 1 ' and the vessels. As soon as the vessels have been learnt, carefully remove the membranes from all the surface of the brain, without detaching the different cranial nerves. Finally, let the brain remain in the spirit till the dissection of the head and neck has been completed. The description of the its des- brain will be found after that of the head and neck. cnption. Directions.—After setting aside the brain, the anatomy of Direc- the dura mater, and of the vessels and nerves in the base of uons* the skull, should be proceeded with. Let the head be raised to a convenient height, and the tentorium be fastened in its natural position with a few stitches. The dissector should be furnished with the base of u skull, whilst studying the fol- lowing parts. At the base of the cranium the dura mater is much more Dura closely united to the bones than it is at the top of the skull. Saseofn skull • Here it dips into the different inequalities on the surface of' the bones; it also sends processes through the several fora- mina, which join for the most part the pericranium, and furnish sheaths to the nerves. Beginning the examination its pro- in front, the student will find the membrane sending a pro- tionf" longation into the foramen cascum, as well as a series of tubes throligh the apertures in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. A large process also enters the orbit by the sphe- noidal fissure, and a covering is continued on the optic nerve to the eyeball. After lining the sella Turcica, the and con- dura mater adheres closely to the basilar process of the occi- to bone, pital bone; and it may then be traced into the spinal canal through the foramen magnum, to the margin of which it is very firmly connected.