694 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. and parts muscle, and several vessels and nerves, viz. the gluteal ves- passing 1 -i i • through sels, and the superior gluteal nerve above, and the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves, with some muscular branches of the sacral plexus below it. Section III. THE BACK OF THE THIGH. tumsC~ Directi°ns- — The ham or the popliteal space maybe dis- sected after the buttock, in order that its size and boundaries may be less disturbed than they would be if they were seen subsequently to the examination of the muscles at the back of the thigh. When this space has been learnt the student will return to the dissection of the thigh, position. Position. — The limb is to remain in the same position as in the dissection of the buttock. Take the Dissection.—To remove the skin from the popliteal region, from let an incision be made behind the knee-joint, beginning it ham. about six inches above the knee, and ending it four inches below the joint. At each extremity of this longitudinal cut, let a transverse incision be made,, so as to allow the skin to be raised in two flaps, the one being turned outwards, and the other inwards. Seek the In the superficial fascia some small cutaneous nerves may ousane" be found, viz. one or two twigs in the middle line of the limb neives* from the small sciatic nerve beneath the fascia; and some off- sets of the internal cutaneous towards the inner part of the limb. Fascia Fascia lata.—After the fat is removed, the special fascia \\mbQ of the limb will be brought into view. Where it covers the ham.the popliteal space it is strengthened by transverse fibres, par- ticularly on the outer side ; and at each side it is connected with the tendons bounding that interval. The short saphe- nous vein perforates it sometimes opposite the knee, but usually at a spot lower down. Remove Dissection. — The fascia over the ham is now to be re- moved without injuring the small sciatic nerve and the short and take saphenous vein, which are beneath it. A large quantity of fromSie ftt may next be taken out of the space, and the several ham.