702 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. as far as the pelvis. In this extent the nerve lies along the outer border of the semimembranosus, and is crossed by flexores tne long nea(l of the biceps. At its upper part it supplies ax]i . branches to the flexor muscles at the back of the thi^h, and adductor © 7 muscles, to the adductor magnus. Small Small sciatic nerve. — Between the gluteus maximus and fnthe the ham this small nerve is close beneath the fascia, but it thlsh becomes cutaneous below the knee, and accompanies the ex- ternal or posterior saphenous vein for a short distance, oufoff Snian cutaneous filaments pierce the fascia of the thigh, and sets. |;ne largest of these is near the popliteal space. Detach Dissection. — To see the posterior surface of the adductor strings, magnus, and the branches of the perforating arteries, the hamstring muscles must be detached from the tuberosity of the ischium, and thrown down, and the branches of arteries and nerves they receive may be cut through if it is neces- sary. The parts referred to are to be cleaned. Poste- Adductor magnus muscle. — At its posterior aspect the aspect^of large adductor is altogether fleshy, even to the opening for magnus. the femoral artery; and the fibres from the rami of the pubes and ischium appear to form a part almost distinct from those connected with the tuberosity of the ischium. In contact with this surface are the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. Number Ending of the perforating arteries. — These arteries are ries?^ four in number, and the spots at which they pierce the ad- ductor muscles have been before referred to p. 679. Muscles On the back of the thigh all of them supply offsets to the supplied £exor muscies 0f the leg. The three lowest are directed outwards, close to the bone and through the short head of end in the biceps, to the vastus externus in which they end ; but vastus . exter. the second perforating artery may run higher up than the attachment of the head of the biceps. Hip. The Hip-joint.—This articulation is a ball and socket- how' joint, in which the head of the femur is received into the formed; ments. acetabulum, or the cup-shaped cavity of the innominate its liga- bone. Connecting the bones are the following ligaments : — one to deepen the receiving cavity, which is named cotyloid; another between the articular surfaces of the bones, the interarticular; and a loose capsule around all.