THE URETHRA AND PENIS. 593 venes between the apex of the prostate and the front of the perinaeal triangular ligament. It is somewhat curved up- wards, and the bulb of the next portion of the urethral tube is directed backwards below it, so that the under part appears connec. to measure less than the upper. Surrounding it are the tlons' muscular fibres of the constrictor urethras; close below it are Cowper's glands, and beneath or behind it is the rectum. This division of the urethra is the weakest; but it is sup- ported by the triangular ligament. The spongy part is so named from its being surrounded and by a cellular and vascular structure. It is applied to the body of the penis assisting to form this, and terminates an- teriorly in the orifice named meatus urinarius in the end of the glans.It is the longest part of the urethra, and measures about five inches. At its commencement this division of the excretory canal is surrounded by the ejaculator urinaa muscle. Dissection, — All the tegumentary covering of the penis pissec- may be removed, to see the component parts of that body : and after its removal the spongy part of the urethra will be better seen. The penis is a cylindrical body, which is attached to the ^?t°"entg front of the pubes, and depends from it in front of the scro- and . L 1 situation turn. It is constructed of two firm fibrous masses named 0{ti}e penis. corpora cavernosa, that form the principal part of the organ ; and below these is a soft spongy substance (corpus spongi- osum) that surrounds the urethra, and forms the head or the glans penis. A tegumentary investment covers the whole, and is supplied with vessels and nerves; these have been noticed at p. 464. The corpora cavernosa form, the bulk of the penis, and Corpora are two dense, fibrous, almost cylindrical tubes, which are nosa" filled with vascular structure. Each is fixed posteriorly to body of the rami of the ischium and os pubis by a thick pointed pro- pems' cess, the crus penis; and after a distance of an inch and a half it becomes blended with its fellow in the body of the penis. Near its junction with its fellow there is a slight swelling on the crus — the bulb of the corpus cavernosum. (Kobelt.) The body of the penis, formed by the union of but each the corpora cavernosa, is grooved above and below along ratePd~ the middle line, and presents anteriorly a narrowed but truncated extremity that is covered by the glans penis ; along Q Q