623 THE RECTUM. the pelvis, is not sacculated like the colon, but is smooth on iS _ smooth. the surface. Dissection. — The rectum is to be washed out, and then To pre- Pare distended with air ; and the peritoneum and the loose cellu- gut. lar membrane are to be removed from it. The rectum is about eight inches in length, and its Length ; average diameter is that of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. Its size is uniform till towards the lower extremity, where it dimen- " sions. is dilated, particularly in old people, but at the aperture of termination in the anus the gut is smaller than in any other part of its extent. The longitudinal bands of the colon are absent from this portion of the alimentary canal, and the fibres are spead over the surface. Structure. — The rectum, like the rest of the large in- same testine, contains in its wall a peritoneal, a muscular, a in the mucous, and a submucous stratum. In it the muscular and the in- the mucous layers have certain peculiarities that serve to testine# distinguish this from other parts of the intestinal tube. The peritoneum forms but an incomplete covering, and its Perito- n , . , , n , neum. arrangement is referred to in the description 01 the connec- tions of the pelvic viscera (p. 587.). The muscular coat consists of two planes of fibres, as in Muscu-' the oesophagus, viz. a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. These fibres belong to the pale or unstriped kind, but in the internal sphincter some striped fibres may be present. The longitudinal fibres are continuous with those in the has Ion. bands on the colon, but are here diffused to form a stratum gltudlnal around the gut. The circular fibres describe arches along the intestine, and and dr- become thicker and stronger towards the lower extremity, fibres, where they are collected into the band of the internal sphincter muscle. The mucous coat is more moveable than that in the colon, Mucous and resembles in this respect the lining of the oesophagus ; coat it is also thicker and more vascular than that of the rest of thick and the large intestine. When the bowel is contracted thevascular' mucous lining is thrown into numerous accidental folds, Folds in some of which near the anus are longitudinal. But there lt: are other three or four permanent folds, described by Mr. some Houston, which are about half an inch in width, and contain manent.