774 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. it is rather flattened from before backwards; and it is nar- rowest at the bent part. The outer extremity is continuous with a hollow (concha) of the external ear, and the inner is closed by the membrana tympani. Cartiia- a. The cartilaginous part is about half an inch in length, pan"8 and is formed by that portion of the pinna of the outer ear which is attached to the margin of the meatus ; but at the isjtefi- upper and posterior aspect the cartilage is deficient, and the above, tube is closed by fibrous tissue. Two or three fissures (San- torini) are found in the piece of cartilage, osseous b. The osseous part is about three quarters of an inch long bentIs in the adult, and is constricted about the middle, near which outer it is bent as before said. Its outer extremity is dilated, and the posterior projects farther than the anterior wall; the margin is rough, and gives attachment to the cartilage of the inner pinna. The inner end is less dilated, and is marked, except at the upper part, by a groove in the dry bone, for the inser- tion of the membrane of the tympanum; it is so sloped that the anterior wall juts out more than the posterior by about two lines. condj- In the fetus the osseous part is absent. After birth it the fetus, grows out of the osseous ring (tympanic bone) that supports the membrana tympani, and joins the rest of the temporal bone. Lining Lining of the meatus. — A prolongation of the integument brane is lines the auditory passage, and is continued over the mem- from the brane of the tympanum in the form of a thin pellicle. Around the entrance of the meatus are some fine hairs. In the subcutaneous tissue of the cartilaginous part of the Cerumi. meatus are some ceruminous glands, resembling in form and glands, arrangement the sweat glands of the skin, which secrete the ear wax, and open on the surface by separate orifices ; these are most abundant in that portion of the tube which is formed by fibrous tissue. Vessels- Vessels and nerves. — The meatus receives its arteries from the posterior auricular, the internal maxillary, and the Nerves, temporal branches of the external carotid trunk. Its nerves are derived from the auriculotemporal branch of the fifth nerve, and enter the auditory passage between the bone and the cartilage (p. 95.). internal B. The internal constituents of the auditory apparatus are