CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE THIGH. 651 the arteries in that situation, viz. superficial pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac, terminate in it. Towards the upper may ' rr form part of the limb the veins of the inner side and the back of Jarge trunks the thigh are most frequently united into one branch, that at the enters the trunk near the aperture in the fascia lata; and the . . thigh. sometimes those on the outer side of the thigh are collected together in a similar way, so as to produce three large veins on the front of the thigh near the saphenous opening. On the side of the knee the vein generally receives a deep branch from the joint. Some unnamed cutaneous arteries are distributed to the other integuments along with the nerves; and the superficial ous ar- branch of the anastomotic artery (p. 666.) accompanies the saphenous nerve. Cutaneous Nerves. — The numerous cutaneous nerves of cuta- the thigh are derived from branches of the lumbar plexus nerves, (p. 576.)? an(i are distributed in greater abundance on the inner than the outer margin of the limb. Ilio-inguinal.— This nerve (p. 577.) is small in size, and reaches iiio.in- the surface by passing through the external abdominal ring; it guinai supplies the scrotum, and ends in the contiguous part of the thigh, is near internal to the saphenous vein. Genito-crural.—The crural branch of this nerve (p. 577.) pierces Genito. the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament, rather external to the line is™™1 of the femoral artery. After the nerve has become superficial, it [high^s communicates with the middle cutaneous nerve, and extends on farf ?,the 7 middle. the anterior aspect of the thigh as far as midway between the knee and the pelvis. Occasionally this branch is of large size, and, reaching the outer side of the limb, takes the place of branches of the external cutaneous nerve. The external cutaneous nerve (p. 577.) is distributed on the outer External aspect of the limb. At first it is contained in a prominent ridge of 0"gane" the fascia lata on the outer margin of the thigh, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The posterior branch is is spent soon subdivided into two or three others, which arch backwards, outer6 supplying the integuments of the outer part of the thigh as low as J^e thfgh the middle, and the highest offsets are crossed by branches of the jj£a^J[|J last dorsal nerve. The anterior branch extends to the lower half es. of the thigh. It appears on the surface of the fascia lata, about four inches from Poupart's ligament; and as it is continued to the knee, it distributes branches laterally, but those towards the outer and posterior surfaces are the most numerous, and-the largest in size. Near the knee it sometimes communicates with the branch of the great saphenous nerve.