LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 739 c. The posterior ligament (ligament of Winslow) is formed Poste- in great part by the fibres from the tendon of the semimem- ment. branosus, which are directed across the joint to the outer condyle, but a deeper set of fibres is continuous with the Two sets " 9 r of fibres general capsule. Numerous apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels and nerves to the interior of the articula- tion. • d. The anterior ligament (ligamentum patellae) or the Anterior tendon of insertion of the extensor muscles of the leg, is ment, or about three inches long, and is narrower in the middle than at the ends. Superiorly, it is attached to the lower part of tendon the patella and the depression on the inner surface; and, lQ- exten- feriorly, it is inserted into the tubercle of the head of the s°rs* tibia, and an inch of the bone below it. The expansion of the vasti covers it ; and a bursa intervenes between it and the tubercle of the tibia (see p. 770.). Dissection. — To see the reflections of the synovial mem- Open the brane raise the knee on blocks, and open the joint by an in- joint, cision along each side from the front to the back. When the anterior part of the capsule with the patella is thrown down, a fold (mucous ligament) will be seen extending from the end of the femur to the front of the joint below the patella. On each side of the patella is a similar fold (alar ligament), con- taining some fat. The limb is afterwards to be taken from this position, and and dis- part of the posterior ligament is to be removed, to lay bare cial liga- the crucial ligaments at the back of the joint; but the limb ments' is to be replaced in the former position before the structures are learnt. The synovial membrane lines the interior of the capsule, Synovial and is continued to the articular ends of the bones. Besides brane covering the capsule, it invests the interarticular cartilages, and sends a pouch between the tendon of the popliteus and the external cartilage and the head of the tibia: it is likewise reflected over the strong crucial ligaments at the back of the joint. On the front of the femur the sac of the membrane extends two inches above the articular surface. In the cen- extends tre of the joint is a fold (mucous ligament) which contains a Sar^' small vessel and some cellular tissue, and extends from the furfdCes' 7 is interval between the condyles to the fat below the patella. *hI°™, J r into folds On each side of the patella is another fold (alar ligament), JJJ™^ 3 b 2