ARCH OF THE AORTA. 363 eacli semilunar valve, forming the sinuses of the aorta; and there is sometimes another dilatation along the right side, which is named the great sinus of the aorta. The two Gives < origin to coronary arteries arise close to the swellings first alluded to. coronary J . arteries. b. The second or transverse piece crosses behind the second sternum, and reaches from the second right costal cartilage trans" to the left side of the body of the second dorsal vertebra. verse' It rests upon the trachea above its bifurcation, as well as over the oesophagus. Lying in front of this part of the connec- artery are the pneumogastric, phrenic, and superficial cardiac tI0ns' nerves; and the first nerve sends backwards its recurrent branch beneath the vessel. Along the upper border is the Gives innominate vein; and fi*6m this border arise the three great Erfe1 ° vessels of the head and the upper limbs. To the lower border, near its termination, the remnant of the arterial duct is attached. c. The third or descending part of the arch is very short, Third extending only from the second, to the lower part of the without third dorsal vertebra. It lies against the third dorsal ver- tebra, and the fibro-cartilage between it and the second; and it is covered by the left pleura. In the concavity of the arch of the aorta are contained the Parts left auricle of the heart, the root of the left lung, the branch- tained in ing of the pulmonary artery with its arterial duct, and the left recurrent nerve. Deeper than these bodies, will be found the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, with some lymphatic glands. The branches of the arch of the aorta are five in number; Five two come from the ascending, and three from the transverse of the part. The two first are the coronary arteries of the heart, two ' which have been already noticed (p. 348.). The other three n°™" are much larger in size, and supply the neck, the head, and the upper limbs. First on the right is the large trunk of the inno- innominate artery; close to it is the left carotid; and last of carotid| all is the left subclavian, which is distant a small space from subcia- the preceding vessel. Peculiarities. — The exceptions to the usual condition of the Pecuii- arch of the aorta, that the student may expect to find, concern the height and direction of the arch, and the position and number of its branches. t Height. — The arch reaches commonly to about an inch from the Height and