DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 120 the sympathetic. In the foramen lacerum also, both the petrosal outside ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal and the ganglion of the root of skull, vagUS receive small filaments, one to each, from an ascending branch of the ganglion, and with Other communications are formed with cranial nerves by means the"6 in of the offset continued upwards from the ganglion into the carotid skulL canal. Branch. Branches for Distribution. — This set of branches is more sent numerous than the preceding, and the nerves are of larger size. to ex- 1. Branches for bloodvessels (nervi molles). These nerves pro- carotid, ceed to the external carotid artery, and ramify on its branches, forming plexuses on the vessels, which have the same name as the arteries they surround. Some small ganglia are occasionally found forming on these ramifying branches. By means of the plexus on the facial and artery the submaxillary ganglion receives its branch of the sym- gangiia, pa^e^jc . an(j through the plexus on the internal maxillary artery the otic ganglion is supplied with a similar branch. to inter- With these nerves may be described another offset of the man- ual ca- . rotid," glion to the internal carotid artery and its branches. This offset ascends from the upper part of the ganglion, of which it appears to be a continuation. Near the skull it divides into two parts, that enter the carotid canal with the artery, one on each side of it, and which are continued, forming secondary plexuses on the ophthalmic and iiialCra* cerebral branches, to the eyeball and the meninges of the brain. nerves; jn ^ carotid canal communications are formed with the tympanic nerve (p. 113.) and with the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 147.); the former being placed near the lower, and the latter near the upper opening of the canal. The communications and plexuses that these nerves form in their course to the base of the brain are described at p. 22. to pha- 2. The pharyngeal nerves pass inwards to the side of the pharynx, plexus1- wnere they join in the pharyngeal plexus with the other pharyn- geal branches of the eighth cranial nerve, to 3. Cardiac nerves. — The cardiac nerves enter the thorax piex-ac to join in the cardiac plexuses of the heart. There are three uses. cardiac nerves on each side, viz. superior, middle, and infe- rior, each taking its name from the ganglion of which it is an offset. One The superior or superficial cardiac nerve of the right side con- deep610 tinues through the neck, behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, plexus an(] enters the thorax beneath, or in front of the subclavian artery. In some bodies this nerve ends in the neck by joining one of the joins other cardiac nerves. In the neck the nerve is connected with the