411 NERVES OF THE NECK. as the third. From the tendons of origin the fibres pass up- wards, the inferior more vertically than the superior, to be inserted into an impression, between the curved lines of the inser- occipital bone, which reaches outwards nearly two inches from the middle line. Closely united to the inner border is the following muscular slip : — The biventer cervicis is internal to the preceding, of which its ac- it may be considered a part: it is so named from its having piece7 two fleshy bellies with an intervening tendon. It arises from the transverse processes of two or three dorsal vertebrae, below the attachment of the complexus, and is inserted into Attacn- the occipital bone on the inner side of that muscle. The biventer cervicis frequently receives a fleshy slip from the spines of one or two of the lower cervical vertebrae. The complexus and biventer cervicis muscles are con- connec- cealed by the splenius and the trapezius; and the cutaneous surface of the complexus presents a tendinous cross intersec- tion towards its upper end. Two or three of the cervical nerves perforate the complexus. Along the inner side is the semispinalis muscle, with the ligamentum nuchae. Beneath it are the small recti and obliqui muscles, the semispinalis, and the cervical nerves and vessels. Dissection. — In the neck the nerves and vessels will be Dissec- brought into view by detaching the complexus from the the °f occipital bone and the spines of the vertebras, and raising it S^neck with care from the subjacent parts. Beneath the muscle is a dense fascia, in which are contained the ramifications of the internal branches of the four or five highest cervical nerves. The first or suboccipital nerve is the most difficult of the set to find, but all should be sought with some care: this little nerve is a short trunk that is contained in the interval between the recti and obliqui muscles near the head, and does not branch into two (inner and outer pieces) in the same regular way as the others; it will be best found by looking for the small twigs that are furnished by it to the recti muscles. The inner branches of the others are partly above and partly beneath the fibres of the semispinalis muscle. The external branches are very small, and are given off close to where the trunks appear. In the dissection of those nerves the deep cervical artery is and the exposed on the semispinalis muscle; a part of the vertebralvessels