m FOLDS OF THE PERITONEUM. 503 the under surface of the liver and the upper border of the omen, stomach, and contains the vessels and nerves of the liver. It g"™a_ is formed by two pieces of peritoneum, as before explained, tion- and presents a free border on the right side. Behind it is the space called foramen of Winslow. Its lower border is Attach- * t ments. fixed to the small curve of the stomach ; whilst its upper border is attached to the transverse fissure, as well as to the posterior half of the longitudinal fissure of the liver, be- coming blended with the left lateral ligament of that viscus. The gastro-colic or great omentum is the largest fold of Great the peritoneum, and consists of two pieces or layers, continu- t™u~' ous with those on the front and back of the stomach. It is Auach-' attached to the spleen and to the lower border of the stomach, ments* where the pieces are separated by vessels, and then descends in front of the intestine, but lower on the left than the right side of the body. At the lower part of the abdomen Forms the fold is bent backwards, and returns towards the spine, in front the pieces of which it is composed separating and enclosing °nteT-a the transverse colon as before seen. Between the layers oftlne* the peritoneum are contained some fat, and some vessels and nerves; and the power of separating the one from the other diminishes with the increase of the distance from the stomach, until at last they are not to be separated, and the membrane they form is thin and net-like. The anterior consists part of the omentum is separated from the posterior by a Takers, space (bag of the omentum), that extends a varying distance. a. Cavity or bag of the great omentum. — When an opening is Bag of made through the great omentum, near the stomach, and this viscus 0rnen- is raised, a large space is seen to extend upwards to the liver, and tum* downwards into the omentum. This is the omental sac. In front Bound- the space is bounded by the small omentum, the stomach, and the anes' anterior part of the great omentum. Behind it are the posterior part of the great omentum, with the transverse colon, and the transverse meso-colon with its ascending layer. Above is the liver ; and below is the doubling of the great omentum. This bag Opens communicates with the rest of the peritoneal cavity, through the general space behind the small omentum (foramen of Winslow). If the fo^merf bag of the omentum were perfect, it could be inflated through the of wins- . . low. foramen ; or if it were detached from the surrounding parts, it could be drawn through the same hole into the general bag of the peritoneum. Supposing it to be detached and drawn out, the fol- lowing parts would have peritoneum taken from them, viz. the