171 CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. rather square surface, which is marked by a median ridge, and two contiguous lateral depressions; and on each side, immediately in front of the square surface, is a slight arti- cular mark, which receives the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The inner surface is smooth, and is covered by mucous membrane. The lower border is almost straight, arid is united to the Borders, first ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. But the the up- upper border is irregular in its outline: it is nearly straight Sne^nf posteriorly, opposite the deep part of the cartilage, and this portion is limited on each side by an articular mark for the aryteenoid cartilage; but in front of that spot the border is sloped obliquely downwards to the middle line. At the middle line behind there is a slight excavation in each border. The arytcenoid cartilages are two in number, one on each Arytse- side of the middle line, and are placed on the upper border uiagesa.r" of the cricoid cartilage, at the back of the larynx. Each Situa- cartilage is pyramidal in shape, and offers for examination a f0°rm!nd base and apex, and three surfaces. The base has a slightly hollowed surface, posteriorly, for Base, articulation with the cricoid cartilage, and is elongated an- teriorly by means of a process, which gives attachment to the vocal cord : at the outer aspect there is a smaller projec- tion, that receives the insertion of some of the muscles. The Apex, apex is directed backwards and somewhat inwards, and is surmounted by the cartilage of Santorini. The inner sur- Three face is narrow, especially above, and flat; but the outer is sur dces* wide and irregular. At the posterior aspect the cartilage is concave and smooth. Cartilages of Santorini. —- Attached to the apex of each Two arytenoid cartilage is the small, conical cartilaginous body lages of of Santorini (cornicula capitula Santorini), which is bent rini!°" inwards towards the one of the opposite side. The arytseno- epiglottidean fold is connected with it. Cuneiform cartilages.—Two other small fibro-cartilagi- twocu- nous bodies, one on each side, which are contained in the cart?-m arytaeno-epiglottidean folds, have received this name. Each lages* is somewhat circular in form, and is situate vertically in front of the capitulum of the arytenoid cartilage: the situation of each in the fold of the mucous membrane is marked by a slight whitish projection.