308 DISSECTION OF THE HANDS. branches have the same anatomy as those of the median nerve. Median PALMAR PART OF THE MEDIAN NERVE. As SOOn as the nerve in! . _ it the hand median nerve issues irom beneath the annular ligament into muscles the palm of the hand, it becomes enlarged and somewhat fingers, flattened, and is divided into two nearly equal parts: from these divisions the digital nerves to the thumb and to the remaining two fingers and a half are derived. The more external of the two parts furnishes likewise a small mus- cular branch to the ball of the thumb. The trunk of the nerve and its branches are covered in the hand by the palmar fascia; and beneath them are the tendons of the flexor muscles. Branch The branch to the muscles of the thumb supplies the outer muscles, half of the short flexor, and ends in the abductor and oppo- nens pollicis muscles. Digital The digital nerves are five in number. Three of them, nerves are five, which are distributed to the sides of the thumb and the supply radial side of the fore-finger, are undivided, and are fur- and two nished by the external of the two parts into which the trunk and a of the median divides; the other two spring from the inner branch resulting from the division of that nerve, and are bifurcated to supply the opposed sides of the middle and fore, and the middle and ring fingers. First The first two nerves belong to the thumb, one being on each side, two' and the most external communicates with branches of the radial third, nerve. The third is directed to the radial side of the index finger, and gives a branch to the most external lumbrical muscle. The fourth, fourth furnishes a nerve to the second lumbrical muscle, and divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fore and middle fingers. The fifth. fifth, like the fourth, is distributed by two branches to the opposed sides of the middle and ring fingers : it is joined by a branch from the ulnar nerve. Termi- On the sides of the fingers the nerves are superficial to the onthe arteries, and reach to the last phalanx, where they end in filaments thefinf ^or ^e on ^e front °f ^e nnger> and for the skin beneath the sers- nail. In their course forwards, the nerves supply chiefly tegu- mentary branches: one of these is directed backwards by the side of the metacarpal phalanx, and, after uniting with the digital nerve on the back of the finger (p. 292.), is continued to the dorsum of the last phalanx. Dissec- Dissection. — The tendons of the flexor muscles may next