commu- nica- tions : DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. (tunica CooPer- Xt lines the fibrous coat, covering the different vascu- septa in tne interior of the gland; and is formed of the ramifications of the blood-vessels united by areolar tissue, like the pia mater of the brain. In it the arteries are sub- divided before they are distributed on the secerning tubes, and the veins in the interior are supported. tabesT Form and size of the seminal tubes (tubuli seminiferi). These secerning tubes are the minute branched extremities ancland of the duct or vas deferens. They are very wavy, and are but slightly held together by fine cellular tissue and sur- rounding blood-vessels, so that they may be readily drawn length; Qut Q£ tne testis for some distance. Their length is said by Monro to be sixteen feet, but by Lauth to be only two feet and a quarter. The size and the characters of the minute tubules can be learned only with the aid of the microscope. Ending and structure. — Towards the circumference of the testis, the tubes have for the most part distinct closed ex- tremities ; but some communicate, forming loops or arches, slze; and others are united deeper in the gland. The diameter of tureT the tubules varies from giroth to T|-oth of an inch. The wall of the tubuli is thin, but it has considerable strength : lining the interior is a nucleated granular epithelium, and on the exterior is a plexus of blood-vessels. SJnge Names from the arrangement of the tubes. — The names name, of the several parts of the testis are derived from the dis- position of the seminal tubes in the interior. Thus, where the tubules are collected into separate masses, they form the lobes of the testis ; as they enter the mediastinum testis they become straight, and are named tubuli recti; where they communicate in the mediastinum, they produce the rete testis ; and, lastly, as they leave the upper part of the gland, and become convoluted, they are called coni vasculosi, or vasa efferentia. They The lobes of the testis are formed, as above explained, by iobes,the bundles of the seminiferal tubes, and are situate in the inter- vals between the processes sent inwards from the tunica number; albuginea. The number of these is differently stated : ac- cording to one authority (Berres) they are 250: but according form. to another (Krause), 400 or more. They are conical in form, with the base of each turned to the circumference, and the Tubes in1 apex to the mediastinum testis. Each is made up of one,