DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 410 into ribs vertebras by a series of tendinous and fleshy bundles ; and ex- trans- ternally into the ribs, except the two or three first, by thin pro- fleshy processes which are fixed between the tubercle and cesses ; angle. In the lumbar region the inner attachment is partly fleshy, and is connected to the whole length of the transverse process, as well as to the fascia lumborum outside the pro- cess ; and partly tendinous, and is fixed to the tubercle (process, accessorius) at the root of the same process. In the dorsal region the insertion is tendinous, and is con- is con- nected with the tips of the transverse processes. Its mus- tinued to . , . . tneneck cular prolongation to the neck is inseparably united with the upper fleshy fibres, and splits into the two following pieces : — trans- The transversalis colli arises from the transverse processes versaiis . . colli, of the six upper dorsal vertebras and is inserted into the transverse processes (posterior parts) of the cervical vertebras, except the first and last, and to The trachelo-mastoid muscle arises in common with the by the preceding, and has besides an attachment by distinct tendons mastoid, to the articular processes of the four or five last cervical vertebras. The fibres form a thin muscle, that is inserted into the upper half of the posterior border of the mastoid process, beneath the splenius: its insertion is about three quarters of an inch wide. Connec- * Connections of erector spince. —The erector spinas and its tionsof , . ■ , i , i . -. -i the erec- prolongations occupy the lumbar, thoracic, and cervical parts spinas, of the back. In the loins the muscle is contained in an apo- neurotic sheath (p. 404.), and has the multifidus spinas on its inner side. Opposite the ribs the sacro-lumbalis and lon- gissimus dorsi are concealed by the muscles of the other layers already examined. In the neck the accessory small muscles are beneath the splenius and the trapezius : the cer- vicalis ascendens is attached in a line with the splenius colli; and the transversalis colli and the trachelo-mastoid are more internal, or between these and the complexus. com- The complexus is internal to the prolongations from the longissimus dorsi, and converges towards its fellow of the opposite side at the occipital bone. Narrow at its lower end, Origin, the muscle arises by tendinous points from the tips of the transverse processes of the three upper dorsal vertebras, and from the articular processes of the cervical vertebras as high