CONNECTIONS OF THE LIVER. 499 This part of the intestine is smaller than either the right or is cover- the transverse portion; and it is commonly less surrounded smainn- • i • i n testine. by the peritoneum that attaches it to the abdominal wall. The sigmoid flexure of the colon is situate in the left iliac |^^d fossa, to which it is attached by a fold of the peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-colon, but it is often partly situate in the cavity of the pelvis. The intestine makes two turns like the letter S, and has obtained its name from that circumstance. It is concealed by the small intestine, which is directed more is in left J 7 iliac fos- to the left than to the right side. The extent of this part of sa. the colon is from the crest of the ilium to the junction of the same bone with the sacrum, where it ends in the rectum. The rectum is the termination of the large intestine,, which Rectum. is contained in the pelvis; and it will be seen in the dissec- tion of that cavity. The liver. — The liver is situate in the right hypochon- driac, and epigastric regions, and reaches slightly into the left hypochondriac. Folds of peritoneum (ligaments) retain it in its place. The upper surface is convex, and turned to the vault of Surfaces, the diaphragm, and is divided into two parts by the suspen- sory ligament; its right half, more prominent than its left, reaches to the level of the fifth intercostal space. The under surface is in contact with the stomach and the duodenum, with the ascending colon, and the right kidney and the supra- renal body. Attached to this surface is a fold of the peri- toneum (small omentum) that contains the hepatic vessels. The anterior border is thin, and is constantly varying its Borders, position to the wall of the thorax according to the distension of the stomach, and the position of the body and the dia- phragm. This edge, except a small part near the xiphoid cartilage, lies, in adult males, usually within the margin of the ribs, but in women and children it projects below that line. The gall bladder projects beyond this edge. The posterior border is thick, and is connected to the diaphragm by certain ligaments or folds of the peritoneum; it lies on the spine, on the large vessels (aorta and cava), and on the pillars of the diaphragm. The liver is constantly changing its situation with the Position ascent and descent of the diaphragm in respiration ; for in eVbyng~ inspiration it descends, and in expiration it regains its for- phragm, K K 2