619 STRUCTURE OF THE URETHRA. vertical slit (meatus urinarius), by which it terminates on the glans penis, the tube is smaller than at any other part of the urethra. Two dilatations exist in the floor of the spongy Two ap- portion : — one is contained in the bulb or bulbous part of tion?; 1 A one in > the urethra, and is named sinus of the bulb ; the other is bulb.< 7 one in situate in the glans penis, and has been called fossa navicu- slans- laris from its shape. Mucous lining of the urethra. — The mucous membrane of Extent; the urethra is continued into the bladder, as well as into the ducts opening into the canal, and joins in front the tegu- ment a ry covering of the glans penis. It is of a reddish colour; colour in the spongy and membranous portions, but in the prostate it becomes whiter. In the spongy part it is thrown into longitudinal folds during the contracted state of the folds $ penis. Its surface is studded with follicles, and with the glands; apertures of mucous glands ; and is provided with papillae towards the external orifice. Its epithelial covering is of ®P^e" the columnar kind, but near the meatus externus this becomes laminar. Some small pouches or lacunce are seen in the interior of Eacunje. the canal, chiefly along the floor, as far back as the prostate, and have their apertures turned towards the outer orifice of the urethra. One of these is larger than the rest, lacuna pne ° 7 larger magna, and is placed generally on the upper aspect or roof ^an the of the urethra, opposite the fossa navicularis. The ducts of Ducts of the prostate and of Cowper's glands open on the mucous ofacow- membrane: the former have been described ; the latter are per* two in number, and terminate, one on each side, on the floor of the urethra near the front of the bulb, but in the ordi- nary examination they, are seldom to be recognised. Submucous tissue.—Beneath the mucous lining of the submu- . . cous urethra is a stratum of contractile fibre-cells, mixed with tissue; elastic and fibrous tissues : this structure differs in its cha-nature; racters along the canal. It is most developed in the prostate, arrange- where it forms two strata: an internal one of longitudinal prostate, fibres, forming the projection of the crest; and an external one of circular fibres. In the membranous portion of the Jn mem- x branous, canal this fibro-muscular structure is less abundant, and seems to be limited to a longitudinal layer, the place of cir- cular being supplied by the fibres of the constrictor urethras- In the spongy part the submucous structure is richer in and