DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 206 cular line on a level with the eyebrows and the occipital protuberance. Form: Taking the general form of the skull, the cerebrum is convex on the upper aspect, and uneven on the lower aspect, has two It consists of two hemispheres, which are placed side by spheres side, and are partly separated by a median or longitudinal median7 fissure ; but in the middle line these are united by certain parts, interior parts (commissures), as well as by several connecting structures at the under surface. Superiorly, the surface of the hemisphere is entire, but inferiorly it is divided into lobes. Under UNDER SURFACE, Or BASE OF THE CEREBRUM.—At its ofrce?e- under part the cerebrum is very irregular, in consequence of brum# its fitting into the inequalities of the base of the skull; and on this aspect the separation into hemispheres is not com- plete, as on the upper surface, for the median fissure exists only at the fore and hinder part. The following objects are to be recognised at the base of the brain : — Division On the under surface of each hemisphere, about one third hemi. from its front, is the fissure of Sylvius, which divides it into sphere. Qf these the fore part constitutes the anterior lobe; and the hinder large part consists of middle and posterior lobes, but there is not any groove to mark the separation between these, and the anterior border of the cerebellum is taken as the limit between the one and the other. And In the middle line, in front of the pons, are the two large along the white masses of the peduncles of the cerebrum (crura cere- line. bri), one belonging to each hemisphere; and between them is a space perforated by vessels, which is named locus per- foratus posticus. Outside the peduncle is the optic tract, and between it and the inner part of the hemisphere is a fissure leading into the lateral ventricle. Proceeding for- wards in the middle line, the student will find two white bodies like peas, the corpora albicantia, and in front of these a grayish mass, called tuber cinereum. From the tuber cinereum a conical reddish tube, the infundibulum, descends to the pituitary body in the sella Turcica of the sphenoid bone. Anterior to this same mass (tuber cinereum), are the converging optic tracts with their commissure. Beneath the commissure of the optic nerves lies a thin grayish layer