DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 356 column, and receives the pulmonary veins ; and the narrowed part opens inferiorly into the left ventricle, on an- On the left side, and at the upper part, is the aperture of wall is of the pouch of the auricula, which is narrower than that on auricula. the right side. In the interior of the pouch, as well as around the entrance, are the fleshy fibres or the musculi pectinati, which resemble those before seen in the other auricle. onpos- On the part of the wall corresponding to the septum auri- remnant cularum, is a superficial fossa of a semilunar form, the re- men mains of the oval aperture through that partition; this is bounded below by a projecting ridge, concave upwards, which is the edge of the structure that closed the opening in the fetus. This impression in the left auricle is above the fossa ovalis in the right cavity, because the aperture of communication between the two, in the fetus, was an oblique canal through the septum, open- The apertures in this auricle are those of the four pulmo- four pui- nary veins, two on each side, together with the opening of monary . . veins, communication with the left ventricle. The mouths of the two pulmonary veins are close to one another; those from the right lung open into the extreme right of the auricle near the septum, and those from the left lung enter the opposite part of the cavity, near the auricula. These veins are not one into provided with valves. The aperture into the ventricle will cienm" be afterwards seen to have a large and complicated valve, as on the right side, to guard it. current In the adult, the blood enters this cavity by the pulmonary in adult; veins, and passes to the left ventricle by the large inferior in fetus, opening between the two. In the fetus, however, the lungs are impervious to the air and the circulating fluid; and the left side of the heart receives its pure blood at once from the right auricle through the aperture (foramen ovale) in the septum. How to Dissection.—The left ventricle may be opened by an open left . . . . \ . J ventri- incision along both the anterior and the posterior surface, near the septum ; these are to be joined at the apex, and are not to be extended so far upwards as to reach the auricle. On raising the triangular flap, the interior of the cavity will be seen. Form of The cavity of the left ventricle is longer, and more