98 DISSECTION OF THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. digastric muscle, the submaxillary gland, the facial artery with its submental branch, and the branch of nerve and artery to the muscle. Its fibres are frequently deficient near Parts the jaw, and allow the next muscle to appear. Only the around . 1 J it. posterior border is unattached, and round it a piece of the submaxillary gland winds. The parts in contact with the deep surface of the muscle will be perceived after the follow- ing dissection has been made. Dissec- Dissection,—To bring into view the muscles beneath the tion, to detach niylo-hyoid, and to trace the vessels and nerves to the sub- mylo*. hyoid. stance of the tongue, the student should first cut through the facial vessels on the jaw, and remove them with a super- ficial part of the submaxillary gland, but should be careful to leave the deep part of the gland that turns beneath the mylo-hyoideus. Next he should cut through the small branch of artery and nerve on the surface of the mylo- hyoideus ; and detaching that muscle from the jaw and its fellow, should throw it down to the os hyoides, but without injuring the genio-hyoid muscle beneath it. To see Afterwards the soft parts covering the lower jaw are to be muscles divided, and the bone is to be sawn through rather on the right side of its symphysis. The side of the jaw, which will then be loose (for the ramus of the bone has been previously cut), is to be raised to see the parts beneath ; but it is neither to be taken away, nor to be detached from the mucous mem- brane of the mouth. To enable the dissector to raise upwards sufficiently this loose piece of bone, let the apex of the tongue be drawn well out of the mouth over the upper teeth, and fastened in that position with a stitch; then let the scalpel be passed between the cut surfaces of the bone, for the purpose of dividing a strong band of the mucous membrane of the mouth, and let it be carried onwards along the middle line of the tongue to its tip. After these direc- tions have been followed the loose piece of the jaw can be easily turned upwards ; and it is to be fastened in that posi- tion with a stitch, and By means of a hook, the os hyoides may be drawn down, ncrves' and the muscular fibres made tense. All the cellular mem- brane is now to be removed, and in doing this the student is to take care of the Whartonian duct, of the hypo-glossal nerve and its branches that lie on the hyo-glossus muscle,