426 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. Fibrous rough. Along its front is a central, anterior fibrous band bands are con- (linea splendens, Haller); and on each side another fibrous with it. band, the ligamentum denticulatum, is attached to it. Scat- tered through the fibrous membrane are branched yellow or brown pigment cells, which in the neck are so numerous as to give it a darkish appearance. And ends Where the medulla spinalis ceases, viz. about the lower rioriy in part of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, the investing a fibrous 1 # J . . piece, tube of the pia mater is suddenly reduced in size, and has the appearance of a round fibrous cord. This cord-like part reaches towards the end of the spinal canal: it is unprovided with nervous substance, except for a short distance, and is blended with the central impervious prolongation of the dura which is mater, on a level with the upper part of the sacrum. It central serves to fix the lower end of the medulla, and has been ment. named, from that circumstance, the central ligament of the cord. A vein and artery accompany this fibrous piece, and thus mark it out from the surrounding nerves. The den- The ligamentum denticulatum is the white fibrous band on ment!ga each side of the spinal cord, that is so named from its serrated which is .11 ii fixed on appearance: it has the same structure as the dura mater, ex- to cord cept that it wants an epithelial covering. Situate between the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves, the band reaches upwards to the medulla oblongata, and ends inferiorly on the lower pointed extremity of the cord. Internally it is united to the pia mater. Externally it ends in a series of triangular or tooth-like projections, which are fixed along and on the dura mater, about midway between the apertures of durar t0 transmission of the roots of the spinal nerves. There are pointsby twenty or twenty-one of these denticulations, of which the Number first is attached to the dura mater opposite the margin of the and at- * x i tach- occipital foramen, between the vertebral artery and the ment of r 7 ; these, hypoglossal nerve ; and the last is inserted opposite the last dorsal or the first lumbar vertebra. This fibrous band sup- ports the spinal cord, and has received the name ligament from that circumstance. Vessels Vessels and nerves of the membranes. — The dura mater of the nerves cord has but few vessels in comparison with that in the skull, for mater? 'lts office is different; nerves have not yet been traced into it, though they have been found on the vessels that supply the cord and its membranes.