215 CORPUS CALLOSUM. has trans- from the hemispheres to the middle line, the middle ones being transverse, but those from the anterior and posterior parts oblique. Along the middle is a mark or raphe, and close to it are two or more longitudinal white lines (nerves verse ° v and of Lancisi). Still further out may be seen other longitu- d°JJ|itu- dinal lines (covered band, p. 212.) beneath the convolution fibres. resting on the lateral part of the corpus callosum. The longitudinal fibres in the middle line are continued down- wards anteriorly, and join the prolongation from the covered band or fillet to the anterior perforated spot. In front, the corpus callosum is bent to the base of the p^6"01* brain, as before seen (p. 210.); and behind, it ends in a ^dns thick roll which is connected with the subjacent fornix. Dissection.—In order to see the thickness of the corpus Dissec- r tion. callosum, and to bring into view the parts in contact with its under surface, the cut already made through that body into the ventricle is to be extended forwards and backwards on the left side, as far as the limits of the cavity. Whilst cutting through the corpus callosum, the student may ob- serve that a thin membraniform structure lines its under surface. The corpus callosum is thicker at each end than at the thick. L e est at centre, in consequence of a greater number of fibres being each collected in a given space; and the posterior part is the thickest of all. Connected with the under surface is the Under part. partition between the ventricles (septum lucidum), and still posterior to that is the fornix. This body is the chief commissural part of the halves ofTs the' the brain, and reaches laterally even to the convolutions, but its fibres are not distinct far in the hemisphere. Dissection. — The lateral ventricle is to be dissected in J?on.ec" the opposite hemisphere, and to prepare it for examination, as much of the corpus callosum and of the white substance of the brain, as form the roof of the cavity, are to be re- moved. A part of the ventricular space dips down in the middle lobe of the cerebrum towards the base of the brain; and to open it, a cut is to be carried outwards through the substance of the left hemisphere, and then downwards, also through the hemisphere, along the course of the hollow. Ventricles of the Brain.—The ventricular spaces in Five the interior of the cerebrum are derived, as before explained, SEfSte p 4 trans- j verse commis- sure.