467 EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. H H 2 rest are collected into a firm band between the pubes and the crest of the ilium, which is named Poupart's ligament. Appearing through the aponeurosis, external to the linea £ines 011 alba, is a white line, the linea semilunaris, corresponding to the outer edge of the rectus muscle; and crossing between the two are three or four whitish marks, the linear trans- versa^. Numerous small apertures in the tendon give exit Aper- if.! tures in to cutaneous vessels and nerves; and near the pubes is the it. large opening of the external abdominal ring, which gives ^domi- passage to the cord in the male, or the round ligament in the female. Connections. —The muscle is subcutaneous. Its posterior £°™ec- border is usually free between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, and is contiguous to the edge of the latissimus dorsi, so that oftentimes a part of the internal oblique may be seen between them; but this border may be concealed by the latissimus dorsi muscle. Parts of the aponeurosis—Besides the general arrange- °bJ®tts ment of the aponeurosis over the front of the abdomen, the aponeu- t i rosis. student is to examine more minutely the linea alba in the middle line; the external abdominal ring with the fascia prolonged from its margin ; and the rounded border named Poupart's ligament. Linea alba. — This is the central line of union of the in the aponeuroses of opposite sides on the front of the abdomen, aiba the It extends from the xiphoid cartilage to the pubes, and ros°"se?Ure serves as a ligament between those parts. Its breadth is wider above than below, and it is perforated here and there by small apertures, that allow masses of fat to protrude in some bodies. A little below the centre is the umbilicus; into this projects now beyond the surface, though before the skin umbm- was removed there was a hollow corresponding to it: through it a piece of intestine may protrude from the abdomen. External abdominal ring. — This opening may be said to External be an interval between the fibres of the aponeurosis as they nai ring, diverge, near the pubes, to their attachment to two points of bone, at a little distance from one another. It is somewhat Fo^m. and si- triangular in form, with the base at the crest of the os pubis, tuation. and the apex pointing upwards and outwards. The long size, measurement of the aperture is about an inch, and the trans- verse about half an inch. Its margins are named pillars,