DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 162 and vessels ; and those superficial muscles are to be first learnt, that do not require the cartilages to be cut. Dissec- Dissection. — The larynx should be first extended, and tion J 1*1 when it has been fastened in that state with pins, the dis- sector may clear away from the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage the following extrinsic muscles, that are inserted into them, viz. the constrictor, sterno-hyoid, sterno thyroid, of the ^ and thyro-hyoid. In front, between the thyroid and cricoid set of cartilages, one of the three small external muscles, crico- muscles. thyroid, will be seen. The other two external muscles are situate at the posterior aspect of the larynx: to denude them it will be necessary to turn over the larynx, and to remove the mucous membrane covering it. On the back of the cricoid cartilage the dissector will find the crico-arytaenoi- deus posticus muscle ; and above it, on the posterior part of the arytenoid cartilages, the arytenoid muscle will appear. Crico- The crico-thyroid muscle is triangular in form, and is deus separated by an interval from the one of the opposite side. It arises from the front and lateral part of the cricoid carti- lage, and its fibres ascend, diverging from one another, to be is small, inserted into the small cornu, and into the lower border of the thyroid cartilage as far forwards as the tubercle, also, for a short distance (a line), into the inner surface of the cartilage. The muscle rests on the crico-thyroid membrane, and is concealed by the sterno-thyroid muscle. Crico- The CRICO-ARYTiENOIDEUS POSTICUS MUSCLE lies On the noideus posterior part of the cricoid cartilage. Its oriqin is from posticus ° ° the depression, on the side of the vertical ridge, at the pos- is on terior aspect of that cartilage. From this origin the fibres cricoid are directed outwards, and converge to be inserted, by fleshy iage. and tendinous fibres, into the projection at the outer part of the base of the arytsenoid cartilage. Arytffi- The aryt^noideus is a single muscle in the middle line, noideus p|ace(j ]n ^e COncavity on the posterior aspect of the arytenoid cartilages. Two sets of fibres with different deep directions are seen in the muscle. The deep fibres are verse " transverse, and are inserted into the outer border and the posterior surface of the cartilages ; they close the interval super- between the cartilages. The superficial fibres consist of two oblique oblique fasciculi, which cross like the parts of the letter X, each passing from the base of one cartilage to the apex of