204 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. longations of the medulla oblongata. On each side is the cms cerebelli, whose fibres radiate over the surface. Itis Structure.—In the pons are alternating strata of trans- tyiongi- verse and longitudinal fibres: the transverse set are continu- ant1 ous with the fibres of the crus cerebelli, and are interspersed verse" with much gray matter; the longitudinal are prolonged fibres- from the constituent bodies of the medulla oblongata. Dissec- Dissection. — The transverse fibres of the pons may be expose divided along the line of the pyramidal body of the left side, fibres, and turned outwards, so as to denude the longitudinal fibres of the pyramid. In like manner a second mass of transverse fibres, which lie below those of the pyramid (the first set of longitudinal ones) may be cut through outside the pyramidal; and the deep fibres of the lateral and posterior columns of the cord (a second longitudinal set) will appear. Amongst that set of longitudinal fibres is the fillet of the corpus olivare, which the dissector should attempt to trace upwards from this body. The superficial fibres of the pons can be seen on the side that is untouched, ^he The transverse fibres of the annular protuberance are fibres co^ecte^ chiefly into two strata — a superficial and deep, form a which are united in the middle line : they serve as commis- sural fibres of the cerebellum, and are derived from the crus or middle peduncle of that body. There are a few other transverse, that will be described with the septum. Sa^and ^e suPerncial set are mostly horizontal, but some from the lower part of the crus ascend obliquely over the others to reach the upper margin of the pons, deep The deep layer is thickest, and contains much gray matter between its fibres. Three The longitudinal fibres consist of three sets, viz. one from longitu- the anterior pyramidal body ; another from the lateral and fibres, posterior columns of the cord ; and a third from the corpus olivare. These are not simply continued through the pons, but are increased in number by the addition of special fibres (peduncular, Stilling), that begin in the upper two thirds of the pons and join them on the outer side. It is said by some, that the transverse fibres of the pons become longitudinal, and thus increase the number, terio/"" a* ^res of the anterior pyramid pass through the pyramid pons between the two sets of transverse fibres, but not as