339 THE PLEURAE. the abdomen; or by the existence of fluid in the latter cavity. THE PLEURiE. The pleurae are two serous membranes, or closed sacs, Sacof • the which are reflected around the lungs in the cavity of the pleura, thorax. One occupies the right, and the other the left half of the cavity; each is restricted to its own side, but it approaches its fellow along the middle line of the body, forming a thoracic partition, though the two do not com- municate. Each pleura is a sac of a conical form, whose apex pro- Form, jects into the neck above the first rib, and whose base is in contact with the diaphragm. Its outer surface is rough, and Outer is connected to the lung and the wall of the chest by cellular membrane, but its inner surface is smooth and secerning, inner Surrounding the lung, and lining the interior of one half of ^hpo^- the chest, the serous membrane consists of a parietal part or JjJJJ1^ the pleura costalis, and of a visceral part, the pleura pul- monalis. The bags of the pleurae approach one another in the middle line, as before said, and form a partition called mediastinum between the two sides of the cavity of the chest. There are some differences in the shape and the extent of Differ- the two pleural bags. On the right side the bag is wider and sac ofn shorter than on the left; and the latter is narrowed by the rig!^ . ' J and left projection of the heart against it. side- The continuity of the bag of the pleura over the lung, and The sac along the wall of the chest, may be traced circularly from a tinuous given point to the same, in the following manner:— lung. Supposing the membrane to be followed outwards from Thecon- the sternum, it may be traced on the walls of the chest as herety S far as the spinal column; here it is directed forwards to the root of the lung, and is reflected over the lung, covering its surface, and connecting together its different lobules. From the front of the root of the lung, the pleura may be seen to course over the side of the pericardium to the sternum. If the serous sac be traced in a circle, above the root of the lung, it will be found to be in contact throughout with the thoracic parietes. Below the root the pleura gives rise to a thin fold,