418 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. semi- The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse pro- dorsi, cesses of the dorsal vertebra?, from the tenth to the sixth; and is inserted into the spinous processes of the four upper dorsal and the two last cervical vetebrae. semi- The semispinalis colli arises from the transverse processes spinalis J 1 colli. of the five or six upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the cervical vertebrae, except the three first: it is inserted into the spines of the cervical vertebrae above the attachment of the semispinalis dorsi, the atlas not receiving any slip. Sons160" ^e semispina^s muscle is covered by the complexus, and by the deep cervical artery and the cervical nerves. To its inner side is the multifidus spinas muscle. spinal * ^ne interspinal muscles are placed as their name ex- inUpSairsS Presses : they are arranged in pairs, and are best seen in the neck and the loins. neck6- ce™cal region the muscles are pairs between the spinous processes, but they are absent from the interval be- tween those of the first two vertebrae. They are small round bundles, and are attached above and below to the bifurcated in the apices of the spines. * In the dorsal region the muscles are rudimentary, and exist only between the first, or the first two pairs of the ver- tebrae ; and between the last pair, and the lowest dorsal and the first lumbar vertebrae. loins6 * ^n ^e ^um^ar re9i°n> as in the cervical, there is a pair in each interspinal space. Here they are thin flat muscles, that reach all the length of the spines. Inter- * The INTERTRANSVERSE MUSCLES lie between the trans- trans- verse verse processes of the vertebrae; but only those in the loins muscles 1 J and the back are now dissected. ™ *e In the neck they are double, like the interspinal muscles of the same vertebrae (p. 177.). and' * In the dorsal region they are found only between the region, lower processes, and are rounded bundles: their number varies from three to six, and in the upper spaces tendinous bands take their place, in loins. * In the lumbar region they form thin fleshy muscular planes between the bony processes. There are two muscles to each space, as in the neck.