709 EXTENSOR MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. z z 3 the gastrocnemius; and the opposed surfaces of the two are aponeurotic. Beneath the muscle are the bones of the leg, the deep layer of flexors, and the vessels and nerves. The common tendon of the gastrocnemius, soleus, and Tendo plantaris, (tendo Achillis) is the strongest in the body. It is wide above, and commences about the middle of the leg, Extent though it receives fleshy fibres on the under surface nearly to the lower end: it is inserted by a narrow and rounded and un- bundle into the lower part of the os calcis at the posterior aspect. A bursa intervenes between it and the upper part of the calcaneum. The tendon is close beneath the fascia ; and lying along its outer side, but superficial to it, is the external saphenous vein. The plantaris is remarkable in having the longest tendon pian- in the body, which takes the appearance of a riband when ittans is stretched laterally. The fibres- of the muscle arise from arises the line above the outer condyle of the femur, and from the outer condyle, posterior ligament of the knee joint, and soon end in the tendon which is inserted into the os calcis with, or by the side of the tendo Achillis. The belly of the muscle, which is about three inches in length, is concealed by the gastro- and joins , . i , . , n , common cnemius, but the tendon appears on the inner side 01 the tendon, tendo Achillis about the middle of the leg. This little mus- cle crosses the popliteal vessels, and lies on the soleus. Dissection. — The soleus is to be detached from the bones Detach of the leg, and the vessels and nerves it receives are to be divided ; but in raising it the student should take care not to injure the deep fascia and the vessels and nerves. The superficial muscles may next be removed by cutting through their tendons near the os calcis. The piece of fascia between the muscles of the superficial and and deep layer is then to be cleaned; and the integuments deep the between the inner ankle and the heel are to be taken away scia" to lay bare the annular ligament, but a cutaneous nerve to the sole of the foot in this spot is not to be destroyed. Lastly the student should open the bursa between the tendo Achillis and the os calcis, if this has not been done. Deep part of the fascia.—This intermuscular layer of the Deep- fascia of the leg is fixed to the tibia and fibula, and binds FSasda down the deep layer of flexor muscles. Beneath the soleus i°efg.he it is thin and indistinct; but below that muscle it is much