DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 486 the in- part from within, the incision should be made directly cision. , upwards. Terms Designations. — This kind of hernia has other names to the sometimes applied to it by surgeons, according as it has hernia passed certain points in the wall of the abdomen. If the from its protrusion remains in the inguinal canal, the term bubonocele position ; 1 ° 7 is applied to the swelling; but if it has extended into the scrotum, the appellation of scrotal rupture, or oscheocele, is given to it. two va- Varieties of the hernia.—There are two varieties of the oblique inguinal hernia, which are distinguished by the con- dition of the peritoneal covering. For, if the piece of the peritoneum, that accompanies the testicle from the abdomen in the fetus, remain unobliterated, so that the intestine descends in it without protruding any fresh piece of the from serous membrane, the hernia is called congenital. Should turetf the prolongation of the peritoneum be only partly obliterated, toneai"" say in the inguinal canal, so that the descending intestine, sacs. invested by its own peritoneal covering, projects into or behind the unobliterated sac, like a viscus into a serous membrane, the hernia is named infantile. Internal The Internal or Direct Inguinal Hernia passes through comes the wall of the abdomen internal to the epigastric artery, external and has a straight course through the abdominal parietes rmg* and the external abdominal ring. Its situation and cover- ings, and the seat of stricture, will be better comprehended after the examination of the part of the abdominal wall through which the hernia passes, it passes Anatomy: — At the lower part of the abdominal wall is a small triangular space between the epigastric artery on one through a triaii- fpace, side, the outer edge of the rectus muscle on the other, and which is the inner half of Poupart's ligament below. Over the two strength- . ened in part by inner thirds of the area of the space the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis is stretched, as it descends to its insertion into the pectineal line; but at the outer third there exists only fascia transversalis. Any intestine protruding in this spot must, it is evident, rupture or elongate the different structures, because there is not any aperture or tube by which it can descend, as in the external Hernia hernia. Further, the coverings of the hernia, and its extent space of and direction in the lower part of the inguinal canal, must