493 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. wards through a few fibres of the free edge of Gimbernat's to divide ligament. Danger to vessels.—When the incision is made upwards Risk of and inwards to loosen the band at the margin of the saphe- ing yes- nous opening, there will not be any vessel injured unless, in- regular deed, the cut should be made so long as to reach the sper- matic cord, or the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery. And in the division of the stricture deep in the neck of the sac, there is not, in ordinary cases, any vessel on the inner side of the ring, and therefore in the way of the knife, as this is carried inwards. But in some few instances and irre- (once in about eighty operations, Lawrence), the obturator condi- artery takes its unusual course, lying in front, and on the th°em°f inner side of the neck of the sac, and will be before the knife in the division of the constriction. This condition of the vessel cannot be recognised beforehand, but the surgeon would best avoid the danger of wounding the artery by a cautious and sparing use of the knife. Section III. CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. The abdominal cavity is the space included between the Defini- spinal column and the arches continued forwards from it, tlon with the intervening muscles. It contains the digestive, and urinary, and generative organs, and their vessels and nerves. contents- Dissection. — To prepare the cavity for examination, the Dissec- remainder of the abdominal wall above the umbilicus is to be opeVab- divided by a cut along the left side of the linea alba as far as domen' the xiphoid cartilage, and the flaps are to be thrown to the sides. Size and form. — This space is the largest in the body, is largest It is oval in form with the ends of the oval upwards and bodj? downwards, so that it measures more in the vertical than the Is oval* transverse direction; and it is much wider superiorly than inferiorly. Boundaries.—Above it is limited by the diaphragm; and Above oelow, by the levatores am, and the structures that close the dia- outlet of the pelvis : both these boundaries are fleshy, and below * , , , ' levator concave towards the contents of the cavity, so that the ani-