DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 170 and downwards; and the size decreases from before back- and wards till it ends posteriorly in a tubercle, The small cornu, or appendix, is directed upwards from the point of union of the great cornu with the body, and is joined by the stylo- hyoid ligament. It is seldom wholly ossified. There Cartilages of the Larynx. — There are four large large cartilages in the l&ynx, which are concerned in the produc- tion of the voice, viz. the thyroid, the cricoid, and the two and arytenoid. In addition, there are some fibro-cartilaginous small structures called yellow cartilage, viz. the epiglottis, a capi- lages. tulum to each arytenoid cartilage, and on each side a small roundish piece in the arytamo-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. Thyroid The thyroid cartilage is the largest of all: it forms the cartilage Upper parj. 0f fae iarvnXj and protects the vocal apparatus as is con- with a shield. The upper part of this cartilage is consider- front? ably wider than the lower, and in consequence of this the form of the larynx somewhat resembles a funnel. The an- terior part is prominent in the middle line, forming the sub- concave cutaneous swelling named pomum Adami; but the cartilage is concave behind, at the same part, and gives attachment to the epiglottis and the thyro-arytaenoid muscles and ligaments. The upper border is notched in the centre. Formed The cartilage consists of two square parts or halves, which halves, are united in the middle line. Posteriorly each half of the having cartilage has a thick border, which terminates upwards and anddcor- downwards in a rounded projection or cornu, both of which nua' are bent slightly inwards : of the two the upper cornu is the longest; but the lower cornu is thicker than the other, and articulates with the cricoid cartilage. The inner surface of each half is smooth ; but the outer is marked by an oblique line, that extends from a tubercle near the root of the upper cornu, nearly to the middle of the lower border. Cricoid The cricoid cartilage is stronger though smaller than the lage." thyroid; it is partly concealed by the shield-like cartilage, below which it is placed, and encircles the cavity of the Form, larynx. It is very unequal in depth before and behind, the posterior part being three times deeper than the anterior, something like a signet ring. Surfaces. The outer surface is rough, and gives attachment to muscles. At the back of the cartilage there is a flat and