47 THE NASAL NERVE. between the heads of the outer rectus, having previously enters ,. . , t . orbit. divided into two parts. The upper division, the smallest in size, ends in the under Its upper surface of the levator palpebral and in that of the superior rectus muscle. The lower division supplies some of the other muscles, and Lower will be dissected afterwards (p. 50.). The nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve enters the orbit Nasal between the heads of the rectus, and lies between the divi- sions of the third nerve. In the orbit the nerve is directed obliquely inwards, to reach the anterior of the two foramina in the inner wall. Passing through this aperture, the nerve General appears in the cranium, at the outer margin of the cribriform thTface? plate of the ethmoid bone. Finally, it enters the nasal cavity by an aperture in the front of the cribriform plate; and after passing behind the nasal bone, it is directed be- tween that bone and the cartilage, to end on the outer side of the nose. In the orbit, the nasal lies at first over the optic nerve, but in orbit. beneath the superior rectus and levator palpebrge muscles, and afterwards below the superior oblique; in this part of its course it furnishes the following branches :— Branch- The branch to the lenticular ganglion is about half an inch long ®8' , Lonsr and very slender, and arises as soon as the nerve enters the orbit, root of This is the long root of the lenticular ganglion. largang- Long ciliary branches.—As the nasal crosses the optic nerve, it supplies two or more ciliary branches to the eyeball. These lie ciliary on the inner side of the optic, and join the ciliary branches of the es. lenticular ganglion. The infra-trochlear branch arises as the nasal nerve is about to i„fra. leave the cavity, and is directed forwards below the pulley of the Jearh" superior oblique muscle to the inner part of the orbit, where it branch, ends in the upper eyelid, conjunctiva, and side of the nose. Before this branch leaves the orbit it receives an offset of communication from the supra-trochlear nerve. In the nose. Whilst in the nasal cavity the nerve fur- in the nishes branches to the lining membrane of both the septum nose* narium and the outer wall: these will be subsequently referred to with the nose. Termination of the nasal nerve. — After the nerve he-0nthe- comes cutaneous on the side of the nose, it descends beneath face-