BRANCHES OF THE CRURAL NERVE. 673 join the internal cutaneous and the obturator in the plexus: this branch is sometimes absent. The other branch to the front of the patella springs from the nerve near the knee-joint, and perforating jjjjdg^ the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata, ends in the integument offset, over the knee (p. 652.). B. The deep or muscular part of the anterior crural nerve From the deep gives branches to all the muscles of the front of the thigh, part except the tensor vaginas femoris; and supplies also an offset to one of the adductor muscles, viz. the pectineus. Two slender nerves cross beneath the femoral artery, and branch- J 7 es to enter the anterior surface of the pectineus. pecti- ■* % % neus, Branches to the sartorius are furnished by the middle or sarto. by the internal cutaneous nerve, whilst it is in contact with rms' that muscle. A nerve enters the under surface of the rectus muscle at rectus, the upper part, and divides into branches as it is about to penetrate the fibres. The nerve to the vastus externus divides into two or more vastus branches as it enters the muscle. From one of these an nus and articular filament is continued downwards to the knee-joint, joint, which it enters on the anterior aspect. The nerve to the vastus internus is nearly as large in size and ^ ° vastus as the internal saphenous, in common with which it often internus. arises. To the upper part of the muscle it furnishes one or more branches, and is then continued beneath the aponeurosis covering the femoral vessels as far as the centre of the thigh, where it ends in offsets to the muscle and the knee-joint. The articular branch is prolonged to the inner side of the knee- i.ts ar~ joint.on or in the vastus, and on the tendon of the adductor mag- branch nus, and is distributed over the synovial membrane of the front of the articulation : this small nerve accompanies the deep branch of the anastomotic artery. A branch of nerve to the tensor vagince femoris is de- Nerve of rived from the superior gluteal (p. 687.), and enters the vagina?, under surface of the muscle. In the fibres it extends nearly to the lower end. Directions.—After the examination of the muscles of the Take front of the thigh with the vessels and nerves that are fur- adduc- nished to them, the student is next to learn the adductor muscles and their vessels and nerves. Dissection. — To prepare the muscles, the cellular tissue is Dissec- X X