721 SECOND LAYER OF MUSCLES. little toe, and gives branches to the flexor brevis minimi perfkiai digiti, and the interosseous muscles of the fourth space.part* The other bifurcates at the cleft between the two outer toes, 0ne is midl- and supplies their collateral surfaces: this nerve com-vided. municates in the foot with the last digital branch of the internal plantar nerve. On the toes. — On the sides of the toes the digital nerves Distri- have the same distribution as those from the other plantar like others. trunk. Dissection. — To complete the preparation of the second Lay layer of muscles, the origin of the abductor pollicis should second be detached from the os calcis, and the muscle should be muscles, turned inwards. The internal plantar nerve and artery, and the superficial portion of the external plantar nerve, are to be cut across and thrown forwards; but the external plan- tar artery and the nerve with it are not to be injured. All the cellular membrane and the fascia are to be taken away from near the toes. Second layer of muscles.—In this layer are the tendons Tendons of the two flexor muscles at the back of the leer, viz., the cies of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, which second cross one another: connected with the former, soon after it enters the foot, is an accessory muscular slip, and at its division into pieces are four slender muscles named lum- bricales. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, whilst Tendon entering the foot beneath the annular ligament, lies on the flexor of internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. In the foot it is directed obliquely towards the centre of the sole, where it is joined by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis and the accessory muscle, and divides into tendons for the four outer divides toes. Each tendon enters the sheath of the toe with, and four, beneath a tendon from the flexor brevis. About the centre These enter of the metatarsal phalanx the tendon of the long flexor deaths is transmitted through the other, and passes onwards to be inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. The tendon t(?es and ~ 1 pierce of the flexor longus digitorum is sometimes increased in size ^eo^er ^ ° tendons. by its junction with that of the long flexor of the great toe. The lumbricales are four small muscles between the F°ur lumbri- tendons 01 the flexor longus digitorum. Each arises from caies. two tendons, with the exception of the most internal; and ^em to 3 a