33 CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. side (lateral cartilage and cartilage of the aperture), together with a central one, or cartilage of the septum of the nose. Only the lateral cartilages are seen in this stage of the dis- section. Dissection. — The lateral cartilages will be seen when all Take the muscular and cellular structure of the left side of the tume nose, and the skin of the lower part of the nostril of the same surface, side have been taken away. By passing the knife deeply in the middle line, the cartilage of the septum will be rendered apparent between the lateral cartilages of each side. The upper lateral cartilage is flattened, and is somewhat The triangular in form. Posteriorly it is attached to the nasal cartilage and superior maxillary bones; and anteriorly it meets the its fei- one of the opposite side for a short distance above, but the the mid- two are separated below by an interval, in which the carti- lage of the septum appears. Inferiorly the lateral cartilage is contiguous to the cartilage of the aperture, and is con- nected to it by fibrous tissue. The cartilage of the aperture forms nearly a ring around The the nostril; for it is bent at an acute angle in front, and cartilage from this point a piece extends backwards on both the outer rounds and inner sides of the aperture. The part of the cartilage, *o^™l't that bounds the opening externally,does not reach downwards outside; to the margin of the nostril, but ceases on a level with the groove on the outer aspect of the wing of the nose ; it is nar- row and pointed behind, but swells out in front, and forms with its fellow the prominence of the apex of the nose. The another inner part projects backwards along the septum of the nose, nostril, nearly to the superior maxillary bone ; this part assists in the formation of the partition between the nostrils, and lies below the level of the septum nasi. This cartilage of the sur- aperture has not any attachment directly to bone; but IS aper- united above to the lateral cartilage by fibrous tissue, andture* below it is connected with the dense structure that forms the margin of the aperture of the nostril. At the tip of the nose the cartilages of opposite sides touch. Behind the outer half of the cartilage of the aperture, in Acces- 0 1 sory c&r- the dense tissue that fixes it to the bone, are two or three tiiages. small pieces of cartilage (cartilagines minores vel sesa- moidese), which seem to result from the breaking up of the hinder extremity of the cartilage of the aperture. r>