29 FACIAL VESSELS. The VESSELS OF THE FACE Consist of the facial and trails- Arteries verse facial arteries with their accompanying veins. 1 he face, arteries are branches of the external carotid, and the facial vein is received into the internal jugular trunk. The facial artery emerges from the neck, and appears on Facial the lower jaw, anterior to the masseter muscle. From thisartery' point the artery ascends in a tortuous manner, near the angle of the mouth and the side of the nose, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the ophthalmic artery. The course of the vessel is comparatively superficial, though course, lying in the mass of fat of the inner part of the cheek. At and con- first the artery is concealed by the platysma whilst crossing the jaw, but this thin muscle does not prevent pulsation being recognised during life; and near the mouth the zygomatic muscle is superficial to it. The vessel rests suc- cessively on the lower jaw, buccinator muscle, elevator of the angle of the mouth, and elevator of the upper lip. Accompanying the artery is the facial vein, which is nearly a straight tube, and lies to its outer side. Branches.—From the outer side of the vessel unnamed Plan of the branches are furnished to the muscles and integuments, some branch- of which anastomose with the transverse facial artery. From the inner side are given the following branches : — 1. The inferior labial branch runs inwards beneath the depressor inferior labial. anguli oris muscle, and is distributed between the lower lip and chin; it communicates with the inferior coronary, and with the labial branch of the inferior dental artery. 2. Coronary branches. — There is one for each lip (superior and Two co- inferior), which arise together or separately from the facial, and ronary are directed inwards between the orbicular muscle and the mucous form an membrane of the lip, till they inosculate with the corresponding the lip. branches of the opposite side. From the arterial arches thus Branch formed, offsets are supplied to the lips and labial glands. From t0 nose* the arch in the upper lip a branch is given to the septum of the nose,—artery of the septum. 3. The latei^al nasal branch arises opposite the ala of the nose, Lateral and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, to be branch, distributed on the side of the nose, where it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. 4. The angular branch is the terminal twig of the facial artery Angular at the inner angle of the orbit, and joins with a branch of the branch' ophthalmic artery. The facial vein commences at the root of the nose by a ^ial