256 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. Has foi- superficial as it approaches the arm. Its connections with connec- surrounding parts are numerous; and the description of these will be facilitated by dividing the artery into three parts—one above, one beneath, and one below the small pectoral muscle. above a. Above the small pectoral muscle the artery is con- pectorai tained in the sheath of the costo-coracoid membrane ; on its muscle, thoracic side is the axillary vein, and on its acromial side, the brachial plexus, but the cords of the nerves are separated from it by a cellular interval. In this part the cephalic vein crosses it, and it is covered by the clavicular portion of the great pectoral muscle. Behind it are the intercostal muscles of the first space and the first digitation of the serratus mag- nus muscle, together with a small nerve, the external respi- ratory. beneath b. Beneath the pectoralis the artery is surrounded by the muscle, large nervous cords of the plexus, and is thus separated from the vein which is still to the inner side, and from the sur- rounding muscles. Superficial to the vessel is the pectoralis minor, with part of the pectoralis major; but there is not any muscle immediately in contact with it behind, for the artery is now placed at the top of the axillary space, parti- cularly when the limb is in the position required by the dissection. and be- c. Beyond the pectoralis minor the artery is concealed >ondlt- -n part the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, but beyond that, to its termination, it is covered only by the integuments and the fascia. Beneath it will be found the lower part of the subscapulars muscle, and the tendons of the latissimus and teres. To the outer side is the caraco- brachialis muscle. Here the artery is still in the midst of the large trunks of nerves into which the plexus has been Position resolved : — Thus on the outer side is the median nerve, ofnerveswith the external cutaneous for a short distance; on the inner side are the ulnar and internal cutaneous, with the nerve of Wrisberg ; and behind are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, the latter extending only as far as the and border of the subscapular muscle. The axillary vein remains ™n to as above on the thoracic side of the artery. Branch- The branches of the axillary artery are furnished to the supped wal* of the thorax and to the shoulder. The thoracic