733 DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT. muscle to the knee-joint. On the joint it anastomoses with the other articular arteries. Malleolar arteries (internal and external) arise near the ankle- Maiie- joint, and, as their name expresses, are distributed over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The internal is the least regular in size inner and origin: the external anastomoses with the anterior peroneal and ° outer. artery. Some small articular hranches are supplied from the lower end of Articu- the artery to the ankle-joint. The dorsal artery of the foot is the continuation of the Dorsal anterior tibial, and extends from the front of the ankle-joint extent' to the posterior part of the first interosseous space; at this course; interval it passes downwards between the heads of the inter- osseous muscle, to end in the sole as before described (p. 724.). The artery is supported by the inner row of the tarsus, connec- viz., the astragalus and the scaphoid and cuneiform bones; and is covered by the integuments and the deep fascia, but near its termination it is crossed by the inner tendon of the extensor brevis muscle. The tendon of the extensor pollicis is on the inner side; and that of the extensor brevis digi- torum on the outer side, except for about half an inch before the artery dips into the sole of the foot, at which spot this tendon crosses to the inner side of the vessel. The veins position have the same position with respect to the artery as in the andems leg, and the nerve is external to it. Branches. — Offsets are given to the bones and the liga- Branch- ments of the foot: those from the outer side of the vesseles* have received the names tarsal and metatarsal from their distribution. A small interosseous branch is likewise fur- nished to the first intermetatarsal space. The tarsal branch arises opposite the scaphoid bone, and runs Tarsal, beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to the outer side of the foot, where it divides into twigs that inosculate with the metatarsal, plantar, and peroneal arteries : it supplies offsets to the extensor muscle, beneath which it lies. The metatarsal branch takes an arched course to the outer part Metatar- of the foot, near the base of the metatarsal bones and beneath the sal' extensor muscle, and its terminal branches anastomose with the external plantar and tarsal arteries. From the convexity of this arch, which is turned forwards, three which interosseous arteries are furnished to the three outer spaces : these gIves m"