PNEUMO-GASTEIC NERVE. 115 branches of the glossopharyngeal, viz. into those uniting it with other nerves, and those that are distributed to the parts around. Connectinq Branches.—Branches of communication arise to unite o With from both the ganglion of the root and that of the trunk of others; the nerve. * a. From the ganglion of the root. — One or two short filaments spinal unite this ganglion with the spinal accessory nerve. Another fila- ry, sym- ment of the sympathetic nerve in the neck enters the ganglion; gfosso-C and occasionally there is a filament to join the lower (petrosal) |eai"fn" ganglion of the glossopharyngeal nerve. Its chief branch is the following. * The auricular hranch traverses the substance of the temporal auricular bone, and reaches the outer ear, on which it is distributed. This ' little nerve arises from the ganglion, and crosses the jugular fossa to enter an aperture near the root of the styloid process. Its farther course to the outer ear will be described with the anatomy of the ear. * b. From the ganglion of the trunk. — This ganglion is connected With intimately with the hypo-glossal nerve; and other branches pass gy^Ja- between it and the ganglion of the sympathetic, and between it ^f^a' and the loop of the first two cervical nerves. nerves. Branches for Distribution, — These branches arise from Branch - the inner side of the nerve, and are directed to the middle supply line, to supply the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart. 1. The pharyngeal branch is an offset from the upper part of the pharynx ganglion of the trunk of the pneumo-gastric, which terminates, as the name expresses, in the pharynx. The nerve is directed in- and join wards over the internal carotid artery, and joins the branches of pharyn- the glosso-pharyngeal nerve on that vessel. Finally it courses to §eal the side of the middle constrictor muscle, and communicates with branches of the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal, and sympa- and pha- thetic nerves, to form the pharyngeal plexus of the same side. plexus.1 2. The superior laryngeal nerve is much larger than the pre- To enter ceding branch, and arises from the middle of the ganglion of the larynX) trunk of the vagus. From this spot the nerve inclines obliquely inwards, beneath the internal carotid artery, and reaches the larynx opposite the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage. The nerve then perforates the thyro-hyoid membrane, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx. (See "Larynx.") In the neck it furnishes branches to and sup- the thyroid body, and to one laryngeal muscle. anY* The external laryngeal branch arises in the neck, beneath the a branch internal carotid artery. Taking a course similar to that of the i°aUryndxe i 2