101 LINGUAL ARTERY AND NERVE. H 3 the hyo-glossus to the under part of the tongue, and ends at beneath the anterior border of that muscle, in the sublingual and giossus, ranine branches. Before reaching the hyo-glossus, the artery is superficial, though it is crossed near that muscle by the ninth nerve, and by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. Beneath the hyo-glossus, the vessel rests on the middle con- strictor and genio~hyo-glossus muscles, and is situate below the level of the glossopharyngeal nerve. Its branches are its branches these I are — A small hyoid branch is distributed along the upper border of to hyoid the os hyoides, where it anastomoses with the one of the opposite ' . side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. A branch to the dorsum of the tongue arises beneath the hyo- to back giossus muscle, and ascends to supply the substance of that organ, tongue; The fibres of the muscle must be divided to see it. The sublingual branch springs from the final division of the to the artery at the edge of the hyo-glossus, and is then directed outwards guai to the gland from which it takes its name. Some branches supply gland' the gums and the mylo-hyoid muscle, and one offset continues behind the incisor teeth to join a similar artery from the other side. The ranine branch is the terminal part of the lingual to the artery, and extends forwards along the outer side of the stance of genio-hyo-glossus to the tip of the tongue, where it ends by tongue* anastomosing with the artery of the other side of the body. Muscular offsets are furnished to the substance of the tongue. This artery corresponds to the fraenum linguae, near the tip This lies of the tongue, but lies close to. the muscular fibres, frsenum. The lingual vein commences both on the upper and under Lingual surfaces of the tongue. It accompanies the artery of the vem' same name, and ends in the internal jugular vein. The GUSTATORY Or LINGUAL NERVE has been followed in Lingual the examination of the pterygo-maxillary region to its passage between the ramus of the lower jaw and the internal ptery- goid muscle. In this dissection the nerve is seen to be along inclined forwards to the side of the tongue over the mucous tongul membrane of the mouth and the origin of the superior con- strictor muscle, and above the deep part of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, the nerve is directed across the Whartonian duct, and along the side to the apex of the tongue. In this region the gustatory nerve is separated altogether from the