289 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. other. At the aperture in the capsule, on the inner side of the joint, a prolongation is continued beneath the subscapu- laris muscle. The membrane is further reflected around the tendon of the biceps, and lines the bicipital groove of the humerus. Section IV. THE FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. Position. — The limb is to be placed with the palm of the pf°t^tiotl hand uppermost; and the marking of the surface, and the limb, projections of bone, are first to be noted. Surface-marking. — On the anterior aspect of the fore- ^j£aece arm are two depressions, corresponding to the position of the vesseis. The external one is placed over the radial artery, and inclines towards the middle of the fore-arm as it ap- proaches the elbow. The internal one is evident only beyond the middle of the fore-arm, and points out the part of the ulnar artery that is uncovered by muscle. The bones of the fore-arm (radius and ulna) are sufficiently near the surface to be traced in their whole length: each ends below in a point,—the styloid process, and that of the radius is the lowest. The articulation of the wrist is about an inch above the transverse marking that separates the fore-arm from the hand. In the palm of the hand two lateral projections are seen ; Surface the external of these is formed by the muscles of the thumb, °f the J hand. and the internal one by the muscles of the little finger. Between those projections is a hollow, which is pointed towards the wrist. The superficial palmar arch of arteries extends forwards a little way into the hollow, and its posi- tion may be marked by a line drawn across the palm from the root of the thumb, when that digit is placed at a right angle to the hand. Two transverse lines are seen in the palm, but neither reaches completely across it; the anterior one serves to direct to the line of the articulations between the metacarpus and the phalanges, and it is about a quarter of an inch behind those joints, when the fingers are extended, except in the case of the fore-finger. Transverse lines are seen on both aspects of the joints of Surface u