760 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. the choroid coat is to be divided all round with a scissors, a little behind the ring of the ciliary ligament, and to be taken away with that ligament, the attached iris, and the ciliary processes behind—all in one piece. By gently washing the back of the iris the small processes will be made manifest. To see By means of the last dissection, the interior of the choroid the in- J ' andth'e COa* m2i^ ^e seen» The structure of the membrane may be tureC" examined on a fragment obtained from the eye that was destroyed in making the preparation of the sclerotic coat. To make If a vertical section is made of another eyeball, it will section, show the ciliary processes in their natural position, and will demonstrate the relative situation of all the parts. This sec- tion, which it is difficult to make, should be attempted in water with a sharp, large knife, and on a surface of wax or wood : after the eye has been divided, the halves should re- main in water. Form The choroid coat is a thin membrane of a dark colour, and tentfx" forms a segment of a sphere.: like the sclerotic stratum, it extends from the optic nerve to the fore part of the eyeball. When viewed on the eye in which the ciliary ligament is Anterior entire, it appears to end at the ligament; but it may be seen tion. in the other dissections to bend inwards behind that ring and the iris, and to end in a series of pointed processes, pars plicata, around an anterior opening for the admission of the rays of light. This covering is thicker and stronger behind than in front: it is supported at the bottom of the eyeball by its close connection to the sclerotic coat, and in front, by the open- ciliary ligament. Posteriorly it is pierced by a round aper- ture for the passage of the optic nerve ; and anteriorly is the large opening within the ring of folds called ciliary pro- Outer cesses. The outer surface is flocculent, and is covered by surface . rough; the remnants of a pigmentary areolar tissue (membrana fusca) between it and the sclerotic coat; on it may be seen small veins arranged in parallel arches as they open into the larger trunks, and lying on its surface are the ciliary vessels inner and nerves. The inner surface is smooth, and is lined by a smooth. . . , thin pigmentary epithelial layer (membrana pigmenti), though in the eye of the ox it shines through that layer with a metallic lustre. ciliary The ciliary processes, or the folds or plaits by which the cesses, choroidal coat is terminated in front, are arranged around