54 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. Bounda- Surface-m a rk i ng.—The side of the neck presents a some- the side what square outline, and is limited in the following way : — Inferiorly is the prominence of the clavicle, and superiorly is the base of the lower jaw with the skull. In front, the limit is marked by a line from the chin to the sternum, and behind, by another line from the occiput to the acromial end of the Division clavicle. The part thus marked out is divided into two— into two bystS-no anter*or an(^ posterior—triangular spaces by the diagonal mastoid, position of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In consequence of the direction of that muscle the base of the anterior space is at the jaw, and the apex at the sternum, whilst the base of the posterior one is at the clavicle, and the apex at the head. The surface in front of the sterno-mastoid is depressed at the upper part of the neck, over the position of the carotid ves- sels ; and behind the muscle, near the clavicle, is another slight hollow, which points to the situation of the subclavian artery. Promi- Along the middle line of the neck the following parts can themicu be recognised through the skin: — About two inches and a of neck, half from the base of the jaw is the eminence of the os hyoides, with its cornu extending laterally on each side. Below this may be felt the wide prominence of the thyroid cartilage, called pomum Adami, which is most marked in man ; and between the cartilage and the hyoid bone is a slight interval corresponding to the thyro-hyoid membrane. Inferior to the thyroid, is the narrow prominent ring of the cricoid cartilage; and between the two the finger may distinguish another interval, which is opposite the crico- and su- thyroid membrane. From this spot to the sternum, and be- pra-ster- \ . . naide- tween the sterno-mastoid muscles, is a depression, whose pression. depth is much increased in emaciated individuals, in which the tube of the trachea can be felt. In some bodies, especi- ally in women, the swelling of the thyroid gland may be per- ceived by the side of the upper part of the trachea. Direction.— As the time will not allow now the examina- tion of the whole side of the neck, the student should lay bare in this stage only the parts behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. Dissec- Dissection.— To raise the integuments from the posterior thTpia- triangle of the neck, and from the structures immediately tysma. connecte(j wjt]1 the skin may be divided along the sterno- mastoid from one end to the other, and afterwards along the