DEPRESSOR MUSCLES OF OS HYOIDES. 67 round tendon. The origin of the muscle from the scapula, begins at and the connections of the posterior part, are studied in the puia*, dissection of the back. From the intervening tendon, the and ends anterior fleshy part is directed forwards along the border of bone, the sterno-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into the lower part of the body of the hyoid bone, close to the great cornu. The connec- anterior belly of the muscle is in contact with the fascia, tlons' " after escaping from beneath the sterno-mastoid; and rests on the sterno-thyroid muscle. This muscle crosses the common carotid artery on a level with the cricoid cartilage. The sterno-hyoid muscle is a flat thin band nearer the sterno- middle line than the preceding. It arises from the posterior muscle aspect of the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib, and sometimes also from the clavicle. From this spot the fibres ascend, and are inserted into the lower border of the body of named i from its the os hyoides, internal to the preceding muscle. One attach- surface is in contact with the fascia, and is often marked by a tendinous intersection near the clavicle. When the muscle Parts ■ . . . above is divided and turned aside, the deep surface will be found to and be- rest on the sterno-thyroideus and its continuation (thyro- hyoid), also on the superior thyroid vessels. The muscles of opposite sides are separated by a cellular interval which is largest below. The origin of the muscle varies much. The sterno-thyroid muscle is wider and shorter than stemo- the sterno-hyoid, beneath which it lies. Like the other muscle hyoid muscle, it arises from the posterior surface of the fromTt? sternum, from the cartilage of the first rib below the former, mente." and sometimes from the cartilage of the second rib ; and is inserted into the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, where it is continuous with the thyro-hyoid muscle. The inner border corresponds to the middle line of Parts the neck and to the thyroid veins, whilst the outer reaches andbe- the carotid artery. The superficial surface is concealed by neath" the preceding hyoid muscles ; and the opposite surface is in contact with the lower part of the carotid artery, the trachea, and the larynx and thyroid body. A transverse tendinous line crosses the muscle near the sternum. The thyro-hyoideus is a continuation of the last muscle. Thyro. Beginning on the side of the thyroid cartilage, the fibres contfnu- ascend to the inner half of the great cornu of the os hyoides, precedf and to the outer part of the body of the bone. On the hyoides0.3