DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 614 vas appearance: it is lined by a laminar epithelium. In the same. sacculated part of the vas deferens the mucous lining re- sembles in a slight degree that in the vesicula. How ^ Common seminal ducts. — These tubes (right and left) are formed by the junction of the duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens of the same side, and convey Extent, the semen to the urethra. They begin opposite the base of the prostate, and are directed upwards and forwards through course, the glandular mass, and along the sides of a hollow (vesicula length, prostatica), to open into the urethral tube. Their length is and rather less than an inch, and their course is convergent to tion. their termination, where they are close together in the floor of the urethra (p. 618.) struc- Structure. — The wall of the common duct is thinner ture. than that of the vas deferens, but it possesses similar coats. Bladder After the bladder has been separated from the surrounding out of . 1 . ° the body, parts, its form, and the extent of its different regions can be more conveniently observed. Form. Whilst the bladder was in the body, it was conical in shape, and rather flattened from before backwards ; but now it is more circular than when in its natural position, and has lost that arched form by which it adapts itself in disten- Dimen. sion to the curve of the pelvis. If this viscus is moderately dilated, it measures about five inches in length, and about three inches across. — Buschke. Its capacity is greatly in- fluenced by the age and sex, and by the habits of the indi- vidual. Ordinarily the bladder holds about a pint, and as a general rule it is larger in the female than in the male. Coats of Structure. — A muscular and a mucous coat, with an bladder, intervening cellular layer, exist in the wall of the bladder : at parts the peritoneum may also be enumerated as a con- stituent of the wall. The vessels and nerves are large. Perito- The imperfect covering of 'peritoneum has been described (p. 587.), and has been removed. Muscu- The muscular coat is formed of two layers of unstriped two muscular fibres, viz. an external or longitudinal, and an ' internal or circular; there are also some special fibres con- nected with the ends of the ureters.