ROOTS OF THE NERVES. 427 The arachnoid is sparingly supplied with vessels like serous of arach- membranes in general, and proof of its containing nerves is yet n wanting. Thepia mater has a network of vessels in its substance, though jjfpja this is much less marked than in the membrane on the brain, and from it offsets enter the cord. In its substance are many nerves; these were supposed by Purkinje to be derived from the sympa- thetic, but Kemak has shown that their chief source is from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. Dissection,—The arachnoid membrane is next to be taken Dissec- tion of from the fibrils of the roots of a nerve ; and the roots of roots of nerves. this are to be traced outwards to their transmission through two apertures in the dura mater. One or more of the lower offsets of the dura mater, that have been cut of some length, are to be laid open to show the contained ganglion. The student should define the ganglion, and should trace the roots of the nerve to their union beyond the ganglion. Spinal Nerves.—The spinal nerves are thirty-one in Trunks number. The trunk of each is constructed by the blending Serves?1 together of two roots (anterior and posterior) in the inter- vertebral foramen. They are divided into groups corre- Number sponding to the regional subdivisions of the spinal column, range-" viz. cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. In each groups" group the nerves are equal to the number of the vertebrae, except in the cervical region of the spine, where there are eight, and in the coccygeal region, where there is only one. In consequence of the cervical nerves exceeding the number Last of the vertebras, the last is placed below the seventh verte- JgVoup^ bra; and consequently the lowest nerve of each group will the ver- be below its corresponding vertebra. Each nerve divides tebra* into two, viz. anterior and posterior primary branches; the former of these is distributed to the front of the body and the limbs, and the latter is confined to the hinder part of the trunk. Eoots of the Nerves.—Two roots or bundles of fibrils Each (anterior and posterior) attach the nerve to the side of the hSTtwo spinal cord ; and these blend together to form the trunk of Ulterior the nerve either in the intervertebral foramen, or, it may be, tertoPr?s~ in the spinal canal. The posterior root is marked by a ganglion, but the anterior root is aganglionic. The posterior or ganglionic roots surpass in size the an- poste-