VESSELS OF THE HEART. 349 the rest: one runs on the anterior aspect of the right ven- tricle towards the free margin; the other descends on the back of the heart, along the septum between the ventricles, and anastomoses towards the apex with the left coronary artery. b. The left coronary branch is inclined behind the pul- left . coronary monary artery to the left side of that vessel, then m the artery, groove between the left auricle and ventricle to the back of the heart, where it anastomoses with the right coronary branch. Like the preceding artery, it furnishes offsets to the substance of the auricle and ventricle. The largest of these descends in the anterior sulcus, over the partition of the ventricles, towards the apex of the heart, and communi- cates with the descending branch of the right coronary artery at the back of the heart. The veins of the substance of the heart (cardiac) are not veins of the same in number, nor have they the same distribution heart, as the arteries. There may be said to be three sets, but for the most part they are united into one large trunk, the coro- nary sinus, which opens into the right auricle. a. The great cardiac or coronary vein begins in front, Large near the apex of the heart, in the substance of the ventricles, vein is single. From this origin, the vessel turns to the back of the heart in the sulcus between the left auricle and ventricle, and opens and into a dilatation, named coronary sinus, about an inch from i°ntons the right auricle. It receives collateral branches in its course, and its ending in the sinus is marked by two valves. The coronary sinus will be seen on raising the heart to be sinus of i • . coronary apparently the dilated ending of the great coronary vein, vein, To show its anatomy it may be opened with a scissors. About an inch usually in extent, it is limited on the one extent, side by two valves that exist at the opening of the great coronary vein into it, and on the other by another valve, where it opens into the right auricle. Its walls are dis- struc- tinctly muscular (Reid). Inferiorly it receives some branches from the back of the ventricles, whose openings are guarded by valves; and nearly at its outer termination is another veins . joining. vein without a valve, — the oblique vein of Mr. Marshall, — that ascends along the back of the left auricle. b. Anterior and 'posterior cardiac veins, — Some small Small . . n i - t • i anterior veins on the anterior part of the right ventricle open sepa- andpos-