99 HYO-GLOSSUS MUSCLE. also of the gustatory nerve, nearer the jaw, with its small ganglion close to the submaxillary gland. The student should endeavour to follow the small chorda tympani nerve along the gustatory to the tongue, and to define the offset from it to the submaxillary ganglion. The ranine vessels and the gustatory nerve are to be traced along the under part of the tongue. Parts beneath mylo-hyoideus.—The following is the posi- Pdr^be- tion of the objects brought into view by the steps of the myi?- previous dissection. Extending from the cornu of the hyoid bone to the side of the tongue is the hyo-glossus muscle, whose fibres are crossed superiorly by those of the stylo- glossus. On the hyo-glossus, from below upwards, are on side placed the hypo-glossal nerve, the Whartonian duct, and the gustatory nerve, the latter crossing the duct; and near the inner border of that muscle the two nerves are united by branches. Beneath the same muscle is the lingual artery with its vein. Above the hyo-glossus is the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, with the sublingual gland attached to it in front, and some fibres of the superior constrictor muscle covering it behind near the jaw. Between the chin and the os livc-ides, along the middle and J ° along line, is the genio-hyoid muscle ; and larger and deeper than }™*dle this is a fan-shaped muscle, the genio-hyo-glossus. Along the outer side of the last muscle lie the ranine vessels ; and a sub-lingual branch for the gland springs from the lingual artery at the inner border of the hyo-glossus. On the under aspect of the tongue, near the margin, is the gustatory nerve; and in the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, the hypo- glossal nerve. The hyo-glossus muscle is thin and somewhat of a Hyo- glossus square shape. The muscle arises from the lateral part of the body of the os hyoides (basio-glossus), from all the great cornu of the same bone (cerato-glossus), and separately from the small cornu (chondro-glossus). The two first parts form a thin sheet, and enter into the back part and side of the tongue*; they will be after seen to mingle with fibres of * For further detail respecting the anatomy of this and the other lin- gual muscles, reference is to be made to the dissection of the tongue, Section 15. 2