BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 603 tlie pelvis, from the epigastric instead of the internal iliac, and turn gin from down almost vertically to the thyroid aperture. Or, it may arise fri'c^as" by two roots, one from the epigastric, another from the internal or lliac' iliac, the roots varying in size in different instances : thus they may both, be nearly equal in size ; that from the internal iliac may be the larger of the two ; or that from the epigastric may be the largest. The position of the obturator to the internal crural ring, in the in- stances of its origin from the epigastric, has been before alluded to (p. 492.). In some bodies, the obturator may be found to take origin from From J external the external iliac artery. iliac. An account of the frequency with which these different pecu- Fre- ... • . cjuency liarities occur, will be found in Mr. Quain's work on the "Ana- of the tomy of the Arteries." Suffice it to say here, that the origin from orfginsf the internal iliac is the most frequent, that from the epigastric next, and the origin from the two sources, or from the external iliac artery, the least frequent. 4. The sciatic artery is the next largest branch to the Sciatic gluteal; it is distributed to the buttock, and may be con- artery sidered the offset by which the internal iliac artery ter- minates. The artery is continued over the pyriformis in the muscle and the sacral plexus to the lower part of the sacro- pelus' sciatic notch, where it leaves the pelvis between the pyri^ formis and the coccygeus. External to the pelvis it divides and out- into branches beneath the gluteus maximus muscle. In the slde xt' pelvis it supplies the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles. 5. The pudic artery supplies the perinseum and the genital Pudic organs, and has nearly the same connections in the pelvis as thTpei-1 the sciatic, from which it often springs. If the artery arises vls* by a separate trunk from the internal iliac, it accompanies the sciatic, though external to it, and leaves the pelvis be- tween the pyriformis and coccygeus. At the back of the pelvis it winds over the spine of the ischium, and enters the perinseum. (See p. 452.) In the pelvic part of its course the artery gives some Some unimportant branches, and frequently the middle hsemor- offsets, rhoidal branch arises from it. Peculiarities. — The pudic artery is sometimes smaller than usual, When and fails to supply some of its ordinary perineal branches, espe- thanler cially the terminal that are required by the penis. In those' cases the "nieces- deficient branches are derived from an artery, accessory pudic l°Yr/nch (Quain), which takes origin mostly from tfiS trunk of the pudic comes inside the pelvis, and courses forwards on the side of the bladder, internal iliac.