INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 21 partmeat of the foramen lacerum jugulare, but all are not contained in one tube of the dura mater and of the arach- noid membrane. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is external to the other two, being separated from them by the inferior petrosal sinus, and has distinct sheaths of the dura mater and arachnoid membrane; but the pneumo-gastric and spinal Their;. accessory nerves are inclosed in the same tube of the dura through mater, only a piece of the arachnoid intervening between faSmm. them. The ninth nerve is the motor nerve of the tongue, and consists of two small pieces that pierce separately the dura mater opposite the anterior condyloid foramen ; these unite after passing through that aperture. Dissection. — The dissector may now return to the ex- Dissec- amination of the trunk of the carotid artery, as it winds carotid, through the cavernous sinus. On the opposite side, viz. that on which the nerves in the of sym- wall of the cavernous sinus are untouched, an attempt may pathetlc* be made to expose two small plexuses of the sympathetic on the carotid artery. It will be necessary to cut off the anterior clinoid process, and to dissect out with care the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves, looking for filaments between these and a plexus on the vessels near the root of that process of .bone. Another plexus joining the sixth and fifth nerves will be found on the artery as it enters the sinus. In an injected body this dissection is scarcely possible. The internal carotid artery appears in the base of internal the skull at the apex of the petrous part of the temporal artery? bone. In its ascent to the brain, the vessel lies in the space of the cavernous sinus, along the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and makes two remarkable bends, so as to winds look like the letter S reclined. On entering the sinus, the caven? artery ascends, at first, to the posterior clinoid process ; it is then directed forwards to the root of the anterior process of the same name; and lastly, it turns upwards internal to this point of bone, perforates the dura mater bounding the sinus, and divides into cerebral arteries at the base of the' brain. In this course the artery is enveloped by nerves derived from the sympathetic in the neck. The branches of this part of the artery are few. In the The c 3