704 DISSECTION OF THE LEO. how it consists partly of special fibres that are attached to the margins of the notch, and partly of some from the cotyloid forms a ligament. Beneath it is an aperture by which the vessels with enter the acetabulum to nourish the fat in the bottom of that bone. -.I hollow. Round The inter articular ligament (ligam. teres) is a strong band ligament conneC£ing the femur with the innominate bone. One extre- mity is roundish, and is inserted into the pit in the head is divid- of the femur ; the other is bifid, and is connected to the sides temaiiy. of the notch in the cotyloid cavity, the lowest lip of the notch receiving the strongest band. Synovial A synovial membrane lines the capsular ligament, and is brine", continued along it to the acetabulum and the head of the femur. In the bottom of the cotyloid cavity it is reflected over the fat in that situation, and surrounds the ligamentum teres. Detach Dissection. — To see the surface of the acetabulum the the limb, lower limb is to be separated from the trunk by dividing the interarticular ligament, and cutting through any parts that attach it to the rest of the body. Articu- Surfaces of hone. — The articular surfaces of the bones are faces not completely covered with cartilage. In the head of the bones, femur is a pit into which the round ligament is inserted. In the bottom of the acetabulum is a space free from cartilage, in which a reddish fatty mass is lodged: this is sometimes synovial called the synovial gland. Beneath the transverse ligament an artery and a nerve enter the joint to supply the fat. Section IV. THE BACK OF THE LEG. Examine Directions.—Before the dissection of the leg is begun, the face. student should make himself acquainted, as in the thigh, with the prominences of bone or muscle on the surface, and with the markings that lead to the position of the subjacent vessels. in the Prominences on the surface. — The bones of the leg can leg the J °m tibia and be traced beneath the skin from the knee to the ankle-joint. fibula # J are su- On the inner side of the limb is the tibia, which is subcu- perficial.