DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 156 and covering the organ, for the greater part, is a submucous layer of the same tissue. its a. Septum. — This fibrous structure forms a vertical par- septum. ■* A tition between the two halves of the tongue, and extends from the base to the apex. It is stronger posteriorly than anteriorly, and is connected behind with the hyo-glossal membrane. To each side the transverse muscle is connected. Its disposition may be better seen, subsequently, on a ver- tical section. Hyo- h. The hyo-glossal membrane is a thin, but strong fibrous glossal . © brane lamina> that attaches the root of the tongue to the upper border of the body of the hyoid bone. On its under or an- terior surface the hinder fibres of the genio-hyo-glossi are collected, as if this was their aponeurosis to attach them to the os hyoides. Sub- c. The submucous fibrous or aponeurotic stratum of aponeu- the tongue invests the organ, and is continued into the rosis* sheaths of the muscles. Over the posterior third of the dorsum its strength is greater than elsewhere, and, in front of the epiglottis, it forms bands in the folds of the mucous membrane in this position. Into it the muscular fibres, that end on the surface of the tongue, are inserted. Muscles Muscles.—Each half of the tongue is made up of ex- ?afffch trinsic and intrinsic muscles. The former are distinguished Two by having only their termination in the tongue; and the kinds. latter, by having both origin and insertion within the organ, that is to say springing from one part, and ending at another. Extrin- A. The extrinsic muscles are the following, viz., palato number, and stylo-glossus, hyo and genio-hyo-glossus, and pharyngeo- glossus. Only the lingual endings of these are now to be noticed, for the origin from the bones around have been before made out. Dissec- Dissection.—After the tongue has been firmly fastened on tion of .j.g ^e extrinsic muscles may be dissected on the paiato right half. Three of these muscles, viz. palato, stylo, and stylo- hyo-glossus, come together to the side of the tongue, at the giossus. junctjon 0f middle and posterior third; and, to follow their radiating fibres forwards, it will be necessary to remove the mucous membrane from the dorsum and the under sur- face, between the tip and the point at which they come in