413 SPINAL NERVES OF THE BACK. surface through the splenius, the complexus, and the trapezius muscles, and are distributed as before seen (p. 399.). In their course to the spine the nerves supply the surrounding muscles, viz. the complexus, semispinalis, multifidus spina3, and interspinales. The inner branches of the second and Those of A second third nerves end on the occiput, and require a more length- and ened notice. That of the second nerve, named great occipital, appears second beneath the inferior oblique muscle to which it gives offsets: head, it is then directed upwards to the head through the com- plexus and the trapezius, and ends on the occiput (p. 9.). The branch of the third nerve supplies an offset to the Third 1 L m supplies integument of the neck; and then ascending to the head neck and & ? ° head. through the trapezius, is distributed to the lower part of the occiput, internal to the great occipital nerve. Usually this nerve joins the preceding both beneath, and superficial to the trapezius. The suboccipital nerve, or the posterior primary branch Sub-occi- of the first spinal trunk, deviates from the others in its nerve course and branching. It is very short, and appears in the has dif- interval between the recti and obliqui muscles; in passing branch- from the spinal canal it is placed between the arch of the™8' atlas and the vertebral artery, and pierces the ligament between the first cervical vertebra and the occipital bone. The following branches radiate from the extremity of the ends in „ n the mus- nerve: — One enters the under surface oi the complexus cies. near the cranial attachment. A slender branch is furnished to each of the small muscles that bound the space in which the nerve is contained, viz. the rectus major and minor, and the superior and inferior oblique: the offset to the last muscle often joins the inner branch of the second cervical nerve. Occasionally the suboccipital nerve gives a cutaneous Occa- , , , . sionalJy branch to the occiput.* a cu- . . . taneous The suboccipital nerve and the internal branches of the two offset, next cervical nerves are sometimes connected by branches beneath P°ste- •' nor cer- the complexus ; when such an intercommunication exists, it forms vical the " posterior cervical plexus " of M. Cruveilhier. * In the dorsal region. —The posterior primary branches of Twelve the dorsal nerves are twelve in number, and appear between nerves * See note to p. 139. of the first edition of this work.