DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 574 and pos- ascend to be inserted into the lower border of the last rib tenor, ^ ^ variable distance, and by distinct fleshy and tendinous slips, into the apices of the transverse processes of the last dorsal and the four or five upper lumbar vertebras, as well as into the body of the last dorsal vertebra. Occasionally and in- there is an anterior stratum of fibres, at the upper part, anterior, which is attached internally to the tips of the transverse processes of the three middle lumbar vertebras, and exter- itis nally to the lower border of the last rib. This muscle is contain- . . edina incased in a sheath derived from the fascia lumborum. Crossing the surface are branches of the lumbar plexus, together with the last dorsal nerve. Beneath the quadratus is the mass of the erector spinas muscle. Fascia Fascia of the quadratus,—Covering the surface of the quadra- quadratus is a thin membrane, which is derived from the ' tus tendon of the transversalis abdominis (fascia lumborum, p. 403.), and passes in front of the quadratus to be fixed to the roots of the transverse processes, above to the crest forms of the ilium, and belowT to the last rib. This fascia forms elterii.' the thickened band called ligamentum arcuatum externum. Iliac Fascia of the iliacus and psoas. — This fascia covers the fascia |wo niuscles, and extends in different directions as far as joined by their attachments. Over the iliacus muscle the membrane of small is thickest; and a strong accession is received from the attach- tendon of the small psoas, when that muscle is present. Its below disposition at Poupart's ligament, and the part that it takes in the formation of the crural sheath have been before internal- explained (p. 491.). When traced inwards over the psoas, to pelvis the membrane will be found to be inserted into the os ilii near the brim of the pelvis ; and when followed upwards it will be seen to become thin, to be fixed on the one side to the lumbar vertebras and the ligamentum arcuatum inter- num, and to be blended on the other with the fascia on the and the quadratus : at its attachment to the vertebras it has the brsef" same digitate and arched condition as the psoas. The fascia should be divided over the psoas on the left side, and re- flected towards the brim of the pelvis. Trace* Dissection,— The student is now to clean the lymphatic lymph- glands that lie along the vertebrae, and to trace upwards atlcs* some lymphatic vessels to the thoracic duct. To show the commencement of the duct the diaphragm is to be divided