DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. 150 nerve is now to be traced onwards along the inner side of the tympanum, till it becomes enlarged, and bends suddenly inwards to the meatus auditorius internus. The surround- ing bone is to be removed from the enlargement on the nerve, so as to trace to it the petrosal nerves; and then the meatus auditorius is to be laid open, to see the facial and auditory nerves in that hollow, of The course of the chorda tympani nerve (branch of the tympa- facial) across the tympanum will be seen by the removal of the incus. The nerve may also be traced through the wall of the cavity behind, as well as out of the cavity in front. and The remaining branches of the facial nerve in the bone branch- are very minute, and are not to be seen, unless on a fresh piece of the skull, which has been softened in acid, The student may therefore omit all the paragraphs, marked with an asterisk, till he is able to obtain a part on which a careful examination can be made. Facial The facial nerve has been seen, in the base of the skull, to nerve enter the internal auditory meatus with the auditory nerve, with which it is connected. The nerve is then received into the aperture of the aqueduct of Fallopius in the bottom of winds the meatus, and is conducted through the temporal bone to temporal the stylo-mastoid foramen and the face (p. 40.). In its ser- bone' pentine course through the bone, the nerve is first directed outwards to the inner wall of the tympanum : at that spot it is mark- suddenly bends backwards, and is marked by a gangliform swelling swelling (intumescentia gangliformis) to which several nerves receives are united. From this swelling the nerve is continued twigs, through the arched aqueduct, passing along the inner wall of the tympanum, and then behind that cavity to the aperture of exit from the bone. The branches of the nerve in the bone serve for the most part to connect it with other nerves ; but one supplies the tongue, and another the stapedius muscle. Branch- Connecting branches. — These branches communicate with ing the auditory and glosso-pharyngeal nerves; also with two nerve trunks, (superior and inferior maxillary) of the fifth nerve, to audi- * a. Union with the auditory nerve. — In the bottom of the meatus nerve, the facial and auditory nerves are connected by one or two minute filaments. tosu- * b. Connecting branches of the gangliform enlargement — The