APONEUROSIS OF THE ARM. 277 The inter cosio - humeral branch of the second intercostal nerve inter- (p. 247.) perforates the fascia near the axilla, and furnishes fila- humeral, merits to the inner side and the posterior surface of the arm, in the upper half. But the size, and even the distribution of the nerve, will depend upon the development and extent of the small internal cutaneous, and the offset of the musculo-spiral nerve. The aponeurosis of the arm is a white shining membrane ^ that envelops the limb, and sends inwards processes between the arm the muscles. Over the biceps muscle it is thinner than elsewhere. At certain points it receives accessory fibres from the subjacent tendons: — thus in front of the elbow there is an offset from the tendon of the biceps, and near the axilla the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres, send prolongations to the fascia. At the upper part of the limb the fascia is continuous with that of the axilla, and is prolonged over the deltoid and pectoral muscles to the scapula and the clavicle. Inferiorly it is continued to forms the fore-arm, and is connected to the prominences of bone muscu- around the elbow joint, especially to the condyloid ridges of septa, the humerus. Its attachments to those lines of the humerus give rise to the two intermuscular septa of the arm. Directions.—As the back of the arm will not be first dis- Direc- sected, the skin may be replaced on it until the front has be od-° been examined. And to keep in place the vessels and nerves served* at the upper part of the limb, they should be tied together with string, as nearly as may be in their natural position, and then fastened to the coracoid process. Position. — The limb is still to lie on the back, but the Position upper part is to be raised by means of a small block beneath the scapula, and this bone is to be fixed in such a position as to render tense the muscles. The inner surface of the arm is to be placed towards the dissector. Dissection. — The aponeurosis is to be reflected from the Dissec- front of the arm by an incision along the centre, like that muscles through the integuments; and it is to be removed, on the seis.ves" outer side, as far as the line of the humerus leading to the outer condyle, but on the inner side, rather farther back than the corresponding line, so as to bare part of the triceps muscle. In raising the fascia the knife must be carried in the direction of the fibres of the biceps muscle, and care must be taken not to displace the brachial artery and the nerves that are wTith it.