DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 226 joining the crura of the fornix. The base of the gland is further connected by transverse white fibres with the pos- terior commissure. tmT~ body is of a red colour and vascular, and encloses a cavity. It contains in its substance large pale nucleated cells, with a few nerve fibres, and much calcareous material. quadri-a corPora quadrigemina are four small bodies, which gemina. are arranged in pairs, right and left, and are separated by a on each me^an groove. Each pair is situate on the cerebral aspect side. 0f the peduncle of the cerebrum of the same side. Anterior The anterior eminence (nates) is somewhat larger than one v J ° jSnses) ^e Posteri°r> from which it is separated by a slight depres- thaia- sion ; it is oblong from before backwards, and sends forwards THUS. \ 7 . . a white band to join the optic thalamus and the optic nerve. Poste- The posterior eminence (testis) is rounder in form and rior one . joins whiter in colour than the preceding: it has also a lateral mus. white band, which is directed beneath the corpus genicu- latum internum, and blends with the optic tract and the thalamus opticus, struc- These bodies are small masses of gray substance enveloped their by white, and are placed on the band of the fillet that forms the roof of the aqueduct of Sylvius. They send processes (brachia) to the optic thalamus, which are accessory parts to the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum. Finet of Fillet of the olivary body—If the upper margin of the body cerebellum be pulled aside, a white band, about a quarter of an inch in width, will be seen to issue from the transverse fibres of the pons, and to be directed upwards to the corpora passes quadrigemina. This is the upper or commissural piece of corpora the fillet (p. 205.), which enters the corpora quadrigemina, gemina. and joins beneath them over the Sylvian aqueduct, with the similar part of the opposite side. Three Structure of the Cerebrum.—In each cerebral hemi- sets of fibres in sphere three principal sets of constituent fibres are recog- brum. nised, viz. diverging, and both transverse, and longitudinal: the former are in part continuous with those of the spinal cord, and are supposed to form parts of the cerebrum, while the two latter join distant bodies, and are considered to be only connecting or commissural in their office. Fibres of A. Peduncular or diverging fibres. — In the crus cerebri crus */«/«/