280 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. insertion of the coraco-brachialis the nerve is on the outer side, but it then crosses obliquely either over or under the artery, and is placed internal to the vessel about two inches above the elbow joint, its Branches spring both externally and internally from the are, brachial artery. Those on the outer side are muscular, and muscu- supply the coraco-brachialis and biceps ; those on the inner side are named superior and inferior profunda, anastomotic, and nutritious arteries, superior a. The superior profunda branch is larger than the others, and profun- ]eaves the artery near the lower border of the tendon of the teres major; it winds backwards with the musculo-spiral nerve to the triceps muscle, and will be dissected with the back of the arm. inferior b. The inferior profunda branch arises opposite the coraco- funda, brachialis muscle, and accompanies the ulnar nerve to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. In the spot mentioned, it anastomoses with the posterior ulnar recur- rent and anastomotic branches, and supplies the triceps. It often arises in common with the superior profunda artery, nutrient c. A nutritious artery is given off near the preceding branch, bone^ and enters the nutrient canal about the middle of the humerus ; it is distributed to the osseous substance, and to the membrane lining the medullary canal, and anas- d. The anastomotic branch arises from one to two inches above tomotic. ^e elbow, and its course is transversely inwards, through the inter- muscular septum, to the hollow between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. Here the artery inosculates with the inferior profunda and the posterior ulnar recurrent branch, and gives some branches to the triceps muscle : one of the muscular offsets forms an arch across the back of the humerus, with a branch of the superior profunda, near the articulation of the elbow. The anastomotic branch likewise sends an offset in front of the elbow joint, which joins with the anterior ulnar recurrent, and supplies the pronator teres muscle. Veins The brachial veins are placed along the artery, one on the m each side, and have branches of communication across that axillary. veggej . receive contributing veins, which correspond to the branches of the arteries. Superiorly they join the ax- illary vein near the subscapular muscle. Devia- Peculiarities of the artery in position. — The brachial trunk may leave the inner border of the biceps in the lower half of the arm, and course along the inner intermuscular septum, with the median nerve, to the inner condyle of the humerus. At this spot the tions in position