DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 414 divide the transverse processes. Each nerve soon divides into an inner internal and an external branch, which is distributed after outer the same plan as those in the neck. Cutaneous offsets are es. furnished from the one or the other set of branches, but not commonly from both branches of the same nerve. Outer * The external branches increase in size from the first to branches of upper the last, and are differently distributed above and below. six end . . .. m m in mus- The upper six pass beneath the longissimus and its cervical prolongation, as far as to the interval between the longissimus and the sacro-lumbalis, and end by supplying these muscles but those and the levatores costarum. The lower six have a similar of lower six give arrangement and distribution with respect to the muscles: cuta- ° 1 neous but, after reaching the cellular interval between the sacro- offsets. ° lumbalis and the longissimus dorsi, they are continued to the surface through the serratus and latissimus muscles, in a line with the angles of the ribs, inner * The internal branches decrease in size from above of upper downwards. The upper six are directed inwards between six have , i • /» i cuta. the semi spinalis dorsi and multifidus spinas muscles, and be- neous i i • i n i • offsets, come cutaneous along the side ol the spinous processes, by perforating the rhomboideus and trapezius muscles. Offsets are supplied to the muscles between which they are placed. Lower The lower six are small in size, and end in the multifidus six not. spinas muscle. Lumbar * In the loins. — The posterior primary branches of the nerves aredu lumbar nerves are five in number, and appear between the into two. erector and multifidus spinas. In their mode of dividing and general arrangement they resemble the dorsal nerves. Cu- taneous offsets are furnished only by the external set of branches. External * The external branches enter the fibres of the erector- give spinas, and supply it and the small intertransverse muscles, neous The three first pierce the erector-spinas, and become cuta- firsc neous after piercing the aponeurosis of the latissimus. The outer branch of the last nerve is connected with the corre- sponding part of the first sacral nerve by an offset which lies near the bones, internal * The internal branches are supplied to the multifidus end in spinas muscle. Near their origin thev are difficult to find, the mus- . _ , . . , . J cies.; in consequence oi being contained in grooves near the arti- cular processes of the vertebras.