BRANCHES OF CERVICAL PLEXUS. 59 toid muscle, which it pierces, to the under-surface of the trapezius ; and a communication takes place in the triangular space between this cranial nerve and the spinal nerves. Superficial Branches of the Cervical Plexus.— Nerves . of the Behind the sterno-mastoid muscle appear some of the rami- cervical plexus fications of the cervical nerves in the plexus of the same name, and from them superficial branches are furnished both upwards and downwards. A. The ascending set are three in number, viz. small that^as- occipital, great auricular, and superficial cervical. 1. The small occipital branch comes from the second small cervical nerve, and is directed upwards to the head along occipltal the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. At first the nerve is beneath the fascia ; but near the occiput it becomes cutaneous, and is distributed between the ear and the great occipital nerve (p. 9.). Occasionally there is a second cutaneous nerve to the head. 2. The great auricular nerve is a branch of that part of great au- the plexus which is formed by the second and third nerves. Perforating the deep fascia at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the nerve is then directed upwards beneath the platysma to the lobule of the ear, where it ends in the following branches : — The facial branches are sent forwards to the integument over Supplies facial the parotid, and a few slender filaments pass through the gland to join the facial nerve. The auricular branches ascend to the external ear, and are auricu- lar, chiefly distributed on its cranial aspect; one or more reach the opposite surface by piercing the pinna. On the ear they commu- nicate with the branches furnished from the facial and pneumo- gastric nerves. The mastoid branch is directed backwards to the integument and ., ° mastoid between the ear and the mastoid process, and it joins the posterior branch, auricular branch of the facial nerve (p. 8.). 3. The superficial cervical nerve springs from the same |uP®r_ source as the preceding, and turns forwards round the cervical nerve. sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle. Afterwards it pierces the fascia, and ramifies over the anterior triangular space beneath the platysma myoides (see p. 61.). There may be more than one branch to represent this nerve. B. The descending set of branches (supra-clavicular) ^rves^