DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 416 back they are divided like the nerves into inner and outer branches. inner * The inner branches end in the fleshy mass of the mul- tifidus spinas and semispinalis muscles, and furnish small offsets with those nerves that reach the surface. outer * The external branches cross beneath the longissimus branch- , . _ es, dorsi, and supply it and the erector spinas. Like the nerves, the lowest branches of this set are the largest, because they extend to the surface, and give As the dorsal branch of the intercostal artery passes by the in- formal tervertebral foramen, it furnishes a small spinal artery to the cord cord* and its membranes, as well as other twigs to the vertebrae. Lumbar * In the loins. — The posterior branches of the lumbar arteries ar|erjeg divide, like the intercostal, into internal and external pieces, as soon as they reach the interval between the lon- are also gissimus dorsi and multifidus spinas. They give also a spinal into branch to the spinal canal, and the cord and the membranes investing it. inner * The internal branches are small, and end in the multi- fidus spinas muscle, outer # The external branches supply the erector spinas, and branch- gome are continued onwards, with the nerves, to the integu- ments. veins Veins.— With the deep cervical artery is a large vein, cervical vena profunda cervicis, that communicates with the occipital and other deep veins in this region, forming the posterior plexus of the neck ; and then passes forwards between the transverse processes, with the artery, to join the vertebral occipital, vein. The occipital vein lies with its artery, and some- times communicates with the lateral sinus through the dorsal mastoid foramen. The dorsal and lumbar veins correspond bar, to the arteries they accompany in their branching and dis- tribution, and end in the intercostal veins. In contact with and deep the spinous processes and plates of the vertebras is a deeper set of veins (dorsi spinal), which anastomose freely together, and enter the veins in the interior of the spinal canal. Dissec- Dissection. — Most of the remaining fifth layer of muscles the last of the back is uncovered bv the previous dissection. Thus, layer of . muscles, between the first two vertebras and the occipital bone lie the small straight, and oblique muscles : in the cervical and dorsal regions the semispinalis muscle will be seen, with the