762 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. formed is a thin pigmentary lining. This structure is easily de- that con- tached, and may be seen with the microscope to consist of a pigment, single stratum of five or six-sided nucleated cells with gra- nular contents. Though the layer lines all the inner surface of the choroid coat, the quantity of contained pigment varies Occa- at different spots: in the eye of the ox for instance the sionally . pigment colouring matter is absent from the cells m the bottom of absent. the eye, and allows some fibrous tissue of the choroid (tape- turn) to shine through it; and in the albino the pigment is altogether deficient in the cells, so that the vessels give a red appearance to the interior of the eye. This dark layer ab- sorbs the superabundant rays of light entering the eyeball, ciliary Ciliary Ligament and Muscle.—In the eye from which ment. the sclerotic coat has been removed, the white band of the ciliary ligament (annulus albidus), with the muscle close behind it, may be seen in its natural position outside the part of the choroid coat that is reflected inwards to form the ciliary processes. situa- Ciliary ligament.—-This circle is situate in the ball of the eye nearly opposite the junction of the cornea with the sclerotic tunic, and serves the purpose of suspending the iris, and uniting the other coats at the fore part of the eye. Ex- ternally it is closely connected with the sclerotic, but a small interval the sinus circular is iridis exists between the two. Internally the iris and the posterior elastic layer of the cornea are attached to it; and behind it is a grayish stratum (ciliary muscle) on the surface of the choroid coat for about one eighth of an inch. It consists of fibrous tissue, derived from the elastic layer of the cornea, wTith some circular fibres outside these. Ciliary The ciliary muscle consists of unstriped fibres, and forms a grayish layer, about an eighth of an inch wide, on the sur- mentsh" ^ace °^ choroid coat, close to the ciliary ligament. It is connected in front with the ligament, and the fibres are directed backwards and inwards, to end on the choroid coat. The nerves to the iris pierce its fibres, ins is The iris is a vascular contractile structure, whose vessels vascular , • 1 ' i i> i ' i ' • i i ' • t and mus- are continuous with those 01 the choroidal tissue. Its posi- tion and connections may be observed in the different dissec- tions that have been prepared. situa- It is suspended vertically in front of the aperture in the