DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. 302 (interosseous), except a part, viz. the inner half of the flexor pro- fundus digitorum. in both b. The anterior interosseous nerve. — By means of this nerve, the layers. remam;ng muscles of the deep layer are supplied, with the excep- tion above specified. It accompanies the anterior interosseous artery, and will be dissected with that vessel. A cuta- c. The cutaneous palmar branch arises at the lower part of the branch fore-arm; it pierces the fascia near the annular ligament, and of hand crosses *ne ligament to reach the palm of the hand. Radial The radial nerve is the larger of the two branches into D6rv6 in which the musculo-spiral divides in front of the outer con- dyle of the humerus. This nerve is placed along the outer the fore- border of the fore-arm, under cover of the supinator longus, and on the outer side of the radial artery till within three inches of the wrist, where it becomes cutaneous at the pos- ends on terior part of the tendon of the supinator. On the surface of thehand. the limb it divides into two branches, which are distributed on the dorsum of the hand, and on the thumb and the next two fingers (p. 292.). No offset is furnished by the part of the nerve beneath the aponeurosis. Dissec- Dissection.—To examine the deep layer of muscles it will deep0f be necessary to draw well over to the radial side of the fore- muscies. arm the pronator teres and flexor sublimis muscles ; or, if it is thought necessary, these muscles may be divided. The cellular tissue is to be taken from the muscular fibres; and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve, which lie on the interosseous membrane and are concealed by the muscles, are to be traced out. Three Deep layer of muscles. — Only three muscles are JnThe58 present in the deep layer on the front of the fore-arm. One fayer. lies on the ulna, and is the deep flexor of the fingers; another covers the radius, — the long flexor of the thumb ; and the third is the pronator, which is beneath the other two, near the lower end of the bones. Drep The FLEXOR DIGITORUM PROFUNDUS Vel PERFORANS arises fingers?*" from the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna for three- Origin, fourths of the length of the bone, and from the inner half of the interosseous ligament; from the inner part of the ole- cranon, and from an aponeurosis common to this muscle and is at. the flexor carpi ulnaris. The muscle has a thick fleshy belly, last pha- and ends in four tendons, which are not separate above the langes. annujar iigamen^ an(j whose destination is the last phalanges