DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 770 small canal, about two lines across, which has received the above name. It is situate between the plaited part of the suspensory ligament and the front of the hyaloid membrane — being the interval of separation between the two. When the canal has been opened and distended with air, it is sacculated at regular intervals, like the large intestine, in consequence of the inflation of the plaits of the anterior boundary. The margin of the capsule of the lens projects into the space. Crystalline lens and its capsule. — The crystalline lens is situate behind the pupil of the eye, and acts chiefly in bringing to a focus on the retina the rays of light passing through that aperture. Dissection. — The lens will be obtained by cutting across the thin membranous capsule in which it it enclosed. The lens is contained in a capsule, and is seated in a hollow on the front of the vitreous body. The anterior part projects towards the iris and the pupil; whilst the posterior is received in the vitreous body, to which it is firmly fixed. The circumference of its case corresponds to the canal of Petit. When the lens is removed it is a solid and transparent doubly convex body; but the curves are unequal on the two surfaces, the posterior being greater than the anterior. Its margin is somewhat rounded. The density increases from the circumference to the centre; for the superficial part rubs off easily with the finger; but the deeper portion is hard and firm, and is named the nucleus. Its measurement from side to side is from one third to half an inch, and from before back about one sixth of an inch. On each surface are three lines diverging from the centre, and reaching to- wards the margin ; they are the edges of septa, and are so situate that those on one side are intermediate in position to those on the other. In the human eye they are not dis- tinctly seen, because they bifurcate repeatedly as they extend outwards. Covering the surface of the lens, and connecting it with the capsule, is a layer of very transparent nucleated cells, which can be recognised only in a fresh eye (Todd and Bowman). After a little time these cells break down, pro- bably from the absorption of the aqueous humour, and form