■ 534 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. with the intestine. In structure it resembles the rest of the colon. Dry the Dissection. — To study the interior of the caecum, and the cscum, m, and open valve between it and the small intestine, the specimen now it to see 1 the under examination should be dried. After the caecum has valves. been dried the following cuts should be made into it: — One oval piece is to be taken from the end of the ileum ; another from the side of the caecum, opposite the entrance of the . small intestine; and lastly the end of the colon included in the ligature is to be cut off. situation lleo-ccecal valve.— On looking into the intestine, the ileo- vaive; caecal valve will be seen at the entrance of the ileum into two the caecum. This structure is composed of two pieces, each pieces , . ... . form it; with a different inclination, which project into the interior of the caecum, and bound a narrow, nearly transverse aper- ture of communication between the two differently-sized one iieo- parts of the alimentary canal. The upper piece of the valve colic, (ileocolic) projects vertically into the large intestine, oppo- theother site the junction of the ilium with the colon : and the lower csecai. piece (ileo-caecal), which is the larger of the two, has a hori- These zontal direction between the ileum and the caecum. At each eTauhe extremity of the opening the pieces of the valve are blended together, and the resulting folds extend transversely for and form some distance on the intestine, forming the frcena or reti- opening nacu^a °f the valve. The size of the opening in the valve valve6 depends upon the distension of the intestine; for when the caecum is enlarged, so as to stretch the frcena, the margins of the opening are approximated, and may be made to touch. The Each piece of the valve is formed by the circular muscular proiorf-' fibres of the intestinal tube, covered by mucous membrane; thewa?i as if the ileum was thrust obliquely through the wall of the gut. caecum, after being deprived of its peritoneal coat and its layer of longitudinal fibres. The arrangement above re- ferred to is easily seen, on a fresh specimen, by dividing the peritoneum and the longitudinal fibres, and then gently drawing out the ileum. Append. The opening of the appendix into the caecum is placed intoPens below that of the ileum. A small fold of mucous membrane caecum, closes the aperture, and acts as a valve. Ridges Folds or ridqes are directed transversely in the interior of in the _ , v _ _ , J . the gut, and correspond to the depressions on the outer sur-