SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION. 145 To lay bare the nerves that descend to the palate, the branches n , n ... to the posterior part of the piece of mucous membrane that has palate, been separated from the septum of the nose, as well as that lining the posterior part of the nasal fossa behind the spongy bones, should be taken away. After this has been removed, the palatine nerves and vessels will be seen through the thin ascending plate of the palate bone, and will be readily reached by breaking through the bone with a chisel, After- wards, the tube of membrane that contains the vessels and nerves is to be opened, and these are to be followed down to the soft palate and roof of the mouth, and then onwards to- wards the incisor teeth. The palatine nerves will lead up- body of wards to the ganglion, which is close to the body of the giion; sphenoid bone. But to bring the ganglion fully into view, it will be necessary to saw through the projecting part of the sphenoid bone, to cut away pieces of the bones surrounding the hollow in which it lies, and to remove with care the enveloping fat and the periosteum. The ganglion may be then seen to be a small reddish-looking body, from which the vidian nerve passes backwards. To trace backwards the vidian branch to the carotid plexus vidian nerve. and the facial nerve, the student must lay open the canal which contains it in the root of the pterygoid process; and in doing this he must be careful of a small pharyngeal branch of nerve and artery that are superficial to the vidian, and lie in the pterygo-palatine canal. At the back of the pterygoid canal, a small branch from the vidian to the carotid plexus is to be looked for. Lastly, the vidian nerve is to be followed into the skull by cutting away the point of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and the internal carotid artery; and is to be pursued on the surface of the temporal bone, beneath the ganglion of the fifth nerve, to the hiatus Fallopii. Its junction with the facial nerve will be seen with the dissection of that nerve. It is rather a troublesome task to trace the nerve through the cartilage in the foramen lacerum medium (basis cranii). The SPHENOPALATINE GANGLION (ganglion of Meckel) Gan- occupies the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno- Meckel, palatine foramen, and is connected with the palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve. The ganglionic situa-