INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 91 the external pterygoid ; and oftentimes the trunk of the in- ternal maxillary artery will be found beneath that muscle. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY is One of the terminal Internal branches of the external carotid, and takes a winding COUrse lary ar- beneath the lower jaw and the temporal muscle to the spheno- tery* maxillary fossa, where it ends in branches for the face, the interior of the nose, and the palate. At first the artery is directed inwards beneath the jaw, be- Course tween the bone and the internal lateral ligament of the joint, nections.. and crosses the dental nerve. Next, the vessel winds over the external pterygoid muscle, being placed between it and the temporal muscle. And, lastly, the artery enters the spheno- maxillary fossa between the processes of origin of the exter- nal pterygoid muscle. The trunk of the artery may be divided into three parts: one beneath the jaw, a second be- tween the muscles, and a third in the spheno-maxillary fossa. The course of the artery is sometimes beneath, in- varies stead of over the external pterygoid muscle. In such in- position, stances the artery gains the spheno-maxillary fossa by coming upwards between the origin of the muscle covering it. The branches of this artery are very numerous, and are Branch- classed into three sets, corresponding to the divisions made thiJe3 in the trunk of the artery : thus, one set arises beneath the jaw, another beneath the temporal muscle, and another in the spheno-maxillary fossa. Two branches, viz. the inferior dental and middle menin- Those geal, leave the internal maxillary artery, whilst it is in con- jaw, nection with the ramus of the jaw. 1. The inferior dental branch descends between the internal late- inferior ral ligament and the jaw, and enters the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus, along with the dental nerve, to supply the teeth. As this artery is about to enter the foramen it furnishes a small has a twig, mylo-hyoid branch, to the muscle of that name ; this is con- to myio- ducted by a groove on the inner surface of the bone, in company muscle; with a branch from the dental nerve, to the superficial surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, where it anastomoses with the submental artery. 2. The middle or great meningeal artery is the largest branch, Middle and arises opposite the preceding one. It ascends beneath the ex- geal ar- ternal pterygoid muscle, crossing the internal lateral ligament, and tery enters the skull through the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid