GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. 685 the femur in the lower part (three inches) of the line lead- ing from the linea aspera to the great trochanter. The glu- teus forms the prominence of the buttock, and resembles the deltoid in its situation and in the coarseness of its texture. Its cutaneous surface is covered by the common investing Connec- J ° tions of fascial of the limb, and the superficial nerves; the parts in ^egUr" contact with the undej* surface will be seen when the muscle is cut through. The upper border overlays the gluteus ^sbor" medius ; and the lower border, which is longer and thicker than the upper, forms the fold of the nates and bounds pos- teriorly the perinaeal space. Beneath the lower border the hamstring muscles and the sciatic vessels and nerve are placed. Dissection. — The gluteus maximus is to be cut across Divide to the near the pelvis but external to the sacral nerves perforating gluteus r . ... maxi- it, and, without injuring the subjacent sacro-sciatic ligament, mus. to which the lower fibres are closely joined. The depth of the muscle will be ascertained by the fascia beneath it, and by some vessels. When this intermuscular layer is arrived at, the outer part of the gluteus is to be thrown towards its insertion, and the sciatic artery and nerves are to be detached from the under surface, though the branches that enter the muscular surface must be cut. The loose fat is to be taken away from the hollow between clean the pelvis and the trochanter, without injuring the vessels beneath, and nerves ; the several muscles of this region are then to be cleaned, and the fibres of each are to be made tense, at the time of its dissection, by rotating the femur. In removing the fat from the tuberosity of the ischium and from the great tro- chanter, the bursa on each prominence of bone should be ob- served. The vessels, nerves, and muscles to be made out in this region, are noticed below in the enumeration of the parts beneath the gluteus. Lastly, the origin of the muscle is to be removed ; and the Dissect sacral nerves, being dissected out of it, are to be followed to sacral the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where theynerveS* are united, and concealed by some aponeurotic fibres. Parts beneath the gluteus.—At its origin the gluteus Parts maximus rests on the pelvis, and conceals part of the ilium, bygiu- sacrum, and coccyx ; above, the muscle also covers the tube- its ori- rosity of the ischium, the origin of the hamstring muscles, 8m