DISSECTION OF THE ABM. 282 Median The median nerve arises from the brachial plexus by two nerve in J the arm roots, one from the outer, and the other from the inner cord is with thear. of the nerves (p. 259.) ; its destination is the palm of the tery hand, and it accompanies the brachial artery to the fore-arm. Commencing on the outer side of the artery, the nerve crosses over or under the vessel about the middle of the arm, has not and is found on the inner side a little above the elbow. It any branch does not give any branch in the arm, but there may be a arm. fasciculus connecting it with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its connections with muscles are the same as those of the artery. ulnar The ulnar nerve is derived from the inner cord of the changes brachial plexus, and in its progress to the inner side of the tion. hand, it courses along the inner part of the arm, and enters the fore-arm at the inner side of the elbow joint. At first the nerve lies close to the inner side of the axillary, and of the brachial artery as far as the insertion of the coraco- brachial ; but in the remainder of the arm it leaves the vessel, and is directed inwards through the inner inter- muscular septum, and descends, almost surrounded by the muscular fibres of the triceps, to the interval between the Ts with- olecranon and the inner condyle. There is not any branch branch glven from this nerve till it reaches the elbow joint, but a as the branch to the triceps muscle, from the musculo-spiral, accom- eibow. panies it in the lower part of its course, internal The internal cutaneous is a tegumentary nerve of the fore- noons arm, to which it is prolonged like the others. Part of the beneath nerve has been before seen, and only that small portion fascia, which is beneath the fascia of the limb, remains to be studied in the arm. Arising from the inner cord of the plexus, it is at first internal, and then becomes superficial to the humeral artery as far as the middle of the arm, where it divides into two branches that perforate the investing fascia (p. 276.). Near the axilla it furnishes a small cutaneous offset to the integuments of the arm, which pierces the fascia higher than the trunk of the nerve. Nerve of ^ ne small internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg *) is distributed in the part of the arm now dissected. It * An account of this nerve is given by Klint. See a paper in Lud wig's Scriptores Nevrologici Minores, torn. iii. " De Nervis Brachii."