611 THE PROSTATE GLAND. After the viscera are removed, the rectum is to be sepa- clean the rated from the other viscera, but the bladder and the penis ladder and urethra are to remain united. After the bladder has pros- tate* been distended with air, the peritoneum and the cellular membrane are to be dissected from the muscular fibres: the prostate gland and the vesiculas seminales are to be after- wards cleaned ; and the duct of the latter, and that of the vas deferens, to be followed into the gland. If any of the in- tegument has been left on the penis and the urethra it is to be removed. THE PROSTATE GLAND AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Prostate Gland. — This is a firm glandular body that Use and secretes a special fluid, and surrounds the neck of the bladder tion. and the beginning of the urethra. Its connections with the surrounding parts have been enumerated (p. 591.). The gland is conical in form, with the base or larger end Form, directed backwards, and is usually likened to a chesnut, which it much resembles. Its dimensions in different direc- dimen- tions are the following : — Transversely at the base it mea- sures about an inch and a half; from apex to base rather more than an inch; and in depth about three quarters of an inch or an inch: so that an incision directed obliquely downwards and outwards from the apex to the base of the gland, at its lateral part, will be the longest that can be practised in this body. Its weight is about an ounce, but in and , . . , weight. this respect it varies greatly. The upper surface of the prostate is rounded, but a slight sur- groove lies along the middle ; and the under surface, which is larger and flatter, is marked by a median hollow that indicates the division into lateral lobes. The posterior part, and base, or the base, is thick, and in its centre is an excavation which receives the common ejaculatory ducts. Three lobes are described in the prostate, viz. a middle Three and two lateral, though there is little division of the glan- dular mass. The lateral lobes are similar on each side, and two are separated only by the hollow on the under surface; they form the chief part of the gland, and are prolonged back, on each side, beyond the notch in the base. The middle lobe and a will be brought into view by detaching the vesicuke semi- R It 2