INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 605 the other vessels, viz. the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. The middle sacral artery, a small branch from the bifur- Middle . sacral, cation of the aorta, descends along the middle line of the which body, over the last lumbar vertebra, the sacrum, and the coccyx, and terminates at the lower part of the spinal column, by anastomosing with the lateral sacral arteries. In its course the artery gives small branches laterally, has these i n i n i offsets- opposite each vertebral element ot the sacrum, to anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, and supply the nerves, and the bones with their periosteum. Sometimes a small branch is furnished by it to the lower end of the rectum, which takes the place of the middle hemorrhoidal artery. The internal iliac vein receives the blood from the wall veins of the pelvis, and the pelvic viscera, by branches corre- "ntS sponding for the most part to those of the arteries. The trunk 5 vein is a short and thick trunk, which is situate at first on position the inner side of the internal iliac artery; but as it ascends artery, to join with the external iliac it passes behind, and on the right side reaches even the outer aspect of its companion vessel. Some of the branches that form the trunk of the internal its iliac vein, viz. the gluteal, obturator, and sciatic, have the that are same anatomy as the arteries; but the following branches, are the pudic and dorsal of the penis, the vesical and hgemor- rhoidal, the uterine and vaginal, have some peculiarities. The pudic vein receives roots corresponding to the pudic branches of the artery in the perineum, but not those corre- sponding to the offsets of the artery on the dorsum of the penis. Its hemorrhoidal branch commences in a large plexus around the lower end of the rectum (plexus hemor- rhoidalis) with which the superior hgemorrhoidal vein com- municates. The dorsal vein of the penis receives vessels from the dorsal vein of penis, body of the penis, viz. the corpora cavernosa and corpus spongiosum, pierces the triangular ligament of the urethra, and divides into two, a right and a left branch, which enter a plexus around the membranous part of the urethra and the prostate. The vesical veins commence in a plexus about the lower vesical,