DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 278 Position. Muscles on the Front of the Arm.—The most promi- muscies nent muscle along the centre of the arm is the biceps; and arm. the one along its inner side, reaching about half way down, is the coraco-brachialis. The brachialis anticus muscle is beneath the biceps. Some muscles of the fore-arm are con- nected to the outer and inner condyles of the humerus, as well as to the line above the outer condyle. Biceps The biceps muscle forms the prominence observable on short the front of the arm. It is wider at the middle than at head!°ng either end, and the upper part of the muscle consists of two pieces or heads, of different lengths, which are attached to Origin the scapula. The short head is tendinous, and arises from from the r 7 scapula, the apex of the coracoid process in common with the coraco- brachialis muscle; and the long head, which is also tendi- nous, is attached to the upper part of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, within the capsule of the shoulder joint. Mus- cular fibres spring from each head of origin, and are blended, about the middle of the arm, in one fleshy mass or belly, insertion which is somewhat flattened from before back, and is in- dius. serted by a tendon into the radius behind the tubercle. Parts Xhe muscle is superficial except at the extremities: at its covering \ A upper part the biceps is concealed by the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles; and at the lower part the tendon dips into the hollow in front of the elbow, but it previously gives and he- an offset to the fascia of the arm. Beneath the biceps are nea it. ^e bracnia]js anticus muscle, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, inner and the upper part of the humerus. The inner border is the gu7dertoS guide to the brachial artery, below the middle of the hu- tSry?r" merus, but the coraco-brachialis muscle intervenes between it and the vessel above that spot. The connection of the long head of the biceps writh the shoulder joint, and the insertion of the muscle into the radius will be afterwards dissected. Coraco- The coraco-brachialis is a muscle of.a roundish form, lis is and is named from its bony attachments. Its origin is fleshy named n ' ,. trom the from the tip of the coracoid process, and from the tendinous a'tach- ments. short head of the biceps. Its fibres end below in a tendon which is inserted into a a-idge, on the inner side of the hu- merus, that separates the anterior and posterior surfaces, and is about opposite the attachment of the deltoid muscle on the outer aspect; from its tendon of insertion an aponeurotic slip Connec. is continued to the head of the humerus. Part of the muscle sur- is beneath the pectoralis major, and forms a prominence in