GREAT VESSELS OF THE HEART. 361 Great Vessels of the Heart. — The arteries that take vessels origin from the heart are the pulmonary artery and the of the aorta. The large veins entering the heart, besides the coro= nary, which have been examined, are the superior and the inferior cava, and the pulmonary veins. The pulmonary artery is a short thick trunk that con- The pul- monary veys the dark or impure blood from the right side of the artery heart to the lungs. From its commencement in the right ventricle, the vessel is directed upwards on the left of the aorta ; and at a distance of an inch and a half or two inches is a from its origin, divides into two branches, of nearly equal trunk, size, for the lungs. Near the bifurcation of the artery is a yides small ligamentous cord, the remnant of the arterial duct, for the which passes from the left branch of the vessel to the arch of the aorta, and is named ligamentum ductus arteriosi. The trunk of the pulmonary artery is contained in the peri- £°™ec" cardium; and beneath it is the beginning of the aorta, to- gether with the left auricle. On each side are the coronary artery and the auricula. The right branch is longer than the left. In its course to Right the lung it lies beneath the aorta, and the vena cava supe- i0rngest!s rior, and rests on the bronchus or the division of the air tube: and as it passes outwards, it is above the level of the right auricle of the heart. At the lung the artery divides into three primary branches, one for each lobe, which enter the pulmonic substance. The left branch is rather smaller than the right; it is Left ° branch, directed in front of the descending aorta and the left bronchus, to the fissure of the root of the lung, where it divides into two branches corresponding to the number of the lobes. As the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery Space at pass outwards, they cross the divisions of the air tube, and furca- enclose with these a lozenge-shaped space which contains some bronchial glands. Ductus arteriosus. — In the fetus, the part of the pul- Condi- ? r r tion of monary artery which is now ligamentous, was the continua- the ac- tion of the trunk of the vessel, and was larger than either the fetus.. branch to the lung., At that period the vessel above referred to receives the name arterial canal or duct (ductus arte- riosus, Botalli), and opens into the aorta rather beyond the