DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 362 origin from the arch of the last great vessel of the head and neck. As the lungs do not give passage to the circulating fluid before birth, the blood of the pulmonary artery passes into the aorta below the attachment of the vessels of the head and neck, in order that it may be transmitted to the placenta to be purified; but after birth the function of the lungs is established, and the current of blood is directed along the branches of the pulmonary arteries instead of through the arterial duct : then this last channel becomes gradually smaller, and is quite obliterated before the eighth or the tenth day. This The aorta is the great systemic vessel that conveys the vessel blood from the heart to the different4parts of the body. The extends 1 . J vessel first arches backwards to reach the spinal column, on through which it afterwards extends through the chest and the abdo- chest ... andab- men. In the thorax, the vessel is divided into two parts— domen. t r arch of the aorta, and the descending or thoracic aorta, its first Arch of the aorta, — The aorta has its origin in the left part is . J . ° arched, ventricle, close below the junction of the cartilage of the The ex- third rib of the left side with the sternum. From that point tent . it ascends, and curves backwards over the windpipe and the gullet, to reach the left side of the spinal column. And it loses its designation of 6i arch" at the lower border of the body of the third dorsal vertebra. The arch has its con- vexity upwards and to the right, and from it the large vessels for the supply of the upper part of the body take anddi- their origin. For the purpose of reducing to order the visions . n . n of the numerous connections 01 this portion 01 the aorta, the arch is divided into three parts—ascending, transverse, and descending. First a. The first or ascending part is about two inches in part' length, or slightly more, and is directed upwards behind, length and very close to the sternum: it reaches as high as the nections". upper border of the cartilage of the second rib on the right side, and is contained nearly altogether in the pericardium. At first the pulmonary artery is superficial to the aorta; but as these vessels take different directions, the latter is soon uncovered, and remains so to its termination. On the right side is the descending cava, and on the left, the pul- monary artery. Behind it is the right division of the pul- monary artery. Near the heart the vessel bulges opposite