THE EXTERNAL EAR. 37 D 3 The nerves of the eyelids are supplied from the ophthalmic Nerves i /-> • i of lids and racial nerves. The branches of the ophthalmic nerve (of the fifth) that give fr0m offsets to the upper lid, are the following: lachry7nal, near the fitth outer part; supra-orbital, about the middle; and supra-trochlear and infra-trochlear at the inner side (p. 44.). In the lower eyelid, about its middle, is a branch of the superior maxillary nerve (of the fifth). The branches of the facial nerve enter both lids at the outer and part, and supply the orbicularis muscle; they also communicate ^ve1*1 with the branches of the fifth nerve. External Ear—The outer ear consists of a trumpet- Parts of shaped structure, named pinna or auricle, which collects ear?rnal sounds; and of a tube — meatus auditorius, which conveys those sounds to the inner ear. The pinna may be examined on the left side of the head, but the meatus will be described with the rest of the anatomy of the ear. The pinna, or auricle of the ear, is an uneven piece of Texture yellow cartilage, which is covered with integument, and is form of fixed to the margin of the meatus auditorius externus. It is pmna' of an oval form, with the margin folded, and the larger end placed upwards. The surface next the head is convex, but the opposite one surfaces is hollowed out, and presents the undermentioned elevations b/iSL and depressions. In the centre of the ear is a deep hollow nenceT" named concha, which conducts to the meatus auditorius. In front of that hollow is a projection of a triangular shape — the tragus, which has some hairs on the under-surface ; and on the opposite side of the hollow, rather below the level of the tragus, is another projection, the antitragus. The round, rim-like margin of the ear is called the helix, and the depression internal to it, the groove, or fossa of the helix. Within the helix, between it and the concha, is the large eminence of the a?itihelix, which presents at the upper part a well-marked depression, the fossa of the antihelix. Infe- riorly, the external ear is terminated by a soft, pendulous part, the lobule. The muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part of Five the cartilage to another, are very delicate, and in some bodies muscles IP 1 -TV ni n °f exter* are not to be found, h lve small muscles are usually de- nai ear. scribed, which receive their names for the most part from