96 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. and cut- c. The incisor branch continues the trunk of the nerve onwards teeth, to the middle line, and furnishes offsets to the canine and incisor teeth, beneath which it lies. Branch d. The labial branch (mental ?) issues on the face beneath the iip!°wer depressor of the angle of the mouth. At first it communicates with the facial nerve, and gives branches to the muscle covering it, as well as to the orbicularis and the integuments. But the greater part of the nerve is directed upwards, beneath the depressor labii inferioris, and is distributed on the inner and outer surfaces of the lower lip. Dental The inferior dental arteryr, after entering the lower jaw with the nerve, has the same course and distribution. Thus it supplies dental branches to the molar and bicuspid teeth, has an and ends anteriorly in an incisor and a labial branch. incisor The incisor branch is continued to the symphysis of the jaw, beneath the canine and incisor teeth, which it supplies, and anas- tomoses with the artery of the opposite side. labial The labial branch, after it has left the bone, ramifies in the branch. s^ruc^ures COVering the lower jaw, and communicates with the branches of the facial artery. Gustato- The gustatory or lingual nerye is the remaining part ry nerve of the inferior maxillary, and is concealed at first, like the courses others, by the external pterygoid muscle. It is then inclined tongue; inwards over the internal pterygoid muscle, and under cover of the side of the jaw to the tongue. The remainder of this nerve will be seen in the dissection of the submaxillary region. no In this extent of the nerve there is not any branch distri- here, tributed to the parts around, but a communicating branch (chorda tympani) is received by it. but is The chorda tympani is a branch of the facial nerve which fc^7 is distributed to the tongue. The origin of this nerve, and tympam. course across the tympanum, to its position beneath the external pterygoid, are described in Section 14. After issuing from the tympanum, by an aperture near the Glas- serian fissure, this small nerve is inclined forwards to be applied to the gustatory nerve at an acute angle. At the point of junction some fibres communicate with the gustatory, but the greater part of the chorda tympani is conducted by that nerve to the lingualis muscle. An offset will be seen in the subsequent Section to be furnished from it to the submaxillary ganglion.