INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 471 H H 4 parts that are covered by the internal oblique cannot be seen till the muscle is reflected. The CREMASTER MUSCLE is a fasciculus of fibres, that lies Cremas- along the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, and is cie. so named from suspending the testicle. Superiorly the muscle has attachments at the inner and outer sides similar to those of the internal oblique. Externally it is fleshy, and is attached to Poupart's ligament below the internal oblique, Attach- with which some of the fibres are connected, and it may also external ' J fleshy, join the transversalis; but internally it is small and pointed, internal and is fixed, chiefly by tendon, to the front of the os pubis ^us] and the sheath of the rectus. Between those two points the forms fibres descend on the front and sides of the cord, forming over the loops with the convexity downwards; and the lowest loops are connected with the tunica vaginalis testis. The muscu- giving ° t rise to lar fibres are united by cellular membrane so as to give rise ^emas- to a covering on the front of the cord, which is named fascia fascia. cremasterica. Occasionally the fibres may be behind as well as on the sides and front of the cord. Dissection. — On the left side of the body the student is in left not to make any further dissection of the abdominal wall; replace parts. but the parts that have been reflected in the groin should be carefully replaced, until the examination of those parts in connection with hernia are returned to. On the right side the dissection is to be carried deeper by on right the reflection of the internal oblique and the cremaster. abdomen The last muscle may be reflected from the cord by means of cremas- a longitudinal incision. To raise the internal oblique, it internal will be necessary to cut it through near the ribs, and near 0 lque' the crest of the ilium, and then to connect those incisions behind: its depth will be indicated by a cellular layer be- tween it and the transversalis. In raising the muscle towards the edge of the rectus, the student must separate with great care the lower fibres from those of the trans- versalis, with which they are often conjoined; and must dis- sect out the trunks of the intercostal nerves and arteries, the last dorsal nerve, and the two branches of the lumbar plexus (ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal) near the front of the crest of the ilium : the intercostal offsets that enter the • muscle must be cut. Parts covered by the oblique. — The internal oblique con- Parts