734 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. terosse- supply the interosseous muscles, and divide at the cleft of the toes into two dorsal collateral branches. At the fore part and the back of each space the interosseous arteries join the deep vessels in the sole of the foot by means of the anterior and posterior perforating arteries. First The first interosseous branch (arteria dorsalis pollicis pedis) arises seous. from the trunk of the artery as this is about to leave the dorsum of the foot; it extends forwards in the space between the first two toes, and is distributed like the other interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery. Anterior The anterior tibial veins have the same extent and con- veins, nections as the artery they accompany. They have their usual position along the artery, one on each side, around which they form loops by cross branches ; they end in the popliteal vein. The branches they receive correspond to those of the artery ; and they communicate with the internal saphenous vein. Varie- Peculiarities in size. — The anterior tibial may be small, or even anterior wanting, in which case the place of its diminished or deficient part tibial wiH be supplied by the posterior tibial or the peroneal artery. In position. — On the dorsum of the foot it is often removed farther outwards than the direction of a line from the centre of the ankle to the posterior part of the first interosseous space, and dor-- Substitution. — The place of the dorsal artery of the foot may be telyT" taken by a large anterior peroneal artery. Divide Dissection.—To examine the extensor brevis digitorum on sorion- the dorsum of the foot, cut through the tendons of the gus' extensor longus and peroneus tertius below the annular ligament, and throw them towards the toes. The attachment of the muscle to the os calcis should be defined. Exten- The extensor brevis digitorum is a short thin muscle vis " on the dorsum of the foot. It arises from the outer surface of the os calcis in front of the groove for the peroneus brevis muscle, and from the anterior annular ligament (the sends lower band); the muscle ends in four tendons, which spring tendons to four from as many fleshy bellies, and are inserted into the four inner it* toes; inner toes. The tendon to the great toe has a distinct attachment to the base of the metatarsal phalanx; but the rest are united to the outer side of the tendons of the long extensor, and assist to form the expansion on the metatarsal onfStehesen Pnalanx (P* 731.). The muscle lies on the tarsus, and is