DISSECTION OP THE PELVIS. 606 part of the bladder, and anastomose with the prostatic and hemorrhoidal veins, uterine, The uterine veins are numerous, and form a plexus in and by the side of the uterus. This plexus inosculates above with the ovarian plexus, and below with one on the vagina, vaginal The vaginal veins also surround the vagina with a large veins. u 0 ° vascular plexus. Parietal Parietal veins of the pelvis, — The other veins of the wall of the pelvis, viz. the ilio lumbar, lateral sacral, and middle sacral, open into the common iliac vein. Dissec- Dissection. — To dissect the nerves of the pelvis it will be tion of the necessary to detach the urethra from the arch of the pubes, nerves J . A of the and to cut through on the right side the recto-vesical fascia pelvis . i-ii and the levator am, together with the visceral arteries, in order that the viscera may be drawn from the side of the pelvis. If the bladder is distended let the air escape from it. sacral By means of this dissection the sacral nerves will be and coc- . n cygeai, Seen as they issue from the sacral foramina; and the dis- sector should follow the first four into the sacral plexus, as well as some branches from the fourth to the viscera. A branch of nerve, superior gluteal, is to be shown arising from the lumbo-sacral cord, as this passes to the sacral plexus. The last sacral and the coccygeal nerve are of small size, and will be found coming through the coccygeus muscle close to the coccyx; these are to be dissected with care, and the student will best find them by tracing connecting fila- ments that pass from one to another, beginning above with the offset from the fourth nerve. andsym- At the lower part of the rectum, bladder, and vagina is a pathetic. # m large plexus of the sympathetic, the pelvic plexus, which sends offsets to the viscera along the arteries. This plexus is generally destroyed in this stage of the dissection ; but if it should remain the student may trace the offsets from it, and the communicating branches with the spinal nerves, sacral Spinal sacral nerves.— The anterior primary branches nerves are five; of the sacral nerves are five in number, and decrease sud- denly in size from above downwards; for whilst the first two are large trunks, the last two are small and slender. Issuing by the apertures in the front of the sacrum (the fifth nerve excepted), the nerves receive short filaments of communica- those tion from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. The