84 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. ting the mylo-hyoideus and anastomosing with the sublingual artery. Facial The facial vein (p. 29.) joins the internal jugular vein. vem* In the cervical part of its course it receives branches corre- sponding to those of the artery, and often throws itself into the temporo-maxillary trunk, occipi. The occipital artery is of considerable size, and is destined artery for the back of the head. It arises from the carotid opposite the facial branch, and at the lower border of the digastric muscle. From this spot the artery ascends to the inner part ends on of the mastoid process of the temporal bone ; next it turns occiput, jlorjzon^aj]y backwards on the occipital bone, passing above the transverse process of the atlas ; and finally becomes in neck cutaneous near the middle line (p. 6.). In the neck this offseTto artery passes beneath the digastric muscle and a part of the parotid gland, and crosses over the internal carotid artery, the jugular vein, and the spinal accessory and hypo-glossal nerves. the dura The only offset from the artery in the front of the neck is a mater* small posterior meningeal branch to the dura mater in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. This ascends along the internal jugular vein, and enters the skull by the foramen lacerum (p. 17.). The branches at the back of the neck will be afterwards seen. Occipi- The occipital vein begins at the back of the head (p. 6.), and has the same course as the artery; it communicates with the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen, also with the diploic veins, and opens into the internal jugular, sometimes into the external jugular vein. Poste- The posterior auricular artery is smaller than the pre- auri- ceding branch, and takes origin above the digastric muscle. cular ° 7 ° #° artery in Ascending in the same direction as 'the occipital artery,' viz. supplies to the interval between the ear and the mastoid process, it divides finally into two branches for the ear and occiput (p. 6.). a branch A small branch, stylo-mastoid, enters the foramen of the same to the _ ... ' . , . ear. name, and supplies the internal ear. Vein The vein with the artery receives a stylo-mastoid branch, artery, and terminates in the trunk formed by the temporal and in- ternal maxillary veins. Tempo- The temporal artery is in direction the continuation of the tery, external carotid trunk, and is one of the terminal branches of that artery. Ascending through the parotid gland, in the