781 VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE TYMPANUM. The stapedius is lodged in the canal hollowed in the in- stapedis terior of the pyramid. Arising from the circumference of the py- the tube,, the muscle ends superiorly in a small tendon ; this issues from the pyramid, and is inserted into the neck of the attached 1 J to stapes. stapes at the posterior part. Laxator tympani (external muscle of the malleus).—It is Laxator . . tympani connected externally with the spinous process of the sphenoid bone ; and its tendon, passing through the Glasserian fissure, is attached to the neck of the malleus above the processus gracilis. Mucous membrane of the tympanum.—The mucous lining Lining of the tympanic cavity adheres closely to the wall, and is panum continuous with that of the pharynx through the Eustachian tube: it assists to close the meatus auditorius and the fenestra rotunda, and is, moreover, continued into the mastoid cells through the aperture leading into them. Its surface is covered with a ciliated epithelium. A layer of epithelium Epithe- can be detached from the inner surface of the membrana tympani, in the same manner as a cuticular stratum may be separated on the outer side. Blood-vessels. — The arteries of the tympanum are fur- Arteries nished from the following branches of the external carotid, branches viz., internal maxillary, posterior auricular, ascending pha- tfd?ar°" ryngeal; and some offsets come also from the internal carotid, whilst it is contained in the temporal bone. The veins join the middle meningeal and pharyngeal trunks. a. The internal maxillary artery supplies first a tympanic From branch (inferior), that is distributed around the membrane maxii- of the tympanum ; next it gives an offset to the cavity from the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery, which enters the temporal bone by the hiatus Fallopii. b. The stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular Posteru artery, entering the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, cuiar. gives twigs to the back of the cavity, and the mastoid cells. One of this set, superior tympanic, anastomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and forms a circle around the membrana tympani, from which branches are directed inwards. c. Other branches from the ascending pharyngeal, or from inferior the inferior palatine artery, enter the space along the Eus- Falatme* tachian tube.