552 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. body, and is perforated by the two vessels connected with that body.* Into this little sac the epithelial lining does not extend, for it ceases at the neck, becoming very delicate and translucent. Dilatations for the lodgment of the Malpighian body are said to be connected with the side, as well as the end of the tubes. Corpus- The Malpighian corpuscles (glomeruli of Ruysch) are the ' small, rounded or oblong, vascular bodies, that are contained 'in the dilated sacs of the uriniferal tubes. Each little vas- size; cular tuft has commonly a diameter of y^^th of an inch, and compos- is formed by the capillary ramifications of two small vessels vessel?0 tna* perforate the end of the containing tube. One vessel (afferent) is a small twig of the renal artery, which forms the exterior of the tuft by its branchings ; the other (efferent) occupies the centre of the tuft, and issuing from the tube ends in the plexus on a neighbouring uriniferal tube. This capillary body is free in the cavity of the tube that secretes the urine, but it is covered by some nucleated scales. Blood- Blood-vessels.—The artery and vein that are distributed ar|sels to the kidney are very large in proportion to the size of the large' organ they nourish ; and some small arterial branches have andar- & J ... . . teries a peculiar disposition in the Malpighian bodies before they liar. become capillary, and end in the veins. Branch- Renal artery. — As the artery enters the kidney it divides into arteryhe ^our or ^ve branches, which are invested by sheaths of the fibrous capsule, and are transmitted to the cortical substance between the reach pyramidal masses. Some of the offsets of a chief branch enter the exterior, pyramidal mass, and ramify on the tubes, forming anastomotic supply loops parallel with those tubes, whilst the continuation of the ^'ndUform trunk is distributed in the cortex around the pyramid. The ter- giome- minal twigs of the artery end either in the Malpighian bodies or in a vascular plexus around the uriniferal tubes. Veins Renal vein. — This vein begins in the capillary plexuses on the around convoluted urine tubes, and its larger branches are directed to the tubules, centre 0f the kidney, where they communicate around the pyra- midal masses. From this spot the divisions of the vein accom- and end pany those of the artery, and are united finally into one trunk that opens into the vena cava. Some of the small roots of the vein m vena cava. * See a Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1842, Part I., On the Structure and Use of the Malpighian Bodies of the Kidney, by W. Bowman, F.R.S,