7 CUTANEOUS VESSELS. b 4 pinna of the ear; and an offset from it pierces the pinna to be distributed on the opposite surface. The veins of the exterior of the head are so similar to the Veins arteries, that a full notice of each is not required. All the scalp,, veins corresponding to the branches of the internal carotid artery enter the facial vein, whilst the rest open into the jugular veins. These superficial veins communicate both with the sinuses in the interior of the skull by means of small branches named emissary, and with the veins occupy- ing the spongy substance (diploe) of the cranial bones. w The frontal vein is directed towards the inner angle of the orbit, like the J t . . . . arteries. where it receives the supra-orbital vein, the two giving rise to the angular vein of the face. Both the superficial temporal and pos- terior auricular veins open into the external jugular; and the occi- pital joins the internal jugular vein. Cutaneous Nerves.—The terminal parts of the several Nerves r m of the nerves are furnished from both the cranial and spinal nerves, scalp are The half of the head anterior to the ear receives branches from the three trunks of the fifth cranial nerve, and a few offsets from the facial nerve. All the rest of the head is supplied by spinal nerves, from both anterior and posterior divisions, except close behind the ear, where there is a branch of the facial (seventh cranial) nerve. The supra-orbital nerve is a branch of the first trunk of Supra- ... orbital the fifth nerve, and escapes from the orbit with its com- nerve; panion artery; whilst beneath the occipito-frontalis muscle, the nerve gives offsets to it and the orbicularis palpebrarum, as well as others to the pericranium. Finally, the nerve ends in two cutaneous branches, which ramify between the epicranial aponeurosis and the skin: — One of these (inner) soon pierces the occipito-frontalis, and its two reaches backwards as far as the parietal bone. The other branch ous (outer), is of larger size, and perforating the muscle higher up, e™nch" extends over the arch of the head to the occipital bone. Whilst the nerve is escaping from the supra-orbital notch it furnishes some filaments (palpebral) to the upper eyelid. In the orbicular muscle a communication is established between this and the facial nerve. At the inner angle of the orbit is the small supra-trochlear branch and su- of the same nerve. It turns upwards to the forehead close to the troch- bone, and piercing the muscular fibres ends in the integument, branch.