DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 580 and ter- diaphragm and the psoas, to reach the intervals between the mina- tion m transverse processes, where each ends in an abdominal and a dorsal branch, The arteries of the right side pass beneath the vena cava. a branch The dorsal branch continues onwards to the back be- to the back, tween the transverse processes, and supplies a branch to the spinal canal. The distribution of the artery is described with the vessels of the back and those of the spinal cord (pp. 416. 430.). and a b. The abdominal branches are directed outwards beneath branch to the the quadratus lumborum, the first being the largest, and Avail Of . n the ab- enter the posterior part of the abdominal wall, where they d0men- -ill • • n * i • anastomose with the lower intercostal, the circumflex iliac, and the ilio-lumbar arteries : these branches supply the psoas and quadratus muscles. The branch of the first, and sometimes that of the last artery, is superficial to the quad- ratus ; and the size of the last two varies with that of the ilio-lumbar offset of the internal iliac artery. The The lumbar veins are the same in number, and have the veins re- , ~ . . n sembie same course as the arteries. Commencing by the union ot ries, a dorsal and an abdominal branch at the root of the trans- verse process, the trunk of the vein is directed forwards with and open the artery to the vena cava. These vessels open into the into the n ♦ \ c^a; posterior part of the cava, either singly, or conjointly with left those of the opposite side. The veins of the left side are longest. longer than those of the right, and pass beneath the aorta. a plexus Beneath the psoas muscle the lumbar veins communicate is formed around freely around the transverse processes with one another, trans- with the ilio-lumbar, and sometimes with the common iliac, verse process- so as to form a plexus of veins. Issuing from the plexus on each side is a venous trunk, the ascending lumbar vein, which joins the azygos vein of the corresponding half of the body.