77 CERVICAL PLEXUS. of the first four cervical nerves. Situate at the upper part of the neck, it lies beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and on the middle scalenus and levator auguli scapulae. Its ap- pearance differs much from that of the brachial plexus, for it resembles a network more than a bundle of large cords. The following is the general arrangement of the nerves in formed ; the plexus : — each nerve, except the first, divides into an branch- ' ' . i°g of ascending and a descending branch, and these unite with the ° . . . nerves. similar parts of the contiguous nerves, so as to give rise to a series of arches. From these loops or arches the different branches arise. Branches. — The branches of the plexus are both super- its A 1 offsets ficial and deep. The superficial set are described with the are su. . perficial, triangular space of the neck, as consisting of ascending and descending- nerves (p. 59.). In this stage of the dissection the ascending branches are seen to spring from the union of the second and third nerves, and the descending ones to come from the loop between the third and fourth nerves. The deep set of branches remain now to be examined. b?anch-P The deep branches op the plexus are both muscular es- Deep and communicating, and may be arranged into an internal branches and an external series. A. Internal Series.— 1. The phrenic or muscular nerve of Phrenic the diaphragm is derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, and is usually joined by a fasciculus from the fifth cervical nerve. Descending obliquely on the surface of the anterior sca- lenus, from the outer to the inner edge, it enters the chest in front of the internal mammary artery, but behind the subclavian vein, and traverses that cavity to reach the diaphragm. At the lower part of the neck the phrenic nerve is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes by an offset of the nerve to the sub- clavian muscle. 2. The branches communicating with the descendens noni are two Nerves in number. One of the branches arises from the second, and the descend- other from the third cervical nerve; they are directed inwards ensnom' either over or under the internal jugular vein, and communicate with the descending muscular branch (descendens noni) of the ninth nerve. 3. Muscular branches are furnished to the recti muscles; these Branch- arise from the loop between the first two nerves, and from the recti, trunks of the other nerves close to the intervertebral foramina. 4. Some connecting branches pass from the loop between the first Branch- es to