86 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. has two Superfi- cial is di rected tlie jaw, comes first in the order of position. To see it the branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery should be cut through, and turned backwards off the face. A little cleaning will suffice to show the fibres, and to define the origin and insertion of the muscle. Should there be in the mouth any of the material that made tense the fibres of the orbicularis, let it be removed. The masseter muscle conceals the ramus of the lower jaw, and is divided into two parts, superficial and deep, by parts, means of an aponeurosis, which projects above into the muscular fibres. The superficial part arises from the anterior two-thirds of the zygomatic arch, and its fibres are directed downwards back. and backwards to be inserted into the angle, and into the wards. ° 7 D lower half of the ramus of the jaw. The deeper part takes wards*" or^n by fleshy fibres from the remaining third, and from all the posterior aspect of the arch; and its fibres, taking an opposite direction to those of the superficial part, are inserted into the outer surface of the coronoid process and ramus of the jaw above the attachment of the other part of the muscle. Muscle ^ne l°wer Par^ °f tne niasseter is subcutaneous, but the subcuta uPPer *s Partty concealed by the parotid gland (socia paro- neous; tidis), and is crossed by Stenson's duct, and by the transverse facial vessels and the facial nerve. The anterior border pro- jects over the buccinator muscle, and a quantity of fat re- sembling that in the orbit is found beneath it. The muscle lies on & the jaw. covers the ramus of the jaw, and the masseteric branch of nerve and artery that enter it by the under-surface. Dissection.— To lay bare the temporal muscle to its inser- tion, the following dissection may be made : —The temporal muscle ^asc^a *s to ^e detached from the upper border of the zygo- matic arch, and removed from the surface of the muscle. Next, the arch is to be sawn through in front and behind, so as to include its whole length ; and to be thrown down with the masseter muscle still attached to it, by separating the fibres of the muscle from the upper part of the ramus of the jaw. In detaching the masseter muscle, the nerve and artery to it, that appear through the sigmoid notch, will be found. The surface and insertion of the temporal muscle may then be cleaned, inser- Afterwards, to see the insertion and extent of origin of To see surface of tem-