LENS AND ITS CAPSULE. 771 3 d 2 the fluid that has been called aqua Morgagni; but naturally there is not any fluid between the lens and its capsule. Structure, — After the lens has been hardened by spirit or Lens is boiling, it may be demonstrated to consist of a series of layers arranged one within another, like those in an onion. Under the miscroscope each layer may be seen to be con- structed of minute parallel fibres. No blood-vessels are found in its texture. It consists mostly of albumen. The lamince of each surface have their apices in the Form of centre, where the septa meet, and may be detached from one mints • another at that spot, and turned outwards. The constituent fibres of the laminae are about 3-^^th of an inch in diameter, con- but they are flattened at the margin of the lens, and the o?mi-ed deeper fibres are narrowed and less separate. In the wider fibres part of the laminae they have slightly wavy edges, by which are contiguous fibres are dovetailed together: this digitation is the edse» best seen in the lens of the codfish. They are connected at belied their extremities to the partitions on the opposite surfaces of septaby the lens in this way : those that are attached to the spot ends! where the septa meet on the one aspect, are fixed to the ex- tremity of a septum on the other aspect; and the rest of the fibres passing between two septa, begin and end at opposite points in each. Changes with age.—In infancy the lens is situate further changes forwards than in adult age, and touches the iris. Its form uonT*" is nearly spherical in the fetus, but its convexity decreases form, with age, particularly on the anterior aspect, until the lens becomes flattened in old people. In the fetus it is reddish colour, in colour, is soft, and is not quite transparent; in youth and mature age it is firm and clear ; and in old age it becomes consist- ence. denser and of a yellowish colour. The capsule of the lens is a firm but very elastic trans- Capsule parent case, that closely surrounds the lens. Its anterior lens; surface is free in the posterior chamber of the eve but gives its ante- 1 /• rior Part attachment towards the circumference (xg-t-h of an inch off) ^Jjrra to the suspensory ligament ; its posterior surface is connected trans- with the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous body. The an- terior part of the capsule is three or four times thicker than the posterior, as far outwards as to the attachment of the suspensory ligament, and supports itself after the removal of the lens ; it is firm and quite transparent, and remains clear