DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 270 joint. Underneath it the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery turns. Teres The teres major muscle is extended from the inferior reaches angle of the scapula to the humerus. Its origin is from the lower rough surface on the dorsum of the scapula near the inferior scapuiaf angle, from the inferior costa of the bone for some distance, to the and from the fascia covering the teres minor. The fibres rus?e" end in a tendon which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus. This muscle forms part of the posterior fold of the axilla, and has the axillary vessels Adjacent and nerves on it near the humerus. At its origin it is ' covered by the latissimus dorsi. The upper border is con- tiguous to the subscapulars muscle, and the lower is received into a hollow formed by the fibres of the latissimus dorsi. Tendon At the humerus the tendon of the muscle is about two burs*, inches wide, and lies behind that of the latissimus; above, the two are separated by a bursa ; but below, they are united, and an expansion is sent from them to the fascia of the arm. A second bursa between the tendon and the bone has been noticed. Two Below the scapula (inferior costa), where the teres muscles between separate from one another, is a triangular interval, which is teres and bounded in front by the shaft of the humerus, and above and the below by the teres muscles. This space is divided into two Anterior tne l°ng nea(* of the triceps. Through the anterior part, and which is of a quadrilateral shape, the posterior circumflex terior. artery and the circumflex nerve pass to the outer side of the limb ; and through the posterior smaller part, the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery turns to its distribution. Dissec- Dissection. — In order that the acromion process may be iga-°f sawn through to expose the supra-spinatus muscle, the liga- theda. ments of the scapula and clavicle, which would be injured Vlc e by such a proceeding, should be next dissected. These liga- ments will be recognised by removing the cellular membrane at the spots specified. One ligament (coraco-clavicular) passes from the coracoid process to the under part of the clavicle. A capsular ligament, connecting the outer end of the clavicle with the acromion, will be seen by taking away and sea- the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid muscles. Another pula. strong band (coraco-acromial) passes transversely between the acromion and the coracoid process; and lastly a small