208 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. point, corresponding to a subjacent band of white fibres (fasciculus uncinatus) that connects the two lobes, issur- Surrounding the cleft is the convolution of the Sylvian bv a con- fissure, which is much bent as it makes the circuit; it is vo 'joined internally by the convolutions in the fissure, and ex- ternally by convolutions on the outer surface of the hemi- sphere of the cerebrum, and con- The island of Reil consists of five or six small, short con- fer volutions, which lie in the Sylvian fissure, and are concealed tions?lu" by tne anterior and middle lobes in the natural condition of the parts. These convolutions are connected with the large convolution around the fissure. Cms Peduncle of the cerebrum (crus cerebri). This is a large, iTixl\ white, stalk-like looking body, which reaches from the upper under border of the pons to the under part of the cerebral hemi- hem£f sphere, of the same side, near its inner margin. Each is sphere. akout three quarters of an inch long, and widens as it ap- proaches the cerebrum. Crossing its outer surface is the optic tract; and between the crura of opposite sides is the interpeduncular space, which contains the locus perforatus, the corpora albicantia, and the tuber cinereum. Formed Structure. — The peduncle may be said to be formed by a tudinai1" continuation upwards of the longitudinal fibres of the pons, fibres' which enclose here a mass of gray matter between them. Dissec- Dissection For the purpose of demonstrating the struc- tlon* ture of the crus, say on the left side, the fibres continuous with the anterior pyramid should be cut across in the pons, and should be raised and carried forwards into the crus as far as the optic tract. In this proceeding the mass of gray matter (locus niger) will appear, and beneath it will be seen a second or deeper set of longitudinal fibres, its su- a. The superficial fibres, which form the cranial or free fibres part of the crus, are continued from the anterior pyramidal body. They are longitudinal in direction, and coarse in texture, and are directed upwards radiating to the cerebrum. The portion of the crus, which is composed of these fibres, is called the fasciculated portion, or the crust. deep b. The deeper fibres are also prolonged to the cerebrum. They are derived from the lateral and posterior tracts or columns of the medulla oblongata, and from the olivary fasciculus (p. 200.); and some of the fibres of the lateral form crust fibres