DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 656 form; the ilium to the os pubis (p. 466.). When viewed on the surface, the arch has not a straight direction between its bony attachments, as long as the fascia lata is entire, but is curved downwards towards the thigh. Its outer half is ob- lique ; but its inner half is almost horizontal, and widens as it approaches the pubes, where it is inserted into the spine, as well as into the pectineal line of that bone for about an inch, dosing f0I™n£ Gimbernat's ligament. The space beneath the hoiiow crural arch, between it and the innominate bone, is closed beneath. ' by the parts passing from the abdomen to the thigh, and is larger in the female than in the male. The outer half of the interval is filled by the fleshy psoas and iliacus muscles, to which the arch is so closely bound by fascia, as to prevent any protrusion of intestine at this spot; and the inner half of the space is occupied by the femoral vessels and their sheath. Gimber- Gimbernat's ligament, — The structure that has received gament the name of Gimbernat's ligament, is the part of the tendon is part . of the of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen that is in- insertion of Pou- serted into the pectineal line of the pubes (p. 469.). It is only part of the attachment of the crural arch to the bone; but when Poupart's ligament is in its natural position, and the structure is looked at from below, this piece of the Form, tendon appears triangular in form, with its base directed tion?" outwards. It is about one inch in length. Its apex is at nections. the spine of the pubes; whilst its base is in contact with the sheath of the femoral vessels, and is blended with the fascia lata,—the part that forms the outer margin of the saphenous opening. By one margin (anterior) it is continuous with the crural arch, and by the opposite it is fixed to the pectineal line of the pubes. In the erect position of the body the ligament is almost horizontal, and one surface is directed up- wards to the abdominal cavity, whilst the other is turned towards the thigh. On forcibly raising the crural arch, the continuation of Gimbernat's ligament with that band will plainly appear. Crural The crural or femoral sheath is a loose tube of membrane around the femoral vessels. It has the form of a funnel shape sloped unequally on the sides: the wide part or base of the tube is turned upwards; and the narrow part ceases about and con- two inches below Poupart's ligament, by blending with the nections; r ° ? J °