381 BRANCHES OF THORACIC AORTA. rounding parts, and are named from their destination, viz. bronchial, pericardial, oesophageal, mediastinal, and inter- costal. 1. The bronchial arteries supply the structure of the Arteries lungs, and arise from the front of the aorta, but their num- lung, ber and place of origin are liable to vary. These vessels Distri- adhere to the posterior part of the bronchial tubes, and so enter the interior of the lung, in which they ramify (p. 379.); they give some twigs to the bronchial glands and the oeso- phagus. a. The artery of the right lung arises either in common with One one of the left bronchial arteries (superior), or from the first inter- nsht' costal artery of the right side. b. For the left lung there are two arteries (superior and in- two left, ferior), that arise from the aorta at a distance one from another. Bronchial veins. — One vein issues from the root of each yein of the lung. lung, to end in the following manner : — the right one joins the larger azygos vein ; and the left ends in 'the superior intercostal vein of its own side. 2. The pericardial branches are some-irregular twigs that *^icar" are furnished to the posterior part of the cardiac covering. branch- 3. (Esophageal branches arise at different points of the ceso- aorta, and are four or five in number. Ramifying in the branch- structure of the gullet, these vessels anastomose with one es* another; above, they communicate with branches of the inferior thyroid artery near the pharynx, and below, with twigs of the coronary artery of the stomach. 4. Small mediastinal branches (posterior) supply the eel- t¥e^ias- lular tissue and the glands in the posterior part of the inter- branch- pleural space. 5. The intercostal arteries are commonly ten or nine in inter- number on each side, and are furnished to the same number arteries, of the lower intercostal spaces. To the other one or two Number, upper spaces branches are supplied from the intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk. These small vessels arise -Pirec- J tion to from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards on the in-, 11 7 tercostal the vertebrae, and beneath the cord of the sympathetic nerve, spaces, to the intercostal spaces, where each divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. In this course the upper branches have a somewhat oblique, and the lower a transverse direc- tion. As the aorta lies on the left of the spine, the right ^ng^st.