374 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. offsets branches of the left recurrent nerve of the vagus. Nerves descend toief"d from it around the left branch of the pulmonary artery to the p?exu?ry trunk °f tnat vessel, on which they are continued to the heart ; and after supplying nerves to the left auricle, they terminate in the and to bundle of nerves of the posterior coronary plexus (p. 350.). A lung. considerable offset is directed forwards to the superficial cardiac plexus by the side of the ligamentum arteriosum ; and some nerves reach the anterior pulmonary plexus by passing along the branch of the artery to the lung, other The cardiac branches of the gangliated cord of the sym- cardiac b ° J nerves pathetic nerve in the neck (p. 118.), are now seen at their from the 1 vr n neck, termination in the thorax. The nerves enter the chest on each side, over or beneath the subclavian artery, and join in the deep cardiac plexus, with one exception in the left superficial cardiac branch. ah on ^ On the right side. — Though usually three in number, side there may be but two cardiac nerves on this side, for the enter . . deep highest nerve is sometimes blended with one of the other plexus. . two. The middle and inferior nerves pass beneath the sub- clavian artery to the right half of the deep cardiac plexus. All three communicate with the branches of the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the vagus at the root of the neck, or in the upper part of the thorax, as well as with one another. On left On the left side the superficial or highest cardiac nerve enters passes for the most part over the arch of the aorta, and ends fidau in the superficial cardiac plexus, but it may give a branch deep beneath the arch to the deep plexus. Only one other large plexus. nerye may ke geen entering the left side of the deep cardiac plexus, for oftentimes the middle cardiac throws itself into the lower cardiac nerve. THE TRACHEA AND THE LUNG. To see Dissection.— To see the bronchi, or the divisions of the tnfchea air tube, in the root of the lung, it will be necessary to d?i-Us remove the pulmonary artery and its branches, together with the pulmonary veins. When the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, which has been already cut through, is turned to one side, the dissector will be able to clear away the bronchial glands, the nerves, and the cellular membrane from the part of the trachea in the thorax, and from the branches into which it bifurcates.