DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 452 sion into two branches (dorsal branch of penis and branch of the corpus cavernosum) beneath the cms, the artery is to be followed backwards along the outer wall of the right ischio-rectal fossa. The pudic nerve is exposed at the same time, and should any of the branches be cut away, the cor- responding ones may be sought on the opposite side. Pudic The pudic artery is a branch of the internal iliac ; it enters artery r u the perinseal space through the small sacro-ischiatic notch, and is distributed to the perinaeum and the genital organs, courses Entering the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, the ramus of artery extends forwards along the outer wall about one inch and a half above the tuberosity of the ischium, and is con- tained in an aponeurotic canal, which attaches it to the fascia covering the obturator muscle: but at the base of the triangular ligament the vessel is near the margin of the and of ramus of the pubes. It then ascends beneath the triangular pubes, ijgamentj an(j aiong the ramus of the os pubis nearly to the and ends subpubic ligament, where it perforates the triangular liga- on penis. ... ° ment, and divides into the artery of the body, and that of the dorsum of the penis. Branch- The branches of the vessel in the perinatal space are nume- es not yet seen rous. The superficial offsets, viz. inferior hemorrhoidal, are: transverse perinseal, and superficial perineal, have been ex- amined : the remaining, for the supply of the penis and the urethra, are subjoined : — Artery of The artery of the bulb of the urethra is a branch of considerable beneath sizei anc^ arises near the base of the triangular ligament. Passing fa^iiga" almost transversely inwards beneath the ligament, and about half ment. an inch from the base of it, the artery reaches the bulb of the urethra, and enters its spongy structure. Near the urethra it furnishes a small branch to Cowper's gland. Its g. The distance of this branch from the base of the ligament de- lation pends upon its origin at a point nearer the front or back of the perinseal space. If the vessel arises farther behind than usual, it may be altogether below the base of the ligament, and cross the front of the ischio-rectal fossa; but if it arises more anteriorly, as when it comes from an accessory pudic branch (see below), its The im- position will be higher than the level of the bulb. From the size of this06 °f vessel its place is important in the operation of lithotomy : in litho- \n the case first mentioned, it would be liable to be cut across, tomy. ... . whilst in the last it would be altogether out of the way of the knife. Artery The artery of the cavernous structure of the penis (art. corporis vanes.