63 ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. one branch (descendens noni) in front of the sheath, and another to the thyro-hyoid muscle. Directed downwards from beneath the same muscles to the sterno-mastoid muscle, is the spinal accessory nerve. . On the inner side of Laryn- the vessels, between the hyoid bone and the thyroid carti-nerves, lage, the dissector will find the superior laryngeal nerve; and lying with the descending part of the superior thyroid artery, its small external laryngeal branch. Lastly, clean the submaxillary gland close to the base of clean the iaw ; and on partly dislodging it from the surface of the seek ' nerve to mylo-hyoid muscle, the student will expose the small branch myio- of nerve to that muscle with the submental artery. The interval between the jaw and the mastoid process is supposed to be cleared out by the removal of the parotid gland in the dissection of the facial nerve. ANTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. This space contains the carotid vessels, and their branches, Trian- with many nerves, and corresponds to the hollow on the fpace in surface of the neck in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle, neck. Its limits are the following: — behind is the sterno-mastoid Bounda- • m ° ries. muscle, and in front a line, from the chin to the sternum, along the middle of the neck. Above, at the base of the space, would be the lower jaw, and a line prolonged from it to the sterno-mastoideus; and below, at the apex, is the sternum. Over this space are placed the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma in part, the deep fascia, and the ramifications of the facial and superficial cervical nerves. In the area of the triangular space, as it is above defined, are seen the larynx, and many muscles converging towards the hyoid bone as a centre, some being above and some below it. Below it are the depressors of the bone, viz. omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid; and above it the elevators of the bone, viz. mylo-hyoid, and digastric and stylo-hyoid. Connected with the back of the hyoid bone and the larynx are some of the constrictor muscles of the gullet. The carotid blood vessels occupy the hinder and deeper carotid part of the space along the side of the sterno-mastoid muscle, fpaeZ m and their course would be marked on the surface by a line course. from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. As cover- ings.