DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 350 terior rately, by one or more trunks, into the lower part of the veins. n ght auricle. Similar small veins exist over the back of the ventricles; and one, larger than the rest, lies over the septum: they enter the coronary sinus by separate valved openings. Smallest" c. Smallest cardiac, — A third set of veins (veins of The- cardiac. j^g-^ venge minima^) He in the substance of the heart: these are noticed in the description of the right auricle. Cardiac Cardiac nerves, — The nerves for the ripply of the heart are derived from a large plexus (cardiac) around the roots of the aorta and the pulmonary artery. Part of this plexus is superficial to the pulmonary artery, and part beneath it; and from each an offset is sent with a coronary artery. Only the superficial part can be now seen. Super- The small superficial cardiac plexus is placed by the side of the pfexus ductus arteriosus, and below the arch of the aorta. The nerves that join it are the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympa- thetic, and the small (cervical) cardiac branch of the left vagus (p. 116.), and a considerable bundle of nerves comes forward to it from the deep cardiac plexus. A small ganglionic mass is some- ends in times seen in the plexus. Inferiorly, the plexus ends in nerves to coro-10r the heart, that accompany the right coronary artery. A few fila- nary. ments pass on the left division of the pulmonary artery to the front of the root of the lung of the same side. Anterior a. The anterior or right coronary plexus passes downwards from oSeart. the plexus above described, to reach the right coronary artery, and receives near the heart a communication from the right half of the deep cardiac plexus^ Poste- b- The posterior or left plexus is derived, as will be subsequently plexus. seen? from the deep cardiac plexus, and accompanies the left coro- nary artery to the heart. Accom- On the heart the nerves at first surround the arteries, but they arteries! soon leave the vessels, and becoming smaller by subdivision, are lost in the muscular substance of the ventricles. On and in the substance of the heart the nerves are marked by small ganglia. cavities of the heart. Four The cavities of the heart may be examined in the order in which the current of the blood passes through them, viz. right auricle and ventricle, and left auricle and ven- tricle. Dissec- Dissection. — In the examination of its cavities the heart opeV° is not to be removed from the body. To open the right auricle, auricle, an incision may be made in it, near the free border,