220 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. situate in the ventricle (intra-ventricular) above the white fibres, and the other outside the ventricular space, below those fibres, (extra-ventricular). One part a. The intra-ventricular part (nucleus candatus) of the vemri- striate body is pear-shaped, and projects into the floor of the ventricle. The end, directed forwards, is large and rounded ; whilst the opposite end is thin and pointed, and is continued backwards, outside the optic thalamus, to the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Numerous veins cover this part of the corpus striatum, the other b. The extra-ventricular part (nucleus lenticularis) will that be best seen, afterwards, by sections made from the outer cavity. . . . side or from below. It is oval in form, but does not reach so far back as the other, and is bounded inferiorly by a white capsule ; through it the anterior commissure of the brain passes very obliquely, as a subsequent dissection will show. Taenia The taenia semicircularis is a thin white band of longitu- cXrfs" dinal fibres, that lies between the corpus striatum and the optic thalamus. In front, this band becomes broad, and joins the pillar of the fornix ; and behind, it is continued, along with the pointed end of the corpus striatum, into the white substance of the roof of the descending cornu of the endsin lateral ventricle. Superficial to the anterior part of the comu. taenia is a yellowish semi-transparent layer (lamina cornea), and beneath this some veins pass in their course to the veins of Galen. optic The optic thalamus is only partly laid bare in this stage thalamus ^ ^e dissection, and its examination may be omitted till after the third ventricle has been learnt. Hippo. The hippocampus minor (calcar avis) resembles a cock's inpos- spur as it lies in the posterior cornu of the ventricle. It is comu; pointed at its posterior extremity, and is covered on the free surface by the medullary layer of the corpus callosum. how When it is cut across a gray stratum will be found beneath formed. n it, and the eminence itself seems to be produced by the ex- tension inwards of the sulcus at the posterior part of the inner surface of the hemisphere (p. 213.). Hippo. The hippocampus major is the curved projection in the majoMn floor of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Con- comu. vex on the surface that looks to the cavity, this body is curved in the same direction as the cornu, and has its con-