434 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. the posterior roots: at its extremity it is cased with a more transparent stratum of small nerve cells, which has been S^bstan- named the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando. The anterior tlnosaf" cornu is shorter and thicker than the other, and projects towards the anterior roots without reaching the surface of the cord. Arrange- The white covering of the half of the cord is composed white° chiefly of nerve fibres disposed longitudinally in bundles, so as to give passage to intermediate vessels. By the projec- tion of the cornua of the gray crescent towards the surface, it is separated more or less completely into three parts — an- terior, middle, and posterior, corresponding to the columns of the cord; but the anterior and middle portions are united along their line of contact, because the cornu does not reach the surface. Deep Origin of the Nerves. — The deep origin of the spinal origin of . pi • nerves nerves is uncertain, like that of the cranial nerves : the tain. fibrils in each root enter the gray matter of the cord, but their precise connection with it has not been made out.* Anterior The anterior roots penetrate between the anterior and lateral columns into the anterior cornu of the gray mass, and are connected with the anterior column of the opposite side, from and the lateral column of the same side in this way:—In anterior ... column the gray matter the fibrils divide into two sets: One is di- ofother & J side. rected inwards, forming part of the white layer on the front with a of the commissural piece of the cord, and ends in the anterior tion, column of the opposite side; so that the roots of opposite halves of the cord decussate on the front of the commissure, and from The other more considerable part of the root turns outwards lateral column to the anterior part of the lateral column of the same side, of same side. and its fibres are continuous with it. Posterior The posterior roots enter the cord between the lateral and roots •it from posterior columns, and are connected with both those columns of the same side, if not of both sides of the cord, after passing through the substantia gelatinosa. As in the other root, the hinder fibrils divide in the gray substance : some of these bend up- raidco*te" wards, and become continuous especially with the posterior column: whilst the others, penetrating deeper, are con- * The statement in the text respecting the origin of the nerves, em- bodies the views of Professor Kolliker. In many respects these cor- respond with opinions previously held.