234 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. the same side, to enter the crus cerebri and the optic tha- lamus. its fibres Beneath the corpora quadrigemina the internal fibres of sate. the crus are directed inwards, through those continued from the fasciculus teres, and cross the corresponding fibres of the other side, forming thus a decussation like that of the pyra- mids* (p. 201.). In this way the fibres of each peduncle end partly in the same, and partly in the opposite hemisphere of the cerebrum. Has Between the superior peduncles is the thin, translucent, vieus-f white layer, the valve of Vieussens (velum medullare an- between terius), which forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle, the two. jt .g pointed anteriorly, but widens behind, where it is connected with the under part of the vermiform process. Near the corpora quadrigemina the fourth nerve is attached to the upper aspect of the valve, the nerves of opposite sides being united ; and near the lower part, the upper surface is marked by some gray transverse ridges. Middle b. The middle peduncle (processus ad pontem) is com- cie monly named crus cerebelli, and is the largest of the three peduncular processes. Its fibres begin in the lateral part of the cerebellum, and are directed forwards to the pons, of which they form the transverse fibres, and in which they unite with the fibres of the peduncle of the opposite side, is the This peduncle is supposed to perform, for the cerebellum, sure of the same office as the corpus callosum for the cerebrum, viz. cerebel- lum. to serve as a commissural or connecting piece. Inferior c. The inferior peduncle (processus ad medullam) passes cTe,un" downwards to the medulla oblongata, and forms part of the restiform body. Its fibres are connected chiefly with the laminae of the upper surface of the cerebellum. It will be better seen when the fourth ventricle has been opened. Fibres Course of the fibres. — The fibres issuing in the peduncles pedun-le from the cerebellar hemisphere connect it with its fellow, ces' with the cerebrum, and with the spinal cord of the same side. The description already given of the middle peduncle, both here and with the pons, will suffice for its fibres. * This intercommunication was known to Reil, and was named " ansa," by him, but the decussation has been verified more recently by Stilling, Ueber den Ban des Hirnknotens: 1846.