433 STRUCTURE OF THE CORD. median fissure in front, and is in a line with the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata (p. 200.). The lateral column is limited before and behind by the roots of the nerves, and is continued with that name into the medulla oblongata. The posterior, with its small segment, is placed between the posterior roots and the median fissure behind: above, it is prolonged into the restiform body. Structure of the Cord.—A horizontal section of the Cord . . . consists medulla shows more distinctly the division into halves, of gray • and with the commissural or connecting piece between them, white . P . i matter; The same cut demonstrates the existence of white and gray matter in its composition, as in the brain; but it will be at once perceived, that the gray substance is surrounded by the white, instead of being external to it as in the ence- phalon. a. The commissural piece consists chiefly of a transverse these in „ , . , commis- band ot gray matter, but it has a white stratum at the sure, anterior part. The gray part consists of nerve cells, and of transverse struc-^ nerve fibres derived from the opposite halves of the cord the gray and the posterior roots of the nerves. In its centre is a streak or band of a lighter yellow colour, which has been named the gray nucleus by Kolliker, and is composed of small multinuclear, and branched cells. ' the white partly by fibres of the anterior column; and partly by fibres Part- of the anterior roots of the nerves, which here decussate as they cross from one half to the other (Kolliker). It is best marked opposite the enlargements on the cord, and least developed in the dorsal region. b. In the half of the medulla, the gray and white material The ° ^ m same in have the same position to one another as in the commissure, the half _ - ' ofthe but the former is elongated from before back, and is quite cord, surrounded by the latter. The gray matter has the same general structure as that in struc- the commissural piece, and is of a semilunar or crescentic tu? 1 7 and ar- shape, with the horns of the crescent directed towards the ranse- x ment of roots of the nerves, and the convexity to the centre of the the Part cord: the crescentic masses in opposite halves of the cord Connec. are united by the commissure. The posterior cornu is long the cres- and slender, and reaches to the fissure along the attachment of F F