INTERIOR OF THE LARYNX. 165 M 3 It is triangular in shape, with the base in front and the apex shape, behind, and its sides are sloped obliquely downwards, in the antero-posterior direction. Its boundaries are, — the epi- f"0fmd.d_ glottis in front, the arytenoid muscle and cartilages behind, ries- and the arytaeno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane on each side. This aperture is closed by the epiglottis during deglutition. The glottis, or rima glottidis, is the interval between the Glottis, lower vocal cords, and is the narrowest part of the laryngeal Posltlon' cavity. Like the upper orifice, it is somewhat triangular in form, form, but its wider part is turned backwards to the arytenoid muscle. Its sides are not constructed wholly of a yielding con- struc- material, but partly of ligament, and partly of cartilage : tion, —thus, for about the anterior two thirds, is the elastic vocal cord, whilst, at the posterior third, is the smooth inner aspect of the arytenoid cartilage. The size of the interval *™ differs in the two sexes: In the male it measures, from before back, nearly an inch (about eleven lines), and across, at the base, about a third of the other measurement. In the female, the dimensions will be less by two or three lines. Alterations in the size and form affect the interval, where Changes in size. it is bounded by the cartilage, as well as by the liga- ment. In the former part, the changes are occasioned by in two the rotation of the arytenoid cartilages around their axis ; y but in the latter they are due to the lengthening or shorten- ing of the bands, or to their yielding, as in the passage of an instrument. In the living body the muscles are constantly Action producing alterations in the fissure, some acting more imme- muscles, diately on the cartilages so as to be dilators or contractors of its base, and others acting on the ligaments, and thereby elongating or shortening the sides. The base is enlarged, on base, and the interval rendered triangular by the posterior crico- arytenoid ; and is diminished by the arytenoid, the thyro- arytenoid, and the lateral crico-arytsenoid. And the sides on sides are elongated and made tense by the crico-thyroid; but shortened by the thyro-arytenoid. In inspiration the fissure is slightly larger than in expiration. The ventricle of the larynx is the oval hollow, on each side, Ventri- above the vocal cord. The upper margin of the opening g°ua_ is semilunar, and the lower is straight. On the outer sur-tion#