LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW. 325 bones touch, the surfaces are covered with cartilage, and ments their articular ends are kept in place by the following liga- ments : — The external lateral ligament is a roundish fasciculus, ^©mal which is attached by its upper part to the outer condyle of the humerus, and by its lower part to the orbicular ligament around the head of the radius. A few of the posterior fibres pass backwards to the upper portion of the external margin of the ulna. The internal lateral ligament is triangular in shape : it is Jjj^™1 pointed at its upper extremity, and is connected to the inner wide- condyle of the humerus. The fibres diverge as they descend, and are inserted in this way: — The anterior which are the inferior J . attach - strongest, are fixed to the inner edge of the coronoid pro- ments. cess; the posterior are attached to the inner side of the olecranon; whilst the middle fibres join a transverse liga- mentous band over the notch between the olecranon and the a notch coronoid process. The ulnar nerve is in contact with this side of ligament; and some vessels enter the joint by an aperture beneath the transverse band. The anterior ligament is thin, and its fibres are separated Anterior ■ . . ligament by masses of fat lodged in intervals between them. By its is thin, upper margin the ligament is inserted into the front of the humerus, and by its lower margin into the anterior part of the coronoid process and the orbicular ligament. The bra- chialis anticus muscle covers it. The posterior ligament is thinner than the anterior, and is ^oste- ' completely covered by the triceps muscle. Superiorly it is m^eist attached to the humerus above the fossa for the olecranon, and inferiorly it is inserted into the olecranon. Some few fibres are transverse between the margins of the fossa before mentioned. Dissection. — Open the joint by an incision across the Dissec- front, near the humerus, and disarticulate the bones, in order that the form of the articular surfaces may be seen. The synovial membrane lines the joint, and can be traced ^™vial from one bone to another along the inner surface of the con- orane. necting ligaments. It projects between the head of the radius and the orbicular ligament, and serves for the articu- lation of the head of that bone with the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna.