DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 666 Aponeu- The aponeurotic covering of the femoral vessels exists over the where these are covered by the sartorius. It is formed of artery: strong fibres, that are directed transversely between the vastus internus and the tendons of the adductor muscles, low by a" In^eri°r^7 tne membranous structure ceases at the opening borde6? *n tne a(^ductor magnus by a defined border, beneath which the saphenous nerve and its artery escape. Deep Femoral artery in the middle of the thigh.—In the middle the fe- third the femoral artery is more deeply placed than in the artery, upper third of the thigh. It is covered by the sartorius Sons60" rnusc^e and the subjacent aponeurosis, in addition to the integuments and the superficial and deep fasciae; and it lies in a hollow, bounded on the one side by the vastus internus, and on the other by the adductor longus and adductor magnus, by which it is conducted to the opening in the last Position muscle. On the outer side of the artery and close to it, is and sa- the femoral vein ; to the outer side also, is the internal Serve!"8 saphenous nerve, which is beneath the aponeurosis before noticed, but is not contained within the cellular sheath of the vessels. Branch- Branches.— Only one named branch, anastomotic, springs from this part of the artery, for the other offsets belong to the muscles. Anasto. The anastomotic branch (arter. anastomotica magna) arises which close to the opening in the adductor muscle, and splits at once into two parts, superficial and deep, divides a. The superficial offset continues with the saphenous superfi. nerve to the lower border of the sartorius, and, piercing the brafh ^asc*a *ata' rannn*es *n tne integument, b. The deep or anterior branch is concealed in the fibres of the vastus inter- nus, and descends in them, in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, to the inner side of the knee-joint, where it anastomoses with the articular branches of the popliteal and anterior tibial arteries. A branch passes outwards from it in the substance of the vastus ; this forms an arch in front of the lower end of the femur with an offset of the external articular artery, and supplies the joint. The two pieces of the anastomotic artery may be separate at their origin, and spring from distinct parts of the parent trunk. Muscu- Muscular branches. — The branches for the supply of the lar