568 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. are given by the left artery to the oesophagus, and by the right to the vena cava. The other parietal branches, viz. lumbar and middle sacral, are not dissected out in this stage: the former will be seen after the lumbar plexus (p. 579.), and the latter in the pelvis. Extent The common iliac artery is directed outwards from the r^ina. bifurcation of the aorta to the base of the sacrum, and divides into two large trunks opposite the fibro-cartilage between that bone and the last lumbar vertebra:—one of these sup- plies the lower limb (external iliac), and the other enters connec- the pelvis (internal iliac). Placed obliquely on the vertebral column, the vessel measures about two inches in length, and is covered by the peritoneum, by branches of the sympathetic Branch- nerve, and sometimes by the ureter. To the outer side at es. first is the vena cava, and near its termination is the psoas muscle. It is accompanied by a vein of the same name. Usually it does not furnish any named branch, but it may give origin to the ilio-lumbar, or a renal artery. Differ. On opposite sides the vessels have some differences. The ence be- , . ! . tween artery of the right side is rather the longest, in consequence rig of the position of the aorta on the left side of the spine : the companion vein is at first beneath, but external to the artery at the upper part, where it enters the vena cava in that position; and beneath the right artery also is the left com- andieft mon iliac vein. The left artery is crossed by the continu- vessel. ... . ation of the inferior mesenteric artery, and the corresponding vein is situate below it. Place of Peculiarities. — The place of origin changes with that of the origin, kifurcation 0f the aorta. length; The length ranges from less than half an inch (in one case) to four inches and a half; but in the majority of instances, it varies between one inch and a half and three inches (Quain). place of The place of division oscillates between the middle of the last division. ium]3ar vertebra and the upper border of the sacrum, but occa- sionally it will be above or below those points. Generally the left artery divides lower than the right. This The external iliac artery is the commencement of the leSto leading vessel of the lower limb, and is contained in the iimb.r cavity of the abdomen. Its extent is from the bifurcation of Extent the common iliac to the lower border of Poupart's ligament,