430 DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. one for each bundle of fibrils, which are joined together at their outer ends. Their The ganglia are situate in the intervertebral foramina, situa- but where the regular position of those apertures is wanting, as at the upper and lower extremities of the spinal canal, Excep- they have the following position : — In the first two nerves neck."1 they lie on the arches of the first and second vertebra?. In andcoc- sacral nerves they are contained in the spinal canal. In cygeai. ^ coccygeal nerve it is also within the canal, and about the middle of the long posterior root (Schlemm). Arteries Vessels of the Spinal Cord.— The arteries on the are surface of the cord are anterior and posterior spinal. Anterior a- The anterior spinal artery occupies the middle line of the aPsinagie cord .beneath the fibrous band before alluded to in that position, artery, commences at the medulla oblongata by the union of two small which 0 J comes branches of the vertebral artery (p. 186.) ; and it is continued to from . verte- the lower part of the cord by a series of anastomotic branches, which ' are derived from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries in and is the neck, and from the intercostal and lumbar arteries in the nued'by dorsal and lumbar regions. The branches of this artery ramify in motic°" tne P*a mater, and are then distributed to the substance of the cord, branch-] gome entering the median fissures. Inferiorly it supplies the roots Termi- °f *ne nerves forming the cauda equina, and ends on the central nation, fibrous prolongation of the cord. Poste- b. The posterior spinal arteries, one on each side, are continued arteries from the upper to the lower part of the cord, behind the roots of are two; ^e nerves> Dividing into small branches, the vessels of opposite sidesof sides form a free anastomosis around the posterior roots, and some thefr'dis- °^sets enter the fissure of the cord. These vessels begin supe- rior^" T10r^y hy offsets from the vertebral artery, and their continuity is are con- maintained by a series of anastomotic branches, which enter the tmued canal along the spinal nerves, and are furnished from the same along cj r ' Mktfan source as twigs that reinforce the anterior spinal artery, terior. The veins of the spinal cord are very tortuous, and form a Veins plexus on the surface. At intervals, larger trunks arise, which pass accompany the spinal nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and spinal €n(l m the veins outside the spinal canal. Near the top of the canal. Cord the veins are united into two or more small branches; these natfonat terminate in the inferior cerebellar, or in the petrosal sinuses, after lord* communicating with the vertebral veins. situation The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) is the cylindrical cord6 elongated part of the cerebro-spinal centre that is enclosed within the spinal canal. Invested by the membranes before