DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 450 ferent is said to consist of two layers (anterior and posterior), that enclose trian- the membranous part of the urethra with its muscular fibres. The fig!?-1* structure, which has been described as the posterior layer, is part ment. 0f tne fascia lining the interior of the pelvis, and is not perforated by the membranous canal of the urethra. Dissec- Dissection, — The muscles connected with the urethra be- tion. hind or beneath the ligament will be reached by cutting with care, on the left side, the triangular ligament near its attachment to the bone, and raising and turning inwards the piece of membrane. By a little cautious dissection, and the removal of some veins, the following objects will come into view with the undermentioned position : — Parts Parts beneath the ligament. — Near the base of the liga- beneath . . -, , trian- ment is a narrow transverse muscle, which is directed to the Hga-' bulb of the urethra. Coming downwards to the urethra, from behind the ramus of the pubes, is the fasciculus of fibres of the compressor urethrae muscle, which surrounds the membranous part of the urethra. And below the urethra are the two glands of Cowper. Beneath the bone (rami of the ischium and pubes) are the pudic artery and nerve, the former giving its branch to the bulb; and below the pubes is the subpubic ligament. Deeper than all, the student will be able to recognise the layer of the pelvic fascia that separates these parts from the cavity of the pelvis. Muscles Muscles. — The muscles beneath the triangular ligament, thra. which are connected with the membranous part of the urethra, are two in number, viz. a deep transverse muscle, and a constrictor of the urethral passage. Deep The deep transverse muscle of the perinasum (elevator trans- L v verse, urethras, Santorini) is a thin flat band, on a level with the Origin, base of the triangular ligament. It arises externally from the upper part of the ramus of the ischium, and occasionally from the ramus of the pubes, and is directed inwards below the tip of the bulb and the membranous part of the urethra, Termi- to join (sometimes by a tendon) the muscle of the opposite side, and to be inserted into the central point of the peri- nasum. This muscle conceals Cowper's gland near the bulb, and is frequently placed over the artery of the bulb. con- The constrictor muscle of the urethra (constrictor strictor . of me- isthmi urethralis) encloses the membranous part of that tube, passage from the bulb to the prostate gland. It consists of two