366 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Course The left subclavian trunk is directed almost vertically from and con- J nections the arch oi the aorta to the inner margin of the first rib. in the ° thorax. In the thorax the vessel lies deeply, resting at first on the oesophagus, and afterwards on the vertebral column, in front of the longus colli muscle ; it is covered by the left pleural bag in all its extent. On its inner side are the trachea and the oesophagus, with the thoracic duct. Somewhat anterior to the level of the artery, though running in the same direc- tion, are the vagus nerve, and some of the cardiac nerves. Varia- Peculiarilies in origin. — The left subclavian is subjected less its origin frequently than the other branches of the arch to variations from quentf" its ordinary arrangement. Occasionally it arises in common with the left carotid when the arch has its usual direction. Should there be transposition of the arch, the subclavian arises usually from an innominate trunk; but this is not a constant rule, for the subclavian, in such a condition of the vessels, may be the last on the arch, like the right vessel, and cross the front of the spinal column to take its place in the neck: or it may take origin, though rarely, from a dilatation connected with the remains of the arterial duct. Right Right artery from the arch.—In some instances the right sub- subcla- ,.•'.„, i /. t i i i • . vian clavian arises from the arch of the aorta, and when this peculiarity S-ffe exists, the vessel may be placed first, second, or third, though most arch!the frequently it is last on the arch. To reach the inner margin of the first rib of the right side, when it is last on the arch (most to the left), the artery is directed between the oesophagus and the ver- tebral column, or it may be, as in one case, between the trachea and the oesophagus. The right subclavian may also be connected with a pouch, or the pervious part of the ductus arteriosus, in the same way as the left subclavian. (See Mr. Quain's work, p. 159.) veins of Yeins of the Heart.— These are, as before said, the heart are superior and the inferior cava, and the pulmonary veins: the former are the great systemic veins that return impure blood to the right auricle ; and the latter convey pure blood from the lungs into the left auricle, superior The superior or descending cava is formed by the union which is of the right and left innominate veins, and brings to the formed to . byinno- heart the blood of the head, neck, upper limbs, and thorax. minate , veins; Its origin is on the right side of the arch of the aorta, oppo- site the interval between the cartilages of the first two ribs. From that spot the large vein descends to the pericardium,