329 LIGAMENTS OF THE WRIST. cartilage ; but a kind of capsule, consisting of scattered capsule, fibres, surrounds loosely the end of the ulna. The triangular fibro-cartilage is placed transversely be- tmn- neath the end of the ulna, and is thickest at its margins and fioro- carti- apex. By its base the cartilage is fixed to the ridge which lage. separates the carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of Attach- the radius; and by its apex, to the depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna. Its margins are united with andcon- J % . nections. the contiguous anterior and posterior ligaments of the wrist joint; and its surfaces enter into the construction of different joints, viz. those of the wrist and lower radio-ulnar articula- tion. Occasionally it is perforated by an aperture. The synovial membrane (membrana sacciformis) is very synovial loose, from which circumstance it has received its name, and brane. ascends between the radius and the ulna: it is separated from that of the wrist-joint by the triangular fibro-car- tilage. Dissection, — The articulation of the carpal bones will be Dissec- prepared by taking away all the tendons from the hand, and carpal, cleaning carefully the surface of the connecting ligamen- tous bands. To the pisiform bone there are distinct liga- ments. At the same time, the ligamentous bands uniting the meta- and me- carpal with the carpal bones, and with one another, should be joint?.*11 dissected. Union of the Carpal Bones.—The several bones of the Bones are carpus are united into two rows by dorsal, palmar and inter- joined r into two osseous bands; and the two rows are connected one to ano- rows, ther by separate ligaments. Bones of the first row. — The os semilunare is united How to the contiguous bones, viz. the scaphoid and cuneiform, is form- by a dorsal and a palmar transverse band, as well as by a strong interosseous ligament to each. The pisiform bone is separate articulated to the front of the cuneiform bone by a distinct mersts of capsule and a synovial membrane ; it has further two special bone°.m ligaments;—one of these is attached to the process of the unciform bone, and the other to the base of the fifth meta- carpal bone. The bones of the second row are connected together in the Second same way as those of the first row, viz. by a dorsal and a like first. palmar band of fibres from one bone to another. Between