440 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. that on cular fibres when following the vessels and nerves. If the right side, student begins at the outer border of the sphincter, he will vessels find the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels and nerve, which he nerves, may trace outwards to their trunks (pudic vessels and nerve): some branches of the nerve are to be followed for- wards to their junction with two other nerves, the superficial perineal and inferior pudendal. In the posterior angle of the space there is a small offset of the fourth sacral nerve ; and sometimes, external to it, one or more branches of the sciatic nerve and artery are found turning round the border of the gluteus. Near the front of the fossa is a superficial perineal artery and nerve (of the pudic) ; and the last, after communicating with the hemorrhoidal nerve, leaves the fossa in front. The trunks of the pudic vessels and nerve may be laid bare on the outer wall. situa- The ischio-rectal fossa is the space intervening between tion of <| i « « m ^ ~ . . f the fossa, the rectum and the ischial part of the innominate bone. Form. Form, size, and boundaries. — On a vertical section the interval would appear to be triangular, with its apex above Dimen- and its base towards the surface. Its width is about one slons' inch at the base, and its depth about two inches; but it is larger behind than before. It is filled by a soft granular Bound- fat. The inner side of the space is very oblique, and is bounded by the levator ani muscle, and slightly by the sphincter; but the outer side is straight, and corresponds to the obturator muscle and the fascia covering it. In front it is limited by the triangular ligament (to be afterwards seen); and behind by the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the largest gluteal muscle. Pudic' Position of vessels.—Along the outer wall are the pudic onSthes vessels and nerve; these lie in a tube of fascia, being one wan,r incn and a na^ from the margin of the tuberosity of the ischium, but towards the front of the space they approach and nearer to the edge of the ramus of that bone. Crossing the ?nrthe centre of the space are the inferior hemorrhoidal vessels spaee* and nerve,—branches of the pudic. At the anterior part, for a short distance, is a superficial perineal nerve (of the pudic); and in the posterior part is a small branch of the First cut fourth sacral nerve. Into this space the surgeon sinks his tomyh°" knife in the first incisions in the lateral operation of litho- i$£m tomy; and as he carries the knife from before backwards, space,