528 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Division nation of the one and the commencement of the other, but trary. two fifths of the length are assigned to the jejunum, and Differ, three fifths to the ileum. At the ends, however, a marked the ends, difference may be observed; for the upper part of the jejunum is thicker and more vascular than the lower part of the ileum, and its width is also greater, wail has Structure. — In the small intestine the wall is formed strata as by the same number of layers as in the stomach, viz. serous, the sto- J __ _ _ J _ , , , ' mach. muscular, cellular, and mucous; and these have the same position from within outwards. The different structures are to be examined on the duodenum ; and on pieces taken from the upper part of the jejunum, from the lower end of the ileum, and from the middle of the small intestine. After the pieces of intestine have been cut off, they are to be dis- tended with air. Serous i. The serous coat is closely connected with the subjacent muscular layer. To the greater part of the small intestine (jejunum and ileum) it furnishes a covering, except at the likethat attached part where the vessels enter: at this spot a space stomach, exists, resembling that at the borders of the stomach, where the peritoneum is reflected off to form the mesentery. The except peritoneum surrounds the duodenum only partly; this pecu- duode- Harity has been described at p. 505. num. J A Muscu- 2. The muscular coat is constructed of two sets of fibres, isfonn- a superficial or longitudinal, and a deep or circular. The ed by a flares are *n colour> an(J are unstriped. longitu- a' The longitudinal fibres will be seen only by a careful dlnal removal of the peritoneum, for they are generally taken away with that membrane. They form a thin layer, which is most marked at the free border of the gut. and a b. The circular fibres are much more distinct than the layer, others, and give the chief strength to the muscular coat : they do not appear to form complete rings around the tube of the intestine. Cellular 3. The cellular coat has the same position, with respect thatinke to other parts, and the same use as the corresponding layer stomach. -n ^e stomach. Dissect Dissection. — On the removal of a part of the muscular coatUlar stratum from the jejunum or the ileum, this submucous cellular layer will come into view. Glands In the upper part of the duodenum the student is to seek