596 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. arrests, so to express it, the passing forwards of the perito- Foidsor neum. In the pelvis the serous membrane forms the follow- liga- t 1 ments ing ligaments for the uterus and bladder : — are— . broad The broad ligament of the uterus passes from the side of Jient the uterus to the wall of the abdomen, and supports that uterus, organ in the cavity of the pelvis. By its position across the pelvis, it divides the cavity into an anterior and a posterior part: in the former are placed the bladder, urethra, and that is vagina ; in the latter the upper part of the rectum, and the divided small intestine when it reaches the pelvis. Each ligament into .... . three shows traces of a subdivision into three pieces, corresponding to the bodies contained between its two layers ; thus there is a posterior piece that belongs to the ovary and its ligament; an anterior, near the upper part, which is appropriated to the round ligament; and a middle piece, the highest of all, that surrounds the Fallopian tube. It is at the free extrem- ity of the Fallopian tube that the peritoneum is continuous with a mucous membrane. and an- Between the neck of the uterus and the back of the terior tfga- bladder is a small fold on each side, which is sometimes de- ment. scribed as the anterior ligament of the uterus. Fiveii- The false ligaments of the bladder are the same as in the gaments of the male, and are five in number, viz. two posterior, two lateral, bladder. . . . and a superior: they are all blended in one large piece of peritoneum that reaches from the bladder to the side and the front of the pelvis. In the female the posterior ligament, containing the ureter and the vessels of the bladder, is less marked than in the male, because the uterus intervenes and pushes aside the vessels, connec. The rectum is not so curved in the female as in the male, the rec- and is generally larger. Descending along the middle of the turn, viz. . sacrum and coccyx to the anus, the intestine is divided into three parts: — of upper The first part extends to the third piece of the sacrum, 1 and is enveloped by the peritoneum, except posteriorly : its connexions are similar to those of the rectum in the male. middle, The middle part reaches to the tip of the coccyx, and has I the vagina above and in contact with it. The peritoneum covers the front for a very short distance. and ^ The lower part curves to the anus away from the vagina, I part. so as to leave between the two a space which corresponds, on