159 INTRINSIC LINGUAL MUSCLES. covering it in front, and those of the genio-hyo-glossus over it behind, are to be cut through. The superior lingualis then may be shown, on the left side, by taking only the mucous jjjj-^ membrane from the upper surface from tip to base. The then transversalis may be laid bare, on the right side, by cutting versa- away, on the upper aspect, the stratum of the extrinsic muscles already seen, and on the lower aspect, the inferior lingualis and the genio-hyo-glossus. The nerves for the supply of the tongue should be traced Trace on the left half, as well as the part will admit; but a sepa- nerves, rate recent part would be required to follow these satis- factorily. The transversalts muscle forms an almost horizontal par- This is tition, that reaches from the base to the apex of the tongue, zontai. The fibres are attached internally to the side of the septum, Attach- and are thence directed outwards, the posterior being some- ments* what curved, to their insertion into the side of the tongue. Its fibres are collected into vertical plates, so as to allow the Fibres, passage of the ascending fibres between them. The superior lingualis (Noto-glossus of Zaglas*) is a thin This is layer of oblique and longitudinal fibres, close beneath the nciaT." submucous tissue on the dorsum of the tongue. Its fibres origin, arise from the fascia along the middle line, and from the frssnum epiglottidis; from this attachment they are directed Fibres, obliquely outwards, the anterior becoming longitudinal, to the margin of the tongue, at which they end like they began. This is the most superficial lingual muscle, and assists in Ending, forming the cortex. The inferior lingualis is much stronger than the preceding. Position and is placed below the tongue, between the hyo and genio- tongue, hyo-glossus. The muscle arises posteriorly from the fascia origin, on the dorsum, near the root of the tongue f ; and the fibres are collected into a roundish bundle in the position before noted. From its attached surface bundles are continued Ending, vertically through the transverse fibres upwards to the dor- sum ; and at the anterior third of the tongue, where the muscle is overlaid by the stylo-glossus, some of its fibres are applied to that muscle, and distributed with them. * The description given by this author I find more correct than that of others. f The fibres are sometimes continuous with the small chondro-glossus.