697 POPLITEAL VESSELS. tion, is placed the internal popliteal nerve, which, however, and of like the vein, lies over the artery between the heads of the nerve, gastrocnemius. Dissection. — To see the artery beneath the gastrocnemius ^dof the inner head of this muscle should be cut through, and ^If' raised from the subjacent parts. On removing the cellular mms* tissue the vessels and nerves will appear. The lower arti- cular branches of the vessels and nerves are now brought into view ;—the inner artery is below the head of the tibia, and the outer higher up between the tibia and fibula, each with a vein and a nerve. Whilst the artery is beneath the gastrocnemius it sinks ^onTof" deeply into the limb, and is crossed by a small muscle, the ^ery plantaris. It is placed on the popliteus muscle. Both the onr.ther vein and the nerve (internal popliteal) change their position Position to the artery, and gradually cross over it, so as to lie on its and inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. Branches are furnished by the artery to the surrounding eSr.anch" muscles, and to the articulation ; those that enter the joint are five in number, and are called articular, viz..two superior, inner and outer; two inferior, also inner and outer; and a central or azygos branch. The muscular branches have not received separate names, ^ruscu" with the exception of those to the gastrocnemius and soleus, J?™1^" which are called sural arteries. One superficial or cutaneous cut«ne- branch accompanies the short saphenous nerve above the muscles of the leg. The superior articular arteries arise from the popliteal ^/j1"^ trunk, one from the inner and one from the outer side, above jpintare 7 ' five; the condyles of the femur; they are directed almost trans- versely beneath the hamstring muscles, and turn round the two su- „ ° penor, bone to the front of the joint. The external one perforates the intermuscular septum, andexternal divides in the substance of the vastus externus : some of the branches end in that muscle, and anastomose with the external circumflex (of the profunda) ; others descend to the joint; and one offset forms an arch across the bone with the anastomotic artery. The internal artery, oftentimes very small, winds beneath the ferna?" tendon of the adductor magnus, and terminates in branches in the vastus internus, that supply it and the knee-joint, and communicate with the anastomotic artery. The inferior articular branches lie beneath the gastro- Two 0 inferior;