764 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. the long and the anterior ciliary branches, but some come from the vessels of the ciliary processes. On arriving at the ciliary muscle the two former form a circle around the margin ed^the °^ ^e *r*s' ^rom ^s ^00P otner anastomotic branches are fibres, directed towards the pupil, near which they terminate in a second arterial circle; and at the verge of the pupil is a third circle of almost capillary vessels. Mem. Membrane of the pupil. — In the fetus before the seventh pupa month, the aperture of the pupil is closed by a vascular fetus^ transparent membrane. This structure is attached to the situa- anterior surface of the iris, over the situation of the middle tion; # ... vascular circle, and divides into two distinct chambers the space in which the iris is suspended. Vessels shoot into it from the circle before referred to, and communicate across time of the middle line; but at about the eighth month the vessels pear-" become impervious, and at the time of birth only fragments ance' of the membrane remain. Arteries Ciliary Vessels and Nerves. — The ciliary arteries are °fthe m n eyeball offsets of the ophthalmic (p. 49.), and supply the choroid coat, the ciliary processes, and the iris : they are classed into posterior and anterior, and two of the first set are named long ciliary, but they will not be seen without a special in- jection of the vessels of the eye. posterior The posterior (short) ciliary branches pierce the sclerotic back- coat around and close to the optic nerve, and run on the surface of the choroid membrane till they enter its substance. the°m°f r^wo °f tn^s se^ 0ong ciliary) are directed forward to the j0a^ed ciliary ligament, one on each side of the eyeball, and form a ciliary, circle around the iris, as before explained, before being dis- tributed in it; in the ball the outer one lies rather above, and the inner rather below the level of the axis. duary°r ^e anier^or ciliary arteries are smaller than the pos- fronT teri°r? and arise at the front of the orbit, chiefly from muscular branches; they pierce the sclerotic coat about a line behind the cornea, and join the arterial circle of the long ciliary vessels before they end in the iris. In inflam- mation of the iris these vessels are enlarged, and form a ring around the cornea, firms ^e ve^ns leaving the choroid coat are commonly four in lf*u number, and the branches entering these trunks form arches cosa, end (yasa vorticosd) on the surface : they perforate the sclerotic