EXTENSORS OF THE THUMB. 321 respect to surrounding parts, this muscle has the same con- nections as the previous one. The EXTENSOR SECUNDI INTERNODII POLLICIS Varies in the Exten. sor of extent of its bony attachment. It may be said to arise from second o i»i phalanx the middle third of the ulna, for about three inches, and lies aione in the from the interosseous membrane below, for one inch; but annular oftentimes it may be connected with the three middle fifths ment. of the ulna. Its tendon of insertion, after passing through a sheath in the annular ligament, distinct from that of the other two extensor muscles, is directed along the dorsum of the thumb to be fixed to the base of the last phalanx. It is inser- tion. covered by the same muscles as the other extensors of the thumb, but it becomes superficial nearer the lower end of is lower the radius. Below the annular ligament its tendon crosses preced- the radial artery, and the tendons of the extensors of the mg wrist. The extensor indicis (indicator muscle) arises from the Indi- v J cator ulna, for three or four inches, usually below its middle, muscle, though the attachment may be carried upwards beyond the middle of the bone. Near the annular ligament the tendon Origin, becomes free from muscular fibres, and passing through the it is aP- ligament with the common extensor of the fingers, is applied common to the external tendon of that muscle, and becomes blended sor,en" with it in the expansion on the first phalanx of the fore- seated" finger. Until this muscle has passed the ligament it iswlth ifc- covered by the superficial layer, but afterwards it is sub- fascial. Dissection, — To lay bare the supinator brevis, it will be Dissec- r ' tion of necessary to detach the anconeus from the external condyle sup*- f nator ot the humerus, and to cut through the supinator longus and brevis. the radial extensors of the wrist. After those muscles have been divided, its fibres are to be followed forwards to their insertion into the radius ; and that part of the origin of the flexor profundus digitorum, which lies on the outer side of the insertion of the brachialis anticus, is to be removed. The supinator brevis arises from the orbicular ligament Origin of the radius and from the external lateral ligament of the ^pin?- elbow joint; from a depression below the small sigmoidt0r; cavity of the ulna; and from the external margin of the ulna for about two inches. From this origin the fibres pass outwards, and are inserted into the outer surface of the and in. Y