541 FORM OF THE LIVER. proceeding will be facilitated by distending the vena portae the * with cotton wool, and the gall bladder with air through its surface, duct. The several vessels and ducts are then to be defined, and the gall bladder to be cleaned. On following outwards the left branch of the vena portae to the longitudinal or antero-posterior fissure, it will be found connected anteriorly with the remains of the umbilical vein, and posteriorly with the remains of the ductus venosus. The liver is of a red-brown colour and firm consistence; colour, and weighs commonly in the adult from three to four pounds sistence; (fifty to sixty ounces). Transversely the gland measures Weisht' from ten to twelve inches; from front to back between six ments. and seven inches; and in thickness, at the right end, about three inches, but this last measurement must change with the spot examined. In its shape the liver is somewhat square; and in form it Form differs at the surfaces, borders, and extremities; it is also sions. marked by several lobes and fossae, and by fissures, which contain vessels. The ligaments and the connections of the liver are described at pp. 499. 505. Surfaces. — On the upper aspect the liver is convex: ex- upper tending from front to back is the suspensory ligament, which smooth; divides the upper surface into two unequal parts, of which the right is the larger. The under surface is irregular, and under presents lobes, fissures, and fossae : in contact with this sur- irregu- face is the gall-bladder; and a longitudinal fissure divides it into a right and a left lobe. Borders. — The anterior border is thin, and is marked by Anterior two notches: one is opposite the fissure on the under sur- Sand face before alluded to, and the other corresponds to the edge notched' of the gall-bladder. The posterior border is much thicker posterior _ , _ -i-ip i.i •• ls tmck- at the right end than at the left, and m that part it is con- er, nected by cellular tissue to the kidney and the diaphragm. Opposite the vertebral column is a hollow in this border ; and also and the vena cava is partly imbedded in the substance of the liver on the right of that spot. Extremities. — The right part of the liver is thick and Extre- rounded, but the left is thin and flattened. Lobes. — On the under surface, the liver is divided pri-Lobes Hiarily into two lobes, a right and a left, by the longitudinal under fissure that passes from before backwards; and the right and are five, viz.