THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. 49 b. The central artery of the retina is a very small branch that Branch enters the optic nerve, and so reaches its destination in the eye- Jetina. ball. c. The supra-orbital branch arises beneath the levator palpebras Supra- . i-i ii „ , orbital and superior rectus muscles; it then takes the course oi the nerve branch, of the same name through the notch in the margin of the orbit, and ends in branches on the forehead (p. 6.). As it turns round the margin of the orbit it supplies the eyelid and the orbicularis muscle. d. The ciliary branches are uncertain in their origin, and enter Ciliary the eyeball at both its front and back. The posterior ciliary are a^pos- furnished from the ophthalmic trunk, or some of its branches. terlor' About twelve in number, they are continued to the eyeball around the optic nerve, and perforate the sclerotic coat at its posterior part. Two of this set (one on each side of the optic nerve) are two named long ciliary; they pierce the sclerotic coat further out than i0anged the rest, and are then placed along the middle of the eyeball. Clliarr; The anterior ciliary arteries arise from muscular branches of the and ophthalmic, and pierce the sclerotic coat near the cornea: in the ciliary, eyeball they anastomose with the posterior ciliary. See the dis- section of the eyeball for the anatomy of these vessels. e. The muscular branches are furnished from the artery in its Muscu- course, and those to the lower muscles often arise together. f The ethmoidal branches are two, anterior and posterior, which Eth- ^ pass through the two foramina in the inner wall of the orbit. The branch- posterior is the smaller of the two, and furnishes small meningeal es' arteries (anterior) to the dura mater of the base of the skull. The Poste- i i ... . rior and anterior branch accompanies the nasal nerve, and gives likewise anterior, small meningeal offsets to the dura mater. Both send branches to the nose through the apertures in the cribriform plate of the eth- moid bone. g. The palpebral branches, one for each eyelid, generally arise Branch. together opposite the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, and eyelids, then separate from one another. The arches they form have been dissected with the eyelids (p. 36.). h. The nasal is one of the last branches of the ophthalmic, and is distributed to the side of the nose, on which it anastomoses with the nasal and angular branches of the facial artery. i. The frontal branch turns round the margin of the orbit, and is distributed on the forehead (p. 6.). The ophthalmic vein corresponds in its course and Oph- t_ i n t thalmic branches to the artery oi the same name. It begins at the vein inner angle of the orbit, where it joins the facial vein, and receives tributary branches in its progress to the back of that E