583 PARTS IN THE OUTLET OF THE PELVIS. always applied, as in the previous description, to the fascia applied in its whole extent from the brim to the outlet of the pelvis, fascia, but that the name " obturator " is given to the half of it below the recto-vesical piece. Those who make this dis- tinction describe the pelvic fascia as dividing into obturator and recto-vesical layers at the level of the line mentioned. The recto-vesical fascia may now be seen in a measure ; Recto- •/ J vesical but it will be better displayed after the innominate bone has i^yer been taken away for the purpose of giving a side view of the pelvis. * Dissection.—To obtain a side view of the pelvis it will be How t0 r . . remove necessary to separate one innominate bone, say the left. The *ej&- pelvic fascia is first to be detached from the bone and the gate obturator muscle, but without destroying the attachments of the white band of the fascia before and behind. The inno- minate bone is then to be sawn through in front rather ex- ternal to the symphysis; and the lateral part of the sacrum is likewise to be sawn through. After the innominate bone has been somewhat separated from the rest of the pelvis, the spine of the ischium with the pelvic fascia attached to it may be cut off with a bone forceps, and then the rest of the bone may be removed by cutting through the pyriformis muscle, the vessels and nerves passing through the sacro- ischiatic notch, and any other structure that may be attached to it, A small block is afterwards to be placed beneath the Prepara- tion of pelvis; the bladder is to be moderately distended with air ; the and some tow is to be introduced into the rectum, also into the vagina of the female, as well as a small piece into the pouch of the peritoneum between the bladder and the rectum. After the viscera are thus made prominent, the recto-vesical fascia and the spine of the ischium should be raised with hooks, whilst the surfaces of the levator ani and coccygeus muscles are cleaned. Parts closing the outlet of the pelvis, — In addition to the ^outlet recto-vesical fascia, the following parts fill the large outk> ;^f Closed the dried pelvis. Beginning behind, the student will first meet by with the pyriformis, passing through the great sacro-sciatic pyri- i i • -vr i formis, notch, with the gluteal artery and nerve above it. .Next he by coccyge- will come to the coccygeus muscle, with the sacro-sciatic us, and ligament stretched between the spine of the ischium and the sciatic