RADIAL ARTERY AT THE WRIST. 323 layer, with the exception of three, viz. the anconeus, the supinator longus, and the extensor carpi radialis longior. Radial Artery at the Wrist. — At the wrist the radial ^eryon artery winds below the end of the radius to the back of the ^tof carpus, and enters the palm of the hand at the first inter- osseous space, between the heads of origin of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. At first the vessel lies deeply on the Connec- 1 J tions external lateral ligament of the wrist joint, and is beneath with: the tendons of the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first around, phalanx of the thumb ; but afterwards it is more superficial, and is crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve entwine around the artery. Its branches are nume- Branch- rous, but inconsiderable in size. small! a. The dorsal carpal branch passes transversely beneath the To back extensor tendons, and forms an arch with the corresponding offset pus. of the ulnar artery. From this arch branches descend to the third and fourth interosseous spaces, and constitute the dorsal interosseous arteries. • b. The metacarpal or first dorsal interosseous branch reaches the Meta- ■* ^ , ■ carpal space between the second and third metacarpal bones, and anas- branch, tomoses, like the corresponding arteries of the other spaces, with a perforating branch of the deep palmar arch. Finally, it is con- tinued to the cleft of the fingers, where it ends by joining the digital artery of the superficial palmar arch, and giving small dorsal branches to the index and middle fingers. c. Two small dorsal arteries of the thumb arise opposite the me- Dorsal tacarpal bone, along which they extend, one on each border, to be of the distributed on its posterior aspect. thumb d. The dorsal branch of the index finger is distributed on the and fore- radial edge of the metacarpal bone of that digit. finger. The different compartments of the annular ligament may sheaths, now be more completely seen, by dividing the sheaths of the annular ligament over the different tendons passing beneath. There merit are are six different spaces, which are lubricated by synovial x' membranes. The most external one lodges the two first position extensors of the thumb; the next is a large hollow for the without two radial extensors of the wrist; and a very small spacelnwards- for the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb follows on the ulnar side. Still to the inner side is the common sheath for the extensor of the fingers, and that of the fore- finger ; and there is a separate internal compartment for the y 2