526 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. a layer in the gastric wall. On the left of the cardiac orifice they are seen to arch over the great end of the stomach, and then to spread out on the anterior and posterior surfaces, gradually disappearing on them. The eel- 3. Fibrous or submucous coat.—By removing the mus- lular J ° coat is cular layer over a small spot, the cellular or fibrous coat will thin, but J . 1 fi™. appear as a white shining stratum. Formed of fine areolar tissue, this coat gives strength to the stomach, and serves as a bed in which the vessels and nerves ramify before their final distribution to the mucous coat. If a small opening is made in this membrane, the mucous coat projects through it when the stomach is distended with air. Mucous i 4. The mucous coat will come into view on cutting open coat; ° 1 the stomach, but the appearances about to be described can be seen only in a recent stomach, feel, This coat is a thickish layer, smooth and soft to the touch, which, in the natural and healthy condition, is found colour, of a pale rose colour soon after death. In infancy the na- tural redness is greater than in childhood or in old age ; and in the empty state of the stomach the membrane is less vas- foids, cular than during digestion. When the stomach is con- tracted, the membrane is thrown into numerous wavy lines or rugce, which are longitudinal along the great curve, thick, towards the pylorus. The thickness of the mucous membrane neSs' is greatest near the pylorus ; and at that spot it forms a fold, opposite the muscular ring, which assists in closing the open- disposi- ing. If this membrane and its submucous layer are removed pylorus, from the pyloric part of the stomach, the ring of muscular fibres (sphincter of the pylorus) will be more perfectly seen. On the Microscopic structure of the mucous membrane. — With are pits the aid of a lens the surface of the mucous membrane, when veoiij well washed, will be seen to be marked all over by shallow their depressions or alveoli, which measure from -g-J-^th to i^th £lze' of an inch across: these depressions are occupied by the shape, apertures of minute tubes. Generally hexagonal or polygonal in outline, the hollows become larger and more elongated and ap- towards the small end of the stomach. Near the pylorus, ance~ too, the margins of the alveoli project, and are irregular, so pyTorus. as to resemble rudimentary villi. The By means of a thin section under the microscope, the made up membrane is seen to be formed almost altogether of minute