401 FIEST LAYER OF MUSCLES. third and fourth nerves of the cervical plexus. The nerve is distributed to the muscle, and its filaments reach nearly to the lower border. Dissection. — To see the parts that are covered by the Dissec- . . . tion to trapezius, this muscle is to be divided longitudinally, internal reflect to the position of the spinal accessory nerve, and the two zius; parts are to be thrown inwards and outwards. The dissector of the upper limb should clean the fibres of to clean r r scapular the rhomboidei and levator anguli scapulae muscles, which muscles; are fixed to the base of the scapula ; and whilst this is being done, the scapula is to be drawn away from the trunk to make tense the fibres. The dissector of the neck should define the parts beneath to dissect x parts in the clavicle, viz. the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle the neck, with the suprascapular nerve and artery; the transverse cervical vessels ; and the small branches of nerves to the levator anguli scapulae, and the rhomboid muscles. If the trapezius be detached in the neck, the ligamentum nuchas, from which it takes origin, will be brought into view. * Parts covered by the trapezius. — The trapezius conceals Parts " 1 x covered in the neck the splenius and a small part of the complexus, bytra. L \ A pezius. with the levator anguli scapulae; and in the dorsal region it covers the following muscles—the rhomboidei, the erector spinae, and the latissimus dorsi. As it reaches the scapula it lies over the supraspinatus muscle. The ligamentum nuchce is a narrow fibrous band, that Liga- n , n , , . , mentura extends irom the spinous process 01 the seventh cervical nucnae. vertebra to the occipital protuberance. This structure serves as a partition between the muscles of opposite sides of the neck; and from the under part processes are sent down to be attached to the spines of the six lower cervical vertebrae. * The latissimus doksi is a thin and wide muscle in the i^atissi- back, but is pointed and fleshy towards the humerus : at its d<>rsi is . . named inner attachment it is aponeurotic, and is inseparably blended f™m with the subjacent tendon of the erector spinae. Its origin origin is is connected with the outer edge of the crest of the ilium in noils" front of the ilio-lumbar ligament, with the spines of the four middle or five lower dorsal, and some of the lumbar vertebrae, and fleshynd between these points with the subjacent aponeurosis, as soJJIe before said ; in addition, the muscle has three or four fleshy nbs' D D