DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 122 Section X. DISSECTION OF THE LEFT SIDE OF THE NECK. Left side In repeating the dissection of the left half of the neck, the differs . from differences observable between it and the right side are spe- right. . ° r cially to be studied. When the description of the right side will suffice, reference will be made to it. Dissec. Directions.—After the neck has been made tense over a anterior narrow block, the anterior triangle and the anterior part of o"neck] the neck are to be prepared as on the opposite side. The description of the right side (p. 63.) is to be used for both those regions, for the sterno-mastoideus, and for the de- pressor muscles of the hyoid bone, of sea- Next the scaleni muscles and the subclavian vessels are subcia- to be taken. The dissection and description of those parts tery. on the right side (p. 68.), will serve for these on the left, except that the student will meet on the left side with the thoracic duct. This little tube will be seen in connection with the part of the artery internal to the scalenus muscle, and afterwards to cross in front of the scalenus to join the subclavian vein. On this side, too, the clavicle may remain articulated. Subcia- The left subclavian artery arises from the arch of the tery aorta, instead of from the innominate artery, and ascends thence, over the first rib, in its course to the upper limb, differs With this difference on the two sides in the origin of the much 1 -i . from subclavian, the one vessel beginning opposite the sterno-cla- subcia- vicular articulation, the other in the thorax, it is evident vian that the length and connections of the part of the artery on the inner side of the scalenus must vary much on opposite sides. fiistpart ^rst part-— The part of the artery internal to the ante- ofitsex- rior scalenus is much longer on the left than the right side, tent. ° . . and is almost vertical in direction, instead of being horizon - tal, like its fellow vessel. Moreover it is deeply placed in the neck, near the spine and the oesophagus, and does not rise so high above the first rib as the right subclavian. t?onTec" Between tne artery and the surface are the same parts as roundUr" are superficial to tne right vessel, viz. the common tegu- ™|tg ments and deep fascia, with the sterno-mastoid, hyoid, and