143 OLFACTORY REGION AND NERVE. scaly near the nostrils; but in the upper part it has special characters. Olfactory region*—This is the part of the nose in which oifac the olfactory nerve is distributed, and is therefore the seat of region, the sense of smell. In this spot the mucous lining differs in character from that in the lower portion of the nose. This region is situate at the top of the nose, and is con- Limits, fined to the piece of the roof formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; to that part of the outer wall con- structed by the upper, and the fore part of the middle spongy bone; and to a corresponding extent of the septum, viz. about one-third. The epithelium of the mucous lining covering this region Epithe- is of a brownish tint, is laminar, and is composed of many strata ; and the glands of the part resemble those of ordinary glands, sweat glands in their position, and in the length and struc- ture of the tubes. Dissection.—By the time the student has arrived at this Dissec- stage of the dissection, little will be seen of the distribution nerves of the olfactory nerve. If the septum nasi be removed, so seis.ves" as to leave entire the membrane covering it on the opposite side (the left), the filaments of the nerve will appear on the surface, near the cribriform plate. On the membrane, too, near the front of the septum, is a branch of the nasal nerve. At the same time, the naso-palatine nerve and artery may be seen lower down, being directed from behind forwards, towards the anterior palatine canal. By cutting through the anterior part of the membrane, that has been detached from the septum, other branches of the olfactory nerve may be traced along the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The olfactory nerve forms a bulb on the cribriform oifac- plate of the ethmoid bone, from which branches descend to ISe the olfactory region of the nose through the apertures in that bone. These branches are about twenty in number, and are divisible into three sets. An inner set descend in is distri- the grooves on the septum narium, and branching, extend th£d of on its upper third. A middle set is confined to the roof of the'roof the nose. And an external set is distributed on the two and two * This region has been specially described in the third part of the Physiological Anatomy of Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman.