DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 172 in it. Epigiot- The epiglottis is the largest of the pieces of yellow carti- Form lage. In form it resembles a leaf, with the stalk below, and sitfon?" tne larnin^ or expanded part above. Its position is behind the tongue, and in front of the orifice of the larynx. During respiration it is placed vertically, but during deglutition it assumes a horizontal direction, so as to close the opening of the larynx. sur- The anterior surface is bent forwards to the tongue, to which it is connected by three folds of mucous membrane ; and the posterior surface is hollowed from side to side, but Sides, convex from above down. To its sides the arytasno-epiglot- Foot- tidean folds of mucous membrane are united. The lower part is connected by a fibrous band (thyro-epiglottidean liga- ment) to the posterior surface of the thyroid cartilage, near the notch in the upper border. The epiglottis is further connected to the hyoid bone, and the root of the tongue, by Glands strong bands of elastic and fibrous tissue. After the mucous membrane has Jbeen removed from the epiglottis, the fibro- cartilaginous structure will be seen to be perforated by numerous apertures, that lodge muciparous glands. Sup. Between the epiglottis and the hyoid bone is a mass of giand. yellowish fat with some glands, which has been sometimes called the epiglottidean gland. Liga- Ligaments of the Larynx. — The larynx is connected tnenia-° by ligaments with the hyoid bone above, and with the r>nx' trachea below. Besides, there are connecting fibres uniting together the cartilages; and between some of the cartilages synovial membranes exist, between Union of the larynx with the hyoid bone and the trachea. oides" —A thin loose elastic membrane (thyro-hyoid) passes from chea!™" the thyroid cartilage to the hyoid bone, and a second mem- brane connects the cricoid cartilage with the trachea. Thyro- The thyro-hyoid ligament is attached on the one part to menu the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and on the other, brane' to the upper border of the hyoid bone, at the posterior aspect. Of some thickness in the centre, it gradually becomes thinner towards the sides, and finally ends in a rounded elastic cord, that intervenes between the extremity of the hyoid bone, and the upper cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The superior laryngeal nerve and artery perforate this ligament, and a synovial membrane is placed between it and the posterior surface of the hyoid bone. In the elastic lateral part of the