607 SACKAL NERVES AND PLEXUS. three first nerves, and part of the fourth enter the sacral that pre plexus, but the fifth ends on the back of the coccyx. are The peculiarities of the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal nerve, may be noticed before the plexus formed by the other nerves is learnt. The fourth nerve divides into two parts, as above stated: fourth, one communicates with the sacral plexus; the other distri- butes the following branches to the viscera and the surround- which ing muscles, and joins the fifth nerve. a. The visceral branches supply chiefly the bladder and visceral the vagina, and communicate with the sympathetic nerve to form the pelvic plexus. Sometimes these branches come from the third sacral nerve. b, The muscular branches are three in number. One and • muscular rather long branch enters the levator am on its visceral as- offsets; pect; another supplies the coccygeus ; and the third reaches the perinaeum by piercing the coccygeus muscle. (See page 442.) The fifth nerve comes forwards from the lower end of the fifth is spinal canal through the coccygeus muscle. As soon as it aPer- ... . tures in appears in the pelvis it receives the communicating branch sacrum, from the fourth nerve ; it is then directed downwards in front of the coccygeus, where it is joined by the coccygeal nerve, and perforates that muscle near the tip of the coccyx, ends on to end on the posterior surface of the bone. The coccygeal nerve (sixth sacral), after leaving the lower Coccy- end of the spinal canal, appears through the coccygeus nerve, muscle, and joins the fifth sacral nerve in the manner above stated. Sacral Plexus. — This plexus is a large flat band, in sacral which are united the lumbo-sacral cord, the first three sacral plexus' nerves, and part of the fourth sacral nerve. It is situate on situation the pyriformis muscle, and beneath the sciatic and pudic branches of the internal iliac artery. From the spot where and the nerves join, the plexus becomes gradually smaller to- form# wards the lower end; and, leaving the pelvis below the pyri- formis, terminates in branches for the lower limb. Most of the branches of the plexus arise outside the pelvis, its and are distributed to the back of the lower limb. Onlv two ' J to mus- internal muscles of the pelvis (pyriformis and obturator in- ^5£"e ternus) receive their nerves from the sacral plexus. Pelvis? branches