NERVES AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 19 front of the ganglion, viz. superior and inferior maxillary, should be traced to their apertures in the skull. The third nerve is destined for the muscles of the orbit, Motor- and enters the wall of the cavernous sinus, near the anterior Serve clinoid process. At this spot it is deprived of its tube of arachnoid membrane, and in the wall of the sinus it is placed above the other nerves, till it is about to enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. Near the orbit this nerve is passes to joined by one or two delicate filaments of the cavernous plexus (p. 22.). The fourth nerve, like the preceding, courses forwards Troch- to a muscle in the orbit. It is the smallest of the nerves in nerve the wall of the sinus, and lies below the third ; but as it is about to pass through the sphenoidal fissure it becomes higher than all the other nerves. In the wall of the sinus, in the the fourth nerve is joined by twigs of the sympathetic, cavem- and sometimes it is united with the ophthalmic trunk of sinus, the fifth. Fifth Nerve.—This nerve is distributed to the face and Trifacial head, and consists of two parts or roots —a large or sensory, has two and a small or motory. The two roots of the nerve pass together through an aperture in the dura mater, into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. Immediately after- wards, the larger root enlarges in the Gasserian ganglion, their whilst the smaller root passes beneath the ganglion, without merit?6 communicating with it, and joins one trunk derived from the ganglion. The ganglion of the root of the fifth nerve (Gasserian Gasse- ganglion) is placed in a depression on the point of the petrous gan- part of the temporal bone. The upper surface of the gan- large glion is closely united to the dura mater, and presents a semi- lunar elevation, whose convexity looks forwards. Some filaments from the plexus of the sympathetic on the carotid artery enter its inner side. Branches. — From the front of the ganglion proceed the gives three following trunks: — The ophthalmic nerve is the first branch- and highest, and is destined for the orbit and face. Next in es" order is the superior maxillary nerve, which leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum, and ends in the face below the orbit. And the last, or inferior maxillary nerve, passes downwards through the foramen ovale to reach the lower