PALMAR MUSCLE AND FASCIA. 305 branch of the ulnar nerve. A few filaments of this nerve are fur- One of nished to the ball of the thumb, b. The other palmar branch is other of derived from the ulnar nerve (p. 301.) ; it has been already traced on the ulnar artery to the hand, and it may now be observed as far as its distribution in the palm. Some unnamed twigs are also furnished to the integument from Some ° ° unnamed both the median and ulnar nerves in the hand. twigs. The palmaris brevis is a small subcutaneous muscle, Paimaris brevis is about an inch and a half wide, whose fibres are collected subcu- taneous, into separate bundles. It is attached on the outer side to the and ends L in the palmar aponeurosis, and its fibres are directed inwards to skin, join the skin at the inner border of the hand. This muscle lies over the ulnar artery and nerve. After it has been examined, it may be thrown inwards. The palmar fascia, or aponeurosis, consists of a central ^J™ar and two lateral parts; but the latter, which cover the muscles of the thumb and little finger, are so thin as not to require a separate notice. The central part is a strong, white, shining layer, which IS Its cen- pointed at the wrist; but is expanded towards the fingers, ra part where it covers the whole width of the hand. Posteriorly, the central part of the fascia receives the tendon of the palmaris longus, and is connected to the annular ligament; and anteriorly it ends in four processes, which are continued ends in a forwards, one for each finger, to join the sheaths of the each.6 °r tendons. At the point of separation of the processes one fiuger' from another, are placed some transverse fibres, which arch over the lumbricalis muscle, and the digital artery and nerve that appear at this spot. A few superficial fibres are pro- longed from the four pieces, into which the fascia divides, to the integument at the cleft of the fingers, and to the trans- verse ligament. Dissection. — To follow one of the processes of the fascia LMssec- to its junction with the sheath of the tendons, its superficial fibres must first be removed, and it must then be divided longitudinally, by inserting the knife beneath it, opposite the head of the metacarpal bone. The process of the fascia may be now seen to send down- Ending wards, on each side of the tendons, an offset, which is fixed pieces of to the ligament connecting together the ends of the meta- carpal bones, as well as to the borders of the corresponding x