CAVITY OF LEFT VENTRICLE. 357 conical in shape than that of the opposite ventricle, and on a left ven- transverse section of the heart it appears oval or almost circular. The apex of the cavity reaches into the apex of the heart, Apex, for the fibres of the left ventricle alone form this part. The Base • 1 Til Wlth itS base is turned towards the auricle, and is sloped slightly open- in a direction opposite to that of the right ventricle. In this part are the openings into the aorta and the left auricle. The walls of this ventricle are the thickest, and the ante- Walls, rior boundary is formed by the septum ventriculorum. Its surface is irregular, like that of the right ventricle, in inner consequence of the projections of the fleshy columns, or the has carneae columnar; but near the great artery (aorta) that leads Columns, from the cavity the surface is smooth. Three sets of fleshy but some columns are seen in this as in the right ventricle, but the set urge, that projects into the cavity and receives the small tendi- nous bands of the valve is the most marked. The musculi papillares spring from the front and back of the parietes, and are collected, for the most part, into two large muscular projections. The aperture into the left auricle (auriculo-ventricular) IS Left au- placed on the left of the orifice of the aorta, and close to it, JentrScu only as thin fibrous band intervening between the two. This ture!p6r* opening is rather smaller than the corresponding aperture of Form the right side, and like it is longest in the transverse direc- size, tion: its position is beneath the right auriculo-ventricular pOSition. opening, opposite the centre of the sternum. It is furnished it has with a membranous valve that projects into the ventricle; valve6 but this is stronger and of greater length than the tricuspid, and has also firmer and more tendinous cords. Attached to a fibrous ring around the aperture, the valve is divided below by a notch on each side, into two instead of three pieces; its segments lie one before another, having their edges directed to the sides, and their surfaces towards the front and back of the cavity. From a fancied resemblance of it to a mitre it has been called the mitral valve. The named anterior tongue of the valve intervenes between the auricular m rd' and aortic openings, and is attached above to the fibrous band in that position; it is larger and looser than the poste- rior segment. * 4 The mitral resembles the tricuspid valve in its structure Mitral A A 3 Valve-