758 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. or if it is immersed in water it is rendered opaque by infil- tration of the tissue by that fluid. Has not Structure. — The cornea is laminar in texture ; and in the blood- vessels, healthy condition blood-vessels do not permeate its structure, Com- but cease in loops at its circumference. It is constructed of layers, a special, thick basement part called cornea proper: in front of this is a thin elastic layer with an epithelial stratum ; and behind it is another fine elastic membrane covered by an epithelium. The two structures in front of the thick proper cornea constitute the conjunctiva. Cornea The cornea proper (lamellated cornea) is made up of a proper is . . . . . formed series of layers, about sixty in number in a section at a given of layers, , . , . . , . , spot, which join one another at numerous points, and cannot with in- therefore be detached for any distance.* Between the layers tervals J J between, there are elongated tubular spaces (corneal tubes), which are mostly parallel on the same level, but cross obliquely those on a different plane^ from which they are usually distinct; these intervals do not contain fluid, but are moistened by a vapour. This structure possesses great toughness; and its transparency depends upon the parallelism of the different strata, and their distance from one another being duly main- tained, for, if they are disarranged by compression or other its tissue means, the translucency is destroyed. The laminse of the edinto" cornea are formed of white fibrous tissue, continuous with the that of the sclerotic coat, but here flattened into membra- tic. " nous layers, and arranged one over another. Poste- The posterior elastic layer may be peeled off after a cut elastic has been made across the cornea. It is a thin, but dense ld}er' and hard membrane, that tears readily when an attempt is made to detach it, and curls up when it is separated; it is charac- always transparent, and remains so after boiling, after the action of acids, and even after maceration. At the edge of the cornea this lamina breaks up into processes, which turn attach- backwards, and become blended with the outer margin of the margin1; iris, the ciliary circle, and the sclerotic coat. Though very elastic, this membrane is apparently without a definite struc- * The facts stated in this, and in many other places in the description, are obtained from Mr. Bowman's Lectures on the Eye, and from the Physiological Anatomy, part third, 1847, of Dr. Todd and Mr. Bowman.