DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 386 begins in conveyed to the blood. The duct begins in the abdomen in domen an enlargement (chyli receptaculum), and ends in the left in neck, subclavian vein of the neck. It is from eighteen to twenty inches in length, and is contained in the thorax, except Connec- at its origin and termination. It has the undermentioned in°the connections :—Entering the cavity on the right side of the thorax. aorta an(j through the same opening, the duct ascends on the right of that vessel, between it and the vena azygos, as high as the arch. Opposite the second dorsal vertebra it passes beneath the arch of the aorta and the left subclavian artery, and is applied to the left side of the oesophagus, by which it is conducted to the neck. Lastly, at the lower part of the neck, the duct arches outwards, as before described (p. 123.), Maybe to open into the left subclavian vein. In this course the tube is oftentimes divided in two, which unite again, or it may even form a plexus ; and near its termination it is generally is fur- branched. It is provided with valves, like a vein, at intervals, ™uhed and these are in greater number at the upper than at the valves' lower part. Occasionally the duct may be found on the left instead of the right side of the aorta. Receives Branches. — In the thorax the duct receives the lym- aticsP.h" phatics of the left half of the wall of the cavity, viz. from the sternal and intercostal glands ; also, the lymphatics of the left lung, those of the left side of the heart, and those of the trachea and oesophagus. Right c. The right lymphatic duct, though not in the thorax, is duct mainly formed by the large branches received from the is in the viscera in that cavity. It is a short trunk at the lower part neck" of the neck, which is about half an inch in length, and opens into the angle of union of the subclavian and jugular veins of the same side (p. 75.). Its opening is guarded by valves, it re- Branches. — Into this trunk the lymphatics of the right lymph- upper limb, and the right side of the head and neck pour the^arm their contents. In addition, the lymphatics of the right side the ° of the chest, those of the right lung and the right side of the heart, and some from the right lobe of the liver, after passing through their respective glands, unite into a few large trunks that ascend beneath the innominate vein to reach the duct in the neck. Their Structure of the ducts.—The wall of these tubes resembles ture in its structure that of the blood vessels :—it has an external