364 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. upper part of the sternum, but it may ascend nearly to the top of that bone, or stop an inch and a half or more from it. direc- Direction. — Sometimes the aorta is arched over the root of the tion of the right instead of the left lung, as in birds : and is directed afterwards arch to its usual place on the spinal column, without any other change in the position of the viscera of the body. Or, all the viscera of the cavities of the thorax and abdomen being transposed, the arch of the aorta may share the general disturbance in locality. Position Position of branches. — The large branches of the neck may have of the .... primary their usual origin (the highest part of the arch) moved more to the branch- . Qr ^heir distance from one another may be increased or diminished. When there is transposition of the arch there is like- wise transposition of the branches — the innominate artery supply- ing the left side, and the carotid and subclavian vessels on the right side having separate attachments to the arch ; but Tiedemann gives an instance of the innominate going to the left side of the neck without transposition. Their Number of branches. — The most frequent change in number is number . . 1 . . may be the reduction of the arteries to two, as when the left carotid arises to two, from the innominate artery, or the left carotid and left subclavian or in- are conjoined. But the number may be increased to four by the to four, absence of the innominate trunk, and the separate origin of the right carotid and subclavian arteries from the arch : — in this last case the right subclavian varies in its position, though commonly five, or it is attached to the arch of the aorta, to the left of the rest. Lastly, there may be five or six primary trunks from the arch; and in in- stances of this state, the internal and external carotids take their origin from it, in consequence of absence of the trunk common to the two, on one or both sides. Second- Some smaller or secondary arteries take origin occasionally branch- from the arch. The most frequent example of this peculiarity is es* seen in the origin of the left vertebral artery, between the left carotid and subclavian trunks, or beyond them. Occasionally a thyroid artery (lowest thyroid), or the right internal mammary, or both vertebrals, will be seen to spring from the arch of the aorta, inno- The innominate artery (bracbio-cephalic) is the largest artery offset of the transverse part of the arch, and is the first of ends in the three branches. It is a thick trunk, varying from one and sub- inch and a half to two inches in length ; ascending to the clavian. . .,..,7 - right, beneath the sternum, it divides into carotid and sub- clavian arteries, opposite the sterno-clavieular articulation. The artery is crossed by the left innominate vein, and is behind the upper piece of the sternum, and the origin of the Length hyoid and thyroid muscles. At first the innominate artery