PROFUNDA VESSELS. 679 x x 4 of the tendon of the external obturator muscle. Having reached ends on the back of the thigh, it ends in two branches, which will be seen thigh?f in the dissection of the buttock. It supplies the under-mentioned branches to the inner side of the thigh: — An articular artery supplies enters the hip-joint through the notch in the acetabulum. At the and border of the adductor/ brevis two muscular branches arise : one muscles, ascends to the obturator and the superficial adductor muscles; the other, which is larger, descends beneath the adductor brevis, and ends in this and the largest adductor. Peculiarities in origin. — The origin of the internal circumflex is Origin very variable. In one body it may be from the femoral artery above the profunda; in another from the external iliac artery, or its branches — the epigastric and circumflex iliac. The perforating tranches are usually three in number, and pierce Three the tendons of some of the adductor muscles close to the linea bating aspera of the femur. The first is opposite the lower border of the es jn°h" pectineus, and perforates the short and large adductors. The second second branch arises lower down, and passes through the same nutri- muscles as the preceding : from it a nutritious artery is supplied to artery, the femur. The third artery springs from the deep femoral trunk below the adductor brevis, and is transmitted through the adductor magnus. The terminal branch of the profunda (fourth perforating) and the pierces the adductor magnus. These several branches supply the of pro- muscles on the back and the outer part of the thigh ; and anasto- aUfourth, mose above with branches of the internal iliac, and below with those of the popliteal artery. The profunda vein results from the union of the different Pro. branches corresponding to those of its companion artery, vein. It closely accompanies the artery of the same name, to which it is superficial, being between this and the femoral vessels. Sometimes the vein is suddenly "enlarged at the upper part is some- by the union of a large trunk from the popliteal vein, which joined is directed upwards behind the adductor magnus, and then teaiP.°ph pierces this muscle. Dissection. — To bring into view the remaining muscles, Cut viz. the adductor magnus, the obturator externus, and the adductor insertion of the psoas and iliacus, the adductor brevis is to be cut through, and the cellular membrane to be removed from each. After the adductor magnus has been learnt, it will be needful to detach a few of the upper fibres to examine the obturator externus. The adductor magnus is narrow at the pelvis, and wide Adduc- at the femur : triangular in form, the base is directed up- n°us™ag