FLOOR OF LATERAL VENTRICLE. 221 cavity turned inwards. The anterior extremity is the lamest, and presents two or three indentations, which give has a „ n n • • it large end it the appearance of the foot of a carnivorous animal, hence its designation pes hippocampi. Along the inner or concave and margin is the small band or taenia that is prolonged from the border, fornix; and beneath that band is a thin layer of gray matter, with a notched border, which has been named fascia dentata. Dissection. — To examine more fully the hippocampus, J?j^sec" the parts of the corpus callosum and fornix, that remain in the middle line, should be divided, and the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere should be drawn backwards. When the pia mater has been removed from the inner side of the hippo- campus, and this projection cut across, the structure of this body will be seen. The hippocampus is covered on the ventricular surface struc- by a medullary investment, in which the taenia, or the band niPPo- n , r\ • i'-i-i. campus. oi the fornix ends. On the opposite aspect this body is hollowed, and contains gray matter from the surface of the brain. Along the free margin of the hippocampus the gray matter projects in the form of a notched ridge, the fascia dentata. Transverse fissure of the cerebrum. — By drawing the Great separated hemisphere away from the crus cerebri and the verse optic thalamus (the central parts of the cerebrum), and then replacing it, the dissector will comprehend the, position, and the boundaries of the great cleft at the posterior part of the brain. This fissure is placed beneath the fornix, and extends is be- downwards, on each side, from the middle line, to the end of fornix the descending cornu. It is bounded on the one side by the pus Su fornix and the hemisphere, and on the other, by the pe- losum duncle of the cerebrum. Through this great slit the pia and mater passes into the brain, and forms the velum inter- D|sehof positum and the plexus choroides. Where the pia mater pr*m" projects into the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the™*^it fornix, it receives a prolongation from the lining structure of the cavity, and thus the interval through which it enters is closed. Parts in the Middle Line. — The student is now to Parts return to the examination of the parts in the centre of the.middle brain, viz. the fold of pia mater and its vessels ; the third