582 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. and the peritoneum being detached from the wall of the pelvis, the fascia will be seen on scraping away a large quantity of fat with the handle of the scalpel. But the membrane is now apparent only in its upper half, or as low as the situation of the piece that is prolonged inwards to the viscera; to see its lower half, the student must raise the pelvis and look to the fascia covering the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa. Should the perineum be undissected, the fat must now be taken from the hollow referred to. If the scalpel be pushed upwards in the fossa, it will enter the pelvis where the visceral joins the parietal piece, and will mark the position of the levator ani muscle between the two. Fascia The pelvic fascia is a thin membrane in close contact with wan of the obturator muscle, and is fixed to the bone around the xls.vel~ attachment of the fleshy fibres, so that it might be called the its at- special fascia (obturator) of that muscle. Superiorly it ment reaches the brim of the pelvis for a short distance at the fheob- lateral aspect of the cavity ; in front of that spot it quits the muscle; brim, and, still following the muscle, forms an arch below the obturator vessels, whilst farther to the middle line it is fixed along an oblique line near the lower part of the sym- physis pubis. Inferiorly the fascia is attached to the margin of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and to the rami of the ischium and pubes ; but below the pubic arch it is con- tinued from the one bone to the other for a certain distance, partly ^o as to join the recto-vesical piece at this spot, and to close aperture the front of the cavity of the pelvis. At a certain level, viz. in front3; that of a line prolonged from the lower part of the symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium, the fascia sends inwards gives off the recto-vesical piece to the viscera of the pelvis: the vesical origin of this offset is indicated by a whitish band, which plece" marks also the attachment of the levator ani muscle beneath. Connec- The outer surface of the fascia is in contact with the obtu- the rator muscle. The inner surface, above the origin of the recto-vesical piece, is in the cavity of the pelvis, but below tiat spot, in the ischio-rectal fossa. At the posterior border of the obturator muscle a thin membrane is continued back- wards to the front of the sacrum, over the sacral plexus and the pyriformis muscle, but beneath the vessels, by which it is perforated. Different It may here be remarked that the term " pelvic " is not terms