CERVICAL NERVES AND BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 75 tion upwards of the axillary vein, and ends by joining the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. Its course is nearly straight, and commonly below the level of the artery, from which it is separated by the anterior scalenus muscle. The external jugular joins this vein outside the its scalenus, and the vertebral and superior intercostal veins es; enter it inside that muscle. Into the angle of union of the opening subclavian and jugular veins the right lymphatic duct opens ; lymph- and at the same spot, on the left side, is the entrance of the ducts, large lymphatic duct. It should be borne in mind that not unfrequently the vein is as high as the artery in the third part of its course; and that the vein has been twice seen with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus. The ANTERIOR DIVISIONS OF THE CERVICAL NERVES Spring Cervical from the common trunks in the inter-vertebral foramina, and appear on the side of the neck between the inter-transverse Position muscles. These spinal nerves are eight in number, and are number, equally divided between the cervical and the brachial plexus ; the highest four being combined in the former, and the re- maining nerves in the latter plexus. At their commence- ment the nerves intermix by communicating branches, and receive offsets of communication from the sympathetic. To this general statement, respecting the position of the firstd.f nerves between the inter-transverse muscles, some modifica- fer from rest. tion is necessary for the first two nerves ; and the pecu- liarities concerning them will be noticed in Section 18. Brachial Plexus The first dorsal and four lower Brachial cervical nerves are blended in this plexus, and a fasciculus plexus is added to them from the lowest nerve entering the cervical plexus. Thus formed the plexus reaches from the lowest formed part of the neck to the axilla, where it ends in nerves for the nerves, upper limb. Only the part of it above the clavicle can now be seen. In the neck the nerves have but little of a plexi- form disposition: they lie at first between the scaleni muscles, and have the following arrangement: — The fifth and sixth nerves unite near the vertebrae ; the Disposi. : nerves in posterior scalenus; and the last cervical and first dorsal are us^the blended in one trunk beneath the anterior scalenus; so that neck' they are combined at first into three cords. Near the attach-