525 STRUCTURE OF THE STOMACH. Surfaces, — The surfaces are somewhat flattened when Surfaces the stomach is empty, but rounded when it is distended, or flat. The parts in contact with the sides have been referred to (p. 496.). Borders. — The upper border, or small curve of the uPPer 1 1 7 # border; stomach, is concave towards the left opening, but convex at the opposite end : and the lower border, or large curve, is lower , border, convex, except near the right end, where it is concave:—the concavity of the one border corresponds to the convexity of differ- ence in the other. An arterial arch and a fold of peritoneum (omen- outline, turn) extend along each border. Structure.—In the wall of the stomach are found four Four lavers or coats, viz. a serous, a muscular, a cellular or are in , -i . -i i the sto- fibrous, and a mucous; together with vessels, nerves, and mach. lymphatics. 1. Serous coat — The peritoneum gives a covering to the ^hese-^ stomach, and is adherent to the surface except at the margins, is thin 7 m r ° and ad- where an interval exists corresponding to the attachment of herent. the small and the large omentum. In this space are con- tained the vessels, nerves, and lymphatics of the stomach surrounded by cellular membrane. During distension of the stomach, the space above mentioned is destroyed. 2. The muscular coat will be laid bare by the removal of The x muscu- the serous covering. It consists oi three sets of muscular iar coat is made fibres, viz. longitudinal, circular, and oblique, which lie from up of without inwards in the order mentioned: the fibres are un- striped. a. The longitudinal fibres are derived from those of the longitu- oesophagus; they spread over the surfaces, without entirely dina1' covering them, and are continued onwards to the pylorus and the small intestine. These fibres are most marked along the borders, particularly the smaller one; and at the pylorus they are much stronger than in the centre of the stomach. b. The circular fibres form the middle stratum of the mus- circular, cular coat, and will be best seen by removing the longitu- dinal fibres, near the pylorus. They reach from the cardiac to the pyloric end of the stomach; but at the latter part they are most numerous and strongest, and form a firm ring around the pyloric opening. c. The oblique fibres are continuous with the circular or and ob- deep layer of fibres of the oesophagus, and form only part of fibres.