566 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. with surrounding parts have been before referred to (p. 512.), and its branches now remain to be examined. Place of The branches of the aorta are numerous, and arise in the thegn° following order:—First, are the diaphragmatic arteries, two es; in number, which, if they arise separately, leave the sides of % the vessel immediately it appears in the abdomen. Close to the tendinous ring of the diaphragm the single trunk of the coeliac axis arises from the front of the aorta; and about a quarter of an inch lower down, also on its front, the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery begins. Half an inch lower the renal arteries, right and left, take origin from the sides of the aorta. On the fore part of the trunk, close above each renal, is the small capsular branch, and below the renal is the spermatic artery. From the front of the aorta, one to two inches above the bifurcation, springs the inferior mesenteric artery; and from the angle of division the' small middle sacral artery runs downwards. Four or five small lumbar arteries on each side come from the pos- terior part of the vessel, opposite the bodies of the corre- sponding vertebrae, their The branches may be classified into two sets, — one that cation." supplies the viscera of the abdomen (visceral), and another that is furnished to the abdominal walls (parietal), visceral A. The visceral branches are coeliac axis, superior and branch- , . , A . es. inferior mesenteric, renal, capsular, and spermatic. All this set, except the three last, viz. the renal, capsular, and sper- matic, have been examined (p. 506—516.). Renal The renal arteries leave the aorta nearly at a right angle, arte°' and are directed outwards, one on each side. Near the kidney each divides into four or five branches, which efi>ter is be- its substance between the vein and the* ureter. Each lies vein;1 s beneath its companion vein, being surrounded by a plexus of gives nerves, and supplies small twigs to the supra-renal capsule onsets. ^nferjor capSUlar)? to the ureter, and to the cellula^, mem- brane about the»kidney. Differ- The arteries of opposite sides have some differences. tween6" The left is the shortest, owing to the position of the aorta. !ight.nd The right crosses the spine, and passes beneath the vena cava. Varieties, both in the number, and the place of origin of this artery, are frequent. Capsular The middle capsular artery is a small branch that runs artery.