POPLITEAL SPACE. 695 vessels and nerves be looked for. After the ham has been cleaned, the sartorius and the gracilis are to be replaced on the inner side. In the middle line the student will first come upon the seek the i i t i i i • t nerves in large internal popliteal nerve, and nearer the outer side, on the the external popliteal; both give branches, and their offsets SpdCe' will be recognised more certainly by tracing them from above down along the trunk of the nerve, than by proceeding in the opposite direction. In fat bodies the small nerves to the knee-joint are difficult to find. Under cover of the outer boundary, and deep in the space, is an articular nerve (ex- ternal), which sometimes arises from the great sciatic. In the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, and and the vein is more superficial than the artery. The student is vessels.6 to seek an articular branch (superior), on each side, close above the condyle of the femur. Numerous other branches of the vessels to the muscles around, especially below, are to be cleaned. On the upper part of the artery the branch of with ob. nerve from the obturator to the knee-joint may be found. nerve*.1" The popliteal space, or the ham, is the hollow behind The the knee which allows of the free flexion of the joint. In it the large vessels of the limb are contained. When dissected, situa- this interval has the form of a lozenge, and extends upwards extent: along one-third of the femur, and downwards along one-sixth of the tibia ; but in the natural condition of the parts the sides are approximated by the fascia of the limb, and the space is limited almost to the region of the joint. This hollow is situate between the attachments of the Bounda- muscles at the back of the limb to the condyles of the femur, and the lateral boundaries are therefore formed in part by the muscles of the thigh (hamstrings), and in part by those of the leg. Thus, on the outer side, is the biceps muscle as outer far as the joint, and the plantaris and the external head of the gastrocnemius are below it; but on the inner side, as low and ° inner. as the articulation, are the semimembranosus and semiten- dinosus muscles, with the gracilis and sartorius between them and the femur ; and beyond the joint is the inner head of the gastrocnemius. The upper point of the ham is ^mit limited by the apposition of the inner and outer hamstring muscles, in the middle line of the thigh ; and the lower point, Y Y 4