661 FEMORAL ARTERY. side are the conjoined psoas and iliacus, for about two inches, and below these is the sartorius; on the inner side are the pectineus and adductor longus muscles, and between and behind them near the femur, is a small part of the adductor brevis. In this space are contained the femoral artery and vein, contents, and the anterior crural nerve, and some of their branches, with a considerable quantity of cellular tissue. The femoral Femoral vessels, artery runs through the centre of the hollow, and supplies some small cutaneous branches, as well as a large deep offset, the profunda: a small offset (superficial pudic) is directed ^alnt(J1eir from it to the pubes across the inner boundary. On the es- inner side of the artery is the vein which is here joined by the saphenous and profunda branches. Half an inch ex- Anterior ternal to the vessel is the large anterior crural nerve, which nerve is hidden at first between the iliacus and psoas, but after- wards becomes more superficial and divides into branches. Femoral Artery. — This vessel is a continuation of the Femoral external iliac artery of the abdomen, and retains the term femoral only for a given distance in the thigh. It reaches from the lower border of Poupart's ligament to the margin extent; of the opening in the adductor magnus muscle; and it occupies the front and the inner part of the thigh for only two-thirds of the length, for at the spot mentioned it turns backwards into the ham, and takes the name popliteal. The course, course of the vessel will be indicated, during rotation out- wards of the limb, by a line drawn to the inner side of the patella from a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior spine of the ilium. In the upper part of its position course the artery lies rather internal to the head of the femur, femur, and is comparatively superficial, being uncovered by Division muscle; but, in the lower part, it is placed along the inner parts*?™ side of the shaft of the femur, and is beneath the sartorius muscle. This difference in its connections allows of a division of the arterial trunk into two parts; viz. one in the upper, and one in the middle third of the thigh. The artery in the upper third of the thigh is contained in The Scarpa's triangular space, where it is enveloped by the crural pStof sheath for about two inches, and is covered only by the skin teryYs" and the superficial fascia, and by the fascia lata and some daPi?rfi" u u 3