377 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNG. air it is slightly heavier than water, and sinks in that fluid. The weight of the lung is influenced greatly by the quantity *ne4ght of fluid or other material contained in its texture; ordinarily onhe it varies from eighteen to twenty-one ounces, and the right lung is about two ounces heavier than the left. In the male the lungs are larger, and slightly heavier than in the female. Dissection.—Bv tracing the large branches of the bronchi, Follow J ° & 7 bronchi and the bloodvessels and nerves into the lung, their mode of an,dyes" ° sels into branching will be apparent; and by inflating a part of the the lung- lung, the cellular structure may be seen. But the arrange- ment of the air cells about their tube, and that of the dif- ferent vessels cannot be ascertained without injections, and the use of a microscope. Structure of the Lung. — The spongy pulmonary °fu^[ne structure consists of minute cells, in which the smallest elements of the branches of the air tube terminate ; and the mass of the lung, lung is formed by the collection of those cells into small groups or lobules, and by the aggregation of these into larger masses or lobes. Each lobule is distinct from the surrounding ones, and is furnished with its air tube and nerves, and with its own set of vessels concerned in both its function and nutrition. The constituents of the lung are united by a serous covering, which is prolonged con- tinuously over the surface, and by a subserous cellular coat, which penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into pieces. These several parts are examined more in detail below. Serous and subserous coverings. — The coat derived from serous the pleura is thin and transparent, and forms an entire cap- sule for the lung, except at the root, where the vessels enter. The subserous cellular layer contains fibres of elastic tissue, subse- and not only covers the surface, but extends inwards, esta- £over- blishing the division of the mass into lobules: where itmsis" separates the lobules it is named interlobular cellular tissue, and is there free from fat. Bronchial branches in the lung. — When a bronchus is Divi. folio wed into the pulmonary structure, it is found to divide ofthe generally in a binary order, and to diminish in size at each STSe" subdivision, until one terminal offset appertains to a lobule.lung" In the lobule, the tube has a diameter of ^ to ¥^th of an