689 SCIATIC AND PUDIC VESSELS. nerves to the lower part of the sacral plexus. Some small offsets to the gemellus superior and the hip-joint are to be sought at the lower part of the plexus. A branch to the inferior gemellus and the quadratus will be found by raising the trunk of the great ^ciatic nerve; but it will be followed to its termination afterwards, since it passes beneath those muscles. Sciatic and Pudic Vessels. — The vessels on the back The of the pelvis, below the pyriformis muscle, are branches of comels the internal iliac, like the gluteal artery (p. 603.). aSj? the The sciatic artery supplies the buttock. After escaping sciatic from the pelvis below the pyriformis, it descends over the artery' gemelli and obturator muscles, in the interval between the course tuberosity of the ischium and the trochanter, as far as the quadratus femoris ; here the artery ends in branches for the and supply of the surrounding parts, and for anastomosis with the internal circumflex branch of the profunda artery. In es.to , L J joint and this course it furnishes muscular offsets to the great gluteus muscies. and the rotator muscles, and some articular branches to the hip-joint: some cutaneous offsets bend round the margin of the gluteus (p. 442.). It supplies also the following named branches : — a. The coccygeal branch, arising close to the pelvis, perforates the Coccy- great sacro-sciatic ligament and the gluteus maximus, and ramifies branch, in this muscle, and on the back of the sacrum. b. The branch to the great sciatic nerve (comes nervi ischiadici) ^r^ch is very slender, and enters the substance of the nerve near the sciatic pelvis; it extends in the nerve along the thigh, supplying offsets nerve* to it. c. The branch to the quadratus passes with the nerve of the same Branch name beneath the gemelli and obturator internus, and gives quadra- branches to the hip-joint and the inferior gemellus before it termi- tus' nates in its muscle. The pudic artery belongs to the perinseum and the geni- pUdic tal organs: it is less than the sciatic, and internal to it. artery* Only a small part of the vessel is seen on the back of the pelvis, for, after winding over the spine of the ischium, it crosses enters the perineal space through the small sacro-sciatic theis.0. notch, and is there distributed (p. 452.). It supplies a small branch over the back of the sacrum, which anasto- moses with the gluteal and sciatic vessels; and a twig from it accompanies the nerve to the obturator internus muscle. Y Y