252 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. situa- Position of the branches, — The several branches of the branches large vessels and nerves have the undermentioned position of vessels and " with respect to the boundaries. Close to the anterior fold, on the and rather concealed by it, the long thoracic artery extends bounda- _ . _ „ _ , if. , ,. . nes of to the side oi the chest; and taking the same direction, pit. though nearer the middle of the arm-pit, is a small com- panion vein (external mammary). Extending along the posterior fold, within its lower margin, and in contact with the edge of the subscapularis muscle, are the subscapular vessels and nerves; and near the humeral end of the sub- scapularis the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve bend backwards beneath the large axillary trunks. On the inner boundary, near the upper part, are a few inconsiderable branches of the superior thoracic artery, which ramify on the serratus muscle ; but these are commonly so unimportant, that this part of the axillary space may be considered free from vessels in respect of any surgical operation. Lying on the surface of the serratus magnus muscle, is the external respiratory nerve of Bell; and perforating the inner bound- ary of the space, are the lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax,—two or more offsets of which are directed across the axilla to the arm, and receive the name intercosto-hu- meral. Lymph- The lymphatic glands occupy principally the lower part glands of of the axilla, and lie nearer the chest than the arm. Com- axiiia. monly they are ten or twelve in number; but in this parti- cular, as well as in size, they vary much. By their lower ends the glands receive the lymphatic vessels of the arm, of the fore part of the thorax, of the mamma, and of the pos- terior surface of the back: their efferent ducts unite to form end m a trunk that opens in the neck, into the lymphatic duct of phatic the same side, or into the subclavian vein by a separate tube. Small vascular twigs from the branches of the ax- illary vessels are furnished to the glands. Pecto. The pectoralis major is a triangularly-shaped muscle, muscle, which has its base at the thorax and its apex at the arm. It Origin arises internally from the front of the sternum, and the car- chest tilages of the true ribs except the last; superiorly, from the clavicle, sternal half of the clavicle; and inferiorly from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. From this wide