718 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. cormec- of the metatarsal phalanx of the great toe. The cutaneous tions* r n i , . . surface of the muscle is in contact with the plantar fascia ; and the other touches the plantar vessels and nerves, the tendons of the long flexors of the toes, and the accessory muscle. Flexor The flexor brevis digitorum (flexor perforatus) arises brevis . . . v r J digito- posteriorly by a pointed tendinous process from the inner side of the larger tubercle of the os calcis, and by fleshy fibres from the plantar fascia and its septa. About the centre of the foot the muscle ends in four small tendons; these are directed forwards over the tendons of the long flexor, and divides entering the sheaths of the four smaller toes, are inserted tendons into the middle phalanges. In the sheath of the toe, the toes; tendon of this muscle lies at first on that of the long flexor these are (in this position); but opposite the middle of the metatarsal phalanx it is slit for the passage of the other, and is attached by two processes to the sides of the middle phalanx. The short flexor of the toes is contained in a sheath of the plantar Connec- fascia, and occupies the middle of the foot: it conceals the tendon of the long flexor of the toes, the accessory muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. Abduc- The abductor minimi digiti has a wide origin behind little toe. from the outer and inner tubercles of the os calcis, and from the plantar fascia and the external intermuscular septum. Origin It ends anteriorly in a tendon which is inserted, with the and in- . sertion. short flexor of the little toe, into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of that toe. The muscle lies along is at the outer border of the foot, and conceals the flexor acces- side of m 7 the foot, sorius, and the tendon of the peroneus longus. On its inner side are the external plantar vessels and nerve. Dissect Dissection. — To bring into view the second layer of plantar ° J vessels muscles and the plantar vessels and nerves, the muscles al- and 1 r~i nerves, ready examined must be reflected. Cut through the flexor brevis at the os calcis, and as it is raised, notice a branch of nerve and artery to it; divide the abductor minimi digiti near its origin, and turning it to the outer side of the foot, seek a small nerve and vessel to it close to the bone. The abductor pollicis can be drawn aside if it is necessary, but it may remain uncut till afterwards. Now the plantar vessels and nerves are to be followed forwards to their termination, and backwards to their origin ; and the tendons of the long