44 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. plies some filaments to the eyeball, but the greater number and of its branches pass through the orbital cavity to the face. some 1 c J vessels. The ophthalmic vessels are likewise contained in the orbit. Lachry- The lachrymal gland secretes the tears, and is situate in gjandis, the hollow on the inner side of the external angular process outer of the frontal bone. It is of a lengthened form, something part of # 0 ' ° orbit., like an almond ; and from its anterior part a thin piece pro- jects beneath the upper eyelid. The upper surface is con- vex, and in contact with the periosteum, to which it is connected by fibrous bands that constitute a ligament for the gland; the lower surface rests on the eye and the external rectus muscle. its ducts In structure, the lachrymal resembles the salivary glands ; upper°n and its ducts, from six to eight in number, open by as many eyehd' apertures in a semicircular line on the inner surface of the upper eyelid, near the outer canthus. Fourth The fourth nerve is the most internal in position of the three nerves that enter the orbit above the muscles. After supplies reaching this space, it is directed inwards to the superior obliqued oblique muscle, which it enters at the orbital surface, con- trary to the general mode of distribution of the nerves on the ocular surface of the muscles. oph- The ophthalmic nerve (of the fifth p. 20.) as it ap- thalmic v . . .\ nerve proaches the sphenoidal fissure, furnishes from its inner side gives three the nasal branch, and then terminates by dividing into the branch- ' . es. frontal and lachrymal branches ; the former enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus, but the other two lie, as before said, above the muscles. Frontal 1. The frontal nerve is close to the outer side of the fourth as it enters the orbit, and is much larger than the lachrymal supplies branch. In its course to the forehead the nerve lies along lowing" the middle of the orbit, and bifurcates anteriorly into the supratrochlear and supra-orbital branches. Branch The supra-trochlear branch, which is of small size, passes inwards the pui- towards the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, where it leaves oblique tne orbit to end in the eyelid and forehead (p. 7.). Before the muscle; nerve turns round the margin of the frontal bone, it sends down- wards a branch of communication to the infra-trochlear branch some- of the nasal nerve. Frequently there are two supra-trochlear branches; in such instances one arises near the back of the orbit. The supra-orbital branch is the continuation of the frontal nerve times two