DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 678 to knee- towards the lower part, and passes through them, near the joint. i lmea aspera, to reach the popliteal artery, by which it is conducted to the back of the knee-joint: its termination must be seen in the dissection of the popliteal space. Dissect Dissection. — To prepare the profunda artery and its funda. branches, supposing the veins and the cellular membrane removed, it will be requisite to follow backwards the internal circumflex artery above the upper border of the adductor brevis, and to trace the perforating branches through the tendons of the adductors near the femur. Pro- The profunda (deep femoral) is the chief muscular artery artery, of the thigh, and arises from the femoral trunk about one origin, incn an^ a na^ below Poupart's ligament (p. 662.). At its course, origin the vessel is placed on the outer side of the parent trunk. It is then directed inwards beneath the femoral vessels to the inner side of the femur. Again changing the direction of its course, it runs parallel to the femoral artery, but deeper in position, to the lower third of the thigh, where and it ends in a small branch that pierces the adductor magnus. ending. ^here |ne vessel lies in the triangular space of the thigh Parts (near its origin) it rests on the iliacus muscle, but on the aiound" inner side of the femur it is placed over the adductor brevis, and from that spot to its termination, between the adductors longus and magnus. Branch- Its branches are numerous to the surrounding muscles muscles, and the bone, and maintain free anastomoses with other Thigh; vessels supplied to the upper part of the thigh, as well as Ireeiy.1 with those of the leg. It is through these communications that the blood finds its way to the lower part of the limb when the tube of the chief artery is obliterated either above or below the origin of the profunda. The branches to the adductor muscles are unnamed. The named branches are The these:—external circumflex to the extensor muscles of the "ranch- leg; internal circumflex round the inner side of the femur to esare— ^ ^ thigh; and perforating arteries through the adductors to the same locality, external The external circumflex artery has been described in the dissec- flexT1" tion of the muscles of the front of the thi&h (P- 671 *)• internal The internal circumflex branch arises from the inner and posterior flex"m" Part °^ ^e Pr°fun(la> and turns backwards between the psoas and pectineus, above the border of the adductor brevis, along the side