DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 472 covered ceals the transversalis muscle, and the vessels and nerves ni/ob-1^ between the two. Near Poupart's ligament it lies on the spermatic cord and the fascia transversalis: the rectus muscle is concealed by the aponeurosis, and partly incased by it. Trans- The transversalis muscle forms the third stratum in the muscle, wall of the abdomen; like the former muscle, it is attached on all sides except where the spermatic cord lies, and takes origin from the pelvis, the chest, and the lumbar vertebras: Origin it has both an anterior and a posterior aponeurosis. At the chest, pelvis it arises from the outer third of Poupart's ligament, and ' and from the two anterior thirds of the crest of the ilium. At the chest it takes origin from the six lower ribs, viz. by tendon from the two lowest, and by fleshy processes from the under surface of the cartilages of the four next above. And it is connected with the lumbar vertebrae between the chest and the pelvis, by means of the posterior aponeurosis of the Fibres fascia lumborum. Most of the fibres are directed trans- aponeu- versely to the aponeurosis in front: but the lower arch Lowest downwards above the spot at which the cord leaves the dcwn to abdomen, and join the aponeurosis internal to that aperture, pubes. jjg aponeurosis is widest inferiorly, as in the most external aponeu- muscle. It is continued to the linea alba beneath the rectus, passes except midway between the umbilicus and the pubes, where rectuSth it passes in front of that muscle to reach the middle line, aib^ex- Its attachment below to the os pubis is nearly the same as fenoriy" tnat of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, for it is fixed to the front of the pubes, and to the pectineal line for about an inch, but beneath the insertion of the oblique muscle. Fibres At the insertion into the pubes, some of the fibres are spent versalis On the transversalis fascia, and are connected with the deep fascia. . arch. At pel- Conjoined tendon. — The aponeuroses of the oblique and that ofns transversalis muscles are united more or less near their at- oblique tachment to the bone, and thus give origin to the conjoined joined" tendon; but it must be remarked that the tendon of the tendon, ^j^^ muscie seldom extends more than half an inch along the pectineal line, whilst that of the transversalis reaches an inch along the bony ridge, and forms the greater part of that structure. Poste- The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis, or the