212 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. tion on it are named convolutions or gyri, and the intervening depressions, sulci or anfractuosities. chief Convolutions, — Of the numerous convolutions the student tions. " may notice the following as the most regular: — one on the corpus callosum; another at the margin of the longitudinal fissure; and some others on the outer surface of the hemi- sphere. The convolution of the Sylvian fissure has been already noticed (p. 208.). Disseo Dissection.—The upper part of each hemisphere having been already cut off as low as the convolution of the corpus callosum, that convolution is to be cut through on the left side, and its ends turned forwards and backwards; a white longitudinal band (covered band of Reil) will be seen beneath it. It is supposed that the top of one hemisphere has been kept for the purpose of examining the convolutions. Convo- a, The convolution of the corpus callosum (gyrus fornicatus) ex- ofcorpus tends around the root of the hemisphere, except at the fissure of sum°" Sylvius. It is narrow in front, and begins at the anterior per- forated spot; then courses round the corpus callosum and the crus cerebri, and ends at the posterior part of the same spot. Whilst lying on the inner surface of the hemisphere, it is joined by the its fillet: convolutions of that part. Beneath this convolution is a band of or band. £kres (COvered band of Reil, fillet of the corpus callosum), which is connected in front and behind with the anterior perforated spot, and gives offsets to the other secondary convolutions in the median longitudinal fissure. Convo- ft- The convolution of the margin of the longitudinal fissure takes }on^tu°f a shnilar course with the preceding around the hemisphere,-but it fissure ^es at ^e margm °f tne great median fissure, instead of being placed deeply in it. Commencing at the anterior perforated spot, where it forms the inner part of the anterior lobe (p. 207.), it is directed back along the margin of the great fissure, and along the under part of the hemisphere to the front of the middle lobe. This is not so distinct as the preceding convolution. Convo- c. The convolutions of the outer surface of the hemisphere cross outerS °f more or less obliquely, from the convolution of the margin of the cere-°f grea^ median fissure to the convolution of the Sylvian fissure, brum. The posterior are most oblique and become irregular. On opposite sides of the brain these convolutions are not symmetrical. Aeon- Structure of the convolutions.—From the section now has base made into the brain, it may be perceived that each convo- summit : lution is continuous with the interior of the brain on the one side (base), and that it is free on the surface of the brain on