THE MAMMARY GLAND. 247 R 4 anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax, are the terminations of the same intercostal trunks at the middle line of the body. The anterior cutaneous nerves, after piercing the pectoral one^ muscle, are directed outwards in the integuments in the middle form of slender filaments. The offset of the second nerve joins a cutaneous branch of the cervical plexus; and the others supply the mammary gland and the integuments. Small cutaneous branches of the internal mammary vessels are found with these nerves. The lateral cutaneous nerves come between the dictations The ° other on of the serratus muscle, and divide immediately into an side of J chest. anterior and a posterior branch. There is not usually any These lateral cutaneous nerve to the first intercostal trunk; and that of the second intercostal trunk wants commonly the anterior of the two offsets, into which the other lateral cutaneous nerves bifurcate. The anterior branches bend forwards over the pectoral muscle, anterior and furnish offsets to the mammary gland and the integuments. The lowest also give twigs to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. The posterior branches are distributed to the integuments over posterior the latissimus dorsi muscle and the back of the scapula. The es. branch from the second intercostal nerve is larger than the rest, and, perforating the fascia of the axilla, supplies the integument of One or the arm (p. 277.), from which circumstance it is named intercosto- thisle? humeral. As it crosses the axilla it is divided into two or more [hTarm. pieces, and is connected to the nerve of Wrisberg by a filament of variable size. The branch of the third intercostal also gives fila- ments to the arm-pit and the inner part of the arm. The mamma, or the breast, is the gland for the secretion office of the of the milk, and is situate on the front of the chest, though breast, somewhat towards the lateral aspect. The gland is hemispherical in form, and is placed over Form 7 i • • \ • andposi- the great pectoral muscle, but it is rather most prominent tion; at the inner and the lower part. Its dimensions and weight with its vary greatly. In a breast that is not enlarged by lactation, sions the mamma measures commonly about four inches in each direction ; and extends longitudinally from the third to the sixth or seventh rib, and transversely from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Its depth is about one inch and a