DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 370 some Branches.—Some small filaments are said to be furnished from the phrenic nerve to the pericardium; and occasionally the nerve is joined, near the upper part, by a twig from the branch of the nerve to the subclavius muscle. Jnternai Internal mammary artery. — A small part of this artery, artery wnich furnishes a branch to the diaphragm, has not yet been noticed. This part intervenes between the point of entrance of the artery into the chest (p. 73.), and its course through round the cavity along the side of the sternum (p. 263.). Lying aperture beneath the first rib the vessel winds round the phrenic of tho- ^ a rax, nerve and the innominate vein to reach the side of the sternum. It gives the following offset: — and gives The superior phrenic branch (comes nervi phrenici) is a branch." very slender artery, that accompanies the phrenic nerve to the diaphragm, and is distributed to that muscle, anasto- mosing therein with the other arteries from the aorta, and the musculo-phrenic branch of the internal mammary. Vagus The pneumo-gastric nerve is one of the three trunks in the constituting the eigth cranial nerve (p. 114.). Like the corre- phrenic nerve, each passes through the thorax in its course on both from the neck to the abdomen. In the lower part of the sides be- . . low root thorax the nerves resemble one another in their course, for of lung. they pass behind the root of the lung, each on its own side, and along the oesophagus to the stomach. But above the root of the lung, the right and left nerves differ as much as the phrenic. Each supplies branches to the viscera, viz. to the heart, the lungs, and the gullet. Right The right nerve is posterior to the left in its position. As above the nerve appears in the thorax, it lies between the sub- the root _ . , . , of the clavian artery and the right innominate vein, and sends backwards a recurrent branch round the former. At first it is directed obliquely backwards, over the side of the trachea, to the interval between that tube and the oesophagus ; and thus supported, the nerve reaches the posterior aspect of the root of the lung, where it forms the posterior pulmonary and on plexus. From the plexus two large offsets are continued to of the the oesophagus and unite into one near the diaphragm : the gus be- trunk thus formed, lies behind the gullet, and passes along it " to the posterior surface of the stomach. Left The left nerve enters the thorax behind the left innominate nerve above vein, and to the outer side of the left common carotid artery.