CUTANEOUS VESSELS. 463 cutaneous nerves are branches from the intercostal arteries, and with the anterior cutaneous are offsets from the internal mammary and epigastric vessels. In the groin, are three small superficial branches of the femoral artery, viz. pudic, epigastric, and circumflex iliac: these last are dissected on the right side. The lateral cutaneous arteries have the same anatomy as Both the nerves they accompany. They are directed towards the lateraI front of the abdomen, and end about the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The anterior cutaneous vessels are irregular and an- in number and in position, like the nerves. After piercing cuta- the sheath of the rectus, they run outwards with the nerves neous* towards the other set of branches. Branches of the femoral artery. — These three cutaneous From offsets turn upwards from the thigh, between the layers of artl?yal the superficial fascia, and ramify in the integuments of the branch- genital organs, and those of the lower part of the abdomen.es' The greater portion of these vessels appears in the dissection of the thigh. The external pudic branch (superficial) crosses the spermatic cord. External to which it gives offsets, and ends in the integuments of the under pudlc- part of the penis. The superficial epigastric branch ascends over Poupart's ligament, Super- near the centre, and is distributed in the superficial fascia as high epigis- as the umbilicus. Its size varies very much. tnc- The circumflex iliac branch lies usually below the level of the crest Circum- of the ilium, and sends only a few offsets upwards to the abdomen. flex lhdC' Small veins accompany the arteries, and join the internal veins, saphenous vein in the thigh. The glands of the groin are three or four in number, and inguinal lie over the line of Poupart's ligament. They are placed be- tween the two layers of the superficial fascia, and receive the lymphatics from the abdomen, from the upper and outer part of the thigh, and from the superficial parts of the genital organs. Their efferent ducts pass downwards to the saphe- Ducts nous opening in the thigh to enter the abdomen. thigh. Dissection. — After the examination of the superficial Dissec- fascia with its vessels and nerves on the abdomen, the cover- student may make the dissection of the cutaneous coverings penis! of the penis and scrotum. The skin may be divided along the dorsum of the penis, and thrown to each side; and the