GANGLION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 119 i 4 Dissection, — To dissect the branches of the sympathetic Dissec- nerve requires greater care than is necessary in following the white-fibred nerves, for they are softer, more easily torn, and upper generally of smaller size. In the neck the ganglia and their g^on. branches are already partly prepared, and will therefore require only the following dissection to bring them into view: — the carotid artery and jugular vein having been already cut through, the upper ganglion will be seen by raising the trunks of the eighth and ninth nerves, and cutting through the branches that unite these to the loop of the atlas. If it is thought necessary, the two cranial nerves may be cut across close to the skull. The several branches of the ganglion should be traced upwards, inwards, and out- wards. The dissector has already seen the middle ganglion on or Middle near the inferior thyroid artery, and has now to trace out its branches. To obtain a view of the inferior ganglion, the greater part and in- of the first rib is to be taken away, and a part of the sub- gan- clavian artery is to be removed, without, however, destroy- ing the fine nerves that pass over it. Of course the clavicle is supposed not to be in position. The ganglion is found on the neck of the first rib ; its branches are large, and easily followed to the vertebral artery, the spinal nerves, and the thorax. The SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION is the largest of the Superior cervical ganglia, and is of a reddish grey colour. Of a fusi- filonis form shape, it is of the length of two cervical vertebrae skull, (second and third), and is placed on the rectus capitis anti- cus maior muscle, beneath the carotid artery and the cranial beneath . J carotid. nerves in connection with it. Branches either connect the ganglion with other nerves, or are distributed to the blood- vessels, the pharynx, and the heart. Connecting branches unite the sympathetic with both the Branch- . , , , . . J r es join it spinal and the cranial nerves. With the spinal nerves. — The four highest spinal nerves have with branches of communication with the upper ganglion of the syni- nerves, pathetic; but the branch to the fourth spinal nerve may come from the cord connecting the upper ganglion to the next. With the cranial nerves.—Near the skull the trunks of the eighth with ^ (its lower ganglion) and ninth nerves are joined by branches of