281 NERVES OF THE ARM. vessel is directed inwards, to its usual position in front of the elbow, either through or beneath the fibres of the pronator teres. In this unusual course the artery is often found to lie behind a projecting bony point on the humerus. In the division. — Occasionally the artery is split for a short dis- in place tance, like the main vessel in the lower limb. And the terminal Sion. bifurcation of the vessel may be short of the ordinary spot, or be- yond it: — the former condition is much the most frequent; for only in one instance did Mr. Quain find the vessel carried farther into the limb before it bifurcated, and in that example the point of division was " between two and three inches " beyond the elbow joint. In the origin of the arteries of the fore-arm. — The arteries of in origin the fore-arm, viz. radial and ulnar, or the] interosseous, may be arteries carried backwards, along the parent trunk, to any point between a[m.re~ the axilla and the common source at the elbow; but this unusual origin is not seated, with equal frequency, on every part of the humeral trunk, for it is most common in the upper third, and least frequent in the middle third, where a ligature may be applied. When one of the vessels referred to thus deviates from the ordinary condition, there would be two large arteries in the arm in the place of one; and these commonly lie close together, though, sometimes, one of them, viz. the trunk that is to supply the front of the fore- arm and the palm of the hand, will lie close to the intermuscular septum, with the median nerve, like the trunk of the brachial artery. In some few cases the brachial artery has been observed to Unusual divide into three instead of two branches (radial, ulnar, and inter- ?ng.nch~ osseous) at'some little distance above the elbow, so that three trunks would be present in a given part of the arm. In vasa aherrantia.— Sometimes there are occasional long slender invasa * vessels, vasa aberrantia, which connect the brachial or the axillary ?£|riau" trunk with one of the arteries of the fore-arm, or with a branch of them. These accessory vessels very rarely end in the ulnar artery. In muscular covering. — In some bodies the humeral artery is in mus- covered by an additional slip of origin of the biceps muscle. And Bering0.0" sometimes a slip of the brachialis anticus may conceal, in cases of high origin of the radial, the remainder of the arterial trunk that continues to the fore-arm. Nerves of the Arm.—The nerves on the front of the Nerves arm are derived from the terminal cords of the brachial of arm. plexus. Few of them furnish offsets to the arm, but they are continued, for the most part without branching, to the fore-arm and the hand. The cutaneous branches of some of them have been referred to (p. 276.).