SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 97 Section VII. SUBMAXILLARY REGION. The term submaxillary region is applied to the part between Parts oc- the jaw and the hyoid bone. In it will be found the small the re"8 muscles between the os hyoides and the jaw and tongue, the gl°n' vessels and nerves of the tongue, and the sublingual and submaxillary glands. Position. — In this dissection the position of the neck is Posi- the same as that for the examination of the anterior triangle. Dissection. — This part has been directed to be cleaned Dissec- with the triangular space ; but if any cellular membrane has been left on the submaxillary gland, or on the mylo-hyoid muscle, let it be taken away. The submaxillary gland lies below the jaw in the anterior situa- part of the space limited by that bone and the digastric muscle. Its shape is irregular, and the facial artery winds over the surface. The gland rests on the mylo-hyoideus, and con- and sends a process round the posterior or free border of that muscle. In front of it is the anterior belly of the digastric, and behind it is the stylo-maxillary ligament sepa- of sub- . n , . f\ . , .. maxilla- rating it from the parotid. Occupying tnat position, some- ry gland. what beneath the side of the jaw, the gland is very near the surface, being covered only by the integuments and platysma, and by the deep fascia. In structure, the submaxillary resembles the parotid gland (p. 32.), and its duct — duct of Wharton — extends beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle to the mouth. Dissection.—The mylo-hyoid muscle may be seen by de- Dissec- taching the anterior belly of the digastric from the jaw, and by dislodging, without injury, the submaxillary gland from its position under the jaw. The mylo-hyoid muscle is triangular in shape, with the Myio- base at the jaw and the apex at the hyoid bone, and unites hyoldeu,> along the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side. It arises arises from the ridge (mylo-hyoid) on the inner surface of Jaw™ the jaw as far back as the last molar tooth, and is inserted inserted into the lower part of the middle of the body of the hyoid hydd bone, as well as into a central tendinous band between the °ne° jaw and that bone. On the cutaneous surface are the H