48 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. the compressor naris muscle, and ends in the integuments of the ala and tip of the nose. Lenticu- The OPHTHALMIC Or LENTICULAR GANGLION is a Small giion!n" roundish body, of the size of a pin's head, and of a reddish situa- colour. It is placed at the back of the orbit, between the tlon' optic nerve and the external rectus, and commonly on the connec- outer side of the ophthalmic artery. By its posterior part the tlon' ganglion has branches of communication with other nerves (its roots) ; and from the anterior part proceed the ciliary struc. nerves to the eyeball. In the ganglion are combined sen- ture. sory, motory, and sympathetic filaments. Three The offsets of communication are three in number. One, the longj long root, is the branch of the nasal nerve before noticed, which joins the superior angle. A second branch of considerable thick- short, ness {short root) passes from the inferior angle to join the branch of the third nerve that supplies the inferior oblique muscle. And and sym- the third root is derived from the sympathetic (its cavernous pathetic. piexus)5 either as a distinct branch to the posterior border of the ganglion, or in union with the long root. Ciliary Branches.—The short ciliary nerves are ten or twelve in es to-h~ number, and are collected into two bundles, which leave the upper eyeball. an(j iower parts (superior and inferior angles) of the ganglion. In the upper bundle are four or five, and in the lower, six or seven nerves. As they extend along the optic nerve to the eyeball they occupy its outer and under part, and communicate with the long ciliary branches of the nasal nerve. oPh- The ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal caro- artery10 tid, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen. At first the vessel is outside the nerve, but it then courses in orbit, inwards, over the nerve, to the inner angle of the orbit, where it ends in terminal branches. Branch- The branches of the artery are numerous, though incon- siderable in size, and they are sometimes arranged in three sets: — one being outside the optic nerve, another above it, and a third set on its inner side. Lachry- °" The lachrymal branch accompanies the nerve of the same branch name to ^e uPPer eyelid, where it ends by supplying that part, supplies and anastomosing with the palpebral arches. It supplies branches, gland. Yi^Q the nerve, to the lachrymal gland and to the conjunctiva; it anastomoses also with the middle meningeal and deep temporal arteries, by offsets through the sphenoidal fissure and outer wall of the orbit.