DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 492 Usual Position of vessels around the ring.—Commonly the crural around ring is almost surrounded by vessels. Thus, on the outer rms' side, is the femoral vein ; and above this, on the outer side, are the epigastric vessels. In front is a small branch (pubic) from the epigastric artery to the back of the pubes; and, the vessels of the spermatic cord may be said to be placed along the anterior aspect of the ring. The ring is bounded there- fore by vessels, except internally and behind, state of jn some bodies the obturator artery takes origin from the un- J ° vessels ^e epigas^ric? an(^ comes to lie along a part of the ring as it passes to the pelvis. In that course it may have two posi- tions with respect to the ring : either it lies close to the iliac vein, and therefore on the outer side of the ring ; or it arches over the ring, descending on the inner side, at the base of Gimbernat's ligament. If the artery takes the first-men- tioned course, which is the most frequent arrangement, the inner side of the ring will still be free from vessels ; but in the other condition the ring will have an additional vessel on the inner side, and will be entirely encircled except at the posterior part. Course Course and coverings of femoral hernia. — The intestine verings leaves the abdomen by the opening of the crural ring ; and hernia, it descends in the large sheath of the vessels, internal to the vein, as far as the saphenous opening, where it projects to From the surface of the thigh. In its progress the intestine wTill abdomen , , _ . ' _ ? , ? . i n , it has push before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal tat (septum neum crurale), and will displace, or cause to be absorbed, the gland perito- that fills the crural ring. Having reached the level of the nealfat. , . , °. . & . saphenous opening, the intestine carries betore it the inner inner side of the femoral sheath and the cribriform fascia ; and, sheath, lastly, it receives coverings from the superficial structures of the thigh. The dissection of the thigh may be referred to for fuller detail. stricture Seat of stricture. — The stricture of a femoral hernia is either in the neck of the sac, opposite the base of Gimbernat's ligament; or lower down, at the margin of the saphenous either in opening in the thigh. To free the intestine from the con- atsaphe. stricting band of the saphenous opening, an incision is to be opening, made upwards and inwards ; and to relieve the stricture in incision the neck of the sac, the knife is to be carried horizontally in-