58 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. of the bone. The space may be farther increased or dimi- nished by the position of the omo-hyoideus in the neck; for this muscle may lie close to the clavicle, being attached thereto, or it may be distant one inch and a half from that also in bone. In depth the space varies naturally, and in a short depth, thick neck, with a prominent clavicle, the artery is farther from the surface than in the opposite condition of the parts, both na. But the depth is altered much more by the position of the andarti- arm to the body, according as the limb is raised or de- pressed ; for the arm and shoulder may be carried upwards until the clavicle rises above the level of the omo-hyoid muscle, and entirely conceals the artery in its usual position. Depar- The situation of the trunk of the subclavian artery may from the vary much, for it may be one inch and a half above the cla- ordinary state of vicle, or at any point intermediate between this and its usual the ves- sels, level, just above the prominence of that bone. Further, its position to the anterior scalenus may be altered ; and instead of the vessel being beneath, it may be in front of, or even between the fibres of that muscle. Commonly there is not any branch connected with the artery in this part of its course ; but the posterior scapular branch may take origin from it at different distances from the scalenus, or there may be more than one branch (Quain). In the ordinary disposi- tion of the vessels the subclavian vein is not seen, owing to its situation being lower down, beneath the clavicle; but it not unfrequently rises upwards as high as the arteiy, or it may even lie with the artery beneath the anterior scalenus in some rare instances. The position of the external jugular vein with regard to the subclavian artery is very uncertain, and the branches connected with its lower part may form a kind of plexus over the arterial trunk. Part of The occipital part of the posterior triangular space is of lar larger extent than the other. Its boundaries in front and space t near the behind are the same as in the clavicular part, and it is head , . " ' separated from the clavicular portion by the omo-hyoid contains muscle. In it are contained chiefly the ramifications of the plexus cervical plexus; and a chain of lymphatic glands lies along lymph- the sterno-mastoid muscle. Beneath the spinal nerves is the atic glands; middle scalenus, and still farther behind are some muscles also spi- of the back before seen. The spinal accessory nerve is cessory directed obliquely across this interval from the sterno-mas- nerve.