429 ROOTS OF THE NERVES. Direction and length.—As the apertures of transmission oblique from the spinal canal are not opposite the place of origin of course, the nerves, the roots must be directed more or less obliquely. This obliquity increases from above down ; for in the upper M°8t.so cervical nerves the roots are horizontal, but in the lumbar orly> and sacral nerves they have a vertical direction around the end of the medulla spinalis. This appearance of the long fibrils around the end of the cord has much resemblance to the extremity of a horse's tail, and bears appropriately the *°j[df°rm term cauda equina. equina. The length of the roots increases proportionally as the Length ° increases obliquity, so that in the lower cervical nerves it amounts to the depth of one vertebra ; in the lower dorsal it corresponds from to the depth of two vertebrae; and in the lumbar and sacral down, nerves each succeeding one becomes a vertebra longer, since the cord does not reach beyond the first lumbar vertebra. Place of union of roots. — Commonly the roots unite as Union . ■ . . of the before stated in the intervertebral foramina ; and the trunk roots, of the nerve bifurcates at the same spot into its anterior and vertebral posterior primary branches. But deviations from thisforamen' arrangement are found at the upper and lower ends of the spinal column, in the following nerves : — The roots of the first two cervical nerves join in each in- except ° . in first stance on the posterior arch of the corresponding vertebra ; tY°1cer" and the anterior and posterior branches diverge from the trunk in that situation. In the sacral nerves the union of the roots takes place and the within the canal; and the primary branches of the nerves nerves, issue by the apertures in the front and back of the sacrum. The roots of the coccygeal nerve are also united in theandcoc- cygeal. spinal canal; and the anterior and posterior branches of its trunk escape by the lower aperture of that canal. Ganglia and their situation.—Each posterior root is pro- Number vided with a ganglion: but sometimes the first or suboccipi- j^f*11" tal nerve is without a posterior root and a ganglion. The ganglia are reddish in colour, and appear oval in shape, form whilst they are surrounded by the dura mater; and their size corresponds to that of the root. By means of the dis- J?™*"10' section that has been made, the ganglion may be seen to be bifed at the inner part, where it is joined by the fibrils of the root; so that it might be said to possess two small ganglia, Two ° ° ganglia.