79 INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. superior thyroid veins. The vessel rests on the longus colli beneath muscle, on the sympathetic nerve and its branches, and on the recurrent nerve and the inferior thyroid artery. To the and on J ' J its sides. inner side of the carotid lie the trachea and larynx, with the oesophagus and the thyroid body, the last overhanging the vessel by the side of the larynx. Along the outer side of the carotid sheath is a chain of lymphatic glands. Internal jugular vein. — This vein extends upwards to internal jugular the base of the skull by the side of the carotid blood vessels, vein but only the part of it that accompanies the common carotid artery is now seen. Placed on the outer side of the artery, the vein ends below by uniting with the subclavian in the innominate vein. Its proximity to the carotid is not equally lies close in all the extent of this vessel, for at the lower part of side of artery, the neck the vein inclines outwards, leaving a space between it and the artery, in which the vagus nerve is seen, about except midway between the two. In this part of its course the vein Branch- receives the superior and middle thyroid branches. Peculiarities. — Some of $he following peculiarities of the com- Differ- mon carotid may be met with. Its origin on the right side may origin1;"1 be above or below the given point; or it may be transferred to the arch of the aorta, or, to the left carotid in the thorax. Mention has been made of the difference in the place of bifurcation above, and of the fact that, occasionally, the common carotid artery is not divided into two. (See page 64.) Instead of one there may be two trunks issuing from beneath in num. the hyoid muscles, for the common carotid has been found divided ber' in one case after an extent of one inch and a half. As an ex- tremely rare occurrence, its usual terminal branches, the external and internal carotids, may arise as distinct arteries from the arch of the aorta. Usually the common carotid is without branch, but it may give its origin to the superior thyroid, the inferior thyroid, or the vertebral e^ch~ artery. Dissection. — The dissector may next trace out completely Dissec- the trunk of the external carotid, and follow its branches until they disappear beneath different parts. Afterwards he may separate from one another the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, which cross the carotid, and define their origin and insertion. The digastric muscle consists of two fleshy bellies, Digas- united by an intervening tendon, whence its name. The muscle