222 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. ventricle, and the parts connected with it. At the same time the optic thalamus is to be seen. Velum,r The velum interpositum is the central part of the fold of pia the pia mater that enters the brain by the great transverse fissure. Triangular in shape, the membrane has the same extent as the body of the fornix, and reaches in front to the twrd* foramen of Monro. The upper surface is in contact with tricie • toe f°rnix5 to which it supplies vessels ; and the lower sur- face forms the roof of the third ventricle, and covers the it^iate- pineal body, and a part of each optic thalamus. Along each side is a vascular roll of the membrane (choroid plexus), is the The choroid plexus is the red, somewhat round, and fringed choroid . , ' ta plexus of margin of the fold of pia mater m the interior of the brain. the late- ° . 1 rai.ven- Its lower end is larger than the upper, and each is described tricie. To. • n/r as extending from the foramen of Monro to the extremity of the descending cornu. On its surface the choroid plexus is villous; and the villi are minutely subdivided, and covered by laminated ( ? ciliated) nucleated epithelium, like that on the surface of the ventricle. Vessels Vessels of the velum* — Some small arteries have been velum, already traced to the velum and the choroid plexus from the Arteries; cerebral and cerebellar arteries (p. 188.). These supply veins; branches to the surrounding cerebral substance. The veins of the choroid plexus receive branches from the ventricle, and end in the following, with Along the centre of the velum are two large veins, veins those of & m Galen, of Galen, which begin at the foramen of Monro, by the union of branches from the corpus striatum and the choroid plexus. Lying side by side, these veins are usually united into one, at the posterior part of the velum, which opens into the straight sinus. Dissec- Dissection, — When the velum interpositum has been raised and thrown backwards, the third ventricle will be visible. In reflecting the piece of pia mater, the student must be careful of the pineal body, which would otherwise be detached. On the under-surface of the velum are the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle. other The choroid plexuses of the third ventricle are two fringed plexuses, bodies beneath the velum, which resemble the like parts in the lateral ventricle. Third The third ventricle is an interval between the optic tha- ventricle