692 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. between the obturator interims and quadratus muscles, but near the femur the tendon of the obturator externus comes into contact with its lower border. Obtura- The obturator internus arises inside the pelvis, and ternus passes to the exterior through the small sacro-sciatic notch has part ^ 535 ^ Escaped from the .pelvis, the muscle is directed outwards over the articulation of the hip, and is inserted by and part a tendon with the gemelli into the upper border of the great pelvis; trochanter, in front of the pyriformis, as well as into the inner surface of that process above the pit at the root, latter Outside the pelvis the obturator is mostly tendinous, and is part lies over hip embraced by the gemelli muscles and a synovial sac. Cross- ing the muscle are the large and small sciatic nerves, and the sciatic vessels ; and covering the whole is the gluteus maximus. On cutting through the tendon, and raising the its ten. inner end, it will be found divided into four or five pieces as divided it turns over the margin of the pelvis ; at this spot the pelvis edge is marked by ridges of fibro-cartilage, that correspond to the pelvis, intervals between the tendons, and the whole is lubricated by a synovial membrane. Quadra- The quadratus femoris has the form expressed by its tusfemo- . n ris; name, and is situate between the inferior gemellus and the origin; adductor magnus. Internally it arises from the outer sur- face of the tuberosity of the ischium, along the side of the origin of the semimembranosus and part of the adductor inser- magnus ; externally it is inserted into the linea quadrati of the upper end of the femur, above the attachment of the parts great adductor to the same line. By one surface it is in con- and be- tact with the sciatic vessels and nerves and the gluteus ; and by the other surface it rests on the obturator externus, the internal circumflex artery, and the small branches of both the and at nerve and artery that supply it. Between its lower border lower J rr J border. and the adductor magnus one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery issues. Between it and the small trochanter is a bursa, which is also common to the upper part of the adductor magnus. Dissect Dissection. — The quadratus and the gemelli muscles may circum- A 0 " tiex now be cut across, so that the obturator externus, the ending artery. ' 7 0 of the internal circumflex artery, and the small nerve and artery to the same muscles, may be dissected out. internal internal circumflex branch of the profunda artery circum- <J * • •