DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 360 luntary class of muscles, and yet they are marked with transverse striae. Disposi- ^. In the wall of the auricles the fibres are mostly trans- thTau" verse, and are best marked at the lower part, though they ncles' form here but a thin layer; and some of these fibres dip where into the septum between the auricular cavities. Besides this trans- set, there are annular fibres around the appendages of the annular, auricles, and the openings of the different veins. Lastly, a and ob- few oblique fibres pass upwards over the auricles, and are attached below, both in front and behind, to the fibrous rings surrounding the auriculo-ventricular orifices, ventr? ^' ^n ^e wa^ °f ^e ventricles the fibres are disposed in passthey ^ayers? which pass spirally downwards from the base towards base to ^e smaller part of the heart, where they make a sudden apex. bend, and are reflected upwards with a straighter direction and a deeper position, to form the inner surface of the ven- tricular cavity. To allow of this turning inwards of the fibres, the deepest layers extend the shortest distance from Jhe e the base of the ventricle. Each ventricle has, for the most fibres of trfcies1" Partj *ts own f°rmative fibres, which assist in constructing mostly tne sePtum between the cavities; but some bands are con- separate, cerned in the production of the wall of both ventricles on the anterior and posterior aspects of the heart, near the base of the ventricles, where the fibres are nearly circular in but some direction, and cross the interventricular grooves. When common to both, these inter-communicating fibres are divided, the ventricles may be detached from one another.* Lining Endocardium.—Lining the interior of the cavities of the mem- braneof heart is a thin membrane, which is continuous on the one the .... heart hand with the lining of the veins, and on the other with that of the arteries. This membrane is so named in opposition forms to the external investment or pericardium. Where the the in- membrane passes from an auricle to a ventricle, or from terior by . • p -i t • covering a ventricle to an artery, it lorms duphcatures or valves, in tissue, which fibrous tissue is enclosed. In the ventricle it also covers the tendinous cords of. the valves, and the projecting muscular bundles. The thickness of the membrane is less in the auricles than in the ventricles. * For fuller detail concerning the structure of the heart, the student may refer to the article " Heart" in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology,