179 LIGAMENTS OF THE FIRST TWO VERTEBRAE. The common ligaments attaching together the cervical Common vertebras are the same as unite the vertebras in other parts of merits of the spine, viz. an anterior and a posterior strong ligament; bra. connecting bands between the laininas and spines; capsular ligaments and synovial membranes between the articulating processes; and an inter-articular ligament between the bodies of the bones. Directions.—These ligaments are first to be learnt: their These preparation and description will be found with the ligaments merits of the spine, at the end of the dissection of the thorax. But ed eise- , i it • where. in opening the spinal canal, to see the ligaments inside it, the arches of the three highest vertebras should for the pre- sent be left untouched. Special ligaments unite the first two cervical vertebras special liga- one to another and to the occipital bone : some of these are ments external to, and others within the spinal canal. The ligaments outside the spinal canal are thin fibrous between membranes, that connect the arches of the first two vertebras vertebra in front and behind, and join the atlas with the occipital bone cipitai" at the same aspects. Capsular ligaments surround the articu- °ne' lar surfaces of all the bones, but these will be examined more conveniently after the spinal canal has been opened. a. Union of the atlas with the axis. — 1. The posterior liga- ment (atlo-axoid) is a thin loose membrane, which is attached posterior by the one margin to the posterior arch of the atlas, and by and the other to the arch of the axis. Below the superficial layer are some deeper and stronger fibres. 2. The anterior liga- ment unites the anterior parts of the first two vertebras, in anterior atlo-ax- the same manner as the preceding ligament connects their oid; posterior arches. It is thickest in the middle. b. Union of the atlas with the occipital bone. — 1. The and an- anterior ligament (occipito-atloid) is thin and wide, and passes from the surface of the occipital bone, in front of the foramen magnum, to the anterior part of the atlas. The middle part of the ligament, which is fixed to the tubercle on the front of the atlas, is much the thickest. 2. The posterior and Pos- ligament is fixed to the occipital bone behind the foramen occipito- magnum, and to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is thin, and is perforated on each side by the vertebral artery, and by the posterior division of the suboccipital nerve. The ligaments inside the spinal canal are peculiar m mentsin-