36 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. and the fleshy fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum arise from it. Foiiicu- The Meibomian glands or follicles are placed in grooves beneath8; on the ocular surface of the tarsal cartilages. They extend iage,"4j parallel to one another, from the thick towards the thin mar- gin of the cartilage; and their number is about thirty in the their upper, and twenty in the lower lid. The apertures of the ture. glands are at the posterior edge of the free border of the lid. Each gland is a small yellowish tube, closed at one end, and having minute lateral appendages connected with it. Each contains a sebaceous secretion, and is lined by scaly epithelium. Tendon If the palpebral ligament be cut through in the upper lid, tor pai. the tendon of the levator palpebras will be seen to be attached pebraj. ^ ^e Upper par£ 0f the tarsal cartilage by a wide aponeu- rotic expansion. Mucous The conjunctiva, or mucous membrane, lines the interior hning of ^ t^ eyelids, where it has numerous fine papillae, and covers the anterior part of the ball of the eye. At the free margin of the lids this membrane joins the common integument; and it is further continued down the lachrymal canals and sac to forms the interior of the nose. At the inner commissure of the caruncle ^^-^ conjunctiva forms a prominent, red, fleshy- looking body — caruncula lachrymalis, which encloses a group of mucous follicles, and has a few minute hairs on and the its surface. External to the caruncle is a small fold of the ous^oid. mucous membrane —plica semilunaris, which extends to the ball of the eye, and resembles the membrana nictitans of birds. Arteries Bloodvessels of the eyelids. — The arteries of the eyelids are furnished by the ophthalmic artery, and consist of the palpebral and lachrymal branches. Paipe- The 'palpebral arteries, one for each eyelid, run outwards from the inner canthus, lying between the orbicularis muscle and the tarsal cartilage, and anastomose" externally with the lachrymal artery. From the arch that each forms, branches are distributed andiach- to the eyelids. The lachrymal artery perforates the palpebral r}ma1' ligament near the outer part of the orbit, and its offsets supply the lid, as well as anastomose with the palpebral branches. veins. The veins of the lids open into the frontal and angular veins at the root of the nose.