SCAPULAR MUSCLES. 269 round the border of the subscapular muscle, with the artery of the same name. Behind the neck of the humerus the nerve divides into two parts, that supply the surrounding muscles, the integuments, and the shoulder joint: — One branch turns forwards beneath the deltoid nearly to has c»- * taneous, the anterior border, and ends in the muscle, with the excep- tion of one or two cutaneous filaments that pierce the fibres, muscu- , . lar, and The other branch gives an offset to the teres minor muscle, which is remarkable in having a gangliform swelling on it, and then becomes cutaneous over the deltoid (p. 267.), after supplying the posterior part of the muscle. Before the cir- JJJJ^ar cumflex nerve bifurcates it gives an articular filament to es* the under part of the shoulder joint. The infraspinatus muscle occupies the infraspinal fossa infra- of the scapula, and extends to the head of the humerus. The muscle muscle arises from all the infraspinal fossa of the scapula, arises except at the neck of the bone, and towards the inferior fossa of border and the lower angle, where the teres muscles are name; attached; it also arises from the lower side of the spine of the bone, and from the special fascia covering its surface. Its fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the Inser* ° 7 tion. middle impression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and joins with the tendons of the supraspinatus and teres minor muscles. The greater part of the muscle is subcu- is partly- ~ covered taneous, and the fibres that arise from the spine of the by del- is concealed by the deltoid, and the lower end, by the latis- simus dorsi. The lower border is parallel to the teres minor, other with which it is sometimes united. The muscle lies on the tions. scapula and the humero-scapular articulation, but it is sepa- rated from the last by a bursa. The teres minor is a narrow fleshy slip, which is often Teres inseparably united with the preceding muscle, along whose on back lower border it lies. It arises on the dorsum of the scapula, scapula, from a special surface along the two upper thirds of the in- ferior costa of the bone, and from the investing fascia; and it is inserted by a tendon into the lowest of the three marks inser- on the great tuberosity of the humerus, as well as by fleshy [h°enwlth fibres into the humerus below that spot — about an inch former• altogether. This muscle is partly covered by the deltoid; parts and it rests on the long head of the triceps and the shoulder tt.oxxnd