723 THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. versalis pedis muscle. The fleshy mass between the ad- ductor pollicis and the short flexor of the little toe consists of the interossei muscles of the next layer. The flexor brevis pollicis muscle is tendinous and Flexor • t • brevis pointed at the posterior part, but bifurcated m front. It is poinds 1 r r .is bifur- attached posteriorly to the cuboid bone and to a prolongation cated from the tendon of the tibialis posticus to the external and joins cuneiform bones. Near the front of the metatarsal bone of muscles, the great toe it divides into two heads, which are inserted into the sides of the base of the metatarsal phalanx. Resting on the muscle, and in the interval between the heads, is the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The inner head joins the abductor, and the outer is united with the adductor pollicis. A sesamoid bone is developed in the tendon con- nected with each head. The adductor pollicis, which is larger than the pre- Adduc- ceding muscle, and external to it, arises from the sheath of iicisPOl~ the tendon of the peroneus longus, and from the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. Anteriorly the muscle is united with the outer head of the short flexor, and is in- joins serted with it into the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the head of great toe. To the inner side is the flexor brevis; and beneath flexor. the outer border the external plantar artery and nerve are pi°ntar Covers ' plant; directed inwards. arch* The transversalis pedis is placed transversely over the Trans- heads of the metatarsal bones. Its origin is by fleshy pedis bundles from the four outer bones (frequently not from the little toe); and its insertion is united with that of the adduc- tor pollicis. The cutaneous surface is covered by the ten- attached dons, and the vessels and nerves of the toes ; and the oppo- of the site surface is in contact with the interossei muscles. This muscle is sometimes described as a part of the adductor pol- licis. The FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI is a Small narrow Flexor muscle ; it lies on the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and digiti iS resembles one of the interossei. Attached to the metatarsal inter- bone, and slightly to the sheath of the peroneus longus, it is inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal pha- lanx of the same toe, and into the inferior ligament of the metatarsophalangeal articulation. Dissection.—In order that the deep vessels and nerves Dissect 3 a 2