625 ORGANS OF GENERATION. the parts referred to are taken from the body, the rectum is and pre- . pare to be detached from the uterus and the vagina, but the rest them, of the viscera may remain united until the genital organs have been examined. The bladder may be moderately dis- tended, and the cellular membrane and the vessels are to be removed from the viscera. ORGANS OF GENERATION. The generative organs of the female are classed into ex- ternal and internal, from their position with respect to the pelvis. The external or genital organs consist of the following External parts : — the mons Veneris and the external labia, the clitoris areaus and the internal labia, and the vestibule with the meatus urinarius. Within the external labia is the aperture of the vagina, with the hymen or the remnant of it. Sometimes the term vulva or pudendum is applied to these parts as a whole. Mons Veneris and labia pudendL—In front of the os mons pubis the integument is covered with hair, and is raised into and a slight eminence, — mons Veneris, by a layer of subjacent fat. Extending downwards from the prominence mentioned, are two folds of integument, the labia pudendi (labia ma- labia jora), which correspond to the scrotum in the male. Above rnaJora* and below, the labia are united, the points of junction being named commissures, but between them is an interval called rima. The labia decrease in thickness inferiorly ; they are covered externally with a few hairs, but are lined internally with a mucous membrane provided with follicles and seba- ceous glands. In them is a dartoid tissue resembling that in the male scrotum. Within the lower commissure of the labia is a small thin transverse fold of integuments named Four- chette fourchette, or frenulum; and between this fold and the lower and commissure is the interval of the fossa navicularis. Clitoris and nymphce.—Beneath the upper commissure of clitoris; the labia majora is the projection of the clitoris, with the nymphse or smaller labia descending from it. Dissection. — To see the clitoris, the integument forming dissec- the upper commissure must be removed, and, after the body seeit.° of the organ has been laid bare, the crura are to be followed outwards one to each side. s s