722 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. toes and this last is connected with the inner side of the tendon to flexor, the second toe. Each is inserted into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx in the four outer toes; and from the insertion an expansion is prolonged to the dorsum of the phalanx to join the aponeurotic covering on it. These muscles decrease in size from the inner to the outer side of the foot. Flexor The accessorius muscle has two heads of origin: — one is acces- ° sorius tendinous, and is attached to the under or outer surface of the os calcis, and the ligamentum longum plantas ; the other is large and fleshy and springs from the inner or concave sur- is joined face of the calcaneum. The fibres end in aponeurotic bands, flexor that ioin the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum about longus. J . . the centre of the foot, so as to form a kind of groove for it. The muscle is bifurcated behind, and the heads of origin are separated by the long plantar ligament. On it are the ex- ternal plantar vessels and nerve, and the flexor brevis digi- torum conceals it. inser- The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis in the sole of tion of tendon the foot is deeper than that of the flexor longus digitorum, of flexor . . ... pollicis. to which it is united by a strong tendinous process: it is then directed to the root of the great toe, enters the digital sheath, and is inserted into the base of the ungual phalanx. Between the calcaneum and the internal malleolus this tendon lies in a groove in the astragalus; and in the foot, in a groove below the tubercle (sustentaculum tali) of the os calcis. Dissect Dissection.—For the dissection of the third layer of layer^of muscles, the accessorius and the tendons of the long flexor are to be cut through near the calcaneum, and turned towards the toes ; whilst raising the tendons the external plantar nerve and artery are not to be interfered with, and two small nerves to the two external lumbricales are to be looked for. Afterwards the cellular membrane is to be taken from the muscles now brought into view. Third Third layer of muscles.—Only the short muscles of the layer of , . muscles, great and the little toe enter into this layer. On the meta- tarsal bone of the great toe the flexor brevis pollicis lies, and external to it is the adductor pollicis; on the metatarsal bone of the little toe is the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Position. Crossing the heads of the metatarsal bones is the trans-