246 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. super- structure in other parts of the body; but in this locality the superficial layer does not contain much fat. deep. Beneath the subcutaneous layer is a deeper and stronger special fascia that closely invests the muscles, and is con- tinuous with the deep fascia of the arm. It is thin on the side of the chest, but becomes much thicker where it is stretched across the axilla. An incision through it, over the armpit, will render evident its increased strength in this situation, and its connections with the muscular folds of the axilla ; and if the fore-finger be introduced through the opening, some idea will be gained of its capability of con- fining an abscess in that hollow. Dissec- Dissection. — The cutaneous nerves of the side of the cuta. chest are next to be sought in the fat. Some of these (from nerves of the cervical plexus) will be found crossing the clavicle at the . chest, the middle, and at the inner part; others (anterior cutaneous of the thorax) appear at the side of the sternum,—one from each intercostal space; and others (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be sought along the side of the chest, about one inch below the anterior fold of the axilla, there being one from each intercostal space except the first. As soon as the last mentioned nerves appear through the muscles, they are divided into an anterior and a posterior branch : in the two highest nerves the posterior branches are larger than in the rest; they are to be followed across the arm-pit, and a junction is to be found with a branch (nerve of Wrisberg) of the brachial plexus. Descend- Cutaneous nerves of the cervical plexus. — These cross taneous the clavicle, and are distributed to the integuments over the nerves of cervical pectoral muscle. The most internal branch (sternal) lies near the inner end of the bone, and reaches but a short dis- tance below it. Other branches (clavicular), two or more in number, and of larger size, cross the centre of the clavicle, and extend to near the lower border of the pectoralis major; these join one or more of the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. cmane- The cutaneous nerves of the thorax are derived from the branches trunks of the intercostal nerves between the ribs. Of these of the in- tercostai there are two sets: — one, the lateral cutaneous nerves ot nerves. Are in the thorax, arise from the trunks of the nerves about mid- rows. way between the spine and the sternum; the other set, the