DISSECTION OE THE ABDOMEN. 476 from the crest of the ilium to the margin of the rectus. With a little care the muscle may be easily separated from the thin fascia beneath. Fascia The fascia transversalis is a thin fibrous layer between trans- «' J versaiis the transversalis muscle and the peritoneum, which has been is best so named by Sir A. Cooper. In the groin or inguinal region in the where it is unsupported by muscles, the fascia is consider- 8roln* ably stronger than elsewhere, and is joined by fibres of the Supe- aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle; but above that decneas- region it gradually decreases in strength, until at the thorax strength, it becomes an unimportant cellular structure. In the part ^r of the fascia now laid bare is an opening — the internal ab- Sgament Nominal r*ng? which gives passage to the spermatic cord, or Is lhe , the round ligament, according to the sex. On the inner side internal ° ? ° nafring °^ °Pening tne fascia is thinner than on the outer side, Is fixed and is fixed internally into the os pubis and the pectineal pelvis, line of that bone, behind the conjoined tendon with which it is partly is united. When traced down to Poupart's ligament, this joined to x o Pou- membrane is found to be connected to the posterior margin part's h. . gament, 0f that band along the outer half; but it passes down to the \y noLrt* thigh in front of the blood vessels, along the inner half, being but slightly connected with the ligament, and forms the an- terior part of a loose sheath (crural) around the vessels, situation Abdominal ring. — The opening of the internal abdominal minai " ring is situate midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. From its margin a thin tubular pro- longation of the fascia is continued around the cord. Dissec- Dissection. — The prolongation of the fascia transversalis trace'0 on the cord may be traced by cutting the fascia horizontally on cord, above the opening of the ring, and then longitudinally over the cord. With the handle of the scalpel the thin membrane may be reflected to each side from the subperitoneal fat. After the subperitoneal fat has been seen, let it be removed to trace the remains of the tube of peritoneum along the cord. subperi. The subperitoneal fat forms a layer between the fascia toneal 7 . fat in the transversalis and the peritoneum. Its depth varies much in groin. different bodies, but the stratum is thicker at the lower part of the abdomen than elsewhere. A prolongation is sent from it along the cord. This structure will be more spe-