VEINS OF THE HEART. 367 perforates the fibrous layer of that bag, about one inch and ends in a half above the heart, and ends in the right auricle. On its outer aspect, the vein is covered by the right pleura, and the phrenic nerve is in contact with it. On the inner side is the ascending part of the arch of the aorta. Behind the vein is the root of the right lung. When the cava is about to perforate the pericardium it is its joined by the large azygos vein of the thorax: higher than es. that spot it receives small veins from the pericardium, and the parts in the mediastinal space. The innominate veins are united inferiorly in the trunk of inno. the descending cava : they are two in number, right and left, veins and each is formed, behind the inner end of the clavicle, by right the, union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the left, same side of the neck. The trunks differ in length and How direction, and in their connections with the surrounding parts. The right vein is about one inch and a half long, and des- Right cends vertically, on the right side of the innominate artery, and a to its junction with the vein of the opposite side. On the long; outer surface the pleura covers it, 'and along it the phrenic nerve is placed. The left vein is twice or three times as long as the right, left, and is directed obliquely downwards above the level of the times as arch of the aorta, to join with its fellow in the superior cava, obliqued Between its origin and termination the vein crosses behind tion. the sternum, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies on the three large branches of the aortic arch, as well as on the several nerves that descend over the arch. The branches of these veins are not the same on the two Their sides. Into the right vein the inferior thyroid, and the in- es. ternal mammary of the same side are received : and into the left, besides two branches from the left side of the body, cor- responding to those joining the other vein, there are collected, the left superior intercostal, and small thymic and pericardiac Peculiarities. — Sometimes the innominate veins are not united Some- into one, but remain separate, and have distinct openings in the theyS right auricle. When such a variety exists, the right vein takes pratlfy the course of the ripper cava; but the left vein descends in front jj^°rthe of the root of the left lung, and turning to the back of the heart,