VESSELS AND NERVES. 791 placed longitudinally in the membranous part of the septum scalarum, and communicates here and there with the arterial loops before mentioned. The vein. — One branch of vein is derived from the vein to cochlea, and another from the membranous labyrinth: the sinus, two are united near the cochlea, and the trunk ends in the superior petrosal sinus of the base of the skull. Nerve of the Labyrinth. — Only one special nerve, Auditory auditory, is distributed to the labyrinth (p. 195.). Entering the internal auditory meatus, the nerve divides into two divides branches, like the artery, viz., an anterior for the cochlea, and a posterior for the membranous labyrinth. In both branches there are nerve cells contained: in that to the labyrinth they form a reddish gray swelling, which was named intumescentia ganglioformis by Scarpa. a. The cochlear branch divides at the base of the modio- Acoch^ lus into twigs that enter the apertures in that body. These branch, small divisions of the nerve are directed outwards with the vessels in the canals in the lamina spiralis, but nearest the tympanic scala, where they form a plexiform arrangement, with lengthened interspaces. Beyond the bone the nerve whose tubules cease to divide, and reach a short distance into the end in membranous part of the septum scalarum, where they are tum!ep arranged in conical sets parallel to one another; but their mode of ending is not satisfactorily made out. The nerve retaining fibres do not lose the white substance of Schwann at their sub- ..... , stance. termination, but retain it in the minutest tubules. b. The vestibular branch ends in three nerves for the Vestibu- lar membranous labyrinth : these pierce the cribriform plate in branch the bottom of the meatus, and are thus distributed : — one into appertains to the utricle, and to the enlargements on the tubes contained in the superior vertical and horizontal semi- circular canals ; a second ends in the saccule ; and the third belongs to the ampullary swelling on the tube of the posterior vertical semicircular canal. Termination of the vestibular nerves. — The ending of the their ter- nerve fibres on the sacs is different from the termination of tion; them on the ampullary enlargements. In the membranous sacs the nerve enters where the otolith on the is situate, and its filaments separate, some passing amongstsacs the calcareous matter, and spread out on the inner surface.