SUPERFICIAL FASCIA. 647 T T 4 of skin included by these incisions is to be raised and turned outwards, without taking with it the subcutaneous fat. The superficial fascia forms a general investment for the Superfi- limb, and is constructed of a network of areolar tissue, with fascia, fat or adipose substance amongst the meshes. As a part of f0™ ed the common covering of the body, it will be found con- tinuous with that of the contiguous regions, so that it may be, followed inwards to the scrotum or labium, and upwards on the abdomen. Its thickness varies in different bodies, thick- ness according to the quantity of fat deposited in it; and at the varies; upper part of the thigh it is divided into two strata (super- jti? ficial and deep) by some cutaneous vessels and inguinal into two ry J . ° strata by glands. The superficial of the two layers is now apparent vessels, by the removal of the skin, but its connections will be made more evident after the following dissection. Dissection. — To reflect the superficial stratum of the To raise fascia, incisions similar to those in the skin are to be em- perficiai ployed; and the separation from the subjacent structures is to be begun at the lower part, where the large saphenous vein, and a condensed or membranous appearance on the under surface, will mark the depth of the stratum. The handle of the scalpel may be advantageously employed in raising the fascia along the middle line of the limb; but, where vessels and glands are not found, viz. along the outer and inner borders of the thigh, the separation of the super- ficial fascia into two layers cannot be made. The subcutaneous layer of this fascia decreases in thick- subcu. ness near Poupart's ligament, becoming more fibrous at the layer of same spot; and at its under aspect is a smooth and mem- fascia branous surface. It conceals the superficial vessels and the inguinal glands, and is separated by these from Poupart's ™™*d ligament, so that it is unconnected to that band as it passes with upwards to the abdomen, and is readily moved on it either p^l's upwards or downwards. ment. Dissection. — The inguinal glands and the superficial Dissec- vessels are next to be laid bare by the removal of the sur- rounding fat, but the student is to be careful not to destroy the deeper, very thin layer of the superficial fascia which is beneath them, and chiefly to the inner side of the centre of the limb. Three sets of vessels are to be found in the dissection: To see