384 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. left azygos veins ; some oesophageal, mediastinal, and verte- bral veins, and the right bronchial vein, raso- The (esophagus is a hollow muscular tube which extends phagus is partly from the pharynx to the stomach. The cervical part of the in neck L r 1 tube has been described at page 126., and the thoracic part is now to be examined, partly in Entering the thorax rather to the left of the middle line, thorax ^ne gu^e^ *s directed inwards beneath the arch of the aorta, where it an(j reaches the centre of the spine about the fourth or fifth front of dorsal vertebra. From that spot it is continued through the spine, greater part of the interpleural space on the right of the through aorta? and superficial to the other contiguous bodies; but at phragm. ^ne l°wer Part °f tne thorax, it is again inclined to the left, over the aorta, to gain the oesophageal opening of the dia- Parts phragm. As far as the arch of the aorta the oesophagus covering it, lies beneath the trachea, though it is inclined somewhat to the left of the air tube ; but beyond the arch it is crossed by the left bronchus, and is concealed by the pericardium, down on the to the diaphragm. In this extent the tube is covered on the sides by the pleurae, and lies, below the arch, on the left of and^be- the aorta. At the upper part of the thorax the oesophagus will be found to rest on the longus colli muscle and the ver- tebra? ; but below the arch of the aorta it is separated from the spine by the intercostal vessels, and lastly it lies on the aorta. Below the situation of the bronchus the pneumo- gastric nerves surround the oesophagus with their branches, and above the same spot the thoracic duct will be found to the left of the tube. Three Structure.—If a piece of the middle of the gullet be in it. removed and distended with cotton wool, it will be found to consist of a muscular, a cellular, and a mucous coat. a mus- a. The muscular coat is thick and strong, and consists of coat.r two layers of fibres ; the external of these is longitudinal, and the internal circular in direction, like the muscular tunic of the other parts of the alimentary tube. In the upper third of the oesophagus the fibres are red, and have the striped character; but they gradually change, so that at the lower end they are pale, and are mostly of the unstriped kind. ofexter- The external layer is formed of parallel longitudinal gftudinai fibres, which form an entire covering, and end below on the