768 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. the stratum of fibres, and end in a network of capillaries in the granular matrix outside them, like the vessels in the gray substance of the encephalon, and without forming a separate layer: a marginal vessel runs circularly round the ball at the anterior termination (ora serrata) of the retina. The larger branches of the artery keep clear of the axis of the eyeball, and the spot of Soemmerring, and only capillaries occupy the limbus luteus. In the fetus a branch of the artery is distributed to the back of the lens. Outer b. The outer stratum of the retina (Jacob's membrane) spedaias that forms the delicate film between the nervous substance parts' and the choroidal epithelium consists of two different ele- ments — rods and bulbs — both being microscopic objects. Rods; The rods are transparent solid cylindrical or hexagonal bodies, which are pointed at one end and square at the other : form • tne7 are placed perpendicularly between the ocular coats, so that the pointed or conical ends are directed outwards to the how choroidal epithelium, into recesses on which they are re- poskion. ceived, and the bases rest on the granular layer of the retina. In water and soon after death these bodies decompose; the point separates and becomes globular, whilst the remainder also changes and even assumes the form of a hook. Bulbs The bulbs are transparent rounded bodies, in contact with the granular layer of the retina, which are scattered at equal distances amongst the rods, and do not reach to the apices of witha these last. Occasionally there appears to be a spur project- spur. from .f.jie outer part amongst the rods. These bodies are best seen in fishes where they have a somewhat different constitution (Hanover). * vitreous Vitreous Body.—A transparent mass fills the greater body* part of the space within the coats of the eyeball, which has been named vitreous body from its resemblance to glass ; it consists of a clear aqueous fluid, contained in a translucent membrane, and has the consistence of jelly. To ob- Dissection. — The vitreous body may be seen on the eye on which the retina was dissected, by taking away the retina, oflt* the ciliary ligament and processes, and the iris. To obtain a view of its anterior part with the lens in situation, an eye- ball should be pinned upright on wax; the sclerotic and * Recherches Microscopiques sur le Systeme Nerveux, 1844.