684 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. are lost in the integument over the lower part; the remaining branches descend to the thigh, and will be afterwards noticed on it. From The last dorsal nerve supplies the buttock by means of its lateral dorsal cutaneous branch (p. 462.). This offset perforates the muscles of nerve. ^Q ai3(jomen? an(j crosses the anterior part of the crest of the ilium to be distributed over the fore part of the gluteal region, as low as the great trochanter, clean Dissection.—In the dissection of this region, the thin and gluteus . ° maxi- unimportant deep fascia may be disregarded, in order that the great gluteal muscle, which is the most difficult in the body to make clean, may be well displayed. Supposing the student desirous to lay bare the muscle at once, let him turn aside the cutaneous nerves, and draw away and rotate in- Mode of wards the limb, to make tense the muscular fibres. Having proceed through the fat and fascia down to the muscle, let him carry the scalpel along one fibre at a time in the direction of a line from the sacrum to the femur, until all the coarse fasciculi are cleaned. If it is the right limb, the dissection may be begun at the upper border; but if the left, at the lower margin of the muscle. Fascia The fascia of the buttock is a prolongation of that enve- buttock loping the thigh, and is fixed to the crest of the ilium, and andun- the sacrum and the coccyx. It is much thicker in front of nTipor - j.|jan on ^e gluteus maximus, and gives attachment ante- riorly to the gluteus medius which it covers. At the edge of the gluteus maximus the fascia is slit to encase this muscle. Gluteus The gluteus maximus is the most superficial muscle of mus!" the buttock, and reaches from the pelvis to the upper part of the femur. Its origin from the pelvis is partly osseous and Origin partly aponeurotic: — thus it is attached superiorly to the from innominate bone, viz. to the posterior fourth of the crest of P6lV1S' the ilium, and to a special impression on the bone below the crest; inferiorly it is connected with the back of the last piece of the sacrum, with the side of the coccyx, and with the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and between those osseous at- tachments it is fixed into the aponeurosis covering the mul- tifidus spinas muscle. From this origin the fibres are di- inserted rected outwards to their insertion:—the upper two-thirds, into the with a few of the lowest fibres end in the fascia lata of the emur* outer part of the thigh; and the remainder are fixed into