211 UPPER SURFACE OF THE CEREBRUM. p 2 tricle in the same direction, so that an incision through it into would open that cavity. In contact with this now denuded sphere, surface of the corpus callosum is the convolution, named volution, gyrus fornicatus, which may be seen to begin by a narrow part in front of the anterior perforated spot. Anterior perforated spot (locus perforatus anticus) is a Locus space near the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, which is tus anticus. situate between the anterior and middle lobes of the cere- brum, and in front of the optic tract. On the inner side it is continuous with the lamina cinerea, and crossing it, from within outwards, is the fillet of the corpus callosum. This space is gray on the surface, and corresponds to the corpus striatum in the interior of the brain; it is perforated by numerous vessels for that body. Position of the part.—Now the base of the cerebrum has Position . ot brain been dissected, the brain should be turned over for the ex- to ex- amine amination of the upper part. After the brain has been upper turned, something should be placed beneath the anterior lobes, in order that they may be raised to the same level as the posterior; and a cloth rolled up, should encircle the whole, to support the hemispheres. Upper Surface of the Cerebrum. — On the upper sur- cere- face, the cerebrum, taken as a whole, is oval in form, with con™xs the larger end backwards, and is convex in its outline, in and du accordance with the shape of the skull. The cerebral mass is into two. only partly separated into two portions or hemispheres by a median longitudinal fissure, for the corpus callosum extends from one hemisphere to another, and interrupts the depth of the fissure at the middle part, but before and behind that connecting piece its separation into two halves is complete. Each hemisphere is smaller in front than behind. Its Each outer surface is convex ; but the inner is flat, an in contact with the opposite hemisphere at the fore part. On the upper aspect the surface of the hemisphere is not cleft by fissures into lobes, but on the under aspect it is separated into two pieces by the large sulcus before seen. The super- is ficies of the hemisphere is marked by tortuous eminences, by con- similar to those of the convoluted small intestine, so that the and sulci, brain has the appearance of consisting of a somewhat rounded tube, bent and twisted in different directions ; the projections