PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES. 175 terior part, where the cartilages are deficient, it is gathered into strong longitudinal folds. This layer is closely connected with the mucous membrane covering it. The mucous membrane of the trachea lines the tube, and Mucous mem- resembles that of the larynx, with which it is continuous, in crane, J 7 epithe- being furnished with a columnar ciliated epithelium. Con- ijum, nected with this membrane are numerous muciparous com- glands, pound glands of variable size. The largest set are found at the back of the trachea, in the interval between the cartilages, where some are placed beneath the mucous membrane, and others outside the fibrous tissue of that part: the ducts of the last pass forwards between the muscular fibres to the surface of the mucous membrane. Other smaller glands occupy the front and sides of the trachea, being situated on and in the fibrous tissue connecting the cartilaginous rings. Section XVIII. PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES AND VERTEBRAL VESSELS. Directions.—On the part of the spinal column that was laid Deep •ip i « . muscles aside after the separation of the pharynx from it, the student of spine, is to dissect the deep muscles on the front of the vertebras. Dissection.—To dissect those muscles, it will be necessary Dissec- to remove the cellular membrane. The muscles are three in number on each side, and are easily distinguished: the largest one, nearest the middle line, is the longus colli; the muscle external to this, which reaches to the head, is the rectus capitis anticus major; and the small muscle, external to the last and close to the skull, the rectus capitis anticus minor. The small rectus muscle is usually injured in cutting through the basilar process of the occipital bone. The longus colli muscle is situate on the side of the Longus bodies of the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae, and is pointed above, but larger below. It consists of two parts — Origin internal and external, the former of which is vertical, and the latter oblique in direction. The internal part arises by by two fleshy and tendinous processes from the bodies of the two PleC6S upper dorsal, and two lower cervical vertebrae ; and the ex- ternal piece takes origin from the upper border of the anterior roots of the transverse processes of four cervical