MUSCLES OP THE PACE. use for the muscles and vessels, and the right side he is to reserve for the nerves. Position.—The previous position of the body for the ex- Position amination of the base of the skull will require to be changed. The head is to be lowered, and the side of the face to be dis- sected is to be placed upwards. Dissection.—As a preparatory step, the iibres of the eye- Dissec- lids, lips, and side of the nose, are to be made tense by in- serting a small quantity of tow or cotton wo#l into the dif- ferent apertures ; and the margins of the eyelids and lips are then to be fastened with a few sutures. The integument is to be removed from the left side of the How t0 ° raise face by means of the following incisions : — one is to be skin made in front of the ear, from above the zygoma to the angle of the jaw ; and another is to be continued from the last point along the base of the jaw to the chin. The flap of skin is to be raised from behind forwards, and left adherent along the middle line. Much care must be taken in detach- from^ ing the skin from the thin, and oftentimes pale fibres of the of eyelid, orbicular muscle of the eyelids, otherwise these will be cut away in consequence of the little cellular tissue that inter- venes between the two. On the side of the nose the* skin is s;de of nose, closely united to the subjacent parts, and must Jbe detached with care. Around the mouth are also many fleshy slips and that extend both upwards and downwards from the orbicular mouth muscle, but they are all marked so distinctly as to escape injury, except the small risorius muscle that comes from the angle of the lower jaw towards the corner of the mouth. When removing the fat from these muscles, each fleshy slip should be made tense by means of hooks. The facial vessels and their branches will come into view Facial vessels as the parts are cleaned; but the nerves may be disregarded and on this side. Near the ear is the parotid gland, whose duct is on a level with the meatus auditorius, and pierces the middle of the cheek. Muscles of the Face.—The superficial muscles of the in the face are gathered around the apertures of the eye, nose, and muscles mouth. An orbicular or sphincter muscle surrounds the the aper- aperture both of the eye and of the mouth; and other mus- tures* cles are blended with it in each instance to enlarge the aper-