DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 56 fascia is thin and indistinct. In its extent round the neck the membrane incases the sterno-mastoideus, and presents a Part be- different disposition before and behind that muscle. As now sterno- seen passing backwards from the muscle, the fascia continues muscle, over the posterior triangular space, and then encloses the trapezius, in its progress to the spines of the vertebrae. At the lower part of the neck the fascia is attached to the clavicle, and is perforated by the external jugular vein and the cu- sends taneous nerves. After the superficial layer has been removed a process „ beneath near the clavicle, a deep process may be observed to en- clavicle. velop the small omo-hyoid muscle, and to extend beneath the clavicle to the costo-coracoid sheath of the axillary vessels. Dissec- Dissection.—By the removal of the cervical fascia and the triangu- fat from the space between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius space, muscles, the posterior triangle of the neck will come into view. Crossing the space obliquely about an inch above the clavicle, and thus dividing it into two, is the small omo-hyoid muscle. Nerves Above the omo-hyoid muscle will be found the ramifica- omo-hy- tions of the branches of the cervical plexus, together with the spinal accessory nerve : the latter will be recognised by its piercing the sterno-mastoid muscle : the greater number of the branches of the cervical plexus descend to the shoulder, but the small occipital and great auricular nerves ascend to the head, whilst the superficial cervical branch turns for- wards over the sterno-mastoid muscle, vessels Below the omo-hyoideus are the subclavian artery and the t»eiow. |)racj1jaj piexus? which have a deep position. In this part also the following vessels and nerve are to be sought, viz. the supra-scapular vessels behind the clavicle; the transverse cervical vessels beneath the omo-hyoid muscle; and, lastly, in tri- the small branch of nerve to the subclavian muscle, which space, lies about the middle of the space between the clavicle and the omo-hyoideus. POSTERIOR TRIANGULAR SPACE. P0Ste- This space, having the form and position before noted, is angular about eight inches in length, and contains the cervical and tEeck brachial plexuses, as well as the part of the subclavian artery on which a ligature is usually placed. It is bounded in front