DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 766 must be torn away carefully with two pair of forceps whilst the eye is immersed in water. If an entire eye is used for the purpose, a thread may be passed through the cornea, and fastened to a pin fixed in wax; then on removing in water the sclerotic and choroid coats, the retina will be laid bare. The interior of the retina may be seen in the eye from which the cornea, the iris, and the corpus ciliare have been removed in front, situa- The retina is the most internal of the three concentric eyeball; strata in the globe of the eye, and is situate between the choroid coat and the transparent mass (vitreous humour) that is lodged in the interior. It is moulded upon, and supported form by the vitreous body ; and its form is that of a segment of a sphere, as in the other coats, but its aperture in front is rather larger. Beginning behind in the optic nerve, this thin and ex- layer extends forwards nearly as far as the annulus albidus, tent' viz. to the spot at which the choroid coat becomes folded (outer margin of the corpus ciliare), where it ends in a wavy border—the or a serrata. colour; This nervous expansion is of a pinkish gray colour, and is semitransparent when fresh, so that an image can be seen on it at the bottom of the eye when the two external coats are transpa- removed; but it soon loses this translucency, and is moreover and°y rendered opaque by the action of water and other substances. nest' Its thickness is greater at the posterior than at the anterior part of the eyeball. Outer On the outer surface are some fine shreds, fragments of a floccu-18 structure (Jacob's membrane) to be noticed presently, which float in the fluid in which the preparation may be placed ; and in a fresh eye, on which the coats have been removed from behind, a continuous layer of this membrane may be On the detached with care. On looking to the inside through the surface vitreous body, the surface will be found covered with folds, but these are accidental, in consequence of the membrane having lost its proper support; and at the spot where the porus optic nerve expands (porus opticus) is the central artery of opticus, retina. But in the interior of the human eye, in the axis of the bail, and TVth of an inch outside the entrance of the optic nerve, is a slight roundish eminence of the retina, of a yellow colour, and T^th of an inch in diameter, which is luteus8 named tne yellow spot of Scemmerring (limbus luteus). In