DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 72 chest, and the remaining one (thyroid axis) is a short thick trunk, which furnishes branches inwards and outwards. Origin These arise commonly near the scalenus muscle, so as to Crunch- leave an interval at the origin free from offsets. This in- terval varies in length, being from half an inch to an inch in the greater number of cases ; and its extremes range from somewhat less than half an inch to an inch and three quarters. But in some instances the branches are scattered over the whole extent of this part of the artery (Quain). * The fourth branch (superior intercostal) arises from the second part of the artery, or beneath the anterior scalenus, and gives off the deep cervical branch. If there is a branch present on the third part of the artery, it is commonly the posterior scapular : if more than one, the internal mammary, or some of the offsets of the thyroid axis may be added. Verte. 1. The vertebral artery is generally the first and largest tefyfn" branch of the subclavian, and arises from the upper and ' posterior part of that vessel. Ascending between the con- tiguous borders of the scalenus and longus colli muscles, this branch enters the aperture in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and is continued upwards to the skull, through the chain of foramina in the transverse pro- cesses of the other cervical vertebrae. Before the artery enters the transverse process it is partly concealed by the internal jugular vein, and passes beneath the thyroid artery ; it is accompanied by branches of the sympathetic nerve, and small supplies small muscular branches. Its course and distribut- es, tion will be given afterwards. on left On the left side the commencement of the vertebral artery Slde* is crossed by the thoracic duct. Differ- The origin of the vertebral may vary in its position along the p?acVof ^rst Part °ftne trunk of the subclavian; or it may be transferred origin, to the arch of the aorta, especially on the left side; or to the right common carotid artery, when the subclavian of the same side arises from the aorta. The course of the artery is not constant through the hole in the transverse process of the sixth vertebra; it may enter any other as high as the second. * The student is referred for fuller information respecting the pecu- liarities of the vessels, and the practical applications to be deduced from them, to the original and valuable work on the Anatomy of the Arteries of the Human Body, by Richard Quain, F. R. S.