CUTANEOUS NERVES. 9 will be afterwards given with the description of the cervical iar . ' nerve. plexus. The great occipital is the largest cutaneous nerve at the Jj£**tal back of the head, and is recognised by its proximity to the nerve occipital artery. Springing from the posterior division of the second cervical nerve, it perforates the muscles of the back of the neck, and divides on the occiput into numerous large branches; these spread over the posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle, and end mostly in the integument, but one {auricular branch) reaches the cranial aspect of the gives an . , . . , ...... auricu- ear. As soon as this nerve pierces the trapezius, it is joined iar by an offset from the third cervical nerve; and on the back of the head it communicates also with the smaller occipital nerve. The small occipital nerve of the cervical plexus lies mid- Small way between the ear and the preceding nerve, and is con- nerve tinued upwards in the integuments higher than the level of the ear. It communicates with the nerve on each side ; viz. the posterior auricular and great occipital. Usually this has an nerve furnishes an auricular branch to the upper part of the fj£-ncu" ear at its cranial aspect, which supplies also the attollens aurem muscle. Dissection.—Before opening the skull the dissector should Dissec- detach on the right side the temporal muscle from the bone, open the nearly down to the zygoma, without separating the fascia covering it; but all the remaining soft parts may be divided by an incision carried around the skull, about one inch above the margin of the orbit at the forehead, and as low as the protuberance at the occiput. The cranium is now to be sawn in the same line as the to cut former incision, but the saw is to extend only through the bonelgh outer osseous plate, whilst the inner plate is to be broken through with a chisel, in order to avoid injuring the sub- jacent membrane of the brain (dura mater). The skull cap is next to be forcibly detached, and the dura mater will then come into view. ^ Section II. INTERNAL PARTS OF THE HEAD. Directions.—It will be more advantageous for the student How to to proceed at once with the parts described in this Section,