DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 638 the lower limb, and the small ligament will be brought into view by removing the coccjgeus. Anterior The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a few thin scattered fibres, that are attached to the sacrum and the ilium near their articular surfaces. ?erior°]i" Posier^or ligaments (sacro-iliac) are much stronger gaments; than the anterior, and the fibres are collected into bundles. These ligaments pass from the rough inner surface at the posterior extremity of the innominate bone to the first two one more pieces of the sacrum. One bundle, which is distinct from than the the others, and more superficial, is named the oblique or long posterior ligament; it is attached to the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and descends almost vertically to the third piece of the sacrum, with ar- Articular cartilage, — Between the irregular surfaces of cartu the bones in this articulation (sacro-iliac symphysis) is a thin uneven layer of cartilage. In it there is sometimes a hollow with irregular surfaces like that in the cartilage of the sym- physis pubis. The cartilage may be detached with a knife, on separating the bones, after the other ligaments are ex- amined. Sacro- Two sacro-sciatic ligaments pass from the lateral part of Hga- the sacrum and coccyx to the spine and tuberosity of the are two; ischium, across the space at the back of the pelvis, between the posterior border of the innominate bone and the sacrum; by their position they convert into two apertures or foramina (sacro-sciatic), the large sacro-sciatic excavation in the dried bones : these openings, and the parts they give passage to, are described in the dissection of the buttock. The liga- ments are named large and small, large; The large ligament reaches from the side of the sacrum and coccyx to the tuberosity of the ischium ; but it may have been cut in the dissection of the gluteal region, with which it is to be examined, small; The small ligament is attached internally by a wide part to the border of the sacrum and coccyx, where it is united with the origin of the preceding ligament. The fibres are attach- directed outwards to the spine of the ischium, and are in- serted into it by a narrowed part. Its pelvic surface is and con- covered by the coccygeus muscle, and its opposite surface nections. ^ ^e great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above this ligament,