60 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. scend are derived from the third and fourth nerves of the plexus, are and are directed towards the clavicle over the lower part of the posterior triangular space. Their number is somewhat uncertain^ but usually there are about three on the clavicle, stemai, The most internal branch (sternal) crosses the clavicle davlcu- near its inner end ; the middle branch lies about the middle and of that bone; and the posterior (acromial) turns over the miTi" attachment of the trapezius to the acromion. All are distri- buted to the integuments of the chest and shoulder. Lymph. The lymphatic glands (glandular concatenate) that lie ♦ glands along the sterno-mastoid muscle, are continuous at the lower of neck. ' part of the neck with the glands in the cavity of the thorax. There is also a superficial chain along the external jugular vein. Dissec- Dissection. — The dissection of the posterior triangle should be repeated on the left side of the neck, in order that the difference in the vessels may be observed. Afterwards the reflected parts are to be replaced and carefully fastened in their natural position with a few stitches, after preserva- tive fluid has been applied by means of strips of calico. made* Directions.—It is supposed that the body will now be now. turned on its fore part for the dissection of the back. During the period allotted for this position the student is to learn the posterior part of the neck. After the completion of the dissection of the back the student should examine the spinal cord, and then return to the examination of the front of the neck. FRONT OF THE NECK. Ex- Directions.—"When the body has been turned again, so as righ"6 to allow the dissection of the remainder of the right side of neck?f the neck, the head and neck may be taken from the trunk, supposing the thorax to be finished, by dividing the spinal column between the second and third dorsal vertebrae. By this step the student obtains the clavicles and the first ribs, and preserves the natural position of the parts at the root of the neck : he should moreover be careful to take the arch of the aorta. Position Position.—After the part has been detached, place a small of part. 1 ? r