MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 185 the cerebral substance; whilst the intervals between the vessels are closed by cellular tissue, so as to form a con- tinuous membrane. From the under surface of the pia mater proceed numerous fine vessels for the nutrition of the brain. Vessels and nerves. — The arachnoid membrane has but few Vessels vessels, whilst the pia mater is almost entirely composed of vessels nerves, and nerves. The arachnoid is considered to be nerveless ; huh the pia mater is largely supplied by the offsets of the sympathetic, that accompany the blood vessels at the base of the brain (p. 22.). Bochdalek has also described offsets to it from some cranial nerves. Dissection.—To follow out the arteries, let the brain re- Dissec- tion of main upside down, and let the arachnoid membrane be ^sves" removed from the vessels that are seen on the surface. First, the two arteries that lie in the median fissure of the great brain may be defined; next, the artery that passes outwards transversely between the two lobes of the brain; and, lastly, a vessel that bends backwards along the inner part of the great brain (cerebrum). One artery is seen ramifying on the upper (in the present position) surface of the little brain, and another is to be followed to the opposite surface. Divisions of the brain.—Before entering into the detail of the anatomy of the arteries, the different divisions of the brain, and the larger parts that are seen on its under-surface, may be mentioned shortly. The cranial or encephalic mass of the nervous system outline consists of cerebrum or great brain, cerebellum or small mSsa.nia brain, and pons and medulla oblongata. Each of these parts has the following situation and subdivisions: — The medulla oblongata, or the upper end of the spinal Upper cord, lies in the groove between the halves of the small sphLd brain, and is divided into two symmetrical parts by a median fissure. To each half some of the cranial nerves are united. The pons Varolii, is situate in front of the medulla ob- Pons longata, and is marked along the middle by a groove, which Varolli indicates its separation into two halves. In front of it are two large processes (crura cerebri) that pass to the great and its brain; on each side it is united to the small brain by a crura'