375 THE AIR TUBE. b b 4 The trachea, or the air tube, reaches from the larynx to Trachea the lun^s, and lies on the front of the spinal column. The lies in the neck tube begins at the lower part of the larynx, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra; and ends at the third dorsal ver- tebra*, by dividing into two pieces (bronchi), one for each and in lung. Its connections in the neck are described at p. 125., thorax, . . , . where it and its structure at p. 174. I he part m the thorax remains ends in bronchi. to be studied. In the thorax the trachea is situate, with the great vessels, its con- in the space between the pleural bags. Here it is covered in the a by the arch of the aorta, by the innominate and left carotid arteries, and by the cardiac plexus of nerves; and super- ficial to the last arteries is the left innominate vein. Behind the air tube is the oesophagus, but this is slightly inclined to the left near the arch of the aorta. On the right side is the vagus, with the innominate artery, for a short distance, after this has passed over the trachea; and on the left side is the vagus with its recurrent branch. The bronchi, or the divisions of the air tube, are con- Bronchi tained in the root of the lung, where they are surrounded roots of by vessels, glands, and nerves. Near the lung each isiungs; divided into as many primary pieces as there are lobes to that organ. In their structure and form the bronchi resemble are like the windpipe, for they are round and cartilaginous in front, trachea but flat, and muscular and membranous behind. Their position behind the other pulmonary vessels has been de- scribed at page 343., but the peculiarities of each are now to be noticed. The right branch is about an inch in length, and is larger The than the left; it passes outwards on a level with the fourth differs dorsal vertebra, and is placed above the right pulmonary left artery: the vena azygos arches over it. The left branch is in about two inches long. It is directed obliquely downwards through the arch of the aorta, and joins the root of the left lung, at a spot a vertebra lower than on the opposite side. In this course the tube lies on the oesophagus and the course, thoracic duct, and on the descending aorta; it is at first nections. below the level of the corresponding pulmonary artery. * The place of its bifurcation is sometimes opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra.