216 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. in the from the subdivision of the large central space, and are four in number. One extends into both halves of the brain ; but commonly the part in each hemisphere is described as a separate ventricle (the lateral), so that these constitute the first and second. Another (third) occupies the middle line of the brain near the under surface; and another small one (fifth) is included in the partition between the large ven- tricle of the hemispheres. The fourth ventricle is situate between the cerebellum and the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata and pons. Lateral The lateral ventricles are two in number, one occupying ^ntn" each hemisphere; they are incompletely separated in the middle line by a septum, for they communicate by an aper- ture below that partition. The interior is lined by a thin stratum of nucleated epithelium, with, in some spots, a sub- jacent stratum of areolar tissue, shape Each is a narrow interval, which extends into the anterior, sUion°;" posterior, and middle lobes of the corresponding hemisphere. Its central part (body) is almost straight, but the points (cornua) by which it reaches into the different lobes are three curved. There are three cornua in each, corresponding to cornua. t . . the half of the cerebrum, which have the following disposi- tions : — The anterior is directed outwards from its fellow in the anterior lobe. The posterior (digital cavity) is much smaller in size, and is bent inwards in the posterior lobe, towards the one of the opposite side. And the inferior cornu, beginning opposite the posterior fold of the corpus callosum, descends in a curved direction in the middle lobe, with the concavity of the bend turned inwards. Consists For the purpose of examining its boundaries, the ventricle parts? may be divided into an upper or horizontal, and a lower or descending part. one is The upper or horizontal part reaches from the anterior zontai. into the posterior lobe, and is shaped something like the Its roof; Italic letter f. Its roof is formed by the corpus callosum. floor, Its floor is irregular in outline, and presents, from before and backwards, the following parts:—first, a small piece of the ai°ongSit. under part of the corpus callosum; next, a large gray, pear- shaped body, the corpus striatum; behind this, another large white projection, named optic thalamus ; and between these two last bodies is a white line, tsenia semicircularis. On