438 DISSECTION OF THE PERINiEUM. of the anus, which is posterior to a line extended from the the anus, anterior part of the one ischial tuberosity to the other. In front of the anus the surface is slightly convex, and presents a raphe, a longitudinal prominent line or raphe, which divides this hollow part of the space into two halves. Between the anus and of anus, the tuberosity of the ischium the surface is somewhat de- pressed, especially in emaciated bodies, and corresponds to and folds the hollow of the subjacent ischio-rectal fossa. The margin around of the anal aperture possesses numerous converging folds, opening, but these are more or less obliterated by the position of the body and the distension of the rectum ; and projecting often- times through and around the opening are some dilated hemorrhoidal veins (haemorrhoids). £gUparts DeeP boundaries. — The deep boundaries of the perinaeal samTas sPace w^ ^e ascertained, in the progress of the dissection, outlet of *° corresPond to the inferior aperture or the outlet of the pelvis, pelvis. The limits may be made out by referring to a dry or prepared pelvis, on which the ligaments remain entire; and the student should trace, on the body, the individual boundaries with his finger. In front, is the arch of the pubes with the subpubic ligament; and at the posterior part is the tip of the coccyx. On each side, from before back- wards, is that portion of the innominate bone, which consists of the ramus of the pubes and the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium; and still farther back is the great sacro-sciatic ligament extending from the tuberosity of the ischium to Form the tip of the coccyx. The space included within these boundaries has the form of a lozenge, and measures about four inches from before backwards, and three inches between the tuberosities of the ischium. A line from the front of tife^tube- *ne tuberosity of one side to the corresponding point on rosities 0therj wi}i divide the perinaeal space into two triangular parts. The anterior (urethral) half contains the penis and the urethra, with their muscles and accessory parts. The posterior (rectal) half is occupied by the lower end of the Depth large intestine, with its muscles, &c. The depth of the space! perinseum from the anus to the bladder may be said to be generally about three inches, but this measurement varies much in different bodies. of the A line divi it into two.