DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 250 In this proceeding the scalpel should be carried in the direc- tion of the fibres, viz. from the arm to the thorax ; and the dissection may be begun either at the upper or lower border of the muscle, according as the one or the other may be the most convenient on the opposite sides of the body, and the The fascia and the fat are then to be taken from the arm- ann-pit. pit, but the numerous vessels, nerves, and glands contained in the space, are to be left uninjured. The dissection will be best begun, at the outer part, by removing the fascia from the large axillary vessels, where these are about to quit the space and enter the arm. Following upwards those bloodvessels, the student will arrive at the branches that are directed towards the chest, viz. the long thoracic under cover of the anterior boundary, and the circumflex and subscapular vessels and nerves on the posterior boundary of the axilla. Some arterial twigs enter the axillary glands, and a few should be traced out. In taking away the fascia from the posterior boundary of the space, so as to follow the muscles to their insertion into the humerus, a small nerve (internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral) should be looked for to- wards the great vessels. THE AXILLA. situa- The axilla, or arm-pit, is the hollow between the arm and form of the chest. It is somewhat conical in form, and has the apex pit.arm" upwards at the root of the neck. The space is larger near the thorax than at the arm, and its boundaries are as fol- lows : — Bounda- Boundaries. — In front and behind the space is limited by muscles passing from the trunk of the body to the upper limb, and the folds of the axilla are constructed by the The unattached parts of those fleshy strata. In the anterior muscles boundary are the two pectoral muscles, but these take un- equal shares in its construction in consequence of the differ- ence in their shape and size: for the pectoralis major extends over the whole front of the space, reaching from the clavicle to the lower edge of the anterior fold ; but the pec- toralis minor, which is a narrow muscle, corresponds only latLsi ^° ^e m^^e Par^ or third °f tnat fold. In the posterior mus boundary, from above downwards, are the subscapularis, the