INTERIOR OF THE CEREBRUM. 213 the other side, where it presents a summit and lateral parts. Externally it consists of a layer of grayish cerebral substance is gray (cortical layer), which is continued from one eminence to another over the surface of the hemisphere; and internally and it is composed of white cerebral substance (medullary part), within, that is derived from the fibrous mass in the interior. On a closer examination the cortical layer is found to be its struc- composed of three strata: an outer white stratum, an inner reddish-yellow one, and an intervening gray lamina:—The outer white stratum differs in development in different parts of the brain, and is most marked over the hinder and lower portion of the convolution of the corpus callosum, where it is pierced by minute holes. The inner stratum equals in thickness the other two, and has on its external surface also a thin white lamina, so that white and gray laminas will alternate with one another in the gray matter of the con- volutions. The sulci, or the intervals between the convolutions, vary Sulci, in size in different parts of the brain; they are deepest generally on the outer aspect of the hemisphere, where they measure about an inch. There is one of considerable depth on the inner surface of The the hemisphere, on a level with the corpus callosum, which where projects inwards beneath an eminence (hippocampus minor) in the floor of the lateral ventricle. From it another sulcus is directed vertically upwards to the convex part of the hemisphere. Interior of the Cerebrum. — When viewed from the compo. outer surface, the cerebrum appears, as before said, to be a twisted tube, but when a cut has been made into it, it will be found to be solid in texture, with a convoluted crust or exterior. Each half of the brain consists of a foot stalk or peduncle, outline i e ofhemi- and oi a dilated part or hemisphere; and the following de- sphere, scription may serve as an outline of the general arrangement of its constituents:—connected with the base of the foot stalk, where it joins the hemisphere, are certain central or fundamental bodies; and in the interior are some connecting pieces, that join together distant parts of the brain. In the interior, is a large central space, which is subdivided into p 3