STRUCTURE OP THE COLON. 535 face between the sacculi. These eminences result from the how doubling of the wall of the intestine, and the largest enclose vessels and cellular membrane. Structure of the Colon.— The coats of the large intes-Four ° strata in tine are the same in number and kind as in the small gut, the wall ° of the viz. a serous, muscular, cellular, and mucous : their relative gut- position to one another is also the same. 1. Serous coat.—The peritoneum does not cover the large serous intestine in the same degree throughout. It covers the front differs of the caecum, and the front and sides of the ascending andtheuu descending colon ; but in neither does it commonly reach the posterior aspect (p. 504.). The transverse colon is incased like the stomach, and has an interval along both the anterior and the posterior border, at the attachments of the transverse meso-colon and the great omentum. 2. The muscular coat is formed by longitudinal and cir- Two layers of cular fibres, as in the small intestine, but- the former are fibres; arranged in bands. a. The longitudinal set of fibres may be traced in the longitu- caecum as a thin layer over the surface, but they are collected three for the most part into three longitudinal bands, each being about half an inch in width. On the vermiform appendix which the longitudinal fibres form a uniform layer; but they are spread continued thence as three bands along the caecum and colon appendix to the rectum, where they are again diffused over the sur- tum,rec" face. When the bands are divided the intestine unfolds and becomes elongated,—the sacculi and the ridges in the interior of the gut disappearing at the same time. b. The circular fibres are spread over the surface, but are and dr- most marked in the folds or ridges that project into the in- testine. In the rectum (to be afterwards seen) they also form the band of the internal sphincter muscle. 3. The cellular coat resembles that of the small intestine Cellular in every particular. It will be exposed by removing the t° small peritoneal and muscular coverings. 4. The mucous coat, which will be seen on opening the This intestine, is smooth, and of a pale yellow colour. It is not i°with- thrown into special folds, except in the rectum, for the and vim. ridges in the interior of the gut are formed by all the coats. The surface is free from villi; and by this circumstance the mucous membrane of the large can be distinguished from M M 4