655 poupart's ligament. limb is extended and rotated outwards, and most relaxed when the thigh is flexed and turned in the opposite direction. Through the lower part of the opening the saphenous Parts vein, and the ducts of the inguinal glands are transmitted : mitted ' & & through and "through the upper part, close to the falciform edge, a the femoral hernia would project. Sometimes terms are applied to the fascia on opposite Nomen- sides of the saphenous opening, as if there was a distinct of the structure in each spot; thus the piece on the outer side of the^top the opening is called iliac part of the fascia lata, from its at- thigh, tachment to the os ilii; whilst that on the inner side, which is fixed to the os pubis, is named the pubic part of the fascia lata. Parts concerned in Femoral Hernia. —Besides the Anato- saphenous opening, the dissector has to study the under- parts • _ * concern- mentioned parts, to obtain a knowledge or the structures ed in a ... . , femoral amongst which the hernial protrusion is situate; viz. the hernia, crural arch and Gimbernat's ligament, the crural sheath, the crural canal and the crural ring, together with a membranous partition (septum crurale) between the thigh and the ab- domen. Dissection. — To examine Poupart's ligament and a loose Dissec. sheath of membrane that surrounds the femoral vessels, the see a piece of the fascia lata that forms the falciform border of the around saphenous opening is to be reflected by the following incisions, vessels. One cut is to be begun near the edge of the falciform border, and be carried outwards parallel and close to Poupart's liga- ment for one inch and a half; another is to be directed obliquely downwards from the termination of the first, to a little below the inferior cornu of the opening. When the fascia has been turned inwards and some fat removed, the tube of membrane (crural sheath) will be brought into view as it descends beneath Poupart's ligament. With the handle of the scalpel the sheath is to be sepa- Define sheath rated carefully from the fascia lata beneath, and from the ligament in front of it: and Gimbernat's ligament on the inner side of the sheath, to which the upper end of the falci- form border is united, is to be defined. Pouparfs ligament, or the crural arch, is a firm band, de- The rived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle of arch; the abdomen, which stretches from the front of the crest of attach- ments ;