227 FIBRES OF THE CEREBRUM. or the root of the cerebral hemisphere, two bundles of longi- cerebri tudinal fibres are collected; these are separated, in part, by hem? gray matter, and are derived mediately from the spinalsphere* cord (p. 208.). From this source the hemisphere may be said to spring. Dissection. — A complete systematic view of the diverging jPj*sec" fibres cannot be given now, because the dissection necessary for that purpose would destroy parts that have not yet been seen. At this stage it is purposed to show chiefly the pas- sage of those fibres from the crus through the two cerebral ganglia. To trace the diverging fibres onwards, beyond the crus in the 00 7 J corpus cerebri, through the corpus striatum, the nucleus caudatus striatum of that body should be scraped away from above them; and this dissection should be made on the side on which the striate body and the optic thalamus remain uncut. In this proceeding the pecten of Reil comes into view, viz. gray matter passing between the white fibres, and giving the appearance of the teeth of a comb. On taking away completely the prolonged part of the nu- cleus, others of the same set of fibres will be seen issuing from the outer side of the optic thalamus, and then radiating to the posterior and inferior lobes. After tracing those and op- fibres, a part of the upper surface of the optic thalamus, that mus. at the posterior end, may be taken away to denude an acces- sory bundle to the peduncular fibres, that comes beneath the corpora quadrigemina from the superior peduncle of the cerebellum. Their arrangement — The diverging fibres radiate from Fibres the peduncle of the cerebrum to the surface of the hemi- dunde sphere, passing in their course through the two cerebral ganglia (optic thalamus and corpus striatum), and they form a conically-shaped mass, whose apex is below and base above. The fibres that form the free or fasciculated part of the in corpus striatum peduncle pass mostly through the middle of the striate body ; u°p- whilst those on the opposite aspect of the peduncle, which lamus: form its tegmentum, are transmitted chiefly through the under part of the optic thalamus, though some pass through both corpus striatum and optic thalamus. In those two ganglionic bodies the fibres are greatly increased in number;