EXTERNAL OR OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. 485 the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, near the crest of the os pubis; and from the margin a prolongation is sent on the parts passing through it (see p. 467.). Course and coverings of the hernia. — A piece of intestine Them- that leaves the abdomen with the cord, and continues with follow-' log the it through the inguinal canal to the surface of the body, will course of , . , . i , „ the cord, obtain the same coverings as the cord, viz. one from every structure in the lateral part of the wall of the abdomen, except from the transversalis muscle. It receives its in- has co- . . verings vestments in this order: — as the intestine is first thrust of the perito- outwards, it carries before it the peritoneum and the sub- peritoneal fat, and enters the tube of the fascia transversalis fascia (infimdibuliform fascia) that surrounds the cord. Still in- vrearsaiis, creasing in size the piece of gut is forced downwards to the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, where it will have the cremasteric fascia or covering applied to it. ^m^s- The intestine is afterwards directed along the front of the cord to the external abdominal ring, and in passing through that opening receives the investment of the intercolumnar sperma- or spermatic fascia. Lastly, as the hernia descends to the cia, -it't • c* r* • superfi- scrotum, it has the additional coverings oi the superficial ciai fas- fascia and the skin. So that in a hernia which has passed skin, the external abdominal ring, the coverings from without in- wards are the following: the skin and the superficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciae, the fascia transversalis, the subperitoneal fat, and the peritoneum or sac : these dif- if it has ferent laminae become much thickened in a hernia that has abdomi- existed for some time. Should a piece of intestine remain in the inguinal canal, the layers that invest it will depend upon the spot to which it has extended. Seat of stricture. — The protruded intestine may be con- stricture stricted in the internal abdominal ring by the neck of the where sac, in the inguinal canal by the fleshy internal oblique muscle, or at the external abdominal ring ; and the seat of stricture with respect to frequency is the same as the order in which it is here mentioned. Whilst efforts are being made to force back the piece of protruded intestine, the direction of the canal and the situation of the internal ab- dominal ring should be borne in mind; and should it be t0 free necessary to lay bare the intestine and divide the strictured SonoT" 11 3