494 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Behind muscles of the abdominal wall. Behind is the spinal column is spine. with the muscles contiguous to it, viz. the psoas and the viscera will be acted on by their contraction and flattening. Jcdon* ^n ^ron^ ana* on ^ne sides tne parietes are partly osseous and sides- partly muscular : thus towards the upper and lower limits is and mus- the bony framework of the body, viz. the ribs in one direc- tion and the pelvis in the other ; but in the centre are the muscles of the abdom: with the muscles coi quadratics lumborum. Depth is Alterations in size.—The dimensions of the cavity are in- altered •> o?diation fluenced by the varying conditions of the boundaries. The andailva- dePtn ^s diminished by the contraction and descent of the tor ani. diaphragm, and the contraction and ascent of the levatores ani; and is restored to its former dimensions by the relaxation by mus- °^tnose muscles. The width is diminished by the contraction waYof °f tne abdominal muscles; and is enlarged during their re- ^edn°" laxation by the viscera driven outwards, during the diminu- tion in depth, by the action of the diaphragm and the levatores How ani. The greatest diminution of the space is effected by the expelled, simultaneous contraction of the muscular boundaries, as in the expulsion of the excreta. Division Divisions of the space. — An arbitrary division of the of space. •s ± J space into that of the pelvis and that of the abdomen proper, has been made. poJuon ^ne Pe^c potion is situate below the brim of the pelvis, and contains chiefly the generative and urinary organs. Abdo-; The abdominal portion reaches from the diaphragm to the proper, brim of the pelvis, and lodges the alimentary tube and its appendages, together with the kidneys—the secretory organs of the urine. A serous membrane, the peritoneum, lines the cavity, and covers the viscera. Abdo. The following description concerns the part of the cavity men pro- x , • * per here between the diaphragm and the brim of the pelvis. Towards describe. n • the end of the dissection of the abdomen, the cavity of the after? pelvis will receive a separate notice. Abdomi- Regions.—The abdominal cavity is divided artificially vity is into regions by lines extended between certain points of the marked . . out into parietes. If two circular lines are carried round the body, regions. , so that one shall be opposite the cartilage of the ninth rib, and the other on a level with the most prominent part of the crest of the ilium, the abdominal cavity will be divided irto three parts, — the epigastric above, the hypogastric below^