663 TJPPEK PART OF THE FEMORAL VESSELS. u u 4 almost the same relative anatomy as the artery. Its position J^e «ie to the artery is not the same, however, throughout: for beneath Poupart s ligament it is on the inner side of that trunk, and on the same level, and is supported on the os pubis between the psoas and pectineus muscles; but it soon after- . . , wards winds beneath the artery, and appears on the outer side outside opposite the upper border of the adductor longus muscle. In this space the vein receives the internal saphenous and the deep femoral branches. Peculiarities in the vessels. — The deviations from the common ^u-^ condition of the vessels in the triangular space, which will here be noted, refer to a change in their position, or to the unusual origin of the chief branch of the artery. Position of the vein. — The position of the vein with respect to in the 17 A Till position the artery may be altered: for the venous trunk may be placed on of the the inner side through all the triangular space; or it may be slit or the so as to present a large vein on each side of the artery for a greater Jl1 S™ay or less extent; or one of the two veins may lie over the arterial vlded- tube. Origin of the 'profunda. — The profunda' branch, though arising Origin commonly from the femoral artery between one inch and two funda inches from Poupart's ligament, may approach nearer to the liga- f^nT ment until it arrives opposite that band, or may even go beyond, p°r"rs and be fixed to the external iliac artery (one example, Quain). [jff™^ But the branch may recede farther and farther from the ligament, inches J below, till (as in one example, Quain) it leaves the parent trunk at the distance of four inches from the commencement; so that in apply- ing a ligature to the femoral artery in the upper part of the thigh, the thread should be placed four inches below Poupart's ligament, in order that the spot chosen may be free from the disturbing influence of an occasional large offset. Dissection. — To proceed with the deep dissection, the Take the flaps of skin are to be thrown aside; and the fascia lata is to from the be cut along the middle line of the thigh and knee, and to the be reflected to each side, nearly to the same extent as the skin. Over the knee-joint the student will find the fascia united with the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg. The limb is to be retained in the same position as in the dissection of the other parts. In raising the inner piece of the membrane the narrow Follow muscle (sartorius) that appears should be followed to its torius,r" insertion into the tibia, and care should be taken of the