22 DISSECTION OF THE FACE. branches sinus there are some smalt arteries (arterice receptaculi) for dura the supply of the dura mater, the nerves, and the pituitary and or- body; and opposite the anterior clinoid process the ophthal- mic branch arises. The terminal branches of the carotid will be seen in the dissection of the base of the brain, sympa- Sympathetic Nerve. — Around the carotid artery is a carotid prolongation of the sympathetic nerve of the neck, which forms p It, cm • / forms the following plexuses: — carotid The carotid plexus is situate on the outer side of the vessel, plexus, ^ entrance into the cavernous sinus, and communicates with the sixth nerve, and with the Gasserian ganglion, cavern- The cavernous plexus is placed below the bend of the artery, ouspiex- wjj^ is c]ose to the root of the anterior clinoid process. This small plexus is more immediately connected with the offset of the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, that courses along the Union inner side of the carotid artery. Filaments are given from this cranial plexus to unite with the third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves, nerves. Qne foment is also furnished to the lenticular ganglion, either separately from, or in conjunction with the nasal nerve. After forming these plexuses, the nerves surround the trunk of the carotid, and are lost on the cerebral membranes. Twope- Petrosal nerves.—Beneath the Gasserian ganglion is the large nerves in superficial petrosal nerve, entering the hiatus Fallopii to join the skull.0t facial nerve., External to this is occasionally seen another small petrosal nerve (nervus petrosus superficialis tertius, Bidder),% which springs from the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery, and enters the bone to join the facial nerve with the pre- ceding. A third petrosal nerve is contained in the substance of the temporal bone. The source and the connections of these small nerves will be afterwards learnt. It will suffice now for the student to note them, and to see that they are preserved fit for examination at a future time. For pre- Directions.—Now the base of the skull has been ex- serva- tion of amined, a preservative fluid should be applied, and the flaps of integuments should be stitched together. Direc- tions. Directions. Section III. DISSECTION OF THE FACE. —The left side of the face the dissector may