470 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Parts co- Parts covered by external oblique.—Beneath the external, vered by . . . external is the internal oblique muscle, with the ribs and the inter- ° ique* costal muscles. At the lower part of the abdomen the outer muscle conceals the cord, and the branches of nerves from the lumbar plexus contained in the abdominal wall. The aponeurosis of the external oblique assists to form the sheath of the rectus. internal The internal oblique muscle, is fleshy below and apo- muscie. neurotic above, just the reverse of the preceding muscle ; and its fibres (except the lowest) ascend across the direction Origin of those of the external oblique. The muscle arises from trom pelvis, the outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the anterior two thirds of the crest of the ilium, and from the tendon of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum) in the interval be- inser- tween the crest of that bone and the last rib. The fibres the ribs diverge on the abdomen to their destination : — The posterior alba, fibres ascend to be inserted into the cartilages of the three lower ribs, and join the internal intercostal muscles of the except two lowest spaces. The anterior or lower fibres arch down- fibres. wards and inwards (from Poupart's ligament) over the sper- matic cord, and end in the aponeurosis, near the pubes. And the intervening fibres pass obliquely to the aponeurosis. Aponeu- The aponeurosis of the muscle covers the anterior part of them°us- the abdomen from the pelvis to the chest, and blends with !*e' its fellow along the middle line. Over the greater part of Divides ° . . to incase the front of the abdomen the aponeurosis incases the rectus rectus. . .,. muscle; but midway between the umbilicus and the pubes Attach- it is undivided, and lies [in front of that muscle. Supe- chest, riorly it is attached to the thorax after the following man- ner : the stratum that is superficial to the rectus is fixed to the ninth rib, and blends with the aponeurosis of the external oblique; and the stratum beneath the muscle joins, the cartilages of the eighth and seventh ribs and the ensiform and in- cartilage. Inferiorly its fibres become more distinct and ftnoriy. gepara^ ag jn ^he external oblique, and are inserted into the front of the os pubis, and into the pectineal line for half an inch, behind the attachment of Poupart's ligament, parts Connections. — The internal is covered by the external tact°with oblique muscle. It is attached on all sides, except between oblique. p0Upart's ligament and the os pubis, where it arches over the cord, and has the cremaster muscle contiguous to it. The