LATEKAL VENTRICLE. 217 the surface of the optic thalamus is a vascular fold of the pia mater, known as the plexus choroides, together with the thin white edge of the fornix. Close behind the optic tha- lamus is the beginning of a projection (hippocampus), that will be seen in the floor of the descending part of the lateral ventricle; and in the posterior cornu is an elongated emi- nence, the hippocampus minor. The inner boundary of the inner ventricle, or the septum ventriculorum, is a thin partition, ary. which has been named septum lucidum ; below the anterior part of this partition, opposite the front of the optic thala- Aper- mus, is the aperture of communication between the two tween. lateral ventricles (foramen of Monro). The lower or descending part of the ventricle winds be- The • neath the optic thalamus, and forms a curve like the half- ing part; bent fore finger. Forming the roof, will be the optic thala- roof, mus and the contiguous part of the hemisphere. In the floor, floor is a large curved, convex eminence, somewhat indented at the end, which is called the hippocampus major; and along its concave margin is a thin white band (taenia), that is prolonged from the fornix. External to the projection of andbo- the hippocampus is another white eminence, the pes acces- u.es °n sorius, or eminentia collaterals. In this part of the ven- tricle the vascular fringe of the plexus choroides will be also seen: it enters by a fissure internal to the hippocampus. The septum lucidum, or the thin partition between the septum ventricles, is a translucent part of the cerebral matter, which hangs vertically, in the middle line, between the corpus cal- position, losum and the fornix. It is somewhat triangular in form, form, with the larger part turned forwards, and the narrow or pointed extremity directed backwards. Its surfaces look to surfaces, the lateral ventricles. The upper border is attached altoge- borders, ther to the under aspect of the corpus callosum ; and the lower border is joined to the fornix, but only in part, for, in front of that body it is connected with the under or pro- longed portion (rostrum) of the corpus callosum. The sep- stra- tum consists of two layers, which enclose a space (fifth ven- tricle), and each layer is formed of white substance, with an external coating of gray matter. Dissection. — The space of the fifth ventricle will come Dissec- into view by cutting through the part of the corpus callo- non* sum, that remains in the middle line, and by detaching the