784 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Dissec- Dissection. — This cavity may be seen on the dry bone see it. that has been used for the preparation of the tympanum. The bone is to be sawn through vertically close to the inner wall of the tympanum, so as to lay bare this wall and the fenestra ovalis leading into the vestibule: in this section one of the semicircular canals (horizontal) may be laid open just above the fenestra ovalis. By enlarging the fenestra ovalis a very little in a direction upwards and forwards, the end of the superior semicircular canal, and the vestibular space will appear. Other views of the cavity may be obtained by sections of the bone in different directions., according to the skill and the knowledge of the dissector. Form, The vestibular space is somewhat oval in form, the extre- mities of the oval being placed forwards and backwards, and the under part or floor is more narrowed than the upper part dimen- or roof. It measures about ^ of an inch in different direc- slons* tions, but it is narrower from without inwards. The follow- ing objects are to be noted on the boundaries of the space. Aper. In front, close to the outer wall, is a large aperture leading fore and into the cochlea; and behind are five round openings of the behind. the three semicircular canals. ture. Crest on inner wall outer - The outer wall corresponds to the tympanic cavity, and in an aper- it is the aperture of the fenestra ovalis. On the inner wall, nearer the front than the back of the cavity, is a vertical ridge or crista, In front of the ridge is fossa in a small circular depression, fovea hemispherica, which pre- front of gentg anteriorly some minute apertures for nerves, and cor- responds to the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. and an Behind the crest of bone, near the common opening of two b2hfnd.ct of the semicircular canals, is the opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule, which ends on the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Roof has On the roof is a slight transversely oval depression, fovea a fossa. semi_eniptica^ which is separated from the fovea hemisphe- rica by a continuation of the crista before mentioned on the inner wall. Three The semicircular canals are three osseous tubes, which canals, ^ situate behind the vestibule, and are named from their form. prepara- Dissection.— These small canals will be easily brought them; into view by the removal of the surrounding bone by means