TRIANGULAR PERINEAL LIGAMENT. 449 from the crus of the penis. The same steps may be repeated on the right side, if it is thought desirable; but the dissector should observe, before cutting away the mus- cles, the branches of the nerve to them : one nerve is also to be traced to the urethra. Next, the crus penis is to be de- tached from the bone on the left side, and, if necessary, on the right side also; but this must be done with care so as not to cut the triangular ligament at the same time, and not to injure near the pubes the terminal parts of the pudic artery to the penis. The triangular ligament of the urethra (perinaeal aponeu- Jj^J1- rosis) occupies the anterior part of the pubic arch, and sup- JjsjU" f ports the urethral canal. The ligament is of a triangular form, urethra, with the apex above and the base below; and is about one anxdtent inch and a half in depth. On the sides it is fixed to the form' rami of the pubes and ischium, beneath the crura penis. Its apex is prolonged on the front of the symphysis pubis, and joins the periosteum. Its base is turned towards the rec- tum, and is partly attached and partly free; in the middle Attach- . . i.ii , . p , . ments. line it is connected with the central point 01 the perinaeum, whilst laterally it is sloped towards the bone, so that it mea- sures less in the centre than at the sides: connected with the lower border, is a thin fascia that covers the surface of the levator ani muscle in the ischio-rectal fossa. The ante- Anterior rior surface is in contact with the muscles in the anterior half of the perinaeal space, and the superficial fascia is united to it near the lower border. Perforating the ligament about Aper- one inch below the symphysis pubis is the canal of the ure- inT thra, but the margin of the opening, that gives passage to thn£re" the tube, is blended by means of fibres with the tissue of the urethra. About midway between the preceding opening and for dor- the symphysis pubis, is the aperture for the dorsal vein of ofpenS, the penis; and external to the last, near the bone on each dorsal side, the terminal parts of the pudic nerve and artery to the and penis perforate the ligament. The triangular ligament is nerves' composed chiefly of transverse fibres, but it is so thin as to consists allow the vessels and the muscular fibres to be seen through it. of fibres* Beneath the ligament are the membranous part of the ure- parts be- thra, with its muscles, vessels and glands, as the subsequent neath* dissection will show. In some anatomical works the triangular ligament of the urethra Dif- G G . .