93 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 1. The superior or posterior dental branch arises near the upper Superior maxillary bone, and descends to the teeth with a tortuous course on the outer surface of that bone, along with a small branch of the superior maxillary nerve. For the most part its offsets enter the foramina in the bone, and supply the upper molar and bicuspid teeth, but some are furnished to the gums. A few branches reach the lining membrane of the antrum. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY VEIN receives the veins COr- Internal maxiiia- responding to the branches of the artery m the first two ry vein parts of its course. Those several veins of this region form begins in , . , , plexus a plexus —pterygoid, between the two pterygoid muscles, and (pter- in part between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles. This plexus communicates with the facial vein by a large branch (anterior internal maxillary), and with the cavernous sinus in the interior of the skull, by means of branches that pass through apertures in the base of the cranium. Escaping and ends from the plexus, the vein accompanies the artery to the nai'jugu- parotid gland, and there joins the superficial temporal vein, — the union of the two giving rise to a vessel that may enter either the external or the internal jugular vein (p. 32.). The INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE is the largest Of the three Inferior trunks arising from the Gasserian ganglion (p. 19.), and re- ry nerve sembles a spinal nerve in possessing fibrils that confer both motory and sensory properties on the parts to which they are distributed. The nerve leaves the skull by the foramen consists ovale in the sphenoid bone, and divides into two chief parts motor beneath the external pterygoid muscle: an anterior, small, sensory or muscular part; and a large, posterior, or sensory part. part* A. The smaller division receives nearly all the fibres of Muscu- ^ lar divi- the motor root of the nerve, and ends in branches to the si°n muscles of the jaw, viz. temporal, masseteric, and pterygoid, and to one muscle of the cheek, the buccinator. Should the supplies internal maxillary artery obstruct the view of the branches, branches it may be taken away. 1. The deep temporal branches are furnished to the temporal temporal muscle. Like the arteries, they are two in number, anterior and musele' posterior. From their origin these nerves course upwards along two in the outer surface of the skull, passing first beneath the external number» pterygoid, and, lastly, beneath the temporal muscle. The posterior branch is the smallest, and is often derived from posterior the masseteric nerve; it is near the back of the temporal fossa.