RADIAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 313 the dissector has observed its connection with the transverse ligament uniting the heads of the metacarpal bones. Radial Artery in the Hand. — The radial artery enters Radial the palm of the hand at the first interosseous space, between hand7 m the heads of the abductor indicis muscle; and after furnish- ing one branch to the thumb, and another to the index finger, turns across the hand towards the ulnar side, and thus forms the deep palmar arch. The deep palmar arch extends from the first interosseous forms . deep space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, arch where it joins the communicating (profunda) branch of the ulnar artery. Its convexity, which is but slight, is directed wMch^ forwards, and its position is more posterior, or nearer the carpal carpal bones, than that of the superficial arch. The arch has a deep position in the hand, and lies on the metacarpal bones and the interossei muscles ; it is covered by the long and be- flexor tendons, and in part by the inner head of the flexor all mus- brevis pollicis. The branches of the deep palmar arch are Branch. the following: — ?rc°h.the a. Recurrent branches pass from the concavity of the arch to the Recur- front of the carpus ; these supply the bones, and anastomose with rent* the other carpal arteries, b. Three perforating arteries pierce the Perfo. interossei muscles, and communicate with the interosseous arteries ratlng# on the back of the hand. c. Usually there are three palmar inter- inter- osseous arteries, which occupy the three inner spaces between the metacarpal bones, and terminate by joining the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch at the clefts of the fingers: these branches supply the interosseous muscles, and vary much in their size and distribution. Branches of the radial artery. —As soon as the radial other " " branches artery enters the hand, it gives off the large artery of the of radial, thumb, and the digital branch of the index finger: — The large artery of the thumb (art. princeps pollicis) runs Digital along the metacarpal bone of the thumb, between the ab- of the ductor indicis and the flexor brevis pollicis, to reach thethumb" interval between the heads of the last muscle, where it divides into the two collateral digital branches of the thumb. The distribution of these is the same as that of the arteries of the superficial arch. The digital branch of the index finger (art. radialis in- Digital dicis) is directed over the abductor indicis, and beneath the the^orel short flexor and the adductor pollicis, to the radial side of finger*