392 DISSECTION OF THE THOEAX. of head rib is received into a hollow on the side of the bodies of are two contiguous vertebrae, except in the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs; and the articulation is provided with two re- taining ligaments—costo-vertebral and interarticular, and two synovial sacs, costo- The costo-vertebral ligament, which is also named stellate brai or from its form, is composed of radiating fibres, and fixes the stellate, . /» i rib to two vertebras. It consists of three sets of fibres: — the upper set, the largest, is attached to the body of the ver- tebra above the rib; the lower one descends to the inferior of the two vertebras with which the head articulates; and the central part is united with the fibro-cartilage between those vertebras. inter. The interarticular ligament will be seen when the stellate articu- ijgament js divided. It is a short thin band, which is attached on one side to the ridge separating the articular surfaces on the head of the rib, and becomes blended by the other end with the interosseous substance between the ver- tebras. In the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs it is absent, with two Synovial sacs. — There are two sacs in the articulation, one on each side of the interarticular ligament, except in the three ribs before mentioned, where there is but one articular surface for each bone. Liga- B. Ligaments from the neck and tubercle of the rib.— necko?f Three ligaments (costo-transverse) pass from the neck and . nb> tubercle of the rib to the transverse processes. And there is one synovial sac between the rib and its transverse process. anterior The anterior costo-transverse ligament is larger and trans- longer than the others, and ascends from the upper border verse. ^ ^ neck 0f ^e rjjj to t|ie iower e(jge 0f ^e tranverse process of the upper of the two vertebras with which the head of the rib is connected. It is wanting in the first and last ribs. Between this ligament and the vertebras the pos- terior branches of the intercostal artery and dorsal nerve pass backwards. Pos- The posterior costo-transverse is placed at the posterior costo- aspect of the rib. It is a short band of fibres between the ferse" tip of the transverse process of the lower of the two ver- tebras with which the head articulates, and the rough part covers a of the tubercle of the rib. If the fibres are divided, a syno-