303 MUSCLES ON FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. of the fingers. The cutaneous surface of the muscle is in Parts contact with the ulnar nerve and vessels, and with the super- it. ficial flexor of the fingers, and the flexor carpi ulnaris; and the deep surface rests on the ulna and the pronator quadratus muscle. The outer border touches the flexor pollicis longus and the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve; and the inner is connected by the aponeurosis to the posterior margin of the ulna. The flexor longus pollicis arises from the hollowed Jon^ flexor anterior surface of the radius as low as the pronator qua- j£umb dratus, from the outer part of the interosseous membrane, origin, and by a round distinct slip from the coronoid process of the ulna, external to the attachment of the brachialis anticus. The fleshy fibres descend to a tendon, which is continued beneath the annular ligament and is inserted into the last inser- phalanx of the thumb. On the cutaneous surface of the Parjs muscle is the flexor sublimis, together with the radial vessels above for a short distance inferiorly; and the muscle lies on the and be- . neath it. radius and the pronator quadratus. To the inner side is the flexor profundus digitorum. The PRONATOR QUADRATUS is a flat muscle, and OCCUpieS Pronator the front of the bones of the fore-arm at the lower fourth, tus is on The muscle arises from the anterior and inner parts of the end of ulna, where it is somewhat the widest, and is inserted into fore-arm the fore part of the radius for about two inches. The is deep anterior surface is covered by the tendons of the flexor Son?" muscles of the fingers, and by the radial artery; and the posterior surface rests on the radius and ulna with their intervening membrane, and on the interosseous vessels and nerve. The anterior interosseous artery (p. 300.) is continued Anterior on the front of the interosseous membrane, between or in osseous the fibres of the deep flexor muscles, till it reaches the aper- artely< ture below that membrane. At that spot the artery turns from the front to the back of the fore-arm, and descends to the posterior aspect of the carpus, where it ends by anasto- mosing with the posterior interosseous and carpal arteries. Branches.—Numerous offsets are given to the contiguous its muscles. One Jong branch (median) accompanies the median chiefly "s nerve, supplying it, and either ends in the flexor sublimis, or Sr.scu" extends beneath the annular ligament to the hand. About