504 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. small omentum (posterior piece), the posterior part of the stomach, the great omentum (inner piece), the upper aspect of the trans- verse colon, the pancreas and the spine, and the posterior part of the liver. Should this piece of peritoneum be removed, there is not any hindrance to the vessels reaching the different viscera ; and it may readily be conceived how the detached membrane could be replaced over the viscera, and around the vessels without being perforated by them. Foramen The foramen of Winslow is the space behind the small omen- \o^im" ^um> tnrough which the bag of the omentum opens into the general cavity of the peritoneum. In front of it is the small omentum, and behind are the vena cava and the spine. Above it is the liver (lobulus Spigelii), and below is the duodenum. Should this hole be closed by inflammation, there might be a dropsical collection either in the bag of the omentum, or in the general bag of the peritoneum. splenic The splenic omentum reaches from the great end of the turn?" stomach to the concave surface of the spleen, and does not consist usually of two strata or pieces, like the other omenta. It covers the vessels that pass between the two viscera, and is continued inferiorly into the great omentum. Perito- Folds on the large intestine. — The large intestine is con- attach- nected to the wall of the abdomen by folds of the peritoneum infesdne6 (meso-colic), which are formed of two pieces, as the other forms processes. Each part of the colon has a separate meso-colon attaching it: thus there is an ascending, a transverse, a de- scending, and a sigmoid meso-colon : the caecum is also fixed by a meso-csecum, and the rectum by a meso-rectum. Meso. a. The meso-ccecum attaches the ccecum to the right iliac caecum. fossa> Usually the peritoneum does not surround the caecum so as to form a fold behind it, but in some bodies the serous membrane does give a suspensory band to that part of the intestine. Ascend- b. By the ascending and the descending meso-colon, the descend- ascending and the descending part of the colon are kept in lng' place. In these folds, as in that of the cascum, the perito- neum is not commonly in contact behind the intestine, and though it may meet behind and form processes. The sigmoid meso-ld meso-colon is a long piece of the serous membrane, and at- taches the sigmoid flexure of the colon to the left iliac fossa. The meso-rectum contains the hasmorrhoidal vessels, and con- nects the rectum to the front of the sacrum-