CUTANEOUS NERVES. 399 taneous cellular layer. These nerves vary much in size in cuta- neous the different parts of the back, and their number is also nerves, irregular: as a general rule, there is one corresponding to each vertebra. In the neck, and opposite the upper part of the thorax, the nerves will be found near the spines of the vertebra?, and beneath the superficial fat; but over the lower part of the thorax, and in the loins, they issue in a line with the angles of the ribs. Small cutaneous arteries accompany the nerves, and guide the student to their posi- tion. The cutaneous branches of the sacral nerves come into the dissection of the lower limb. Cutaneous Nerves. — The tegumentary nerves of the cuta- , 0 ^ % neous back are derived from the posterior trunks of the spinal nerves A m A how de- nerves ; these are divided into two, inner and outer, and the «ved. cutaneous offsets are derived at one part from the external, and at another from the internal branch. Small arteries accompany the greater number of the nerves; these bifur- cate like the nerves, and the cutaneous offsets are derived in the same way from the one or the other branch. Cervical nerves. — In the neck the nerves are derived from the in the inner of the two branches into which the trunks bifurcate: they neck< perforate the trapezius, and supply the neck and the back of the head. They are four in number, viz. one from each nerve, ex- cept the first, and the three last. The branch of the second nerve is named large occipital, and accompanies the occipital artery to the back of the head (p. 9.) The branch of the third cervical nerve supplies a transverse offset to the neck, and then bends upwards to the lower part of the head, where it is united with the great occi- pital nerve, and is distributed internal to it. * Dorsal nerves. — These are obtained from both the inner and in the the outer branches of the nerves — the upper six from the former, region, and the lower six from the latter. On the surface they are directed outwards in the integument over the trapezius and latissi- mus dorsi muscles. The six upper nerves perforate the trapezius near the spines of the vertebrae; and the branch of the second, which is larger than the rest, reaches as far as the scapula. The six lower nerves pierce the latissimus dorsi mostly in a line with the angles of the ribs; these are oftentimes uncertain in number. * Lumbar nerves. —In the loins the nerves are derived from the in the outer branches, and only from the first three; they perforate the latissimus dorsi muscle in a line with the outer border of the erector spinas, and crossing the crest of the ilium, are distributed in the integuments of the buttock.