461 SUPERFICIAL FASCIA IN THE GROIN. with that of the rest of the abdomen; and if it is traced to the limb, it is found to be separated from Poupart's ligament beneath, by the superficial vessels and glands. Internally except it is continued to the penis and the scrotum, where it loses penis -T r- • • • and SCr0" its adipose tissue; and after investing the testicle, the layer tum. is prolonged to the superficial fascia of the perinaeum. b. The deeper layer of the superficial fascia (aponeurosis Deeper of the fascia lata, Scarpa) is thinner and more membranous thin and than the other, and is closely united to the tendon of the branous; external oblique by fibrous bands, especially towards the linea alba. Like the subcutaneous part of the fascia, this layer is continued upwards on the abdomen, and inwards to the penis and the scrotum : in this last part it becomes very Special charac- thin, and, having passed through the scrotum, reaches the ters and . , . , , , ' • disposi- permaeum, where it has attachments to the subjacent parts tion in as before specified (p. 444.). Towards the top of the limb andperi- L v* ' A nasum. it extends only a very short distance, and ends a little below is joined Poupart's ligament, by joining the fascia lata across the front part's"" of the thigh as it passes over the ligament it is closely ^"t, ioined to that band by a thin membrane. and ends J J on fascia Should urine be effused from rupture of the urethra, itlata- will be directed through the scrotum, by reason of the attach- mrat?" ments of the superficial fascia in the perinaeum, and then mini" upwards along the cords to the abdomen. From the dispo- of ef!e sition of the deep layer across the thigh, it is evident that urine, the fluid cannot pass down the limb, whilst its progress over the front of the abdomen is uninterrupted. In the female the superficial fascia of the groin is separ- ^scia in able into two layers, and the disposition of each is nearly male- the same as that in the male; but the part that is continued to the scrotum in the one sex, enters the labium in the other, in its course to the perinaeum. In the female the round liga- ligament of the uterus is lost in the superficial fascia of the groin. Cutaneous Nerves. — The nerves in the superficial Cuta_ fascia are chiefly derived from the trunks of the lower five "enSs or six intercostal nerves ; for the lateral cutaneous branches along the side of the belly are offsets from those nerves, arede- whilst the anterior cutaneous branches along the front are £om the terminal parts of the same trunks. Two cutaneous off- sources.