CILIARY NERVES AND THE RETINA. ' 765 layer at separate points, midway between the cornea and the in the *• n i • rt /, -I . . Ophthal- optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. mic: The ciliary nerves are derived from the lenticular gang- ciliary a no nerves lion, and from the nasal nerve (p. 48.). Entering the back of the eyeball with the arteries, they are continued forwards with the vessels between the sclerotic and choroid coats as far as the annulus albidus : at this spot the nerves pierce elJd in. r r ins and the fibres of the ciliary muscle, and enter the iris, but their jj^JJ manner of ending is unknown. Offsets from the nerves supply the ciliary muscle. Chamber of the aqueous humour.—The space between the Space u 1 ... contains cornea in front and the lens behind, in which the iris is sus- aqueous humour pended, contains a clear fluid named the aqueous humour. In the fetus this interval is separated into two distinct parts by the iris and the pupillary membrane, but in the adult it is only partly divided, for the two communicate through the ^.J^* pupil. The boundaries of the two chambers may be seen in ^°t^° the eye on which a vertical section has been made. iris- The anterior chamber is the larger part of the space £anrtterior before mentioned ; it is limited in front by the cornea, but behind by the ciliary ligament and the iris. The posterior posteri- chamber is less than half the size of the anterior. In front its' bound- it is bounded by the iris ; behind by the lens, and a piece of aries. the membrane on the front of the vitreous humour; and at the circumference by the ciliary processes, as these are inclined obliquely to the back of the iris. The aqueous humour is quite transparent, and consists Aqueous in • humour. nearly of pure water. A small quantity of chloride of sodium, with some extractive matter, is in solution in it. It has been supposed that this fluid was secreted by a special membrane lining the cavity, but evidence of such a structure is wanting. Eetina. — This coat (tunica nervea) is formed by an ex- Retina pansion of the optic nerve, and is the most delicate of all the by optic structures in the eyeball. On it an image of objects is pro- nerve' duced by the rays of light being brought to a focus in the bottom of the eye. Dissection. — The retina can be satisfactorily examined Dissec- only on an eye that is used before forty-eight hours have ex- see the pired after death. To bring it into view on the eyeball on retma" which the choroid coat was dissected, the choroidal covering