VESSELS OF THE BACK. 415 Vessels in the Back. — The vessels that are now dis- Theves- sected are the occipital and the deep cervical artery; part of the vertebral artery; and the posterior branches of the in- tercostal and lumbar arteries of the aorta. Veins accompany the arteries for the most part. In the neck. — The vessels in the neck are the occipital, the vertebral, and the deep cervical. The occipital artery may be seen coursing along the occi- ^aerto£f pital bone. Appearing from beneath the digastric muscle, ^pitai the vessel is directed backwards beneath the sterno-mas- toideus, the splenius, and sometimes the trachelo-mastoideus, but over the obliquus superior and complexus muscles. Near the middle line of the body it perforates the trapezius and ascends to the occiput, on which it is distributed (p. 6.). It supplies the surrounding muscles, and furnishes the fol- which * . i i i i sives a lowing branch to the neck : — The cervical branch (r. princeps cervicis) distributes twigs to the cervical under part of the trapezius, and then passhig beneath the com- plexus, anastomoses with the vertebral and deep cervical arteries. The vertebral artery lies on the posterior arch of the first Part of vertebra, behind the articulating process of that bone; and tebrai " appears in the interval between the straight and obliqueartery* muscles, as it perforates the ligament between the atlas and the occipital bone on its way to the skull. Small branches are supplied by the vessel to the surrounding parts. Beneath the artery is the suboccipital nerve. The deep cervical artery is a branch of the superior inter- Deep costal (of the subclavian, p. 74.), and resembles the posterior artery, branches of the other intercostal arteries. Passing back- wards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, the vessel appears in this dissection between the complexus and semispinals muscles. Finally, the artery ascends as high as the upper border of the semispinalis muscle, and anastomoses with the cervical branch of the occipital artery. The contiguous muscles receive branches from the deep cervical artery, and anastomoses are formed between its offsets and those of the vertebral artery. * In the dorsal region. -— The posterior branches of the inter- intercostal vessels accompany the nerves between the ver- arteries tebrai and the anterior costotransverse ligaments. In«the into ^