OBTURATOR NERVE. 677 The obturator nerve is a branch of the lumbar plexus obtura- (p. 578.), and supplies the adductor muscles of the thigh, as nerve well as the hip and knee-joints. The nerve issues from the pelvis through the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen; and it divides in that opening into two parts, is divi- which are named superficial and deep, from their position two: with respect to the adductor brevis muscle. The anterior or superficial part of the nerve joins the the^u."1 plexus of the internal cutaneous and saphenous nerves at the part inner aspect of the thigh (p. 672.). The nerve is directed over the adductor brevis, but beneath the pectineus and the adductor longus. At the lower border of the last muscle it joins furnishes an offset to join in the interlacement of the nerves, in the but the remainder of it is continued to the femoral artery, ends 'on on which it is distributed. In addition to the branches be- artery!1 fore mentioned, the nerve receives (sometimes) the commu- nicating twig from its accessory branch, and supplies the Branch- hip-joint, and some of the surrounding muscles. Branches.—Near the pelvis or in the aperture of exit, to trip, this division of the nerve sends outwards an articular twig to the hip-joint, with the artery to the same part. Muscular Muscu- branches are furnished to the adductor longus, the adductor some ad- t . , , .,. ductors. brevis, and the gracilis. Unusual condition of the nerve. — In some bodies this superficial This division of the nerve is of large size, and extends beyond the plexus be^arger in the middle of the thigh. In such instances the nerve joins freely in the plexus, and gives cutaneous offsets to the integument and ex- of the thigh ; but is afterwards continued along the inner border dinner of the sartorious to the inner side of the knee, where it perforates ^ ot the fascia to end in the integument: it has, in fact, a position and knee. distribution similar to that of the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve (p. 672.), whose place it takes. The posterior or deep part of the obturator, nerve pierces Deep the fibres of the external obturator muscle, and is continued the1 °f beneath the adductor brevis to be distributed chiefly in the nerve adductor magnus. Offsets are given from it to the contigu- ous muscles, and one to supply the knee-joint. Branches. — Muscular branches enter the obturator ex- ends in ternus as the nerve pierces it; others belong to the large, magnus, and sometimes also to the short adductor. A slender arti- cular branch enters the fibres of the adductor magnus and gives ° branch x x 3