DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 74 neath the common carotid artery and the accompanying vein and nerves, and in front of the longus colli muscle and the recurrent nerve. In this course the vessel is tortuous. At the lower part of the thyroid body it divides into branches that enter the under surface, whilst others communicate with the superior thyroid, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, forming a very gives la- free anastomosis between these vessels. Near the larynx a laryn- offset6al ge(d branch is distributed to the back of that tube, and other off- sets are furnished to the trachea, and as- The ascending cervical artery is a branch of the thyroid near its cerWcai commencement; it is directed upwards between the scalenus and branch. rectus capitis anticus major, and ends in branches to those muscles and to the posterior triangle of the neck. Some small spinal branches are conveyed along the spinal nerves to the cord and its membranes. Acces- d. Lowest thyroid. — In connection with the thyroid body a third branch thyroid branch may be occasionally present, which has been named lower' art- thyroidea ima. This offset usually comes from the trunk of thyroid. ^e innominate artery, but it may spring from the right common carotid, or from the arch of the aorta. Whatever its origin, the small vessel ascends in front of the trachea to the thyroid body, and either takes the place of an absent inferior thyroid artery, or assists a smaller vessel than usual in supplying that body. Veins The veins corresponding to the branches of the thyroid sponding axis have the following destination : — those with the supra- riesne" scapular and transverse cervical arteries open in the external jugular vein. But the inferior thyroid vein begins in a plexus connected with the thyroid body, and descends in front of the trachea, beneath the muscles covering it, to end in the innominate vein, superior 4. The superior intercostal artery arises from the posterior Si arte-" part of the subclavian, and bends downwards over the neck neck. of the"first rib to the thorax. Its distribution to the first two intercostal spaces will be seen in the thorax. Deep Arising in common with this branch is the deep cervical ar.teryal artery (art* profunda cervicis). Analogous to the dorsal branch of an intercostal artery, it bends backwards between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib, and ends beneath the complexus muscle at the pos- terior part of the neck (Quain).. The subclavian vein has the same limits as the artery of Subcla- J Vi*n the same name, viz. between the lower border of the first vein; 7 rib and the sterno-clavicular articulation. It is a continua-