DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 324 extensor of the little finger. Internal to all is the space for Bones the extensor carpi ulnaris. The last muscle grooves the bJ°t°hVeed ulna; but all the others, with the exception of the extensor minimi digiti which is between the bones, lie in hollows in the radius in the order mentioned above. To see Dissection.—If the supinator brevis be divided by a ver- torbre- tical incision, and raised from the radius, its attachment will vis, be better seen. interos- The posterior interosseous nerve, and the offsets from its nerve, gangliform enlargement, may be more completely traced after the tendons of the extensor of the fingers and the indi- cator muscle have been cut at the wrist, and in- The dorsal aspect of the posterior interossei muscles of the terossei A 1 muscles, hand may be cleaned, so that their double origin, and their tendon of insertion into the side and dorsum of the pha- langes may be observed. Appearing between the heads of origin of these muscles are the posterior perforating arteries. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW, WRfST, AND HAND. Direc- Directions.—The ligaments of the remaining articulations of the limb may be examined at once if they are still moist, but should any of them have become dry, these must be softened with a wet cloth whilst the others are learnt. Dissec- Dissection. — To make the necessary dissection of the the ligaments of the elbow joint, the brachialis anticus must be joint. taken away from the front, and the triceps from the back of the joint; the muscles connected with the outer and inner condyles, as well as the supinator brevis and the flexor profundus, are to be removed. By means of a little cleaning, the four ligaments—anterior, posterior, and two lateral — will come into view. The interosseous membrane, between the bones of the fore-arm, will be prepared by the removal of the muscles on both the anterior and posterior aspects. Bones The Elbow Joint. — In this articulation the lower end forming tl?e of the humerus is received into the hollow of the ulna, so as elbow joint. t0 produce a hinge-like arrangement; and the upper end of Theiiga-the radius assists to form part of the joint. Where the