VALVULE CONNIVENTES. some small compound glands, — those of Brunner, which are of Bmn- imbedded in the submucous tissue. They lie beneath the mucous membrane, and will be seen shining through the cel- lular coat, when the muscular coat has been taken away. A niece of intestine may be opened and washed, to show and 1 j l mucous the mucous coat; but the gut should be cut along the line of coat; attachment of the mesentery, so as to avoid Peyer's glands on the opposite side. 4. Mucous coat. — The lining membrane of the small in- testine is thicker and more vascular at the beginning than thi<*- ° ° ness, at the ending of the tube, and is also marked by numerous prominent folds (valvular conniventes). The surface of the folds; membrane is soft, and is covered with small points (villi). Occupying the substance of the mucous coat are numerous and VJ & . . villous glands; and covering the whole is a columnar epithelium. surface. The valvulce conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are perma- Folds or v m . valves; nent folds of the mucous membrane, which are arranged cir- arrange-- . . . ment, cularly, one after another, along the intestine, and project into the alimentary mass. Crescentic in form, they extend length, round the intestine for half or two thirds of its circle, and some end in bifurcated extremities. Larger and smaller size and depth ; folds are met with, sometimes alternating ; and the larger ones are about two inches long, with two thirds of an inch in depth towards the centre. Each valve is formed of a how doubling of the mucous membrane, which encloses cellular membrane and vessels between the layers., The valves begin in the duodenum, one or two inches Extent ° t on the beyond the pylorus, and are continued in regular succession »»tes- to the middle of the jejunum; but beyond that point they become smaller, and more distant one from another, and finally disappear about the middle of the ileum, having pre- viously become irregular and rudimentary. The valvulse are largest and most regular beyond, and not far from the opening of the bile duct. The aperture of the common bile and pancreatic ducts is Opening a narrow orifice, from three to four inches from the pylorus, duct; and is situate in a small prominence on the mucous mem- where A situate. brane of the duodenum, at the inner and posterior part of the intestine. A probe passed into the bile duct will show the obliquity of the course (half an inch) through the wall M M