561 BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE TESTICLE. layer of circular fibres. The mucous membrane is marked and a by longitudinal ridges in the straight part of the canal, and by irregular ones in the sacculated part. A columnar epithelium covers the inner surface. The canal of the vas deferens is larger than that of the Vas aberrans epididymis, as before stated. The vas aberrans resembles ^fcthe the vas deferens in structure. Blood-vessels and nerves of the testicle.—The branches of the Artery. spermatic artery pierce the back of the testis, and enter the posterior part of the mediastinum, behind the rete testis. Leaving the mediastinum, the vessels are finely divided in the vascular mem- brane that lines the interior of the tunica albuginea. After being thus divided, offsets are continued on the fine septa between the lobes to the seminal tubules, on which they are distributed. The spermatic veins begin in the plexuses around the seminal tubes, and Veins, issue from the gland at the posterior part; they then ascend along the cord, forming a plexus, and end in one trunk. On the right side this joins the vena cava, and on the left, the renal vein (p. 571.). The lymphatics ascend on the blood-vessels, and join the ^[^P^, lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the sympathetic, and nerves, accompany the arteries to the testis. Of vas deferens. — A special blood-vessel, the artery of the vas Vessels deferens, is furnished to the excretory duct from the upper vesical duct, artery; and some veins from the epididymis enter the spermatic veins. Section V. AORTA AND VENA CAVA, AND THE DEEP MUSCLES. Directions.—After the body is replaced in its former posi- Dissect tion on the back, the student should prepare for examination vessels first the diaphragm, next the large vessels and their branches, muscles, and then the remaining deep muscles of the abdomen. Dissection.—For the dissection of the diaphragm it will To see be necessary to remove the peritoneum from the under sur- phragm. face of that muscle, defining especially the central tendinous part, and the fleshy processes or pillars which are fixed to the lumbar vertebrae. Whilst cleaning the surface the student should be careful of the vessels and the nerves on or towards the pillars. On the right side two aponeurotic bands or arches, which give attachment to the muscular fibres, should O o