790 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. the sac labyrinth is translucent and firm ; but it is more opaque strata, where the vessels and nerves enter it. Three strata enter into the construction of the membrane;, together with blood- vessels and nerves. The outer covering is loose and floccu- lent, and easily detached, and contains irregular pigment cells. The middle stratum is clear and tough, and appears like cartilage, or, where it is thin, like the hyaloid membrane of the eyeball (Todd and Bowman). And the inner one is formed by a layer of nucleated cells, that are easily separated from one another, otoliths The small calcareous masses, or the otoliths, consist of grains of minute grains of carbonate of lime deposited in cells ceils. (Krieger), and connected by fibrous tissue with the inner part of the wall of the utricle and saccule. Within the en- largement of each semicircular tube some calcareous material (otolith) is contained in the cells lining it.—(Todd and Bowman.) Blood- Blood-vessels. — The membranes of the labyrinthic of the cavity receive their blood from an artery that enters the brane. internal auditory meatus with the nerve. The veins are united into one, and end in the superior petrosal sinus, internal The internal auditory artery arises from the basilar trunk artery within the skull (p. 187.), and enters the internal meatus with the auditory nerve. In the bottom of that hollow it divides into two branches — one for the vestibule, another for the cochlea. has a O,. The branch to the vestibule, after piercing the wall of to mem- the cavity, subdivides into small branches, that ramify over sacs; the exterior of the membranous labyrinth, and the tubes occupying the semicircular canals. The vessels end in a termina- network of capillaries in the substance of the membranous on' wall, as well as on the interior, about the termination of the nerves. and an- The branch to the cochlea subdivides into twigs that theecoch- enter the canals in the modiolus. Small offsets from these ,ea* are directed outwards through holes in the lamina spiralis, and communicate together in loops near the margin of that Mode of osseous zone, but in greatest number on that surface to- termma- warcjs tjie tympanic scala. From this anastomosis vessels are supplied to the membrane lining the scalse, and to the structure called cochlearis muscle. A capillary vessel is