562 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. be dissected out: — one curves over the psoas muscle; and the other extends from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the last rib. Dia-^ The diaphragm forms the vaulted moveable partition Situation bet ween, the thorax and the abdomen ; it is fleshy externally, form. where it is attached to the surrounding ribs and the spinal Origin column, and has its tendon in the centre. The origin of the circum- muscle is at the circumference, and is similar on each side ference. ^ ^e middle line. Thus, beginning in front and passing backwards, the diaphragm will be found connected by fleshy fibres with the posterior part of the xiphoid cartilage, and with the inner aspect of the six lower ribs; with two apo- neurotic arches between the last rib and the vertebrae, — one being placed over the quadratus lumborum, and the other over the psoas muscle; and, lastly, it is connected writh the bodies of some of the lumbar vertebrae by a thick muscular inser- part or pillar. From this extensive origin externally, the tlon fibres are directed inwards, with different degrees of obliquity of fibres , ,. into a and length to the central median tendon, but some have a pe- central ..... . tendon, culiar disposition in the pillars which will be afterwards noted. Parts in The abdominal surface is covered for the most part by the contact . . . . i . i • , , with the peritoneum: in contact with it, on the right side, are the surface, liver and the kidney; and on the left side, the stomach, the spleen, and the left kidney: in contact also with the pillars is the pancreas, together with the solar plexus and the and with semilunar ganglia. The thoracic surface is covered by the upper, pleura and the pericardium, and is convex towards the thorax (p. 390.). At the circumference of the muscle, the fleshy processes of origin alternate with like parts of the Attach- transversalis muscle : a cellular interval separates the slips border, to the xiphoid cartilage and the seventh rib; and a second interval sometimes exists between the fibres from the last rib, and those from the arch over the quadratus lumborum Aper- muscle. In the diaphragm are certain apertures for the tures m transmission 0f parts from the thorax to the abdomen, viz. muscle. ^r oesophagus, another for the vena cava, and' a third for the aorta between the pillars of the muscle and the spinal column : moreover, the pillars are perforated by the splanchnic and sympathetic nerves. Arch. The muscle is curved across the intracostal space, being convex towards the chest, and concave to the abdomen; and