DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 668 Cut Dissection.—After the muscle has been learnt, the slip of the last fascia extending from it to the knee may be cut through; and the tensor of the fascia lata being detached from the muscles around, the head of the rectus muscle may be fol- lowed to the pelvis, outline The triceps extensor of the leg consists of three parts, cies on which may be described as three muscles with a common in- front of . J thigh, sertion, viz. rectus, vastus externus, and vastus internus and crureus. Or like the extensor of the arm, the muscle may be considered single below and attached by a common tendon; but divided into heads above, that are inserted into separate points of bone. Rectus The rectus femoris forms a fleshy prominence on the front of the thigh, and reaches from the pelvis to the head of origin the tibia. At its origin from the pelvis the muscle has two at the * . „ pelvis, tendinous processes or heads: — one arises from the anterior which is . double, interior spinous process of the ilium ; the other (to be after- wards seen) is fixed into a depression on the back of the ilium, close above the brim of the acetabulum. Fleshy fibres succeed to the tendon ; and they end inferiorly in another tendon, which joins those of the muscles beneath, and is and an inserted with them into the head of the tibia. The rectus into the IS larger at the middle than at the ends; and its fibres are the tibia, directed from the centre to the sides, like the feather of a The quill, giving rise to that condition called penniform: It is penni- is subcutaneous except above, where it is overlaid by the and s'u- sartorius; but it conceals branches of the external circumflex except^' artery and the anterior crural nerve, and rests on the mus- above* cular mass of the vastus and crureus. The upper tendon of the muscle reaches farthest on the anterior surface, where the sartorius lies on it ; whilst the lower tendon is most extensive on the posterior aspect, or towards the subjacent muscles. Cut the Dissection.— To see the remaining muscles, cut across the rectus> rectus near its lower end, and raise it without injuring the branches of vessels and nerves beneath it. The muscular mass on the front of the femur is to be divided into two, along the situation of some descending vessels and nerves, and The muscle external to those vessels is the vastus externus, tSeex-6 and the larger mass, internal to them, is composed of the muscles, vastus internus and crureus: the two last muscles are in-