125 THYROID BODY AND TRACHEA. These vesicles are simple sacs, distinct from one another, and contain a yellow fluid, with nuclear-like bodies some- times; in the wall of these bodies are found a thin proper membrane, and a nucleated epithelial lining. Capillary and vessels and areolar tissue connect the vesicles together into small irregular masses or lobules, of the size of the little finger nail. On cutting into the gland a viscid yellowish fluid escapes. Bloodvessels. — The arteries to the thyroid body are two on each Road- side (superior and inferior thyroid) ; and occasionally there is an additional branch (lowest thyroid), from the innominate artery. The branches of the external carotid (superior thyroid) ramify Supe- chiefly on the anterior aspect; while those from the subclavian ferior, (inferior thyroid) pierce the under surface of the thyroid body, est thy^" A very free communication is established between all the arteries; ter?es.r~ and in the glandular substance the arteries form a fine capillary network around the vesicles, and so pass into the capillary radicles of the veins. The veins are also large and numerous; they are superior, Veins, middle, and inferior thyroid on each side. The first two have been traced to the internal jugular vein (p. 83.). The inferior thyroid inferior veins, two in number, issue from the lower part of the thyroid plexus body, and descend on the trachea, the two forming a plexus on trachea, that tube beneath the sterno-thyroid muscles ; each finally enters the innominate vein of its own side. The trachea, or air tube, is continued from the larynx to Trachea the thorax, and ends by dividing into two tubes (bronchi), one for each lung. It occupies the middle line of the body, lies in and extends commonly from the fifth cervical to the third thorax, dorsal vertebra, measuring about four inches and a half in length, and nearly one in breadth. The front of the trachea Form, is rounded in consequence of the existence of firm carti- laginous bands in the anterior wall, but at the posterior aspect the cartilages are absent, and the tube is flat and muscular. Its cavity remains pervious in health, under all conditions. The cervical part of the trachea is very moveable, and Cervical has the following relative position to the surrounding parts, amongst Covering it in front are the small muscles from the sternum muscles to the hyoid bone, with the deep cervical fascia: beneath the muscles is the inferior thyroid plexus of veins; and near the larynx is the isthmus of the thyroid body. Behind the tube