15 SINUSES OF THE DUKA MATER. its posterior part. This vein receives blood from the falx and the larger brain, and ends in the straight sinus at the edge of the tentorium. The straight sinus lies along the middle of the tentorium, straight ,. , sinus. and seems to continue the preceding sinus to the common point of union. Its form is triangular, like the superior longitudinal. Joining it are the inferior longitudinal sinus, the veins of Galen from the interior of the large brain, and some small veins from the upper part of the small brain. The occipital sinus is a small space in the falx cerebelli, Ocdpi- which reaches to the foramen magnum, and collects the blood from the occipital fossge. This sinus may be double. The lateral sinus is the channel by which most of the Lateral sinus. blood passes from the skull. There is one on each side, right and left, which extends from the occipital protuberance to the foramen lacerum jugulare, where it ends in the in- ternal jugular vein. In this extent the sinus corresponds to position the winding groove in the interior of the skull, between the to bone' two points of bone before mentioned. Besides small veins sinuses from the brain, the sinus is joined by the superior petrosal i°mmg sinus, opposite the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and by the inferior petrosal at the foramen lacerum. Oftentimes it communicates with the occipital vein through the mastoid foramen, and sometimes with the veins of the diploe of the skull. The right sinus is often larger than the left. The foramen lacerum jugulare is divided into three com- situa- partments by bands of the dura mater; through the posterior foramen space the lateral sinus passes, through the anterior the in- a e u ferior petrosal sinus, and through the central one the eighth nerve. Dissection.—To examine the cavernous sinus, say on the Dissec- : left side, let the dura mater on the side of the sphenoid bone tlon* be cut through from the anterior to the posterior clinoid process, and internal to the position of the third nerve. Be- hind the last-named process, let the knife be directed inwards for about half the width of the basilar part of the occipital bone. By placing the handle of the scalpel in the opening thus made, the extent of the space will be defined. A probe should be passed into the different sinuses that join the cavernous sinus.