181 LIGAMENTS OF THE FIRST TWO VERTEBRA. condyle of the occipital bone. These ligaments are covered by the occipito-axoidean band, and diverge from a central point to the sides; their upper fibres are short and almost horizontal, and the lower are longer and oblique. Between the lateral bands there is a central odontoid liqa- with a i central ment, that connects the tip of the odontoid process to the band, margin of the basilar process of the occipital bone. b. Union of the atlas with the axis. — The transverse liga- To fix . odontoid ment of the atlas is a flat, strong, arched band behind the process . . there odontoid process, which is attached on each side to a tubercle is a below the inner part of the articular process of the atlas. This ligament is widest in the centre, and at this spot it has trans-^ a band of longitudinal fibres connected with its upper and gament, lower margins, so as to produce a cruciform appearance: of these bands, the upper one is inserted into the basilar pro- cess, and the lower one into the body of the second vertebra. Its surface towards the cord is concealed by the occipito- axoid ligament. This ligament fixes firmly the odontoid process of the second vertebra against the anterior arch of the atlas, confining it in a ring. When the transverse and check ligaments are cut through, articular the tip of the odontoid process will be seen to have two car- tilaginous surfaces; one in front where it touches the atlas, the other at the opposite aspect, where it is in contact with the transverse ligament. Two synovial membranes facilitate and two the movements of the odontoid process, one being between mem-*1 that piece of bone and the atlas, and the other between it and the transverse ligament. Union of the articular surfaces. — a. The articular sur- capsule faces of the occipital bone and atlas are surrounded by a no vial capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which is strongest ex- arti^° ternally and in front. When the joint is opened, the condyle suffices, of the occipital bone will be seen to look somewhat outwards, whilst the hollowed surface of the atlas has an opposite direction. A loose synovial membrane is placed between the bones, b. The articular surfaces of the first two ver- tebras are enclosed on each side by a capsule, which is stronger in front than behind. On opening the joint, the surfaces of the bones in contact will be seen to be almost horizontal. On each side there is a separate loose synovial membrane. v 3