FORM OF THE LARGE INTESTINE. 533 feet, — one fifth of the extent of the whole intestinal tube. The diameter of the colon is largest at the commencement size; in the caecum, and gradually decreases from that part, as far as the rectum, where there is, however, a dilatation near the end. When compared with the small intestine, the colon is found com- to be distinguished by the following characters: — it is of^H* greater capacity, being in some parts as large again, and is guta11 more fixed in its position. The large intestine is also freelarger' 1 more from coils, except in the left iliac fossa, where it forms the fixed, sigmoid flexure. Instead of being a smooth cylindrical tube, coiled, the colon is sacculated, and is marked by three longitudinal faat^u" muscular bands, which alternate with as many rows of dila- J^nds. tations or small sacs. Attached to the surface, at intervals, especially along the transverse colon, are processes of peri- toneum, containing fat, the appendices epiploicae. In the Append- rectum, or the lower part of the large intestine, the surface In the is smooth, and the bands have disappeared. rectum. Dissection. — For the purpose of examining the large Take intestine the student should select and blow up the caecum, oTthe with part of the ileum entering it; he should also prepare in Intfs- a similar way a piece (about four inches) of the transverse colon, and a piece of the sigmoid flexure. The cellular membrane is to be removed with care from each, after it has been inflated. The CiECUM, or the head of the colon (caput caecum coli), Defini- is the rounded part of the large intestine which projects, in Sum; the form of a pouch, below the junction of the ileum with it. It measures about two inches and a half in length, and, length though gradually narrowing inferiorly, the caecum is the width: widest part of the colon, —whence the name caput coli. At receives its inner side it is joined by the small intestine; and still andap- lower there is a small worm-like projection — the vermiform pendlx* appendix. Appendix vermiformis. — This little convoluted projection vermi- is attached to the lower and posterior part of the caecum, of pendixP;" which it was the direct continuation at one period in the menCthf growth of the embryo. From three to six inches in length, dimen- the appendix is rather larger than a goose-quill, and is con- slons' nected to the inner part of the caecum by a fold of perito- neum. It is hollow, and has an aperture of communication it is 31 M 3 h0ll°W