DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 586 pros- ^ but is continued downwards around the prostate and the rec- rectum, turn, so as to form sheaths for those viscera, below the level of its attachment to them. The sheath that is prolonged on the gut becomes thin and cellular towards the anus ; whilst that on the prostate is separated from its viscus by a plexus of veins (prostatic), and sends an offset backwards to incase and the vesiculse seminales. The recto-vesical fasciae of opposite forms > A A part of sides form a partition, like that of the levatores ani muscles, the floor r ' of the across the pelvis, which is perforated by the prostate and the rectum; but in the case of the fascia the viscera receive sheaths from the membrane as they pass through it. Fascia in the female the fascia has much the same arrangement m the ° female. as in the male ; but the vagina, instead of the prostate, per- forates the membrane, and receives a tube from it. Pieces of The true ligaments of the bladder are two on each side, fascia, anterior and lateral, and are derived from the recto-vesical fascia. form the a. The anterior reaches from the posterior aspect of the pubes to the upper surface of the prostate, and the neck of the bladder: it is a narrow white band, and encloses some muscular fibres of the bladder. Between the ligaments of opposite sides, the recto-vesical fascia dips down to reach the apex of the prostate, faterai ^' ^e ^atera^ ^9ameni *s a piece of the same fascia, that merits *S ^xe^ to tne lateral Part °ftne prostate gland, at the upper of the border, and to the side of the bladder on the same level. bladder. 7 False There are other ligaments of the bladder (false ligaments), merits of which are derived from the peritoneum investing it, and will bladder. ^e geen 'n ftiQ f0Uowing section. Section II. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE MALE. Dissec- Directions.—If the student should be dissecting a female female pelvis, he will find the description of it at page 594. con"' Contents and position. — The viscera in the cavity of the the^- ma^e pelvis are the lower end of the large intestine (rectum) ; vis- the bladder with its excretory tube — the urethra ; together with some generative organs, viz. the seminal vesicles and their ducts, These have the following situation : —