THE HIP-JOINT. 703 Dissection.—The muscles are to be taken away from the Lay back of the hip-joint, and the upper and lower attachments capsule, of the capsular ligament to be defined. Afterwards the front of the joint should be dissected in the same manner, with the body turned over for a short time if this change in the posi- tion does not interfere with the other dissections. The capsular ligament is a loose fibrous covering that is Capsule, fixed by one end around the acetabulum, and by the other to the neck of the femur. Its upper margin is attached to the Attach- ments circumference of the acetabular cavity at a short distance above from the edge, as well as to a transverse ligamentous band over the notch at the inner side of the cavity. Its lower margin is inserted in front into the anterior trochanteric and: line; and behind into the neck of the femur about a finger's breadth from the posterior trochanteric line, and the tro- chanters. The capsule is thinnest below, where it is in con- tact with the obturator externus. In front it is thickened by Qn tbe a band of fibres — ilio-femoral ligament, which crosses from bandoV* the lower of the two anterior spines of the ilium to the tro- fibres' chanteric line; and at the upper and outer part there is Another another strong band, that is attached externally to the top of outslde* the great trochanter in front, and is connected with the ten- don of the gluteus minimus. Posteriorly the joint is covered Muscles by the external rotator muscles; anteriorly by the psoas and around* iliacus, a bursa being between; and below by the obturator externus. Dissection. — The capsular ligament should be divided Cut open over the prominence of the head of the femur, and this bone suie?ap disarticulated to see the cotyloid and interarticular liga- ments. The cotyloid ligament is a band of fibro-cartilage, which is c<>ty- fixed to the margin of the acetabulum, and is prolonged gament across the notch on the inner side, so as to form part of the transverse ligament. It is thickest at its attachment to the bone, and becomes gradually thinner towards the free mar- attached gin, where it is applied to the head of the femur. This liga- acetaou- ment deepens the socket for the femur in the same manner as the glenoid ligament increases the surface for the reception of the head of the humerus. The transverse ligament is a firm but narrow band, that Trans- reaches across the notch at the inner side of the acetabulum : gllfnent"