406 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. the angle of the scapula, and turns downwards along the base of that bone beneath the rhomboid muscles. If these muscles are divided, the artery will be seen to furnish branches to them; and to give anastomotic twigs to both surfaces of the scapula, which join the other arteries distributed on the bone. This artery arises, very frequently, as a separate branch from the third part of the subclavian trunk. Accom- The veins have the same name and course as the arteries veSis.ng above described; they open into the external jugular vein near its junction with the subclavian vein. Nerve of Nerve to the rhomboid muscles. — This slender nerve of rhom- boid the brachial plexus (p. 76.) takes the same course as the muscle. 7 preceding artery, beneath the elevator of the angle of the scapula. Before its termination it supplies one or two twigs to the elevator of the scapula; it is lost in the rhomboidei, on their under surface. Dissec- Dissection.—By reflecting the rhomboidei muscles towards the spinous processes, and removing the cellular membrane, the thin upper serratus muscle which is beneath them will be laid bare. Third Third Layer.—In this stratum are the following muscles: layer of % m . muscles. —the serratus posticus superior and inferior, with the splenius. serrati * The serrati muscles are very thin, and receive their in num- name from their toothed attachment to the ribs. They are ber. . ... two in number, superior and inferior, and have aponeurotic origins from the spines of the vertebras. Smaller * The serratus posticus superior arises from the ligamen- uppe? turn nuchas, and from the spinous processes of the last cer- STetho- vical, and the two or three upper dorsal vertebras. The rax' fleshy fibres are inclined downwards, and are attached by slips to the second, third, and fourth ribs, external to their angles. The muscle rests on the splenius. Larger * The serratus posticus inferior occupies the lumbar aUower region, and is wider than the preceding muscle. Its apo- thora°xf. neurosis of origin is inseparably united with that of the latissimus dorsi, and is connected to the spinous processes of the two last dorsal and the three first lumbar vertebrae. Connec- The fleshy fibres ascend to be inserted by offsets into the tl0nb" four last ribs in front of their angles, each successive pro- cess extending further forward than the one below. This