173 LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. ligament will be sometimes found a small ossific nodule (cartilago triticea). The membrane ioining the lower border of the cricoid Cric«- , ° ° tracheal cartilage to the first ring of the trachea—crico-tracheal mem- & ° brane. ligament, resembles the bands joining one ring of the trachea to another. Union of Ike cricoid and thyroid cartilages. — These car- Between . ... . cricoid tilages are ioined, in the middle line in front, by the crico- andthy- ° . J 5 . . roid car- thyroid ligament; and on the side, by a capsular ligament tiiages around the small cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The anterior crico-thyroid liqament or membrane is yellow an an- o terior in colour, and is formed mostly of elastic tissue. At its ligament centre it is thick and strong, and is attached to the con- tiguous margins of the cartilages from which it is named; but on the sides the ligament is thin, and leaving the lower border of the thyroid cartilage is continued upwards to the chorda vocalis. Some small apertures exist in this membrane for the passage of small arteries into the larynx. The liga- ment is partly concealed by the crico-thyroid muscle. The lateral crico-thyroid, or capsular ligament surrounds j11^* the articular surfaces between the side of the cricoid, and joint, the lower cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Its fibres are strongest behind. A synovial membrane lines the capsule. Articulation between the cricoid and arytcenoid cartilages. Between — This articulation allows of most movement, and the SUr- and arv- faces of the cartilages, which are in contact, are retained by a capsule, and possess a synovial sac. The capsular liqament is fixed to each cartilage around its is a cap. . , „ -. • t • suleand articular surface, and one part—posterior ligament, is strong- sac. est on the inner and posterior aspects. A loose synovial membrane is present in the articulation. A kind of capsule, with a synovial sac, unites the apex of Between the arytenoid cartilage with the hollowed base of the noid and cartilage (capitulum) of Santorini. Sometimes these carti- lumT' lages are blended together. The ligaments joining the thyroid with the arytcenoid Betwee cartilages (thyro-arytaenoid) have been already seen in the and ary. interior of the larynx (p. 166.). Ligaments of the epiglottis.—A band—thyro-epiglottidean Two ii. it n • garments — connects the lower part oi the epiglottis to the posterior ofepi- surface of the thyroid cartilage, close to the excavation in