DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 672 cutane- sometimes also the sartorius, about three inches below Pou- ous part's ligament, and extends on the surface of the thigh to the knee. Its cutaneous distribution is described at page 652. internal The internal cutaneous nerve sends two or more small cutane- ous; twigs through the fascia lata to the integument of the upper third of the thigh, and then divides in front of the femoral artery, or on the inner side, into the two following branches, anterior and inner.* Sometimes these branches, in which the which nerve ordinarily ends, arise from the anterior crural trunk at separate spots. anterior ^Q anterior branch is directed to the inner side of the knee- and joint, As far as the middle of the thigh it lies over the sartorius, but it then pierces the fascia lata, and ramifies in the integument as before said (p. 652.). branch inner branch is distributed in the integument of the inner side of the leg, just below the knee, but it remains beneath the fascia lata as far as the knee (p. 652.). Whilst underneath the fascia the nerve lies along the inner border of the sartorius, and joins in a plexus, about the middle of the thigh, with offsets of the obturator and internal saphenous nerves. When this branch is small it ends in the plexus just mentioned, and in twigs to the inner part of the thigh, instead of being continued onwards to the leg. internal The internal saphenous nerve is the largest of the three superficial branches ; it becomes cutaneous on the inner side of the knee, and accompanies the vein of the same name to the foot (p. 652.). In the thigh the nerve takes the course of the deep blood-vessels: thus it approaches the femoral artery, where this is concealed by the sartorius, and is .con- tinued along the outer side of that vessel, beneath the apo- neurosis covering the same, as far as the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. At that spot the nerve passes becomes from beneath the aponeurosis, and is continued under the cutane- . n _ , ousat sartorius muscle to the upper part ot the leg, to become ' cutaneous as before said. It supplies two cutaneous offsets whilst it is contained in the thigh beneath the fascia, has a One of these offsets (communicating branch) arises about the nicating middle of the thigh, and crosses inwards, beneath the sartorius, to * This is the arrangement that is most commonly met with. — See foot note to the Second Edition, p. 624. nous nerve