BRANCHES OF THE LUMBAR PLEXUS. 577 %. The branches of the plexus supply the lower part of the six abdominal wall, the for£ part of the thigh, and the inner es, viz. side of the leg ; they aite six in number, viz.: — The ilio-hypogastric branch is derived from the first nerve, nio- and appears at the outer border of the psoas muscle, near the gastric upper part : this and the following branch are cutaneous nerves of the buttock and the lower part of the trunk. The is the branch is directed over the quadratus lumborum to the crest branch, of the ilium, and enters the wall of the abdomen by travers- ing the transversalis abdominis. Its termination in the Course ° in abdo- integuments of the buttock and abdomen, by means of an men. iliac and a hypogastric branch, has been already mentioned (p. 462.). The ilio-inguinal branch arises with the preceding from iiio- nai the first nerve, and issues from the psoas nearly at the same arises spot. Of smaller size than the ilio-hypogastric, this branch preced- courses outwards over the quadratus and iliacus muscles m°' towards the front of the crest of the ilium, where it pierces the transversalis abdominis. The farther course of the nerve andac- compa- in the abdominal wall, and its distribution over the scrotum nies it. and the groin, are before noticed (pp. 462. 475.). The size of this nerve depends upon that of the ilio-hypo- May be gastric branch ; and the nerve may be absent if the latter is large. The qenito-crural nerve is distributed, as the name ex- Genito- v . , crural presses, to the genital organs and the limb. It arises from the second lumbar nerve, and from the connecting loop be- tween this and the first: it soon pierces the fibres of the pierces psoas, and descending on the surface of the muscle divides PS°as> into a genital and a crural branch. Sometimes the nerve is and divided in the psoas, and the branches perforate separately ?ntodes the muscle. a. The genital branch descends on the external iliac ar- genital . . and tery, and furnishes offsets around it; it passes from the abdomen with the spermatic vessels, and is distributed in the cremaster muscle. In the female the nerve is lost in the round ligament. b. The crural branch issues beneath Poupart's ligament crural to supply the integument of the thigh. See Cutaneous Nerves of the Thigh. The external cutaneous nerve of the thigh arises from the course ° of this P P