169 HYOID BONE. b. The laryngeal branch of the inferior thyroid artery ascends fr0m in- on the back of the cricoid cartilage, and supplies the mucous [h^roid membrane of the pharynx and the muscles of the larynx, like the nerve. c. Some other twigs from the inferior thyroid artery perforate two the crico-thyroid membrane, and end in the mucous lining of the sources- interior of the larynx at the lower part. Veins. — The vein, that accompanies the branch of artery Veins from the superior thyroid, joins the internal jugular or the ferentiy. superior thyroid vein ; whilst the vein, corresponding to the other artery, opens into the plexus connected with the in- ferior thyroid veins (pp. 83. 125.). Section XVII. HYOID BONE, CARTILAGES AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX, AND STRUCTURE OF THE TRACHEA. Dissection. — All the muscles and the mucous membrane Dissec- should be taken away so as to denude the hyoid bone, the tlon' cartilages of the larynx, and the epiglottis; but the piece of membrane that joins the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, and the ligaments uniting one cartilage to another, should be left with care. In the arytasno-epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, a small fibrocartilaginous body (cuneiform car- tilage) should be sought. The hyoid bone (os hyoides) is situate between the larynx Hyoid and the root of the tongue. Resembling the letter U, placed Forn^ horizontally and with the legs turned backwards, it offers for examination a central part or body, and two side pieces or cornua. The body is flattened, and measures most in the vertical Body of direction. Convex in front, where it is marked by a tubercle, it presents an uneven surface for the attachment of muscles ; whilst on the opposite aspect it is concave. To the upper border, the fibrous membrane (hyo-glossal) fixing the tongue is attached. The cornua are two in number on each side (large and side small). The large cornu continues the bone backwards, and is far-f' joined to the body of the os hyoides by a surface covered with cartilage. The surfaces of this cornu look somewhat upwards