105 SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The superior maxillary nerve commences in the Gas- uPPer d rnaxilla- serian ganglion (p. 19.), and leaves the cranium by the tora- ry nerve men rotundum. The course of the nerve is then almost Pacseses t0 straight to the face, along the orbital aspect of the superior maxilla. Outside the cranium the nerve is first placed across the spheno-maxillary fossa, and it afterwards enters the f]j™ueh infra-orbital canal. Issuing from the canal by the infra- orbital ° J canal, orbital foramen, the nerve is concealed by the elevator of the upper lip, and ends in branches to the eyelid, nose, and upper lip. It furnishes the following branches :— it ends 1. The orbital branch arises in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and J^J^- enters the orbit through the fissure of the same name; it divides are to into a malar and a temporal branch (see p. 52.). 2. The spheno-palatine branches descend from the nerve in the to the fossa, and supply the nose and palate: these are connected with palate, Meckel's ganglion, and will be dissected with it. 3. Two posterior dental branches leave the trunk of the nerve to the near the upper jaw. One is distributed to the gums and the buc- andhbuc- cinator muscle. The other enters a canal in the upper maxilla, clnator> and supplies branches to the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum; it joins the anterior dental branch soon after entering the bone, and again near the teeth. 4. The anterior dental branch quits the trunk of the nerve in the t0 ante" ... rlor floor of the orbit, and descends to the anterior teeth in a special teeth. canal in front of the antrum. It is distributed by two branches. One (the inner) gives filaments to the incisor and canine teeth, and furnishes, moreover, one or two filaments to the lower meatus of the nose; the other (outer) ends by supplying the bicuspid teeth. 5. Infra-orbital or facial branches.—These are larger than the Infra- orbital other offsets of the nerve, and form its terminal ramifications, branches Some incline inwards to the side of the nose, and the rest descend to the upper lip. These branches are crossed near the orbit by join branches of the facial nerve, with which they communicate, the nerve, union forming the infra-orbital plexus (p. 41.). p?y the" a. The branches to the side of the nose supply the muscular and nose tegumentary structures. b. The branches to the upper lip are three or four in number, and up- and are distributed chiefly to the surfaces of the lip, though they Ptr 1P supply as well the labial glands and the muscles. 6. Before the nerve ends in the facial branches, it supplies a Branch small papebral branch to the lower eyelid; this is directed upwards ofeyelld" to the lid in a groove in the margin of the orbit. The infra-orbital artery is one of the terminal branches infra-