515 CHYLO-POIETIC VESSELS. elongated form, it extends across the spine from the spleen the pan- to the duodenum, and occupies the left hypochondriac, the umbilical, and the right lumbar region of the abdomen. The gland is covered anteriorly by the ascending layer ofIts c.on- ° J J o j nections the transverse meso-colon, and is in contact posteriorly withbyt.he 7 , surfaces, the aorta, the vena cava, and the pillars of the diaphragm; it likewise conceals the splenic vein and the commencement of the vena portse. Projecting above the upper border, near borders, the centre, is the arterial trunk of the cceliac axis; to the left of that vessel, along the same border, is the splenic artery, whilst to the right of it are the hepatic artery and the first part of the duodenum. At the lower border, the superior mesenteric vessels emerge opposite the cceliac axis; to the right of that spot is the third part of the duode- num, and to the left of it the inferior mesenteric, ascending to join the splenic vein. The left end or the tail of the and pancreas touches the spleen, and is over the left kidney; ties?1™" and the right extremity, or the head of the gland, is received into the concavity of the duodenum, the two being partly separated behind by the common bile duct, and in front by the pancreatico-duodenal artery. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE CHYLO-POIETIC VISCERA. A short branch from the aorta, viz. the cceliac axis, fur- vessels nishes arteries to the stomach, duodenum, liver, pancreas, nefves and spleen; this subdivides into three chief branches, coro- pSS0" nary, hepatic, and splenic, whose destination is expressed by viscera* their names. The veins corresponding to those vessels are collected into one trunk — the vena portae; and the nerves are supplied from the vagus and the sympathetic trunks. Dissection. — The vessels have been in part laid bare by How to the previous dissection, and the preparation of them will be tSc completed by the removal of the cellular membrane and, the axis peritoneum from each. Before beginning this task the student should take care that the liver is well raised ; and whilst completing it he should spare the plexuses of nerves that surround the vessels. Starting from the cceliac axis, and its he may first follow to the left side the small coronary artery, brandi- and clear its branches to the oesophagus and the stomach.es' Next the hepatic artery, with the vena portal and the bile