447 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. nerves to the muscles: to the erector penis there is a sepa- rate branch, and beneath the transversalis is the offset that supplies the other two muscles and the urethra. Muscles. — Superficial to the triangular ligament, in the ™™,ees anterior half of the perineal space, are three muscles, viz. j^°™u_ the erector penis, the acclerator urinse, and the transversalis ^^j.ga" peringei. Other muscles of the urethra are beneath the tri- angular ligament and will be subsequently seen. Central point of the perinceum. — Between the urethra Central 1 J J . point. and the rectum is a white fibrous spot, to which this term has been applied. It occupies the middle line, being, as the name expresses, nearly in the centre of the perinasum : in it whe-e most of the muscles acting on the rectum and the urethra join, are united; and it serves as a common point of support to the space. The erector penis is i the most external of the three Erector penis. muscles, and is narrower at each end than in the middle. It covers the crus penis, and its fibres arise from the inner Origin, surface of the tuberosity of the ischium further back than the attachment of the crus of the penis, and from the ramus of the pubes on each side of the crus. Superiorly the mus- cle ends in an aponeurosis, and is inserted into the inner and inser- outer surfaces of the crus penis. The muscle rests on the crus of the penis and the bone. The accelerator urinse muscle lies on the urethra along Acceie- the middle line of the perinseum. The muscles of opposite udnL. sides join through the interposition of a median tendon. Each muscle arises from the common tendon along the origin middle line and from the central point of the perineum, die^ine. The fibres are directed outwards, curving around the con- vexity of the urethra, and give rise to a thin muscle, which has the following insertion: — The most posterior are lost On Inser- the anterior surface of the triangular ligament. The ante- th°reeby rior fibres, which are the longest and best marked, turn parts round the penis to be inserted on its outer aspect ,anterior to the erector; and, according to Kobelt*, they send a ten- dinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis. Whilst the middle or intervening fibres turn round the urethra, * Die Mannlichen mid Weiblichen Wollust- Organe, von G. L. Kobelt, 1844.