GLOSSOPHARYNGEAL NERVE. 113 very small size, and is situate at the upper part of the osseous groove that contains the nerve. It occupies the outer part of the glosso-pharyngeal trunk, and includes only some fibres of the nerve. The petrosal ganglion (gang, inferius) is much and larger than the preceding, and encloses all the fibrils of the gan- nerve. This ganglion is placed in a hollow in the lower border of the temporal bone, and from it arise the branches that unite the glosso-pharyngeal with the other nerves. After the nerve has quitted the foramen, it comes forwards in the between the jugular vein and the carotid artery, and crossing inwards over the artery, reaches the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. At this spot, the nerve becomes ^u^ses almost transverse in direction in its course to the pha- tongue and pha- rynx ; it passes over the stylo-pharyngeus, and forms an arch, rynx. across the side of the neck (p. 65.), above the superior laryn- geal nerve. Finally the nerve enters beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and ends in branches to the pharynx, the tongue, and the tonsil. The branches of the glosso-pharyngeal may be classed Branch- into those connecting it with other nerves at the base of the join skull, and those that are distributed in the neck. Connecting Branches. — These arise chiefly from the pe- with trosal ganglion, and in this set is the tympanic nerve. viz. 1. * A filament ascends from the sympathetic nerve in the neck sympa- to join the petrosal ganglion; and sometimes there is a filament andva- given from this ganglion to the auricular branch of the vagus, as sus' well as to the upper ganglion of that nerve. 2. * The tympanic branch (nerve of Jacobson) enters the aper- facial ture in the ridge of bone between the jugular and the carotid pathSic" foramen, and ascends by a special canal to the inner wall of the tympanum, where it ends in branches. Its distribution is given with the anatomy of the tympanum of the ear. 3. Connecting branch of the facial nerve. — This pierces the and digastric muscle, and joins the trunk of the glosso-pharyngeal, SaiV*" below the petrosal ganglion: it is not always present. Branches for Distribution. — In the neck the branches are distri- furnished chiefly to the tongue and the pharynx, but they are also united with other nerves. 1. Carotid branches surround the artery of that name, and com- carotid municate on it with the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, and with artery' the sympathetic nerve.