DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 748 plied by processes of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. A synovial membrane lines the articulation, and sends forwards prolongations between the cuneiform bones, and the b. In the articulation with the os cuboides there is a dorsal bone. oblique band of fibres; a 'plantar transverse band, which is concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus; and a strong interosseous ligament between the contiguous surfaces of the bones. At the points of contact of the scaphoid and cuboid bones the surfaces are tipped with cartilage, and furnished with a prolongation from the common synovial membrane of the tarsus. Union ARTICULATIONS OF THE CUNEIFORM BONES.—These bones cunei- are united to one another by cross bands; and the external bones one articulates with the os cuboides after a similar manner, one with a. The three cuneiform bones are connected together by another, transverse dorsal bands between the upper surfaces. Similar plantar ligaments are wanting, except between the two innermost. There are also interosseous ligaments be- tween the contiguous surfaces of the bones, and with b. Where the external cuneiform touches the cuboid bone the cuboid the surfaces are covered with cartilage, and furnished with bone. & a prolongation of the common tarsal synovial membrane. A dorsal ligament passes transversely between the two, and a plantar ligament takes a similar direction. Between the bones there is also an interosseous ligament, synovial The synovial membrane of the articulations of the cunei- form bones is common to many of the bones of the tarsus. Placed between the scaphoid and the three cuneiform bones, it sends a prolongation forwards between the two inner cuneiforms to the second and third metatarsal bones, and another outwards to the articulations of the scaphoid and the external cuneiform with the cuboid bone. Union ARTICULATION OF THE METATARSAL BONES. The bases meta- of the metatarsal bones, except the first, are connected toge- by ' ther by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments; and where the contiguous parts touch they are covered with car- tilage, and have part of a synovial sac. dorsal, The dorsal ligaments are small transverse bands that pass from the base of one metatarsal bone to that of the next, on plantar, the upper surface, in the four outer toes. The plantar liga- ments are similar to the dorsal, between the same bones.