DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 602 and are distributed to the upper and lower parts of the bladder. three or a. The upper vesical are three or four in number, and four . . . . upper, arise at intervals from the partly obliterated hypogastric trunk; the lowest is sometimes called middle vesical branch. Offsets are distributed from these branches to all the body and upper part of the bladder. and a b. The lower vesical artery arises from the front of the lower, . ♦ internal iliac m common with a branch to the rectum, or with one to the vagina in the female. It is distributed to the base of the bladder, the vesiculae seminales, and the pros- tate. A small offset from this artery, or from the upper vesical, is furnished to the vas deferens, and ascends on it as far as the inguinal canal, with an 2. The branch to the rectum (middle hemorrhoidal) is the rec- commonly supplied by the inferior vesical, as before said, or by the pudic. It ramifies on the anterior and lower part of the rectum, and on the vagina in the female, and anastomoses with the superior and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. Obtura- 3. The obturator artery is distributed, outside the pelvis, tery and merely crosses this cavity to reach the aperture of exit, courses The branch springs usually from the anterior division of the pelvis, internal iliac artery, and is directed forwards below the brim of the pelvis to the aperture in the upper part of the thyroid foramen. Passing from the pelvis by that opening, the artery ends in two branches, that encircle the membrane closing the thyroid foramen beneath the muscle in that spot, offsets In the pelvis the artery has its companion nerve above, m pelvis, ke|QW it, and it distributes the following small branches: — r., iliac and a. Iliac branch. — Amongst other small offsets, the obtu- rator furnishes a twig to the iliac fossa to supply the bone and the iliacus muscle; this anastomoses with the ilio-lum- bar artery. pubic^ b. The pubic branch, arising as the artery is about to leave the pelvis, ascends on the posterior aspect of the pubes, and communicates with the corresponding branch of the opposite side, as well as with the offset sent downwards from the epigastric artery. There may be more than one branch to the pubes. its ori- Peculiarities, — The obturator artery may arise at the front of