ARTICULATION OF THE KNEE. 737 toe. In the leg the muscle is beneath the peroneus longus, little . ... toe; except in front. On the outer side of the os calcis it is con- tained in a sheath above the tendon of the former muscle ; connec- tions. and each sheath is lined by a prolongation from the common synovial membrane behind the outer ankle. Section VII. LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE, ANKLE, AND FOOT. Directions.— The student may now examine the remaining Examine . . first the articulations of the limb, and may take first the knee-joint, knee. unless this has become dry; in that case the ankle-joint and the ligaments of the foot may be dissected whilst the other is being moistened. Dissection. — For the dissection of the ligaments of each Dissec- tion to articulation, it is sufficient to detach the muscles and tendons see from around it, and to remove the cellular or fibrous struc- ture that may obscure or conceal the ligamentous bands. In the knee-ioint a kind of capsule is to be defined around acap- 1 sule and the articular surfaces of the bones ; and there are four other the ex- ternal ligaments, anterior and posterior, internal and external, i*ga- & . . ments. which are thickened bands at their respective parts of the articulation. Some tendons, namely, those of the biceps, popliteus, adductor magnus, and semimembranosus, are to be followed to their insertion, and a part of each is to be left. The Articulation of the Knee. — The knee is the Bones in largest hinge joint in the body, and is formed by the con- joint, tiguous ends of the tibia and femur with the patella. The articular surfaces of the bones are covered with cartilage, and are maintained in apposition by the following ligaments: — A capsule surrounds the ends of the bones, and fills the CaPs^e * only an intervals between the stronger special ligaments. The '^p^j fascia lata is closely united with it, and in front it receives vering. accessory fibres from the vasti and crureus, and from the biceps and sartorius ; and, behind, from the tendon of the semimembranosus. It is connected with the interarticular cartilages, and the tendon of the popliteus muscle per- forates it. 3 B