617 THE MALE URETHRA. into tendon, and are inserted into the portion called the third lobe of the prostate." * Blood-vessels and nerves.—The source of the vesical arteries, and Arteries; the termination of the veins are before detailed (pp. 601. 605.). veins; In the bladder the vessels are disposed in greatest number about its base and neck. Most of the nerves that are distributed to the nerves, bladder, though supplied from the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic (p. 609.), are derived directly from the spinal nerves. THE URETHRA AND PENIS. Urethra. — The tube of the urethra extends from the Extent neck of the bladder to the end of the penis, and has an length; average length of about eight inches. In that extent the canal is supported by the prostate, by the spongy structure of the penis, and by muscular fibre, so that it does not no require, so to say, a thick continuous muscular coat as in coat, many other excretory tubes. The size of the urethra varies at different spots, and the tube is divided, as before said Division (p. 592.), into a prostatic, a membranous, and a spongy parts, part. Dissection.—To open the urethra, let the incision through how to the upper part of the prostate be continued onwards to the urethra.6 extremity of the penis, so as to divide the corpus caverno- sum of that body rather on one side of the middle line, and to leave uncut the septum in it. The prostatic part is nearer the upper than the lower Prostatic aspect of the gland that surrounds it, and lies at first above part* the middle lobe of the prostate. It is about one inch and a pimen- quarter in length, and is altogether the widest and most ex- tensible division of the urethral canal. The form of this shape; part of the tube is spindle-shaped, for it is larger in the middle than at either end. Its transverse measurement, at diame- ter. the neck of the bladder, is about a quarter of an inch ; at its centre a line or two more ; and at the front rather less than at the back. On the floor of the passage, at the neck of the bladder, is on the * the eminence of the uvula vesicae. In front of this is a crest, central longitudinal ridge of the mucous lining, about three * See a Paper by Sir C. Bell, in the Med.- Chir. Transactions, vol. iii.: " Account of the Muscles of the Ureters."