DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 746 sides of the astragalus and os calcis, near the middle piece of interos- the external lateral ligament of the ankle-ioint. The inter - seous li- ; _ . gament. osseous ligament consists of strong vertical and oblique fibres, that are attached above and below to the depressions on the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. This band extends across the bones, and its depth is greatest at the outer side. The astragalus will be subsequently removed, and then the bones will be seen to have articular surfaces and synovial Articu. sacs. There are two articular surfaces where the bones facesUr" touch, viz. behind the ligament, and in front of it. Two noviai" synovial membranes exist between the bones, one for each branes. articulation; and the one in front of the interosseous liga- ment is continued between the head of the astragalus and the scaphoid bone. Astraga- b. The astragalus with the scaphoid bone.—The large scaphoid head of the astragalus is received into the hollow of the sca- phoid bone, and is united to it only by a dorsal ligament; for the place of a plantar ligament is supplied by a strong band between the os calcis and the scaphoid bone, which will be presently noticed. Dorsal The dorsal or astragalo-scaphoid ligament is attached to ment. the astragalus close to the articulation, and to the dorsal surface of the scaphoid bone: its attachments will be better synovial seen when it is cut through. The synovial membrane of brane. the joint is the same as that for the articulation between the astragalus and the anterior part of the os calcis. Os calcis c. The os calcis with the scaphoid bone. — These bones and sea- . . - phoid, by are not in contact, but ligamentous bands extend between them both below, and on the outer side of the head of the astragalus, and thus make more perfect the socket for the reception of the fore part of the last bone. inferior The inferior ligament (calcaneo-scaphoid) will be defined in the sole of the foot by removing some fibro-cartilaginous substance from it; and its upper surface, together with the other ligament, will be brought into view by sawing off the part of the astragalus that is in front of the interosseous ligament to the os calcis. It is attached by one extremity to the anterior part of the os calcis, and by the other, to a groove on the under surface of the scaphoid bone. The tendon of the tibialis posticus is beneath the ligament in the sole of the foot, and on it the head of the astragalus rests.