DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. 294 the fore-arm, and at the ulnar side. These vessels and their branches should be carefully cleaned. Define The anterior annular ligament of the wrist, which arches annular over the tendons passing from the fore-arm to the hand, is ment. next to be defined. This structure is at some little depth from the surface ; whilst the student attempts to make it apparent by removing the tissue superficial to it, he must take care of the small branches of the median and ulnar nerves to the palm of the hand. The ulnar artery and nerve pass over the ligament, and will serve as a guide to it. Hollow Hollow in front of the elbow. — This hollow in front of in front of the the bend of the elbow, corresponds to that of the popliteal space in the leg, and is situate between the inner and the outer mass of the muscles of the fore-arm. The interval is somewhat triangular in shape, and the wider part is towards Bounda- the humerus. On the outer side it is bounded immediately ries. m m * by the supinator longus muscle, and on the inner side by the pronator teres. The aponeurosis of the limb is stretched over the space; and the bones of the arm, covered by the brachialis anticus muscle, form the deep boundary. Contents Contents. — In this hollow are lodged the termination ox space the brachial artery with the median nerve, the musculo! spiral nerve, the tendon of the biceps muscle, and some cel- lular membrane; these several parts have the following and their relative position in the space : — The tendon of the biceps is to one" directed towards the outer boundary to reach the radius, into which it is inserted ; and the musculo-spiral nerve is close to the outer side, being partly concealed by the supi- nator longus muscle. The brachial vessels and the median nerve occupy nearly the centre of the space, the nerve being internal; but as the artery is inclining to the outer part of the limb, they are soon distant from one another about half an inch. In this space the brachial artery divides into two trunks-—radial and ulnar, superfi- Muscles on the front of the fore-arm.—The mus- layer cles on the anterior and inner parts of the fore-arm are has five... . . _ T1 muscles, divided into a superficial and a deep layer. In the super- ficial layer there are five muscles, which are fixed to the inner condyle of the humerus, mostly by a common tendon, and lie in the undermentioned order from the outer to the inner side of the limb; viz. pronator radii teres, flexor carpi