544 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Giandu- Structure of the Liver. — The substance of the liver tureis consists of a collection of small secreting bodies, called incased , * ■• .. . . by two lobules or acini; together with a large proportion of vessels, which are concerned both in the production of the secretion and in the nutrition of the organ. The whole is surrounded by a fibrous and a serous coat. Serous 1. Serous coat. — The peritoneum invests the liver almost coat, completely, and adheres closely to the subjacent coat. At where certain spots, intervals exist between the two, viz. in the ' fissures occupied by vessels, at the lines of attachment of the ligaments, and at the surface covered by the gall-bladder. Where the right lateral ligament is inserted the space is the largest. Fibrous 2. The fibrous covering is very thin, but it is rather is stronger where the peritoneum is not in contact with it. prolong- It invests the liver, and is continuous, at the transverse interior, fissure, with the fibrous sheath (capsule of Glisson) that surrounds the vessels in the interior of the hepatic mass. When the membrane is torn from the surface, it is found to be connected with fine shreds, that dip between the lobules or the glandular structure of the liver. Lobules Size and form of the lobules. — The lobules constitute the liver; proper hepatic substance, and can be seen on the exterior of the liver, on a cut surface of it, or by means of a rent of the size and mass. As thus observed, these bodies are about the size of ance;r" a pin's head, and measure from half a line to a line in foniynd diameter. Closely massed together, each presents a dark invest- central point, and is isolated from the surrounding ones by a cellular stratum. By means of transverse and vertical sec- tions of the lobules, their form will appear triangular on the exterior, but five or many sided in the interior of the liver. They are clustered around the smallest divisions (sublobular) of the hepatic vein, to which each is connected by a small twig issuing from the centre (intra-lobular vein), something like the attachment of the lamina to the stalk or petiole of a leaf. The part of each lobule in contact with the small sublobular vein, wants the cellular covering that invests the other sides. Difficult To study the minute structure of these secretory elements lobules?" of the hepatic substance, the student should have the differ-