462 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. sets from the lumbar plexus, viz. the ilio-hypogastric and ilioinguinal, are present at the lower part of the abdomen. Lateral The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen emerge be- neousof tween the digitations of the external oblique muscle, in a tercos- line with the same set of nerves on the thorax, and the tal' lowest are the most posterior. As soon as they appear on which the surface they divide, with the exception of the last, into divide . _ into an anterior and a posterior branch. poste- The posterior tranches are of small size, and are directed back- nor and wards to the integuments over the latissimus dorsi muscle, anterior The anterior branches run forwards in the superficial fascia branch. nearjy to edge of the rectus muscle, and supply the integuments on the side of the belly : they furnish offsets to the digitations of the external oblique muscle. Last^ The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve is nerve, larger than the rest, and does not divide like the others. After piercing the fibres of the external oblique muscle, it is directed over the crest of the ilium to the surface of the gluteal region. Anterior The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen reach the neous surface by piercing the sheath of the rectus : in the integu- ofinter- ments they turn outwards towards the lateral cutaneous costal. nerves> The number, and the place of exit of these small nerves from the abdominal wall, are very uncertain, iiio-hy- The ilio-hypogastric nerve is distributed on the surface by of?um"c two pieces : one lies over the crest of the ilium (iliac branch), pfexus. the other ramifies on the lower part of the abdomen (hypo- gastric branch). iliac The iliac branch is close to the crest of the innominate bone be- branch. ^e jagt dorsai nerve, and enters the integument of the gluteal region: its size and its position on the bone are dependant upon the development and the situation of the offset of the last dorsal nerve. Hypo- The hypogastric branch pierces the aponeurosis of the external branch, oblique muscle above the external abdominal ring, and is distri- buted, as the name expresses, to the integument of the lower region of the abdominal parietes. iiio-in- The ilio-inguinal nerve becomes cutaneous through the nerve external abdominal ring, and having perforated the deeper plexus, layer of the superficial fascia, descends to the scrotum and the upper part of the thigh, vessels Cutaneous Vessels. — Some cutaneous vessels are found source^0 with both sets of nerves on the abdomen: with the lateral