VAGUS AND SPLANCHNIC NERVES. 523 epiploic (right) and pancreatico-duodenal, corresponding to the nai, branches of the artery : the former meets nerves from the splenic pancn^' plexus, and the latter communicates with the superior mesenteric atlc' plexus on the end of the duodenum. A cystic plexus is distributed and^ to the gall bladder with its artery. The remaining offsets of the solar plexus, viz. superior and inferior mesenteric, aortic, and spermatic, have been already described (page 510.) ; but the derivation of the su- perior mesenteric and aortic plexuses from the epigastric centre can now be seen. Ending of the splanchnic nerves.— The large nerve per- Ending forates the crus of the diaphragm, and generally ends alto- spianch- gether in the semilunar ganglion, but it may give filaments nerve, to the renal plexus and the supra-renal body. The small small, nerve comes through the same opening in the diaphragm as the preceding, and ends in the cceliac plexus; but it enters the renal plexus if the smallest splanchnic nerve is absent. The smallest nerve, after piercing the diaphragm, joins the and smallest. renal plexus. Ending of the vagus nerve.—In the abdomen the pueumo- Ending gastric nerves are to be followed to their distribution in the vagus j stomach. The left divides into branches, that extend over the front and along the small curvature of the stomach ; these join the sympathetic, and give offsets to the hepatic plexus. The right nerve is distributed to the posterior surface of the and stomach near the upper border, and communicates with the nght* cceliac and the splenic plexus. Dissection. — The viscera are now to be removed from the Prepare abdomen in order that the body may be turned for the dis- ing the section of the back, and the other parts. The stomach and remov. the spleen with the duodenum and the pancreas are to be vlfcera. taken away by cutting through the oesophagus near the diaphragm, and dividing the vessels and nerves they receive. The liver is also to be removed by cutting across its ligaments, and dividing the vena cava between its posterior border and the diaphragm. At the same time the right kidney is to be taken out with its supra-renal body ; and lastly the dissector should remove the left testicle by cutting through the cord. Directions. — Supposing the body now to be turned for Direc- rr ° J tions lor the dissection of the back, and to lie with the face downwards the dis- sector.