273 THE FRONT OF THE ARM. spinal fossa, where it gives offsets to the infraspinatus muscle in infra- and the scapula, and anastomoses with the dorsal branch ofspma us* the subscapular, and with the posterior scapular artery (of the subclavian, p. 73.). The companion vein of the suprascapular artery joins the Vein- external jugular vein. The suprascapular nerve is a branch of the brachial Supra- plexus (p. 76.). When it reaches the costa of the scapula, it nervelar enters the supraspinal fossa beneath the posterior proper cuiar ligament. In the fossa it supplies two branches to the su- likear- praspinatus; and the nerve is then continued, beneath a tery* fibrous band, to the infraspinatus muscle, in which it ends. The nerve gives some articular filaments to the shoulder and ar- , , ~ i i ticular. jomt> and other onsets to the scapula. The dorsal branch of the subscapular artery turns back- Dorsal wards below the inferior costa of the scapula, through the of sub- posterior of the two spaces between the teres muscles. En- artery?r tering the infraspinal fossa, beneath the teres minor, it sup- plies that muscle and the infraspinatus, and anastomoses with the ending of the suprascapular artery. This artery sends a branch along the dorsum of the scapula, between the teres muscles, towards the inferior angle of the bone, where it anastomoses with the posterior scapular artery. Section III. THE FRONT OF THE ARM. Position.—For the dissection of the anterior part of the arm Position the limb should lie flat on the table, with the front upper- most. Dissection. — The skin is to be raised from the front of and inci- the arm and the front of the elbow-joint. To allow of its the118 m reflection, make one incision along the centre of the biceps, skin" as far as two inches below the elbow ; and at its termination, a second cut, half round the fore-arm. The skin should now be stripped from the front and back of the arm, as low as the transverse incision, so that the fat or the superficial fascia, which contains the cutaneous vessels and nerves, may be denuded. Between the skin and the prominence of the olecranon a large bursa may be seen. T