DISSECTION OF THE NASAL CAVITY. 142 lower, crow-quill, that leads into the cavity of the upper jaw. The inferior meatus equals in length four-fifths of the outer wall of the nasal fossa; in its front is the opening of the ductus ad nasum, and nearly on a level with it, behind, the Eusta- chian tube may be seen. Nares. The nares. In the recent condition of the parts, each fossa has a distinct anterior opening in the face, and another in the pharynx, but in the skeleton there is only one com- mon opening, in front, for both sides. These apertures, and the parts bounding them, have been before described (pp. 32. and 131.). Mucous The mucous membrane that lines the nasal fossae is called oTthe the pituitary or Schneiderian membrane. It is continuous with the integument at the nostrils, and with the membrane lining the pharynx through the posterior nares: moreover, it is also continuous, by means of the openings into the meatuses, with that of the ear and eyeball, and with the lining membrane of the different sinuses, viz. frontal, eth- moidal, sphenoidal, and maxillary. Differs In the lower region of the nose, where chiefly the air gy bones passes to the lungs, the membrane is thick, and closely sinuses, united to the subjacent periosteum and perichondrium, and on the margins of the spongy bones it is projected somewhat by the large submucous vessels, so as to increase the extent of surface; but in the canals and sinuses it is very thin. Near the nostril it is furnished with papillas, and small hairs Some fo- (vibrissas). The foramina in the dry bones, that transmit closed, nerves or vessels, are entirely closed by the membrane, viz. anterior palatine, spheno-palatine, and the holes in the cri- others briform plate ; and the apertures, that lead to the sinuses Xhedby an^ the orbit, are much diminished by the lining they lt' receive : the membrane is stretched over the opening of the ductus ad nasum, and in it is a small aperture. From the close connection of the mucous membrane with the perios- teum, the lining membrane of the nose is sometimes called a fibro-mucous membrane. tureTof ^ne sur^ace *s covered by the apertures of muciparous |^nds_ glands, which are in greatest abundance, and of largest size, theiium. about the middle and posterior parts of the nasal fossae. In the lower part of the nose, and in the sinuses, its epithelium is of the columnar ciliated kind, which becomes laminated or