572 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Vena' Peculiarities of the vena cava.—In position.—Where trans- beVaisoay position of the viscera exists, the vena cava is found on the left on^ett Q£ Spine> j>U£ without that transposition the vein may be or "* on the left side of the aorta as high as the renal vein, before it part, ° 7 crosses that vessel to take its usual place, or may In ending. — Instead of opening into the heart, the lower cava the azy- may De found entering the upper cava; and in these rare instances gos vein. jt finds its way to that vessel by entering the intercostal or azygos vein. In this condition the inferior cava is wanting at the heart, and the blood from the lower part of the body is then transmitted to the heart by the superior cava. Should this deviation exist, the hepatic veins would form a separate trunk, and open into the right auricle in the situation of the inferior cava. THE DEEP MUSCLES. The deep muscles in the interior of the abdomen, that re- main to be learnt, are the psoas, iliacus, and quadratus lum- ber um. Some fasciae are also to be seen in connection with the muscles. Psoas The psoas magnus reaches from the lumbar vertebrae to sitauan-US' the femur, and is situate partly in the abdomen and partly origin, in the thigh. The muscle arises from the front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; from the bodies of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae by five pro- cesses, but it is not attached to all the side of the vertebrae, for each process is connected only with the upper and lower border of the two contiguous vertebrae, and their interver- Direc- tebral substance. The fibres are directed downwards, and the give rise to a roundish muscle, which gradually diminishes towards Poupart's ligament. Inferiorly the muscle ends in a tendon on the outer aspect, which receives the fibres of the iliacus, and passes beneath Poupart's ligament to be inser- inserted behind the small trochanter of the femur, and into the contiguous part of the bone. Connec- The abdominal part of the muscle has the following con- infront, nections : —in front of it are the internal arch of the dia- phragm, the kidney with its vessels and duct, the spermatic vessels and the genito-crural nerve, and, near Poupart's behind; ligament, the ending of the external iliac artery. Poste- riorly the muscle is in contact with the transverse processes, with part of the quadratus lumborum, and with the innomi-