DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 594 Form its under surface the urethra is conducted. Besides the at- attach. tachment of the corpora cavernosa by the crura, the body of penis, the penis is connected with the front of the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament. Corpus* The corpus spongiosum urethrce encloses the urethral sum ^ canal, and forms the head of the penis. It has a vascular and erectile structure, like the corpora cavernosa, but is much sur- less strong. Commencing posteriorly by a dilated part — urethra, the bulb, this structure extends forwards around the urethra swells to the extremity of the penis, where it swells out into the conical glans penis, the bulb, The bulb is in front of the triangular ligament of the urethra, and opposite the point of junction of the crura of the corpora cavernosa. It is directed backwards slightly below the membranous part of the urethra, and is fixed by iobed1 iS ^rous tissue to the front of the triangular ligament. The accelerator urinae muscle covers it. The enlargement usually presents a central depression, with a bulging on each side, and is subdivided into two lobes, and the The glans penis is somewhat conical in form, and covers gians the blunt end of the corpora cavernosa. Its base is directed pemS' backwards, and is marked by a slightly prominent border — the corona glandis; it is also sloped obliquely along the under aspect, from the apex to the base. In the apex is a vertical slit, in which the urethral canal terminates ; and below that aperture is an excavation that contains the frasnum preputii. Section III. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. Con. In the pelvis of the female are contained the lower end of the thets of intestinal tube, and the bladder and the urethra, as in the peiws? m&le; but there are in addition the generative organs, viz. the uterus with its accessories, and the vagina, and their Position. — The rectum is posterior to the rest as in the tion!" ma^e pelvis and forms a like curve. In the concavity of the bent intestine lie the uterus with its appendages, and the tube of the vagina. And in front of these are the bladder and the urethral canal. In this sex there are three tubes