DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 584 ments, ■with vessels and nerves liga- coccyx, one border of the muscle reaching towards the pyriformis, and the other to the levator ani; and between the posterior border and the pyriformis will be the sacral plexus of nerves, and the sciatic and pudic vessels. The greater part of the rest of the space will be seen to be closed by leva- by the levator ani, which extends forwards from the coccy- tor am, J 7 * geus and the spine of the ischium, to the posterior part of the pelvic7 symPnvsis pubis, and meets its fellow inferiorly; but, in below fr°n*> *ne muscles of opposite sides are separated by the the urethra and the prostate gland, and the interval between Pukes. m L . . them is closed by the fascia lining the pelvis. Coccy- The coccygeus muscle is flat and triangular, and assists gens; . origin t0 close the outlet of the pelvis. It arises by a narrow part from the spine of the ischium, and some fibres are attached to the small sacro-sciatic ligament, Widening as it passes and in. inwards, the muscle is inserted into the side of the coccyx sertion. 7 J Connec- an(^ tne lower part of the sacrum. The inner surface looks surlaces to tne pelvis, and is in contact with the rectum on the left side ; the opposite surface rests on the small sacro-sciatic and ligament. The posterior border is contiguous to the pyri- borders. * . , , n . . n formis muscle, only vessels and nerves intervening, and the anterior or lower border is parallel to the levator ani muscle. evator The levator ani is a thin flat muscle, which is attached skua* above to the side of the pelvis, and descends below into the tlon' outlet of that cavity, where it joins its fellow, and supports Origin the viscera. It arises anteriorly by fleshy fibres from an bony7 oblique line on the posterior aspect of the pubes, and pos- partiy teriorly, from the inner surface of the spine of the ischium ; branous. and between those two points of bone the muscle takes origin from the under part of the recto-vesical fascia, along the line of the white band before alluded to (p. 582.). All the fibres are directed downwards to the middle line of the inser- body, to be inserted after the following manner: — The along anterior, the longest, descend by the side of the prostate line of and join, anterior to the rectum, with the muscle of the the peri- , . naeum. opposite side in the central point 01 the pennseum ; the middle fibres are inserted into the side of the rectum ; whilst the posterior meet the opposite muscle behind the gut, and are also attached to the side of the coccyx, as before de- Borders scribed in the dissection of the perinaBum (p. 441.). The and