THE THIRD VENTRICLE. 223 lami, and reaches to the base of the brain. Its situation is in the middle line of the cerebrum, and below the level of is near the other ventricles, with which it communicates. Its brain, boundaries and communications are given below :— The roof is formed by the velum interpositum and the Roof, fornix. The floor is very oblique from behind forwards, so Floor, that the depth of the cavity is greater in front than behind : corresponding to the floor are the parts at the base of the brain, which lie between the crura cerebri and the anterior longitudinal fissure, viz. locus perforatus, corpora albicaritia, tuber cinereum, commissure of the optic nerves, and lamina cinerea. On the sides of the cavity the optic thalami are Parts situate. In front of the space are the descending pillars of sides, the fornix, with part of the anterior commissure of the cere- in front, brum in the 'interval between them. Behind, are the and be- posterior commissure and the pineal body. Crossing the centre of the space, from one optic thalamus to another, is a band of gray matter — the soft commissure. This space communicates with the other ventricles of the opening brain in the following way : — In front, it joins each lateral other ventricle through the foramen of Monro, and opens into the cies. lifth ventricle in the fetus. Behind, is an opening into the fourth ventricle, beneath the posterior commissure, which is named aqueduct of Sylvius. At the lower part, in front, there is a depression opposite the infundibulum (iter ad in- fundibulum). The lining of the ventricle is continued into the neighbouring cavities through the different apertures of communication, and closes the iter ad infundibulum. Gray matter of the ventricle. — A stratum of gray matter Gray is seen to cover most of the surface of the ventricle. At the the ven- lower part of each optic thalamus, it envelops the crus of the fornix, and ascends to the septum lucidum ; and in the floor of the cavity it also exists in abundance, entering into the corpora albicantia, and uniting the structures that form the floor of the third ventricle. In the middle of the space it reaches from side to side, and forms most of the soft com- missure. The anterior commissure of the cerebrum is a round Anterior bundle of white fibres, which passes through each corpus su™Tls~ striatum, and connects the opposite hemispheres. To see form and extent.