HAMSTRING MUSCLES. 701 inferiorly in a tendon, which is inserted into the head of the is insert- fibula by two processes, that embrace the external lateral the fibu* ligament. The muscle is superficial, except at the origin, where it is covered by the gluteus; and it rests on the upper part of the semimembranosus, on the great sciatic nerve, and Connec- on the adductor magnus muscle. On the inner side is the the semitendinosus muscle as far as the ham. Its tendon gives offsets to the deep fascia of the limb. The semitendinosus is a slender muscle, and receives its Seim- name from its appearance. It arises from the tuberosity of nosus is . J attached the ischium with the long head of the biceps, and by fleshy to pelvis fibres from the tendon of that muscle ; and inferiorly it is in- tibia. serted into the inner surface of the tibia, close below the gracilis, and for about the same distance. This muscle, like the biceps, is partly covered by the gluteus maximus; it rests on the semimembranosus, and on the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. A tendinous intersection is to be observed about its middle. The outer border is in con- sur- tact with the biceps as far as the popliteal space. As the par?sding tendon turns forwards to its insertion, an expansion is con- with it. tinued from it to the fascia of the leg; and it is separated from that of the sartorius by the bursa before referred to (p. 665.). The semimembranosus muscle is tendinous at both ends, semi- and its name is taken from the membraniform appearance of n^sus™" the upper tendon. The muscle is attached above to the highest impression on the back of the tuberosity of the ischium, above and external to the semitendinosus and bi- ceps ; and it is inserted below at the hinder and inner part of reaches the head of the tibia. The muscle presents a thick fleshy pre°i™s to belly inferiorly, where it bounds the popliteal space: on it is tlbia' the semitendinosus, which is lodged in a hollow in the upper Parts tendon ; and beneath it is the adductor magnus. Along the it. outer border is the great sciatic nerve, and below the place of division of that nerve, is the internal popliteal trunk. The insertion of the muscle will be dissected with the ten- dons in connection with the knee-joint. The great sciatic nerve lies on the adductor magnus Great between the buttock and the popliteal space, and divides into nerve in the two popliteal nerves about the middle of the thigh, thigh, though its point of bifurcation may be carried upwards