DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 520 SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. General Sympathetic Nerve.—In the abdomen the sympathetic Sfin" nerve consists, as in the thorax, of a gangliated cord on each domen" side of the vertebral column ; and of prevertebral centres or plexuses, which furnish branches to the viscera. Two Two prevertebral plexuses are found in the abdomen, centres, One of these is the solar or epigastric plexus, which is placed behind the stomach, and supplies nerves to all the viscera and by- above the cavity of the pelvis. The other, or the hypogas- tric^" trie plexus, is situate in the pelvis, and distributes nerves to the pelvic viscera. The offsets or the secondary plexuses of these centres accompany the bloodvessels to their destina- tion. Part to The visceral part of the sympathetic nerve that remains in3 the11 to be seen, consists of the great epigastric centre, viz. the men' semilunar ganglia and the solar plexus, with their offsets. How to Dissection, — To denude the great prevertebral centre soiiarare above mentioned, the following dissection is to be made: — plexus. ^fter ^e a«r jiag keen je£ out 0f stomach and the duo- denum, the portal vein, the common bile duct, and the gas- troepiploic artery are to be cut through behind the pylo- rus ; and the stomach, the duodenum, and the pancreas are to be drawn over to the left side. On raising the liver, and taking away some cellular tissue, the vena cava appears : the vein is to be cut across above the junction of the renal vein with it, and the lower end is to be drawn down with hooks, semi* Beneath the vein the dissector will find the large reddish gangHa. semilunar ganglion of the right side. From its inner part he should trace the numerous nerves which form the solar plexus around the coeliac and superior mesenteric arteries; and should unravel the offsets around those arteries, with their secondary plexuses. From the outer part of the gan- glion branches are to be traced to the kidney, the supra-renal body, and the diaphragmatic arteries. At its upper part the student may observe the large splanchnic nerve; and deeper than it, one or two other smaller splanchnic nerves, that throw themselves into the solar and renal plexuses. Mixed up with the nerves of the solar plexus are numerous