190 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. of communications between the arteries at the base of the brain; for the vessels of the brain are united freely both on their own side and across the middle line, and give rise to an vessels arterial circle. On each side this circle is formed by the that take a share trunk of the internal carotid, giving forwards the anterior cerebral, and backwards the posterior communicating artery. In front it is constructed by the converging anterior cere- bral, and the anterior communicating artery; and behind, by the bifurcation of the basilar trunk into the posterior cerebral arteries. In the area of the circle lie the several parts of the brain that correspond to the floor of the third and the ventricle. The complete inosculation between the cranial free inos- culation vessels, in the circle of Willis, allows at all times a free cir- between them, culation of blood through the brain, even though a large vessel on one side should be obstructed. veins of The veins of the brain enter the sinuses of the dura the • • • brain, mater, instead of uniting into trunks that are companions to the arteries. Dissec- Dissection. — The pia mater and the vessels are now to be tion. . stripped from the brain, and the origin of the cranial nerves to be defined. Over the greater part of the cerebrum, the pons, and the medulla, the pia mater is detached with tole- rable facility by using two pair of forceps; but over the cerebellum the membrane adheres so closely that it will re- quire some care to remove it without tearing the substance Care to of the brain. In clearing out the fissure between the halves in re- of the cerebellum on the under surface, the membrane that p£m2 bounds on each side the opening of the fourth ventricle will probably be taken away. The student should therefore ob- serve the position and size of that opening between the back of the medulla oblongata and the inferior vermiform process. When the surface has been cleaned, the brain is to be re- placed in the spirit till it is hardened. Section II. ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. Crigin The cranial nerves take origin from the encephalon, with one exception (spinal accessory), and leave the skull through apertures in that bony case.