5 TEMPORAL MUSCLE. arid from all the surface of the impression on the side of the skull, known as the temporal fossa. From this origin the fibres descend converging around a tendon, and are inserted inser- through it into the coronoid process 01 tne lower jaw. On the cutaneous surface is the temporal fascia, with the parts superficial to that membrane; and concealed by the muscle compe- ar e the deep temporal vessels and nerves, which ramify in it. The insertion of the muscle underneath the zygoma will be afterwards followed. Dissection.—For the dissection of the vessels and nerves How to let the head be turned to the left side, and let the piece of skin on skin, that covers the opposite half of the head, be removed by side* means of an incision carried along the eyebrow and zygoma to a little behind the ear. The flap of integument is then to be raised from before backwards, but the subcutaneous fat should be left till the nerves are found. Behind the ear the skin should be reflected as on the other side, in order to uncover the posterior auricular vessels and nerves. Along the eyebrow are the branches of vessels and nerves seek that come from the orbit, viz. the supra-orbital and frontal and ves. vessels, and the supra-orbital and supra-trochlear nerves, front!1 They lie at first beneath the muscular fibres, and the student must cut through these to find them: the supra-orbital branches issue opposite the middle, and the supra-trochlear near the inner part of the orbit. On the side of the head, in front of the ear, are the super- 0n side ficial temporal vessels and nerves; and somewhat above the zygoma are branches of the facial and superior maxillary nerves, whose branches join. Behind the ear, and close to it, are the posterior auricular vessels and nerve. Branches from the great auricular nerve to the tip and back of the ear will be likewise seen; one or more of these should be traced to their junction with the posterior auricular nerve. At the back of the head the ramifications of the occipital at back of head. vessels, and the large and small occipital nerves will be found; the former nerve lies by the side of the artery, and the latter about midway between it and the ear. Cutaneous Vessels.—The arteries of the scalp are fur- vessels nished by the internal and external carotid arteries, and scalp. B 3