CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. 387 stratum of areolar tissue ; an inner lining of thin nucleated like epithelium ; and a middle coat formed chiefly of circular vessels, fibres, like those in the blood vessels. Cord of the Sympathetic Nerve. — The thoracic part ^oracic of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve lies on each ^™Pa~ side of the spinal column, and is placed over the heads of the ribs and the intercostal vessels. The ganglia present on it has ° 0 A twelve are usually twelve, one being opposite each dorsal nerve, but ganglia, this number varies much: of these, the upper one is the largest; and the last two are rather anterior to the line of the others, being situate on the side of the bodies of the cor- responding vertebras. In the chest the sympathetic nerve is covered by the pleura, and it is continuous above and below and is covered with the cord in the neck and the abdomen. by pieu- Each ganglion furnishes external branches to communicate Branch- with the spinal nerves, and internal or visceral branches. es Connecting branches. — Two offsets pass outwards from to join each ganglion to join a spinal nerve (intercostal). In the spinal branches of communication both spinal and sympatheticnerves nerve fibres are combined; but one consists almost entirely of white, and the other nearly altogether of sympathetic nerve fibres. The internal branches differ in size and distribution, ac- to supply cording as they are derived from the upper or the lower six •ganglia. The branches of the upper six are very small, and are In the distributed to the aorta, and the vertebrae and their liga- sixgan. ' & gliaoff- ments. Mr. Swan describes a plexus in front of the spine, sets are n n smalL as formed by the union of the branches of opposite sides. From the third and fourth ganglia offsets enter the posterior pulmonary plexus. The branches of the lower six ganglia are larger and J^J1® much whiter than the others, and are united together to six> . large and form visceral nerves (splanchnic) of the abdomen. These wnite> v 1 J and form splanchnic nerves are three in number (large, small, and three nerves. smallest), and pierce the diaphragm to end in the solar or the renal plexus. a. The great splanchnic nerve is a large white cord, which Great arises by roots apparently from only four or five ganglia nic, (sixth to the tenth), but its fibres may be traced upwards on the knotted cord as hish as the third ganglion. The nerve which