DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 634 THE BLADDER, URETHRA,, AND RECTUM. Anatomy Bladder. — The peculiarities in the form and size of the bladder, female bladder have been noticed in the description of the before, connections of the viscera of the female pelvis (p. 598.). For a notice of its structure, the anatomy of the male bladder is to be referred to (p. 614.). tionPo7ft~ Dissection.—To prepare the bladder, distend it with air, and remove the peritoneal covering and the cellular mem- brane from the muscular fibres. The urethra is to be slit open along the upper part with the bladder, after their external anatomy has been learnt. Length Urethra.—The length and the connections of this ex- of ure- thra; cretory tube are given in page 598. size; The average diameter of the tube is rather more than a quarter of an inch, and the canal is enlarged and funnel- shaped towards the neck of the bladder. Near the external it can be aperture there is a hollow in the floor of the tube. In con- much A dilated, sequence of not being surrounded by such resistant struc- tures, the urethra is much more dilatable than the corre- sponding passage in the male. Tube Structure. — This tube, like the urethra of the male, con- in the sists of a mucous coat, which is enveloped by a plexus of blood-vessels, and by muscular fibre. Mucous The mucous coat is pale except near the outer orifice. It coat* is marked by longitudinal folds ; and one of these, in the a fold in floor of the canal, resembles the median crest in the male floor. urethra (p. 618.). Around the outer orifice are some mucous Follicles follicles : and towards the inner end are some tubular mucous and J 3 glands, glands, whose apertures are arranged in lines between the folds of the membrane, and are turned towards the bladder. Epithe- A laminar epithelium is spread over the surface, which be- comes irregular in form (spheroidal) at the bladder. Sub- A submucous stratum of elastic and muscular tissues inter- mucous .ill it tissue, venes, as in the male, between the mucous coat and the vascular structure that envelops the canal of the urethra. Rectum Rectum.—The structure of the rectum is so similar in the like that male6 two sexes tnat student may use the description given for that tube in the section on the anatomy of the viscera of the male pelvis (p. 622.).