550 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Renal The interior of the kidney appears on a section to consist stance of two different materials, viz. of an external granular or into cor- cortical part: and of internal, darker coloured, pyramidal tical and pyrami- masses, that converge towards the centre, and are connected with the divisions of the excretory duct. But it will subse- quently appear that each of these parts is constructed of the same elements, though somewhat differently arranged. Extent The cortical substance, or the external part, forms about of cor- ? . tical sub- three-fourths of the kidney : it covers the pyramidal masses stance; ... with a layer about two lines in thickness, and sends prolon- coiour; gations between the same nearly to their extremities. Its colour is of a light red, unless the kidney is blanched ; and ence-1" *ts consistence ^s so slight that the mass gives way beneath the finger. This layer is formed of a congeries of convo- si°tion°" ^uted uriniferal tubes, surrounded by vascular plexuses ; and, in a well-injected specimen, red points (Malpighian bodies) are seen scattered here and there through its texture. Pyra- The pyramidal masses (pyramids of Malpighi, medullary number substance,) are twelve or eighteen in number, and converge form, to the sinus of the kidney. Each mass is conical in form: rection; it has the base turned towards the circumference of the organ, where it is surrounded by the cortical substance ; and the apex, which is free from cortical covering, directed to the hollow at the inner part of the kidney. At this last spot it end in ends in a smooth, rounded part, named mamilla or papilla, papiJis. .g surroun(jed by one of the divisions (calyx) of the excretory tube. Occasionally two of the masses are united Physical in one papillary termination. This portion of the kidney is ters; denser than the cortex, its colour is darker, and its cut sur- composi- face has a grooved appearance. The conically shaped mass is constructed of uriniferal tubes, like the cortical covering; but in it the tubes have become straight, and are converging to their termination on the papilla. If the mass is com- pressed, urine will exude from the tubes, through apertures in the apex. Rudi- In the human foetus, and in some animals, the kidney is divided condi-ry hito separate lobes; and each lobe consists of a pyramidal mass, th? °f witn a cortical envelope. With the growth of the human kidney kidney, the original divisions disappear, and the cortical covering of con- tiguous lobes is blended to produce the interlobular cortical part. But in the adult the uriniferous tubes and the vessels of each pyra-