385 LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. stomach. The fibres begin by longitudinal bands opposite the cricoid cartilage (p. 136.). The internal layer of circular fibres is continuous above J^jj" with the fibres of the pharynx; these are more oblique at ^"slar the middle than at either end of the oesophagus. b. The cellular layer is between the muscular and mucous ^Jular coats, and attaches one to the other loosely. c. The mucous coat or lining will be seen on cutting open M^ous the tube to be reddish in colour above, but pale below, and of some thickness. It is very loosely connected with the mus- cular coat, and is thrown into longitudinal folds when the oesophagus is contracted. Lining the interior is a thick layer of scaly epithelium, and the surface is studded with minute papillae. Some compound glands (oesophageal) are scattered along some^ the tube ; and at the lower part of the gullet they form a ring (cardiac glands) close to the stomach. Lymphatics of the Thorax.—In the thorax there are in the lymphatic vessels both of the wall and the viscera, which lymph- enter collections of glands in certain positions, and end in glands and duct. either the one or the other of the two lymphatic ducts. Besides these, the large thoracic duct traverses the thorax in its course from the abdomen to the neck. a. Lymphatic glands, — Along the course of the internal several mammary artery is a chain of sternal or mediastinal glands, glands, which receive lymphatics from the front of the chest, the which thymus gland, the pericardium, and the upper surfaces of lymph- the diaphragm and liver. On each side of the spine, near collect- the heads of the ribs as well as between the intercostal mus- cles, is a set of intercostal glands, that receives the lymphatics of the posterior wall of the thorax. At the division and along the trachea are numerous bronchial glands, through which the lymphatics of the lung pass. And beneath the arch of the aorta are a few cardiac glands, which receive the lymphatics of the heart. Along the side of the aorta and oesophagus is a chain of oesophageal glands, which are joined by the lymphatics of the oesophagus, and communicate with those of the lungs. b. The thoracic duct is the great channel by which the Thoracic lymphatic and lacteal fluid of all the lower half of the body, and that of the left side of the upper half of the body, is