409 FOURTH LATER OF MUSCLES. from the spines of the last two dorsal and the first two lumbar vertebrae, and from the contiguous tendon of the lon- gissimus. From this origin the fibres ascend, forming arches oniy^ whose concavity looks inwards, and are connected by ten-th,edor- J 7 J sal ver- dinous processes to the spines of the dorsal vertebrae, as low tebr8B- as the eighth or ninth, or only for half that extent. * The erector spin^e is the muscular mass that lies on Erector spinas the side of the spine in the lumbar region. It is single and is single pointed below; and its cutaneous surface is covered near the origin, sacrum by a wide and strong tendon, which is common to it and the multifidus spinas. The muscle arises from the ten- don or aponeurosis above mentioned, and from the inner sur- face of the innominate bone at its posterior part. Opposite but is the last rib it divides into sacro-lumbalis and longissimus at the dorsi. The attachment on the inner aspect of the os ilii into two. corresponds in part to the origin of the gluteus maximus on the outer aspect. * The sacro-lumbalis (ilio costalis) is the smallest of the sacro- r _ i • • . i* t • lumbalis two pieces resulting trom the division ol the erector spinas. The fibres that compose it end in six or seven flat tendons, which are connected together by their margins, and are ^m-^ inserted into the angles of as many of the lower ribs. The into six ° J m lower muscle is continued onwards to the other ribs and the neck ribs, by a fleshy part, which constitutes the two under-mentioned muscles: — * The musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem begins by Muscu- ° J lus ac- a series of tendinous and fleshy bundles on the angles of the cess°- J & nus six lower ribs, internal to the tendons of insertion of the sacro-lumbalis ; and ends in tendons, which are inserted into is at- 7 tached the remaining ribs (upper six) in a line with those of the tothe sacro-lumbalis, and into the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. * The cervicalis ascendens is a muscular slip that prolongs Cenri- : the accessorius into the neck. United with the preceding, ascen- this muscle is attached like it to four ribs (third, fourth, fifth, reaches and sixth), and is inserted into the tips (posterior tubercles) the neck* of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebras with the same numerical designation. * The longissimus dorsi gradually decreases in size as it Longis- ° * sirrms ascends along the thorax. Internally the muscle is inserted dorsi into the transverse processes of all the lumbar and dorsal \se^d