DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 90 surrounding the articulation, which serve the purpose of a capsular membrane. Dissec- Dissection. — After the external lateral ligament and the capsule of the joint have been removed, an inter-articular cartilage, with a synovial membrane above and below it, will be exposed. Fibro- The inter-articular fibro-cartilage is adapted to the sur- iage;" faces of the bones. It is elongated transversely, is thin- ner in the centre than at the margins, and an aperture is its form sometimes present in the middle. The upper surface fits into the glenoid fossa, being concavo-convex from before backwards, and the lower is moulded to the convexity of and the condyle of the jaw. Externally it is connected with the ments" external lateral ligament, and in front the external pterygoid muscle is attached to it. Two sy- Two synovial membranes are present in the articulation— mem- one above, and one below the fibro-cartilage. The lower one is the smaller of the two; and, besides investing the interior of the capsule, it extends from this to the surface of the jaw. stylo- Another structure — the stylo-maxillary ligament —is lary liga-described as a uniting band to this articulation. This is a process of the deep cervical fascia, which extends from the styloid process to the hinder part of the ramus of the jaw. The piece of fascia here referred to, gives attachment to the stylo-glossus muscle, and has been seen to separate the paro- tid and submaxillary glands. Dissec- Dissection. — The condyle of the jaw is next to be dis- tlon' articulated, still keeping the external pterygoid muscle uncut, so as to see the fifth nerve beneath ; and in cutting through the ligaments the dissector must be careful of the auriculotemporal nerve close beneath. By drawing for- wards the pterygoid muscle, and removing some cellular membrane, the dissector will find the trunk and branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. All the four small muscular branches of the nerve should be traced to the trunk in the foramen ovale of the sphenoid bone ; its auriculotemporal trunk should be followed backwards with care behind the articulation; and the small chorda tympani should be found joining the posterior part of the gustatory nerve near the skull. The middle meningeal artery is to be sought beneath