DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 196 the glossopharyngeal nerve, by a series of filaments that, collected at first into bundles, are finally gathered into one flat band. spinal c. The spinal accessory nerve (eleventh nerve, Soemmer- acces- . . x sory has ring) consists oi two parts — accessory to the vagus, and parts, spinal. acces- The accessory part is of small size, and arises by fine filaments in a line with the roots of the vagus, as low as the first cervical nerve. Finally this fasciculus throws itself into the pneumo-gastric nerve outside the skull. (See p. 116.) spinal, The spinal part is firm and round, like the third or the sixth nerve, but only a small piece of it can now be seen. It takes origin, by a number of fine filaments, from the lateral surface of the cord near the fissure in this position, as low as the sixth cervical nerve. Along the side of the cord it lies between the ligamentum dentatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, with the upper of which it may be some- times connected; and it finally enters the skull by the fora- men magnum. ail con- All three of the nerves converge to a spot below the crus the skill, cerebelli, where they rest on a small lobe of the cerebellum (flocculus). From that spot they are directed outwards to to the foramen lacerum jugulare (p. 20.). The deep Deep origin. — The fibres of the nerves pierce the medulla, and onsln' each nerve, except the spinal part of the last, takes origin, accord- ing to Stilling*, from a special nucleus at the back of the medulla oblongata, and near the lower angle of the fourth ventricle, of gios- The nucleus of the glossopharyngeal nerve and that of the vagus ryngeai". are m a line? one above another, outside the fasciculus teres. See of vagus, the Anatomy of the Fourth Ventricle, p. 237. of two The accessory part of the spinal accessory enters a nucleus, parts' rather below that of the vagus, which corresponds to the posterior of spinal horn of the gray substance of the cord. The spinal part of the sory?" nerve pierces at intervals the lateral column of the cord, and its roots are connected with a gray external projection near the base of the anterior cornu of the gray crescent of the cord. Ninth The NINTH Or HYPO-GLOSSAL NERVE of Willis (twelfth nerve* nerve, Soemmering) is placed on the front of the medulla oblongata, and issues by a series of filaments from the sulcus between the pyramidal and olivary bodies, in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves. * Consult his treatise, Ueler den Bau der Medulla oblongata.