532 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. is co- brane of the small intestine is of the columnar or cylindrical kind. For the villi it forms a very distinct covering of elongated or prismatic pieces ; it also sinks into the crypts of Lieberkuhn, and gives them a lining. How to Dissection.—To show the cellular membrane between the see the coatular coa*s °f tne intestme> a piece of the bowel turned inside out, is to be inflated forcibly; and to ensure the success of the attempt, a few cuts may be previously made here and there through the peritoneal coat. The air enters the wall of the intestine, where the peritoneal covering is wanting, and then spreads through the whole gut; but opposite the solitary glands and the patches of Peyer the mucous coat is more closely connected with the neighbouring structures, and the subjacent cellular stratum will not be distended with the air. The intestine may be examined when it is dry. Arteries; Vessels of the intestine. — The branches of arteries ramify in the submucous cellular layer, and end in small twigs that form a network in the mucous membrane to supply the valves, the villi, and the glands. Opposite the patches of Peyer's glands the intestine is most vascular; and the vessels form circles around the follicles, and supply offsets to them, veins; The veins have their usual resemblance to the companion absorb- arteries. The absorbents consist of a superficial longitudinal ents' set (lymphatics), and of a deep transverse set (lacteals), which end in larger vessels in the mesentery. Beneath the patches of Peyer's glands the lymphatics form distinct plexuses. Two Structure of the bile duct.—The bile duct consists of a the biie strong fibrous coat, with some contractile fibre-cells, and of duct' an internal or mucous coat. Opening on the surface of the glands, mucous membrane are two sets of glands; one set consists of small single cells collected together,, and the other glands have branched tubes. LARGE INTESTINE. Extent ^ne laroe intestine is the part of the alimentary canal gut1?6 between the termination of the ileum and the anus. Its divisions, and the connection of these by peritoneum to the length; abdominal wall have been described (pp. 497.504.). In length this part of the alimentary canal measures about five or six