266 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. the muscle is then to be followed forwards to its insertion into the humerus. Next, the axillary vessels and nerves, and the offsets of these to the muscles should be nicely cleaned. subsca- The subscapulars muscle occupies the under surface of the scapula, and is concealed by that bone, when the limb is mis the in its natural position. The muscle arises from all the con- scapuia; cave surface of the ventral aspect of the scapula, except the neck and the angles, and is connected to the ridges of the is in- bone by tendinous processes. It is inserted by a tendon into serted . into the small tuberosity of the humerus, and by fleshy fibres hume- . T . rus. into the neck of the bone for nearly an inch below that Connec. process. By one surface the muscle bounds the axilla, and is in contact with the axillary vessels and nerves and the serratus magnus. By the other, it rests against the scapula and the shoulder joint; and between its tendon and the root of the coracoid process is a bursa, which generally com- municates with the shoulder joint. The lower border pro- jects much beyond the bone: it is contiguous to the teres major, and comes into contact with the latissimus dorsi and the long head of the triceps: along this border is the sub- scapular artery, which here gives backwards its dorsal branch. Dissec Dissection. — The subscapular muscle is next to be sepa- rated from the bone; and at the same time the tendinous processes of origin, the connection between the tendon of insertion and the capsule of the shoulder joint, as well as the bursa, are to be observed. A small arterial anastomosis ( on the ventral surface of the bone is likewise to be dissected out. small The infrascapular artery, ramifies on the ventral surface scapular of the scapula, and is an offset of the dorsal branch of the drtery* subscapular vessel (p. 258.). It enters beneath the sub- scapularis muscle, and forms an anastomosis with small twigs of the supra, and posterior scapular branches. Position. Position. — The examination of the muscles on the opposite shoulder surface of the scapula is next to be undertaken. For this purpose the scapula is to be turned over, and a block, which is of sufficient height to allow the shoulder to be made pro- minent, is to be placed between it and the arm. Dissec- Dissection. — The skin is to be removed from the pro- tion of