DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 536 that of the small intestine. This difference of the surface in the two portions of the tube is well seen in the ileo-csecal valve; for the upper surface which looks to the small intes- tine is covered with villi even to the edge of the opening, whilst the lower surface which is covered by the lining mem- brane of the caecum is free from those projections, srruc- Microscopic appearances,—In a fresh piece of intestine, tare very . . like that the mucous membrane will be seen, under the microscope, to gut.ma posies small tubes or crypts, some larger solitary follicles, and an epithelial covering. Tubes or The tubules or crypts occupy the whole length of the crypts jarge an(j resemble those of the small intestine, but are more more numerous and closer together. Their orifices on the ousthan surface are circular, and are more uniformly diffused than the apertures of the crypts in the small intestine. A ver- but like tical section of the membrane will show the tubes to extend Lieber- vertically from the surface into the submucous coat, and to be of greater length than the crypts of Lieberkiihn in the jejunum and ileum, simple The solitary follicles are found all through the large intes- nlosun **ne> scattered nere and there ; but they are in greatest nura- the m. ber in the cascum, and in the vermiform appendix. They SiZe are whitish rounded bodies from 1 to 1 line in diameter, and are situate in the submucous cellular layer amongst the and tubules. These follicular glands are simple sacs with a form. diiatecl cavity and a narrow neck opening into the intestine, being in form something like a small rounded fruit with a stalk. Epithe- The epithelium is of the columnar kind, as it is in the lmm* small intestine, and enters the tubules. Vessels Vessels. — The distribution of the vessels in the wall of of the large intestine is the same as in that of the smaller the gut. bowel. The absorbent vessels, after leaving the intestine, join the lymphatic glands along the side of the colon. THE PANCREAS. Form The pancreas is a narrow flattened gland about seven length; inches in length, which has some resemblance to a dog's sions. tongue. It is larger at the right than at the left end; and is divided into a head, tail, and body, and form The head, or the right extremity, occupies the concavity