DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 696 and by the union of the heads of the gastrocnemius. Stretched across this cavity is the fascia lata; and, forming the deep bound b°un(^arJ? or tne floor, are the following parts, — the lower ary. end of the posterior surface of the femur included between the lines to the condyles, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the popliteus muscle with the upper end of the tibia. Greatest The popliteal space is widest opposite the knee-joint, and where the muscles are most drawn to the sides, and is deepest depth; 7 r contents, above the articular end of the femur. In it are contained the popliteal vessels and their branches, and the ending of the external saphenous vein; the popliteal divisions of the great sciatic nerve, and some of their branches; with some lymphatic glands, and a large quantity of fat. The small sciatic nerve lies over the space ; and the branch of the obturator is on the artery in the bottom of the hollow. Popliteal The popliteal artery is the continuation of the femoral extent- ^runkj an^ reaches from the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle; at this spot it terminates by bifurcating into the anterior and posterior part is in tibial vessels. In a part of its extent it lies in the ham, and the ham, . is uncovered by muscle ; but, inferiorly, it is beneath the and part gastrocnemius, and beyond the limits of the popliteal space beyond. ^ aDove defined : the description of the artery may, there- fore, be divided into two parts, corresponding with the differ- ence in the connections. The part In the ham the vessel is inclined obliquely from the inner space; side of the limb to the interval between the condyles of the course femur, and is then directed along the middle of the space and con- 7 ° 1 nections. over the knee-joint. In this course it is overlaid at first by the belly of the semimembranosus muscle, but thence on- wards to the gastrocnemius it is covered only by the fat, the fascia lata, and the integuments. Beneath it is the lower part of the posterior surface of the femur, together with the Position posterior ligament of the knee-joint. In contact with the ° vem vessel, and somewhat on its outer side, lies the popliteal vein, so that, on looking into the space, the arterial trunk is almost covered by it; but, lower down, in the interval be- tween the heads of the gastrocnemius, the vein and its branches altogether conceal the artery. More superficial than the large vessels, and slightly external to them in posi-