514 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. from the spleen on the one hand to the duodenum on the other; and on raising the duodenum, to find the common bile duct between it and the head of the pancreas. Extent Duodenum.—The first part of the small intestine, or the of duo- r ' denum; duodenum, begins at the small end of the stomach, and, crossing the spinal column, ends on the left side of the course secon(j lumbar vertebra. It makes a curve around the head and situ- ation. 0f the pancreas, and occupies the right hypochondriac, right lumbar, and umbilical regions of the abdomen : its peritoneal covering is incomplete and peculiar (p. 505.). From its Son" winding course around the pancreas it is divided into three parts — superior transverse, vertical, and inferior transverse. First The superior transverse part is free and moveable, like part is shortest, the stomach; it measures about two inches in length, and is and is ° move, directed from the pylorus to the neck of the gall bladder, ascending slightly in its progress from one point to another. In front it is overlapped by the liver, as well as by the gall bladder when this is distended; and behind it are the bile duct and the vena porta?. Second The vertical part is fixed almost immoveably by the peri- fixed," toneum and the pancreas. It is nearly three inches in length, and descends from the gall bladder as far as the third lumbar vertebra. Superficial to this part is the right bend and rests of the colon, and beneath it are the kidney and its vessels; kidney. wrhilst on its inner side is the head of the pancreas, with the common bile duct. The ducts of the pancreas and liver pour their contents into this piece of the duodenum. The The inferior transverse part is the longest of the three, partis and is continued across the spinal column to end in the este,lonS"jejunal portion of the small intestine. As it crosses the and is spine, it ascends from the third to the second lumbar ver- abie. tebra, and corresponds to the attachment of the transverse meso-colic fold of the peritoneum, being between its layers; it has the following connections with the parts around: — Parts In front of it are the superior mesenteric vessels, with their around it. plexus of nerves ; beneath it lie the aorta and the vena cava, , with the pillars of the diaphragm, and sometimes the left renal vein is between it and the aorta ; above it is the pancreas. • Form Pancreas. — The pancreas is situate behind the stomach, and situ- A . . ation of and has numerous and complicated connections. Of an