157 EXTRINSIC LINGUAL MUSCLES. contact with the border. On the dorsum of the tongue a thin muscular stratum, that is superficial to these fibres, is to be taken away with the mucous membrane; and beneath the tip, a junction between the stylo-glossus muscles of opposite sides is to be traced. Only the two parts of the hyo-glossus (basio and cerato- ofhyo- J r J ° v glossus; glossus, p. 99.), that arise from the body and great wing of the hyoid bone, are referred to above. To lay bare its third part, or the chondro-glossus, the other two portions of the muscle must be cut through with the lingual vessels, and raised, and shown entering the tongue. The origin of this small muscular slip, two to three lines in width, can now be seen close to the small cornu of the os hyoides, but it is con- cealed farther by some fibres of the genio-lryo-glossus that ascend to the upper constrictor ; and its radiation, near the upper surface of the tongue, will be prepared by taking the mucous membrane, and the thin underlying muscular stra- tum, from the remaining third of the dorsum. The part of the constrictor muscle that is attached to the Of con- 1 strictor tongue, and the ending of the genio-hyo-glossus, come into muscle, view through the division of the hyo-glossus. The Potato and Stylo-glossus are partly combined at their Com- attachment to the lateral part of the tongue, and form, paiato together with the following muscle, an expansion that covers styio- the three anterior fourths of the dorsum, beneath the super- position ficial lingualis. In this muscular stratum the fibres radiate Stent, from the point of contact of the muscles with the tongue, Fibres. some passing almost horizontally inwards to the centre, and others obliquely forwards to the tip of the organ. A great portion of the stylo-glossus is directed along the ^st of side of the tongue, and some fibres are inclined to the under g^ssus surface, in front of the hyo-glossus, to join those of the oppo-joins site muscle beneath the tip. Hyo-glossus.—The two superficial parts of the muscle Hyo- (basio and cerato-glossus, p. 99.) enter the under surface ofglossus' the tongue, between the stylo-glossus and the lingualis. J^Jf" After entering the lower surface by separate bundles, they ?arts s are bent round the margin of the tongue, and then form, mode of with the two preceding muscles, a stratum on the dorsum,endmg- whose disposition and extent have been before stated. The third part of the muscle, or the chondro-qhssus* is Deeper r 7 v 9 part or