88 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. outwards to the condyle of the jaw, and the internal, which is parallel in direction to the masseter, being inclined to the angle of the jaw. In removing the cellular membrane, the student must be careful not to take away the thin fascia of the internal lateral ligament, which is beneath the jaw. Position Many vessels and nerves will be found in this region, parts?. witn tne following position to other parts. Crossing inwards over the external pterygoid muscle, is the internal maxillary artery, which distributes offsets upwards and downwards ; sometimes this artery will be placed beneath the muscle. Escaping from beneath the lower border of the same muscle are the large dental and gustatory nerves, the latter being the more internal of the two; and appearing between the upper border of the muscle and the cranium, are the mas- seteric and deep temporal nerves. The buccal branch of nerve perforates the fibres of the external pterygoid near its inner attachment. Branches of the above-mentioned artery accompany these nerves. At the anterior part of the space now dissected, coursing along the posterior part of the upper jaw, is the small posterior dental nerve with an artery, inter- Between the jaws is the whitish narrow band of the Sry " pterygo-maxillary ligament, to which the buccinator and superior constrictor muscles are connected. External The external pterygoid muscle extends almost hori- £oidy~ zontally from the zygomatic fossa to the condyle of the lower zontai." jaw. Its origin is from the surface of bone corresponding to the zygomatic fossa, viz. from the great wing of the sphenoid Attach- bone, below the crest on it, from the outer- aspect of the external pterygoid plate, and from the tuberosity of the palate, and of the superior maxillary bone. The fibres are directed outwards and somewhat backwards, those attached to the margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure forming at inser- first a separate bundle, and are inserted into the hollow in tl0n front of the neck of the lower jaw bone, and into the inter- contigu-articular cartilage of the joint. Externally the muscle is parts, concealed by the temporal muscle and the lower jaw, and the internal maxillary artery lies on it. By the deep surface it is in contact with the inferior maxillary nerve, with a plexus of veins, and with the internal lateral ligament. The parts * in contact with the borders of the muscle have been enume- a second rated in the dissection of the region. Sometimes the slip of head.