123 SUBCLAVIAN AND CAEOTID ARTERIES. thyroid muscles. Behind the vessel is the longus colli muscle, with the inferior ganglion of the sympathetic. To the inner side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct; and the pleura is in contact with the anterior and outer parts. Its connections lower in the chest are described in the dissec- tion of the thorax. The pneumo-gastric nerve is in connection with this part Position , of vagus of the artery, but its position is parallel to the vessel instead of across it, as on the right side. The internal jugular vein, and Jn- 4 in like manner, is parallel to the artery for a short distance, jugular and superficial to it. Accompanying also the subclavian artery are the cardiac branches of the sympathetic, which course along the side of the vessel to the chest. The second and third parts of the artery, viz. beneath and Rest of beyond the scalenus, are the same as on the right side. tery. The branches of this artery resemble so closely those of Branch- the right trunk, that one description will serve for both. It sembie may be remarked, that the superior intercostal of the left right ° side is usually internal to the scalenus, instead of beneath it; in other words, this branch arises sooner (see p. 74.). The thoracic duct conveys the chyle and lymph of the Thoracic greater part of the body into the venous circulation. Es- comes caping from the thorax, between the subclavian artery and [n°™ x the oesophagus, the duct ascends in the neck as high as the seventh or sixth cervical vertebra. At the spot mentioned as its highest extent, the duct arches outwards above the subclavian artery, but in front of the scalenus muscle and phrenic nerve, to open into the subclavian vein rather ex- and joins subcla- ternal to the union of this with the iusfular vein. Double vian vein. valves, like those of the veins, are present in the interior of the tube; and two guard the opening into the posterior part of the vein, to prevent the passage of the blood into it. Most commonly the upper part of the duct is divided; and there may be separate openings in the large vein, corre- sponding to those divisions. Examine next the brachial and cervical plexuses, using spinal the description of the right side, p. 75. Common carotids.—On opposite sides, these vessels have Differ- a difference like that between the right and left subclavian origin": arteries ; for on the left side the vessel arises alone, and left^a-^ -from the arch of the aorta, and is, therefore, deep in the rotids.