575 THORACIC DUCT. — AZYGOS VEINS. over the aorta, and its pillars thrown to each side; then a piece may be cut out of the aorta opposite the first lumbar vertebra. The beginning of the duct (chyli receptaculum) ^ndthe and of the vena azygos may now be well seen, and may be tacuium, followed upwards into the thorax, veins, On the left side the student may trace the splanchnic spianch- nerves and the small vena azygos through the pillar of the nerves, diaphragm, and show the trunk of the sympathetic nerve entering the abdomen beneath the arch over the psoas muscle. Lymphatic glands, — A chain of glands is placed along Lumbar the side of the external iliac artery, and along the front and atics of J ° the ab- sides of the lumbar vertebrae; these are connected by short domen tubes which increase in size and diminish in number until at the upper part of the lumbar vertebrae only three trunks end in . n i i t i one duct. remain to iorm the common thoracic duct. Into these glands the lymphatics of the lower limb, those of the viscera Ducts and wall of the abdomen, and those of the genital organs |"ands!g and testicle are received. Receptaculum chyli. — The thoracic duct begins in the Begin- abdomen, by the union of three or four large lymphatic ves- the tho- sels. Its commencement is marked by a considerable dila- duct, tation, which is named receptaculum, and is placed on the right side of the aorta, about opposite the second lumbar on right vertebra. The duct then enters the thorax by passing at second through the diaphragm with the aorta, vertebra. Beginning of the azygos veins. — The right vein (vena Large azygos major) begins opposite the first or second lumbar vein; vertebra by a small branch, that is continuous with a lumbar vein, or, it may be, with the vena cava or the renal vein. However formed, the vein enters the thorax with the thoracic entrance duct and the aorta, to the right of which it lies ; but it may thorax, pierce the crus of the diaphragm, as it leaves the abdomen. The left or small azygos vein begins on the left side of the small spine, joining here one of the lumbar veins or the renal vein.08, vein, and passes through the pillar of the diaphragm, or through the aortic opening. The anatomy of these veins is given in the description of the thorax, p. 383.