NERVES OF THE THORAX. 369 NERVES OF THE THORAX. The pneumo-gastric and the sympathetic nerves supply the ^et™es viscera of the thorax. Some other nerves (intercostal) which thorax, are contained in the wall of the thorax, will be afterwards dissected. In the cavity of the thorax is the phrenic nerve, but this only courses through it to the diaphragm. Dissection.—The phrenic nerve is sufficiently denuded for ^o trace its examination; but the student should trace the vagus nerves, ° particu- nerve on each side through the cavity of the thorax. The lar]y < . vagus. vagus is to be followed, on both sides, behind the root of the lung, and a large plexus of it in that position is to be dis- sected out: some filaments of the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, that come forwards to the plexus, must be looked for. In front of the root, the nerve supplies a few pulmonary filaments, especially on the left side. From the root of the lung the vagus is to be pursued along the oeso- phagus, by raising the lung and removing the pleura. The phrenic nerve (internal respiratory) is a muscular Phrenic branch from the cervical plexus to the diaphragm (p. 77.). derived _ . . _ .' , f . ,. from the In its course through the thorax, it lies along the side of the cervical pericardium, and at a little distance from the root of the lung, with a small companion artery. When near the dia- and passes phragm each is divided into branches that perforate the J[j^|h muscle, and are distributed on its under surface. The nerves the 7 m dia- of opposite sides differ in length, and in their connections Pnragm. above the root of the lung. The right nerve is deeper at first in its position, and is Right > nerve also shorter and straighter than the left. As it enters the above ° . root of chest the nerve crosses behind the subclavian vein, but in lung, front of the internal mammary artery ; and it lies afterwards along the right side of the innominate vein and the superior cava till it comes in front of the root of the lung. The left nerve has the same position to vessels as the Leffc ^ A nerve right when entering the cavity, but it is directed in front of ^tve the arch of the aorta to the root of the lung ; and, lower down, it makes a curve around the projecting heart, before is longer reaching the arch of the aorta, the nerve is external to the rigaht. left common carotid artery, and crosses the left vagus from without inwards, so as to be internal to that nerve on the arch. B B 9