468 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. . inner and differ in strength: — the inner one is thin and straight, pillar, and is attached below, by means of the piece of the aponeu- rosis that forms it, into the front of the symphysis pubis, where it crosses over the corresponding piece of the opposite Outer side< The outer margin is the strongest, and is not straight like the inner, but is bent around the spermatic cord, so as to form a kind of groove for it. This margin is continuous with Poupart's ligament, and is attached below to the spine a fascia or tuberosity of the os pubis. A thin membrane (inter- prolong- m m v edjrom columnar or spermatic fascia) obscures the sides of the open- opening, ing, and is derived from some intermarginal or intercolumnar- The fibres on the surface of the aponeurosis. The ring gives cord in ' . 1 . . male, passage m the male to the spermatic cord, and in the female to the round ligament; in each case the transmitted part lies on the outer or lower margin or pillar as it passes through, and obtains a covering from the intercolumnar n?a1 pro- fibres. Through the same aperture the inguinal hernia paTs1011 protrudes from the wall of the abdomen, interSh" ^erco^umnar fibres form a layer over the aponeu- coium- rosis at the lower part of the abdomen, and bind together its fibres, parallel fibres, so as to construct a resisting membrane, menthl- Inferiorly a bundle of the fibres is connected with the outer fenoriy. third of Poupart's ligament, and is extended back to the crest They 0f the ilium. At the external abdominal ring they stretch upper from side to side (hence the origin of their name), and, part of v D ' rins> becoming stronger and aggregated together, close the upper ^d pro- part of that opening. Moreover they are prolonged on the thin in- Cord from the margin of the ring, and give rise to the mem- terco- . lumnar brane named intercolumnar fascia. On the left side, where fascia. .... the fascia is entire, this thin covering will be manifest on the surface of the cord, or on the round ligament. To see Dissection. — To see the attachments and connections of insertion part's"!- P°uPart's ligament, it will be necessary to reflect, on both gament. sjdes 0f the body, the lower part of the aponeurosis towards the thigh. For this purpose an incision is to be carried through the aponeurosis from the crest of the ilium nearly Throw to the linea alba. The aponeurosis is to be detached from piece of the subjacent parts with the handle of the scalpel; and when oblique, it cannot be separated farther from the tendons beneath, near the middle line, it is to be cut in the direction of a vertical line to the symphysis pubis. After the triangular