382 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. branches are the longest, and pass beneath the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the vena azygos major ; they supply many twigs to the bodies of the vertebrae on which they lie. The an- a. The anterior branch is the continuation of the common trunk tenor branch in direction and size. At first this artery lies in the centre of the fntercos- intercostal space, beneath the pleura and a fascia prolonged back- tai space war(js from the internal intercostal muscle, and resting on the external intercostal muscular layer. But near the angle of the rib it ascends to the upper limit of the space, and then continues onwards between the intercostal strata nearly to the anterior third of the thoracic wall, where it ends in two branches that anastomose with the intercostal arteries of the internal mammary (p. 263.). with Accompanying the artery are the intercostal nerve and vein, — the and vein, vein being commonly above, and the nerve below it; but in the upper spaces the nerve is at first higher than the artery, though it Offsets, soon takes its place below that vessel. Branches are furnished to the layers of intercostal muscles and to the ribs : about the centre (from front to back) of the intercostal space a superficial twig ac- companies the cutaneous nerve. Anasto- The upper artery of the set anastomoses with the superior inter- moses. costal branch of the subclavian artery ; and those below the true ribs enter the abdominal wall, and anastomose in it with the arteries of that part. Poste- b. The posterior branch turns backwards between the vertebra branch and the ascending costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed in thebaSi. the back. As it passes by the intervertebral foramen it furnishes a small spinal branch to the vertebras and the spinal cord. — (See Vessels of the Spinal Cord.) inter. The intercostal vein closely resembles the artery in its costal vein. course and branching. Near the head of the rib it receives a contributing dorsal branch, and then joins the azygos vein, superior The superior intercostal artery of the subclavian trunk is costal referred to in the dissection of the neck (p. 74.). Descending fade? over the neck of the first rib, external to the ganglion of the rived ... from sympathetic, it supplies a branch to the first intercostal vian. space : continuing to the second space, which it may supply oneor68 m l^e manner, it ends by anastomosing with the upper spaces, aortic intercostal branch. Each intercostal offset from it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, like the arteries from the aorta. The The vein corresponding to the artery is differently disposed on the on tne two sides. On the right it opens into the subclavian