CHOROID COAT. 759 3 c 4 ture. A laminar epithelium, like that on serous membranes, has an clothes its free surface, limn. The anterior elastic layer is also a transparent structure, Anterior . elastic similar in its properties to the posterior, but thicker than it layer is ("from l-1200th to l-2000th of an inch"), which extends conjunc- over the front of the cornea, and seems to be the basement membrane of the conjunctiva. From its posterior surface fine shreds are continued into the cornea proper. On its has an . epithe- anterior aspect is the conjunctival epithelium ; this is formed Hum. of three or four layers of scales, the deeper being columnar, but the superficial laminar in form. Choroid Coat. — The next coat or covering of the ball of Choroid ° coat is the eye is within the sclerotic, and is formed chiefly of blood- vascular, vessels and pigment cells; its strength is but slight, and its interior is lined by a pigmentary membrane. Dissection. — Supposing only the sclerotic coat of an eye cut through near the anterior part, as before directed (p. 756.), ^he0^fd it will be necessary, in order that the choroid coat may be coat- laid bare, to take away the rest of the sclerotic. The outer coat is to be removed in water, and two incisions are to be directed backwards in it, one on each side of the ball, to the optic nerve. In removing the flaps of that coat, some cellu- lar connections are to be broken through, but the slender vessels and nerves are to be preserved. The white ring around the eye in front, that comes into view during the dis- section, is the ciliary ligament, which limits the extent for- wards of the black choroid coat. For the purpose of seeing the anterior termination of the To see choroid coat in the ciliary processes, let another eyeball be liary taken on which the sclerotic covering has been divided, and Jesses the cornea removed as before; and after making two or three cuts in the sclerotic towards the optic nerve, the resulting flaps should be pinned to the wax in the plate, so as to sup- port the eye in an upright position. Let another eye be prepared in the same manner. On the one ball, in which the by an anterior view of the processes is to be obtained, proceed to remove with care the iris, tearing it away from both the white ring of the ciliary ligament, and the ciliary processes beneath, so as to leave these undisturbed and displayed. On and a i i i I-, • n i i posterior the other ball a posterior view ot the processes is to be pre- view, pared: in this dissection the iris is to be left untouched, but