31 THE PAROTID GLAND. by the sterno-mastoid muscle. Anteriorly, the gland projects somewhat on the face, and has a small accessory part, socia accesso- ry part. parotidis, prolonged from it over the masseter. Connected with the anterior border is the excretory duct The — duct of Stenson {ductus Stenonis), which crosses the crosses masseter below the socia parotidis, and perforates the cheek face to obliquely opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. mouth. The duct lies between the transverse facial artery and the branches of the facial nerve, the latter being below it. A line drawn from the meatus auditorius to a little below the nostril would mark the level of the duct in the face, and the central point of the line would be opposite the opening into the mouth. The length of the duct is about two inches and its . " . length a half, and its capacity is about equal to a large crow-quill, and size, but the opening into the mouth is only large enough to allow a small probe to pass. The cutaneous surface of the parotid is smooth, and has Cutane- one or two lymphatic glands seated on it; but from the deep face of part processes are sent into the inequalities of the space between the jaw and the mastoid process. Dissection.—-By removing with care the parotid gland, the Dissec- hollows that it fills up will come into view: at the same time tion' the dissector will see the vessels and nerves that pass through the gland. An examination of the processes of the gland, and of the number of important vessels that are in relation with it, will demonstrate the impossibility of removing this body, and the dangers attending any operation on it. The duct may be now opened, and a probe passed along it to the mouth to show the diminished size of its aperture. Two large processes of the gland extend deeply into the Deep neck. One dips behind the styloid process, and projects sinks beneath the mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle, jaw. whilst it reaches also the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The other piece is situate in front of the styloid pro- cess ; it passes into the glenoid hollow behind the articulation of the lower jaw, and beneath the ramus of that bone along the internal maxillary artery. Passing through the middle of the gland is the external Vessels carotid artery, which ascends behind the ramus of the jaw, nerves and furnishes the transverse facial, auricular, superficial gland, temporal, and internal maxillary branches. Superficial to