LIGAMENTS OF THE HAND. 331 At their anterior extremities the same metacarpal bones and by their are bound together by the transverse ligament, which has heads. ; been examined in the dissection of the hand (p, 314.). Union between the Metacarpal and Carpal Bones. Joint between — The metacarpal bones of the fingers are articulated with carpal 1 ° and rae- the carpal bones after one plan, and have usually the com- j^pai mon synovial membrane of the carpal bones ; but the joint formed between the fourth and fifth with the unciform bone, is sometimes provided with a separate synovial sac. The bone of the thumb has a separate capsule, and there is an additional synovial membrane. a. The metacarpal bone of the thumb articulates with the gjj*of os trapezium, and the ends of the bones are encased in a thumb s separate articular ligament. The joint is supplied with a synovial membrane, which is simple in its arrangement. b. The metacarpal bones of the fingers receive longitu- those of dinal bands from the carpal bones on both aspects, thus : — fingers The dorsal ligaments are two to each of the four, except through that of the little finger. The bands to the metacarpal bone of the fore-finger come from the os trapezium and os trape- zoides ; those to the third bone are from the os magnum and os trapezoides ; those to the bone of the ring finger from the os magnum and os unciforme ; and to the fifth metacarpal bone there is but one band from the unciform bone. The and palmar ligaments are weaker and less constant than the dor- bands, sal. There is one to each metacarpal bone, except that of the little finger: they may be oblique in direction and a band may be divided between two bones, as in the case of the ligament that is attached to the os trapezium and the second and third metacarpals. Sometimes one or more may be wanting. On the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone of the middle Lateral finger is a longitudinal or lateral band, which is attached above to the os magnum and os unciforme, and below to the rough ulnar side of the base of the above mentioned meta- carpal bone. Sometimes this band isolates the articulation of the two last metacarpals with the unciform bone from the remaining carpo-metacarpal joints : but more frequently it is divided into two parts, and does not separate those joints. This band may be seen by opening the articulation be- How