404 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. root of to the roots of the transverse processes, and to the bodies of verse the vertebrae. Thus the prolongations of the fascia contain cesses, the quadratus lumborum in a sheath. In like manner the form erector spinas lies in another sheath, which is formed by the for aponeurosis of the latissimus on the one side, and by the ' posterior of the two prolongations of the fascia lumborum on the other. second Second Layer of Muscles.—This stratum contains the lar layer, elevator of the angle of the scapula, and the large and small rhomboid muscles. Besides these, there will be found in the neck the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, with some vessels and nerves that turn backwards towards the scapula. Elevator * The levator anguli scapulae arises by tendinous slips of?cag-le from the posterior tubercles on the tips of the transverse pula' processes of the three or four upper cervical vertebrae. The fibres form rather a roundish muscle, and are inserted into the base of the scapula between the spine and the superior Attach- angle. At its origin the muscle is beneath the sterno- and con- mastoideus, and at its insertion, beneath the trapezius; the nections. ^ muscie appears in the posterior triangular space of the neck. Beneath it are some of the other cervical muscles (splenius colli and cervicalis ascendens). Rhom- * Ehomboidei Muscles. — The thin muscular layer of muscles *ne rhomboidei, that is attached to the base of the scapula, are two. consjsts 0f two pieces, large and small, separated by a cel- lular interval. small * The rhomboideus minor is a small narrow band, that muscle. arises from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae, and from the ligamentum nuchae ; Attach- it is inserted into the base of the scapula, opposite the smooth ments surface at the root of the spine of that bone. Large * The rhomboideus major is larger than the preceding by the width of three or more spinous processes. It arises from the spines of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the supraspinous ligament; and its fibres are directed outwards to be fixed to the base of the scapula inser- between the spine and the lower angle. Sometimes all the fibres do not reach directly the scapula, but some end on a Connec- tendinous arch near the bone. These muscles are covered tions. cnjefly by the trapezius and the latissimus, but a portion of muscle, Origin.