89 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY JOINT. the muscle, attached to the margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure and the root of the external pterygoid plate, is described as a separate head with an insertion chiefly into the inter- articular cartilage. The INTERNAL PTERYGOID MUSCLE is nearly parallel tO the Internal J 1 ptery- ramus of the law, and its fibres are longer than those of the goidis J ' ° beneath preceding muscle. Arising from the pterygoid fossa, but |JjJsrjJ" chiefly from the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, the jaw; the fibres descend to be inserted into the angle and inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, as high as the inferior dental foramen. On the muscle are placed the dental and vessels gustatory nerves, the dental artery, and the internal lateral nerves ligament. The deep surface is in connection below with the superior constrictor, and at its origin with the tensor palati muscle. Directions* — Before proceeding farther in the dissection, the student may learn now with advantage the anatomy of the articulation of the lower jaw. Temporo-maxillary. Articulation. — In this joint the j0intof condyle of the jaw is received into the anterior part of the Jaw?r hollow of the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone. The bones are retained in contact mostly by the strong muscles of the lower jaw ; but the following ligaments are concerned in uniting them. The external lateral is a short, ligamentous band, which External is attached above to the tubercle at the point of bifurcation and of the root of the zygoma, and below to the outer side of the neck of the inferior maxilla. The internal lateral ligament is a long, thin, membranous internal band, which is not in contact with the joint. Superiorly it liga- is connected by a pointed piece to the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the vaginal process of the temporal bone; and in- feriorly is inserted into the orifice of the dental canal in the lower jaw. This ligament lies beneath the ramus of the jaw, between it and the internal pterygoid muscle, and its . origin is concealed by the external pterygoid muscle. Be- tween the ligament and the jaw is the internal maxillary artery. Besides these ligaments there are some scattered fibres Capsule.