780 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. backwards : its base is fixed into the fenestra ovalis, and its head is united with the long process of the incus. The Liqaments of the ossicles. — The small bones of the tym- bones . * J . . . . ^ have two panic cavity are united into one chain by articular ligaments, nfnts an(^ are ^urtner kept in position by ligaments that fix them to the surrounding bone, either to a. From one bone to another.—The ossicles are connected to an- together at the points where they touch by articulations cor- other . i pi , /» , n responding to those ot larger bones; tor the osseous surfaces are covered with cartilage, and are surrounded by a capsular ligament of fibrous tissue, whilst a synovial sac is present in each joint. One articulation of the nature above described exists between the heads of the malleus and incus, and a second between the extremity of the long process of the incus and the head of the stapes. Jjjjj^ In the recent bone a thin membrane closes the interval be- sta?es^f ^ween the crura of the stapes, and is attached to the groove on their inner aspect, or to fix °- Between the bones and the wall. — The bones are kept theTym- m situation by the reflection of the mucous membrane, and wall? by a special ligament from each. From the head of the malleus a short suspensory band of fibres is directed upwards to the roof of the tympanum. Another ligamentous band passes backwards from the incus, near the end of its short process, to the posterior part of the containing cavity. And the base of the stapes is connected to the margin of the fenestra ovalis by fibres that constitute an orbicular ligament. Three Muscles of the ossicles. — Three muscles which possess to the striped fibres are in connection with the chain of bones ; two of these are attached to the malleus, the other to the stapes. Tensor The tensor tympani (internal muscle of the malleus) is is ii/a contained in a special bony canal, and to see it completely canal, this must be laid open : it is the largest and most distinct gives it of the muscles of the tympanum, and takes the shape of the onsin' containing tube. The muscle arises from the surface of its bony canal, also slightly in front from the cartilage of the Eustachian tube, and its fibres are directed backwards. Posteriorly it ends in a tendon, which is reflected over the end of the cochleariform process as over a pulley, and is and is inserted into the inner border of the handle of the malleus, Sto mai-near its base. It receives a special nerve from the otic ieus' ganglion.