THE TE1CEPS MUSCLE. 285 ternal head extends from the inner condyle to the insertion inner of the teres major into the bicipital groove, and arises from the contiguous intermuscular septum, and the inner part of the posterior aspect of the bone. From these heads of origin the fibres are directed to a common tendon of insertion, at inser- ; tion. the lower part, with different degrees of inclination: those of mreCm the middle head are directed vertically, but those of the inner Q°fhe and outer heads pass inwards or downwards to the sides and fibres' the under part of the tendon. The muscle is inserted in- feriorly into the end of the olecranon process of the ulna, and gives an expansion to the aponeurosis of the fore-arm: between the tip of the olecranon and the tendon is a small bursa. The triceps is superficial, except at the upper part, where connec- it is overlapped by the deltoid muscle. It lies on the hu- the ^ merus, and conceals the musculo-spiral nerve, the superior profunda vessels, and the articulation of the elbow. On the sides the muscle is united to the intermuscular septa, and the lower fibres of the outer head are continuous with the anconeus —one of the muscles of the fore-arm. Suh-anconeus muscle. — This is a thin fleshy stratum sub- beneath the triceps near the elbow, which will be dissected slip, by cutting through that muscle at the lower part. It con- sists of two fasciculi, inner and outer: these are attached above the fossa for the olecranon, and end in the capsule of the joint. A corresponding muscle is placed beneath the extensor of the knee-joint. The intermuscular septa are processes of fibrous struc- Two in- . . . termus- ture, continuous with the investing aponeurosis 01 the arm, cuiar which are fixed to the ridges leading to the condyles of the humerus: they intervene between the muscles on the front attached and back of the lower half of the arm, and give attachment ofhu-° to the fleshy fibres. The internal is the strongest, and An irmer reaches as high as the coraco-brachialis muscle, from which and it receives some tendinous fibres: the brachialis anticus is attached to it in front, and the triceps behind; and the ulnar nerve and the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries pierce it. The external septum is thinner; behind it is the outer, triceps; and in front of it are the brachialis anticus, and the muscles of the fore-arm that arise above the condyle of the humerus: it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve.