236 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN". medulla oblongata and pons. It has the form of a lozenge, Index W^ ^e P°*nts placed upwards and downwards. The upper tent, angle reaches as high as the upper border of the pons ; and the lower, to a level with the inferior part of the olivary breadth, body. Its greatest breadth is at the spot where the crus cerebelli is connected with the medulla and pons; and a transverse line in this situation would divide the hollow calamus, into two triangular portions. The lower of those two por- tions has been named the calamus scriptorius; from its resemblance to a writing pen. Lateral The lateral boundary is more marked at the upper than ry. " at the lower part. For about half way down, the cavity is limited on each side by the superior peduncle of the cere- bellum, which projects over it, forming part as well of the roof; and along each side of the lower half lies the eminence of the restiform body. Roof. The roof of the space is somewhat arched, and is formed above by the valve of Yieussens, and the under part of the vermiform process; and, towards the lower part, by the thin nervous stratum of the ligula (p. 199.), and by the reflection of the pia mater from the spinal cord to the surface of the vermiform process. Floor. The floor of the ventricle corresponds to the posterior surfaces of the medulla oblongata and pons, and is grayish Parts in in colour. Along its centre is a median groove, that ends it are, ° fe ' median below, at the point of the calamus and within the swollen fissure, A part of the posterior pyramid, in a minute hole, — the remains fascicu. of the canal of the cord. On each side of the groove is a us teres, Spm(jje_snape(j elevation, the fasciculus s. eminentia teres. This eminence reaches the whole length of the floor, and is pointed and little marked inferiorly, where it is covered by gray substance; but it becomes whiter and more pro- minent superiorly, and its widest point is opposite the attach- ment of the crus cerebelli. It is formed by the fibres derived from the lateral tract and the restiform body, which ascend to the cerebrum. The outer border of the eminence is limited externally by a slight groove, which (in some bodies well foveaB) marked) will point out the position of two.fossae (fovea an- poste- terior et posterior). The posterior fossa is near the begin- ning of the groove, and the anterior is opposite the crus cerebelli. At the top of the anterior fossa is a collection of nor.