130 DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. between the muscular and mucous strata. On this membrane some of the fibres of the constrictor muscles terminate. Lower The inferior constrictor, the most superficial of the tor mus- muscles of the pharynx, arises from the side of the cricoid arises cartilage, from the oblique line and the borders of the ala of larynx the thyroid cartilage, and from the part of the last cartilage and ends behind that line. The origin is small when compared with middle the insertion, for the fibres are directed backwards, radiating, and are inserted along the middle line, where it meets the Parts in corresponding muscle of the opposite side. The outer surface withif. of the muscle is in contact with the sheath of the carotid artery, and with the muscles covering the spinal column. The lower border is straight, and is continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus, whilst the upper border overlaps the fibres of the middle constrictor. The recurrent nerve enters beneath the lower border. Middle The middle constrictor muscle has the same shape as torfetnc" the preceding ; that is to say, it is narrow in front and ex- passes panded behind. Its fibres arise from the great cornu of the oid^oone os hyoides, from the small cornu of the same bone, and from middle the stylo-hyoid ligament. From this origin the fibres radiate, behind, and are blended along the middle line with the other muscles. The surfaces of the muscle have connections similar to those Connec- of the preceding constrictor. The upper border is separated from the superior constrictor by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and ends on the aponeurosis of the pharynx, about an inch from the base of the skull. The lower border descends beneath the inferior constrictor; and between the two is the superior laryngeal nerve, stylo- The stylo-pharyngeus muscle may be again seen with the geusfn" pharynx. Its description is given at p. 107. upper The superior constrictor is the least marked of the constnc- tkree muscies? and wants the regular or conical form. Its Origin origin is extensive, and is connected successively, from above m front. ^Qwn^ ^e jnner surface of the internal pterygoid plate (its lower third), with the pterygo-maxillary ligament, with the posterior part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, with the mucous membrane of the mouth, and with the inser- side of the tongue. The fleshy fibres pass backwards, and hTntUs" are inserted into the aponeurosis of the pharynx, as well as others. tne raphe along the middle line. The parts in contact,