488 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. artery, and would descend along nearly the whole of the and is inguinal canal to reach the external abdominal ring:; conse- oblique ° t ° indirec- quently the term direct will not apply to the form of internal hernia now under consideration. Cover- Coverings. — As this internal hernia traverses nearly same as the whole of the inguinal canal, it has exactly the same in exter- . ° . * nai her- number and kind of coverings as the external hernia that accompanies the spermatic cord, viz. the skin and the super- ficial fascia, the spermatic and cremasteric fasciae, the fascia transversalis, and the subperitoneal fat and the peritoneum. stricture Seat of stricture. — The constriction of the intestine will at same spots, take place at the same spots as in the external hernia; and from the inability always to decide, in the living body, whether the kind of hernia is internal or external, the rule Division observed in dividing the deep stricture is to cut directly upwards, as in the other kinds of inguinal hernia, umbiii- Umbilical Hernia, or exomphalos, is a protrusion of the nia. intestine either through or by the side of the umbilicus. It Course, is very variable in size, and its course is straight through the abdominal wall, cover- Coverings. — The coverings of the intestine in a small lngS hernia are thin, and few in number, viz. the skin and the superficial fascia, a prolongation from the tendinous margin of the abdominal opening, together with the remaining common coverings of the fascia transversalis, the subperi- toneal fat and the peritoneum. If the hernia is suddenly produced, it may want the investment that otherwise is derived from the tendon of the external oblique muscle, become Oyer the end of the tumour the fat of the superficial fascia over the disappears, and this covering becomes blended with the tumour. other contiguous structures, stric- Seat of stricture. — The stricture on the intestine is gene- whe're rally found at the margin of the tendinous opening in the °un ' abdominal wall; and it should be remembered that this opening is at the upper part, not in the centre of the swell- ing. The constriction may be removed by cutting upwards, but there is not any vessel to be injured in the operation, other Other Forms of Hernia.—At each of the other natural nafher. apertures in the parietes of the abdomen, a piece of intestine mseare protruded, so as to form a hernial tumour. For femoral, instance, there may be femoral hernia below Poupart's liga-