VESSELS OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 479 aTcl ascend along the cord, through the internal abdominal ring, to join the lumbar glands. The vas deferens reaches from the testicle to the urethra, Vas J t rens. and is placed behind the other constituents of the cord; it Situa- will be easily recognised by its resemblance in feel to a piece tl0U of whipcord, when it is taken between the finger and the thumb. As it enters the abdomen through the opening in and 0 i o course. the fascia transversalis (internal ring), it lies on the inner side of the vessels of the testicle ; and as it begins its descent to the pelvis, it winds behind the epigastric artery. Dissection.—A fibrous band below Poupart's ligament, Dissec- A ° 7 tion of which has been named the deep crural arch, will be found by deep cutting through the cord near the external ring, and raising it towards the inner abdominal ring : this thin band passes inwards to the os pubis, and is to be defined with care. The remaining vessels of the abdominal wall, viz., the epi- ^ of gastric and circumflex iliac, and the ending of the internal vessels, mammary artery, are next to be dissected: the epigastric and mammary arteries will be seen, on turning up the outer edge of the rectus, one above and the other below; and the epigastric with its earliest branches may be further traced, by removing the fascia transversalis from it near Poupart's ligament. The circumflex iliac artery lies behind the outer half of Poupart's ligament, and should be pursued along the crest of the ilium. Deep crural arch.—-Below the level of Poupart's liga- Deep ment is a thin band of fibres, which lies over the femoral arch, vessels, and has received the name of deep crural arch from its position, and its resemblance to Poupart's ligament or the superficial crural arch.* This fasciculus of fibres begins externally about the centre of the ligament, and is prolonged inwards to the pubes, where it is widened, and is inserted into the pectineal line at the abdominal aspect of Gimbernat's ligament. This structure is closely connected with the front * Sometimes this structure is a firm distinct band, and is formed, as it would seem, by some of the lower fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. At other times it is only a thickening of the fascia transversalis with fibres added from the tendon of the transversalis muscle. In six bodies, both male and female, that I examined care- fully, I found the deep arch to be formed only by a thickening of the fascia transversalis. !