DISSECTION OF THE BACK. 420 posterior part of the crest of the ilium ; and to the outer row of tubercles on the back of the sacrum, being here connected with the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Above, it is continued some way on the surface of the erector spinas. Dissec- Dissection. — To find the branches of the sacral nerves, it tion of 7 sacral will be necessary to remove the part of the multifidus spinas nerves. J 1 1 that covers the sacrum. These nerves are very fine, but they may be detected by following inwards the external branches that lie on the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The two lowest nerves must be sought on the back of the sacrum, below the extent of the multifidus spinas muscle: the fourth comes through its aperture, and the fifth through the lower opening of the spinal canal, lacrai Sacral Nerves.— The posterior primary branches of the nerves: sacral nerves are five in number : four issue from the spinal canal by the apertures in the back of the sacrum, and the fifth through the large inferior aperture of the spinal canal. ferenHy ^ne tnree &r&t have tne common division into inner and butted" outer branches, like the other spinal nerves, but the last two are undivided.* Three * The first three nerves are covered by the multifidus first have ^ # J toner spinas, and divide regularly. The inner branches of these outer nerves end in the multifidus. The outer branches are branch- es ; larger in size, and have communicating offsets from one to another on the back of the sacrum ; the outer branch of the first nerve is further connected with the corresponding part of the first lumbar ; and that of the third nerve joins in a the last similar manner the sacral nerve next below. After this give cu- taneous looping, the nerves pass outwards to the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they join a second time, and then become cutaneous.—(See Dissection of the Buttock.) Two " % Two last nerves. — These nerves, which are below the last are ' "ided multifidus, are much smaller than the preceding, and are undivided: they are connected one with another, and with the coccygeal nerve, on the back of the sacrum. A few fila- ments are distributed to the back of the sacrum and the coccyx. * See a paper on the mode of branching of the spinal nerves, in the Lond. Med. Gazette of ¥ eh. 10.1843.