DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 464 prepuce skin of the scrotum is then to be reflected by means of a vertical incision on the left side. Tegu- Cutaneous coverings of the penis and scrotum.—The penis cover-ry is attached to the front of the pubes by a suspensory liga- penisf ment, and is provided with a tegumentary covering, and with vessels and nerves, is thin, On the penis the tegumentary covering is continuous with without that of the abdomen, but the superficial fascia loses the fat that it possesses in most other parts of the body, and acquires special characters.—Around the end of the penis it forms the loose sheath of the prepuce in the following way: — when the skin has reached the extremity, it is reflected backwards forms as far as to the base of the glans, constituting thus the double layer of the prepuce; it is afterwards continued over the glans, and joins the mucous membrane of the urethra at the orifice on the surface. At the under part of the glans, and behind the aperture of the urethra, the integument forms a and fra>- small triangular fold, frcenum preputii. Where the integu- num' ment covers the glans it is very thin, and in some cases sebace- assumes the character of a mucous membrane; and behind glands, the glans are some sebaceous follicles — glandulce odoriferce. and in In the scrotum. — The superficial facia becomes thin, and scrotum. ^ ^ reddish colour. Jf it is cut through, the student will perceive that the prolongation sent around the cord on one side, does not communicate with that on the other side ; and that the two pouches come in contact in the middle line, and form the septum scroti. Muscu- The superficial fascia in the scrotum and penis, and in the lure of front of the perinaeum contains muscular fibre cells, to which fascia. ^e corrugation of the skin is owing. This contractile .structure is named the tunica dartos. Dissec- Dissection.—By removing the cellular membrane from vessels the root of the penis and the front of the symphysis pubis, nerves, the suspensory ligament will be defined. And the dorsal arteries, nerves, and vein of the penis, which are seen in the • preceding step, are to be followed forwards in the superficial fascia. Suspen- The suspensory ligament of the penis is a rather deep gament band of fibrous tissue, of a triangular form, which is attached by its apex to the front of the symphysis pubis near the of penis. mints!" lower part. Widening as it descends, the ligament divides