687 GLUTEAL VESSELS AND NERVE. tens minimus, and the gluteal vessels and nerve. The ante- terior border is joined with the gluteus minimus, and the posterior is contiguous to the pyriformis, only the gluteal artery intervening. A small bursa is between the tendon of insertion and the trochanter. Dissection, — "When>the gluteus medius is detached from Detach ° gluteus | the ilium, and partly separated from the gluteus minimus ™egdj£8 beneath, the gluteal vessels and nerve will come into view, gluteal 7 ° < vessels The two chief branches of the artery and nerve, — one being near the crest of the ilium, and the other lower down, — are to be traced through the fleshy fibres as the reflection of the gluteus is proceeded with ; and the accompanying nerve is and to .be followed on at the same time to the tensor vaginas femoris muscle. A branch of the artery to the gluteus max- imus has necessarily been cut in removing that muscle. The gluteal artery is the largest branch of the internal Gluteal iliac (p. 601.), and issues from the pelvis above the pyri- formis muscle. On the dorsum of the ilium it ends in off- sets that supply the gluteal muscles and the bone, and ana- divided stomose with the other branches in this situation. Its named branches are superficial and deep : — a. The superficial branch sends inwards a few twigs over the superfi- sacrum, and ends in the gluteus maximus, which it penetrates on cial and the under surface. b. The deep branch is the continuation of the artery, and lies deep between the two smaller gluteal muscles: it subdivides into two branch: pieces. One (superior) courses along the origin of the gluteus minimus, with a branch of the nerve, to the front of the crest of this has the ilium, where it anastomoses with the ascending branches of the an upper external circumflex artery. The other division (inferior) is and a directed forwards over the middle of the smallest gluteal muscle, piece.' towards the lower anterior spine of the ilium and the great tro- chanter, and communicates also with the external circumflex branches; some offsets from it pierce the muscle to supply the hip-joint. Vein. — The companion vein of this artery enters the Gluteal pelvis, and ends in the internal iliac vein. 1 The superior gluteal nerve is a branch of the lumbo-sacral superior cord (p. 576.). It accompanies the gluteal artery, and di- nen? vides, like it, into two branches for the supply of the two ]fu5£us" smallest gluteal muscles ; but the lower branch may be traced forwards into the tensor vaginse femoris.