INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE. 95 poral artery in front of the ear, and beneath the parotid gland. In this course the nerve furnishes branches to the and sup. surrounding parts, viz. to the joint, the ear, and the parotid branch- gland, and communicates also with the facial nerve. Itses' ramifications on the head are described at page 8. Its branches in the part now dissected are the following: — a. Branches communicating with the facial nerve. — Two or more to join branches connect the auriculotemporal with the facial nerve, and facial; these usually surround the external carotid artery. b. Branches for the meatus auditorius and articulation.—From the to the point of union of the branches of the facial with the auriculotem- poral nerve, two offsets are directed to the interior of the auditory meatus, between the cartilage and the bone. The branch to the and joint articulation of the jaw is supplied from the trunk of the auriculo- ° JdW' temporal near the same spot, or from the branches of it to the meatus. c. The inferior auricular branch supplies the parts of the a branch external ear below the meatus auditorius. This branch also fur- ear, and nishes offsets along the internal maxillary artery, which communi- cate on it with the sympathetic nerve. d. Parotid branches. — These are small filaments that enter the parotid branch- substance of the gland. es. The inferior dental is the largest of the three trunks inferior into which the inferior maxillary nerve divides, and is directed to the canal in the lower jaw. At first the nerve is be- lies beneath the external pterygoid muscle, where it is ex- ptery- ternal in position to the gustatory; and is afterwards placed muscles, on the internal pterygoid, near the dental foramen, and on the internal lateral ligament. After the nerve enters the and sup- bone, it is continued forwards beneath the teeth to the for a- teeth; men in the side of the jaw, and ends at that spot by dividing into an incisor and a labial branch. Only one other mus- cular branch (mylo-hyoid) is supplied by the dental nerve. Its branches are: — a. The mylo-hyoid branch arises from the trunk of the nerve as also this is about to enter its foramen, and is eontthued along a groove to^yfo- on the inner aspect of the ramus of the jaw, to the cutaneous sur- ug.°lde" face of the mylo-hyoideus and the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. b. The dental branches arise in the bone and supply the fangs of Dental the molar and bicuspid teeth. If the bone is soft, the canal con- to grind- taining the nerve and artery may be laid open so as to expose ing these branches.