274 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Seek The cutaneous veins may be first sought in the fat. These c!aPierfi vessels are very numerous below the bend of the elbow, and issue from beneath the integument. One in the centre of the fore-arm is the median vein, which bifurcates rather below the elbow. External to this is a small vein (radial); and internal to it are the anterior and posterior ulnar veins, coming from the front and back of the fore-arm. In the arm these veins are united into two ; one (basilic) is to be followed along the inner border of the biceps, and the other (cephalic) along the outer side of that muscle. Trace The cutaneous nerves may next be traced out. On the cutane- . . • in ©us outer side of the arm, about its middle, are the external ofouter cutaneous branches (two in number) of the musculo-spiral; and in the outer bicipital groove, in front of the elbow or rather below it, is the cutaneous part of the musculo- and cutaneous nerve. On the inner part of the limb the nerves si'deof to the surface are more numerous. Taking the basilic vein limb. as a guide, the internal cutaneous nerve of the fore-arm will be found by its side, about the middle of the arm ; and rather external to* this nerve is a small cutaneous offset from it, which pierces the fascia higher up. Behind the internal cutaneous, in the lower third of the arm, is the small nerve of Wrisberg; and in the upper third are the small nerves that have been already met with in the dissection of the axilla, viz. the intercosto-humeral, and the internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral. super- The superficial fascia forms a continuous investment for fiuai fat. ^e iimk5 but it is thicker in front of the elbow than in the other parts of the arm. In that spot it may be divided into two layers, which enclose the superficial vessels and lym- phatics. Thecu. Cutaneous Veins. — The position and the connections of veins are the superficial veins in front of the elbow are to be atten- tively noted by the dissector, because the operation of vene- section is practised in them, median The median vein of the fore-arm divides into two branches, vein 5 internal and external, rather below the bend of the elbow ; and at its point of division it is joined by an offset from a divides deep vein. The internal branch (median basilic) crosses to branch-0 the inner border of the biceps, and unites with the ulnar veins to form the basilic vein of the inner side of the arm.