609 SYMPATHETIC IN THE PELVIS. spinal nerves, and some filaments are directed inwards in of the front of the sacrum. The connecting branches are two to each ganglion, gray to the and white, and are very short; but, like those of the lum- nerves; bar ganglia, they may enter two sacral nerves instead of one. The gray connecting cord unites the ganglion and the spinal nerve, but the white one is continued over the gan- glion to the plexuses for the viscera.* The internal branches are smaller than those of other to the parts of the cord, and communicate in front of the sacrum, trie and around the middle sacral artery, with branches from the and the . _ _ . . „ ,. n. viscera. opposite side. From the first, or two first ganglia some fila- ments are furnished to the hypogastric plexus; and from the terminal connecting branches and the ganglion impar, in front of the coccyx, offsets descend over that bone. The visceral or pelvic plexuses (lateral inferior hypogas- J>f1^uses trie) are two in number, a right and a left, and are con- sympa- J . P thetic: tinuous with the lateral prolongations of the hypogastric plexus (p. 512.) Each is situate by the side of the bladder situa- and the rectum, or the side of the vagina in the female, and is united with offsets from the third and fourth sacral nerves, how to constitute the above-named plexus. Numerous ganglia formed* are found in the plexus, especially at the points of union of the spinal and sympathetic nerves. From each plexus offsets are furnished to the viscera of offsets the pelvis, and to the genital organs, along the branches of viscera the internal iliac artery. These different secondary plexuses male, have the same name as the vessels on which they are placed; but as they may not be seen in the dissection, a mere enu- meration of them will be sufficient. The inferior hemorrhoidal plexus is an offset to the rectum from to the the back of the plexus, and joins the sympathetic on the superior rec um; hemorrhoidal artery. The vesical plexus contains large offsets, with many white fibred to the . -I r , „ & , ' i •! i , i bladder; or spinal nerves, and passes forwards to the side, and the lower part of the bladder. It gives one plexus to the vesicula seminalis, and another to the vas deferens. The prostatic plexus leaves the lower part of the pelvic plexus to the and is distributed to the substance of the prostate gland. At the gland * See a Paper on the " Nerves of the Uterus," by Mr. J. S. Beck, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1846. R R