DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. 726 plantar they are classed into two sets, plantar and dorsal. Seven in sal. number, there are three plantar and four dorsal; and two are found in each space, except in the internal one. Three The plantar interossei belong to the three outer meta- plantar ° for three tarsal bones : they arise from the under and inner surfaces outer ^ toes. of those bones, and are inserted into the tibial side of the base of the metatarsal phalanx of the same toes; and an expansion is continued from each to the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the phalanx. These muscles are smaller than the dorsal, and are placed more in the sole of the foot, dorsal dorsal interossei, one in each space, arise from the lie be- lateral surfaces of the two bones between which they lie, and tween J 7 the are inserted into a particular side of the metatarsal phalanx bones; 1 A of certain toes :—Thus, the two internal muscles are attached to the second toe, one to each side ; the next to the outer side of the third toe, and the remaining one to the outer side of the fourth toe. An expansion is continued from the tendons to those of the extensors on the dorsum of the toes phalanges ; and the posterior perforating arteries pierce the into. hinder extremities of the muscles. These small muscles will be partly seen on the dorsum of the foot. Action The attachment of the dorsal muscles to the toes may be muscles, remembered by considering them abductors as in the hand (p. 314.) from the middle line of the secondMigit : the two outer muscles will draw their respective toes from the rest, and the two connected with the second digit will move it to the right or the left of the line referred to. Trace Dissection.— Follow the tendon of the tibialis posticus deeV 6 muscle from its position behind the inner malleolus to its tendons. insertjon jnto ^e scaphoid bone, and trace the numerous processes that it sends forwards and outwards. Open also the fibrous sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, which crosses from the outer to the inner side of the foot. Insertion The tendon of the tibialis posticus, after leaving the don of groove in the inner malleolus, is continued forwards over posticus, the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-koint, and beneath the articulation between the astragalus and the os scaphoides, and is inserted into the prominence of the latter bone. From its insertion processes are continued to many of the other bones of the foot. One is directed backwards to the margin of the groove in the os calcis for the tendon of the flexor