453 PUDIC VESSELS AND NERVE. G G 3 cavernosi) is one of the terminal branches of the pudic. At first of body this small vessel lies between the crus penis and the bone, but it of pems' soon enters the cavernous structure of the penis, and ramifies in it. The dorsal artery of the penis is in direction and size the con- Artery tinuation of the pudic ; it runs upwards like the preceding between sumof the crus penis and the bone, and reaches the dorsum of the penis penis* by passing between the layers of the suspensory ligament. Its distribution with the accompanying nerve is noticed at page 465. It is much smaller in the female than in the male. Accessory pudic. — In some cases the pudic is not large Acces- enough to supply all the branches above described to the pudic ° ri J . arterv, penis and the urethra. Then one or more will be contributed by an accessory artery, which leaves the pelvis, in front, by piercing the triangular ligament. The source of this artery source, is the internal iliac, like that of the pudic. The pudic vein has the same connections, and the same Pudic branches as the artery, with the exception that the dorsal vein of the penis does not join it. The pudic nerve is derived from the sacral plexus, and P^ic ■* m A nerve is distributes offsets corresponding to the branches of the pudic with ar- artery. Accompanying the blood vessels, the nerve enters the posterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, and supplies there the inferior hemorrhoidal (p. 442.), and a large perinaeal branch. Much diminished in size, it continues with and ends 1 m m like it on the artery without branching, pierces the triangular ligament penis, of the urethra near the pubes, and is continued onwards to the dorsum of the penis with the dorsal branch of the pudic artery; its termination is described at page 465. The fol- lowing are its offsets : — The perinatal branch is distributed to the perinseum: it first sup- Perinasai plies the superficial perinaeal nerves, which have been already seen (p. 445.), and then extends forwards below the pudic artery, nearly to the base of the triangular ligament, where it ends in offsets to ends in the muscles, as well as to the bulb of the urethra. lowing Muscular branches. — One turns outwards to enter the under muscu- surface of the erector, penis ; others pass beneath the transversalis, sets, supplying it and the accelerator urinse; and one or two other slender filaments pierce the triangular ligament, and supply the muscles beneath it. The nerve of the bulb is a long slender branch that supplies, like Ne the artery, the spongy structure investing the canal of the urethra. ^Lib. Some of its filaments run for a great distance on the surface before entering the corpus spongiosum urethra?. v * V of the