394 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. for those between the first two vertebrae and the head, and those between the bones of the pelvis. The description of the special ligaments, thus excepted, will be found in the dissection of the neck (p. 179.) and in that of the ligaments of the pelvis. How to Dissection, — After the dissection of the ligaments of the see the fe iSigVaeral r^s' ^e same piece of the spinal column will serve for the ments. ligaments of the bodies and the articular processes of the vertebrae. It is supposed that the spinal canal has been opened to examine the spinal cord, and that the posterior ligament of the bodies of the vertebrae is therefore laid bare, but if the canal should not be opened, the arches of the ver- tebrae must be sawn through close to the articular processes. The anterior ligament of the bodies will be prepared with very little trouble, by only removing the cellular tissue. The remaining ligaments between the arches and spines of the bones may be defined on those pieces that have been taken away in opening the spinal canal. The A. Ligaments of the bodies of the vertebrce. — The bodies a?eies of the vertebrae are united by an anterior and a posterior bylted common ligament, and by intervening pieces of fibro-car- tilage. Anterior The anterior common ligament is whiter and stronger than the posterior, and reaches from the atlas to the sacrum : it is widest opposite the lumbar vertebrae, and becomes narrower as it is traced upwards. Its fibres are longitudinal in direction, and consist of a superficial and a deep layer: length, by detaching the ligament, the superficial fibres will be seen tach- to reach the length of three or more vertebrae, whilst the ment of ° its fibres, deep pass from bone to bone. At its attachment, a greater number of the fibres are found to be connected with the intervertebral fibro-cartilages than with the bones; and more are fixed to the margins than to the centre of the body of a vertebra. Its outline is uneven, for it is broader over the bodies of the vertebrae than on the intervertebral and substance; and if the ligament be cut across at intervals it will be found to be thickest opposite the hollow part of the body of the vertebra. Pos- The posterior common ligament is contained in the spinal common liga- ment, varies in width, in thick, ness. common canal, lying on the posterior aspect of the bodies of the ver- men't tebrae, and extends from the sacrum to the occipital bone.