140 DISSECTION OF THE NOSE. divided ; and then the saw is to be carried through the hard palate on the right side of the septum nasi, and through the body of the sphenoid bone, in such a direction as to make the cut join the incision from above. The piece of the skull is now easily separated into two parts, right and left; and by proceeding as above directed, the delicate bones of the nose are less injured than they would be by sawing con- tinuously in one direction. The right half will serve for the examination of the meatuses, and the left will show the septum nasi. situa-^ The cavity of the nose occupies the centre of the bones nose. of the face; it is situate above the mouth, and between the orbits, and the sinuses of the superior maxillary bones. This Division space is divided into two parts — nasal fossse, by a vertical into two. 4 A 7 J partition. open- Each fossa is larger below than above, and is flattened in form, so that the measurement from before back or above down, exceeds much that from within out. It communicates both with the face and the pharynx by apertures named nares, and has also apertures of communication with the sinuses in the surrounding bones, viz. frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary. In each fossa are a roof and floor, an inner and an outer wall, and an anterior and posterior opening, to be examined. Roof. The roof is somewhat arched, and is formed by the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid bone in the centre, by the nasal bone and cartilages in front, and by the body of the sphenoid, and part of the palate bone at the posterior part. Many apertures exist in the ethmoid bone for the passage of the olfactory nerves, and in the front of the body of the sphenoid are the openings of its sinuses. Fioor. The floor is slightly hollowed from side to side, and in it are found the palate and superior maxillary bones — their palate processes. Near the front is the aperture of the anterior palatine canal, inner The inner boundary (septum narium) is partly osseous dary * and partly cartilaginous, and will be seen when the lining partly membrane has been removed. The osseous part is con- osseous, s^ructe(j -fay ^e vomer^ by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and by the parts of the frontal and nasal, partly with which this last bone articulates above. The irregular