675 ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. x x 2 The pectineus is the highest of the muscles directed from Pecti- the pelvis to the inner side of the femur. It has a fleshy origin from the crest on the os pubis between the spine and °^j=in the pectineal eminence, and from the triangular surface of Pubes> bone in front of that liiie: and it is inserted inferiorly by a inserted ^ * into tendon, about two inches in width, into the back of the femur, small trochanter, and the upper half of the line which ex- tends from it to the linea aspera. The muscle is twisted, Muscle so that the surfaces which are directed forwards and back- twisted. wards near the pelvis, are turned inwards and outwards at the femur. The pectineus lies between the psoas and the parts on adductor longus ; and the internal circumflex vessels pass the sldei" between its outer border and the former muscle. One sur- and sur- faces. face is in contact with the fascia lata; and the opposite touches the obturator muscle and nerve, and the adductor brevis. The adductor longus lies below the pectineus, and is Adduc- triangular in form, with the apex at the pelvis and the base gus ex- at the femur. It arises by a narrow tendon from the body from of the os pubis near the angle of union of the crest and the femur.10 symphysis, and is inserted along the middle third of the shaft of the femur into the inner margin of the.linea aspera. This muscle is situate between the gracilis and the pectineus, its con- and forms part of the inner boundary of the triangular space with °ns containing the femoral vessels. Its anterior surface is a^dScles covered near the femur by the femoral vessels and the sar- vessels* torius; and the posterior rests on the other two adductors, on part of the obturator nerve, and on the deep femoral arteryo Aponeurotic bands connect the tendon of the muscle at its insertion with the tendons of the adductor magnus and vastus internus. Dissection. — Some of the deeper muscles, with the obtu- Dissec- rator nerve and the profunda vessels, will be arrived at by tlon oi reflecting the two last muscles. On cutting through the pectineus near the pubes, and obtura- throwing it down, the dissector may occasionally find the nerve small accessory nerve of the obturator that turns beneath its outer border ; if this is present, its branches to the hip- joint and the obturator nerve are to be traced out. The adductor longus is then to be divided near its origin, and raised with care, so as not to destroy the branches of the