'585 RECTOVESICAL FASCIA. anterior fibres of the levator are in contact with the fascia that closes the pelvic cavity below the arch of the pubes, and the posterior are parallel to the coccygeus muscle. The upper surface is contiguous to the recto-vesical fascia, surfaces, and the viscera of the pelvis ; and the under surface looks to the perinaeum (ischio-rectal fossa). The two muscles, by their union, form a fleshy layer or diaphragm across the outlet of the pelvis, similar to that which separates the Two abdomen from the chest : this partition is convex below and form a concave above, and gives passage to the rectum. In front ^har"agm there is an interval between the anterior fibres, which allows the urethra, together with the vagina in the female, to pass from the pelvis. The anterior part of the muscle that descends by the side ^rteesrior of the prostate, and unites with its fellow below the mem- named! r 7 ^ levator branous part of the urethra, thus supporting that canal as in Pj-os- a sling, has been named levator seu compressor prostatce. Dissection. — The recto-vesical fascia will be seen by de- Dissec- . . tlon fof taching the fleshy fibres of the levator ani at their origin, the and the coccygeus muscle from the spine of the ischium, and ^F*1 throwing both downwards. Below the spot at which the fascia reaches the side of the prostate gland and the rectum it gives sheaths to those viscera; and to demonstrate these sheaths one incision is to be made along the prostate, and tetfM another along the lower end of the rectum, below the attach- ment of the fascia. The recto-vesical fascia is derived from the pelvic fascia, Recto- u *■ vesical and supports and partly invests the viscera of the pelvis. fas&ia Arising, as before said, on a level with the band that extends arises 0 # from from the pubes to the spine of the ischium, the fascia is Pelv.ic A 1 ' fascia, directed inwards on the levator ani, and has the following disposition on the viscera: —In the middle line in front it is and is reflected ' continued from the back of the pubes to the apex and the on to the A * viscera, upper surface of the prostate ; here it closes the pelvis be- ^PP°rt- fore the levatores ani, and forms on each side of the middle them, line a roundish band, the anterior ligament of the bladder. More to the side, the fascia is attached to the lateral part of the prostate and to the side of the bladder, giving rise to the lateral vesical ligament. And still farther back it reaches the side of the rectum. The fascia does not cease, where it gives it meets the viscera, by becoming blended with their coats, to the