DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 26 passes from the cartilage of the aperture to the integument posterior of the margin of the nostril; and the posterior, from the parts* upper jawbone and the small sesamoid cartilages to the inte- guments of the nostril. Depres- The depressor ALiE nasi is found beneath the mucous ^ngfiS membrane on the side of the frasnum of the upper lip. It from arises below the nose from a depression of the upper jaw- mouth. *foQne before tiie rooi 0f the second incisor tooth, and ascends to be inserted into the septum and the posterior part of the ala of the nose. Muscles Of the Mouth. — The muscles that act on the aperture ofthe m r mouth, of the mouth consist of a sphincter ; an elevator of the upper lip, and of the angle of the mouth; depressors of the lower lip, and of the angle of the mouth, and an elevator of the lower lip; together with other small muscles that act on the corner, viz. zjgomatici and risorius of Santorini. Lastly, the buccinator muscle may be reckoned in this set, as its acts on the mouth. sphinc- The orbicularis oris muscle surrounds the aperture of ter of . r mouth the mouth, and is constructed for the most part by the fibres consists of the several muscles acting on that aperture. It consists of two , . . parts, of two parts, inner and outer, which differ much in appear- ance and arrangement. inner or The inner part, whose fibres are pale in colour and fine ' in texture, forms a rounded thick fasciculus that extends from the margin of the lip to the arch of the coronary artery. The fibres of this portion of the muscle are unattached to bone, and some pass from lip to lip round the corner of the mouth. outer or The outer part is thin, wide, and more irregular in form, irregu- r 7 7 ° lar- and has an attachment to the subjacent bone, besides its con- nection with the contiguous muscles. In the upper lip it is attached, on each side of the middle line, to the back of the septum of the nose (naso-labial slip), and to the outer surface of the upper jaw opposite the canine and incisor teeth, ex- ternal to the depressor of the nose. And in the lower lip it is fixed into the inferior jawbone, on the same aspect, opposite the canine tooth, or external to the levator menti muscle. To see these attachments, the lip must be everted, and the mucous membrane raised.