254 DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. groove to the head of the humerus, another backwards to line the groove, and a third to the fascia of the arm. Parts Parts covered bythepectoralis.—The great pectoral muscle by the covers the pectoralis minor, and forms alone, above and below that muscle, the anterior boundary of the axilla. Between the pectoralis minor and the clavicle it conceals the subcla- vian muscle, the sheath containing the axillary vessels, and the branches that perforate the sheath. Below the small pectoralis it lies on the side of the chest, on the axillary vessels and nerves, and, near the humerus, on the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. Pectora- The pectoralis minor resembles the preceding muscle in lis minor L ■ ° *™jjjs shape, and is extended like it from the thorax to the arm. chest; jjg origin is connected, by means of slips, with the front and the upper border of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, external to their cartilages ; and between the ribs, with the aponeu- rosis covering the intercostal muscles. The fibres converge inserted to their insertion into the upper surface of the anterior half puia. of the coracoid process of the scapula. This muscle is placed Connec- before the axillary space, and assists the pectoralis major in with forming the middle part of the anterior boundary. In that around, position it conceals the axillary vessels and the accompany- ing nerves, and two small anterior thoracic nerves. The tipper border lies near the clavicle, but between it and that bone is an interval of a somewhat triangular form. The lower border projects beyond the pectoralis major, close to the chest ; and along it the long thoracic artery lies. The tendon of insertion is united with that of the coraco-brachi- alis and the short head of the biceps. Costo- The costo-coracoid membrane, or ligament, receives this name from its insertion on the one side into the rib, and on the other into the coracoid process of the scapula. Between those points of attachment it is connected to the clavicle, conceals and covers the subclavius muscle ; but when traced down- vius, and wards, the membrane is found to descend around the axillary sheath* vessels and nerves, to which it furnishes a loose tube, and to vessels, join the common cellular sheaths on those trunks beneath the small pectoral muscle : its extent moreover is not so great on the inner as on the outer side, for internally it reaches but a very short distance on the axillary vein. This sheath (axillary) resembles, in its form and office, the funnel-shaped coracoid mem- brane