THE DEEP MUSCLES. 573 nate bone. The outer border touches the quadratus and of outer iliacus, and branches of the lumbar plexus issue from be- border' neath it. The inner border is partly connected to the ver-of inner tebvve, and is partly free along the margin of the pelvis: — along the vertebral part of this border lie the sympathetic along; nerve and some lumbar glands, with the cava on the right, pelviC and the aorta on the left side ; along the pelvic part of the muscle are the external iliac artery and vein, and the obtu- rator nerve below. It has been before said that the muscle and ver- is connected only with the margins of the vertebrae; and it part, may be seen that, opposite the centre of those bones, the fibres are attached to tendinous arches over the lumbar vessels. Psoas parvus is a small muscle with a long and flat Psoas tendon, which is placed on the front of the large psoas, but originV is rarely present. Its fibres arise from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and their intervening fibro-cartilage, like the large psoas. Its tendon becomes broader inferiorly, and is inserted into the ilio-pectineal inser- eminence and the brim of the pelvis. The tendon is con- ; nected with the fascia covering the iliacus muscle. absent. The iliacus muscle occupies the hollow (iliac fossa) on niacus the inner aspect of the os ilii, and is blended inferiorly' with form of the psoas muscle. It is triangular in form, and has a fleshy foseSa.iac origin from the iliac fossa and the ilio-lumbar ligament, origin; from the base of the sacrum, and in front from the capsule of the hip-joint. The fibres pass inwards to the tendon of the psoas, uniting with it even to its insertion into the inser- femur, and some reach separately that bone. Above Pou- part's ligament the muscle is covered on both sides by the covering iliac fascia: but in front of the right is the caecum, and in opposite ° sides. front of the left muscle is the sigmoid flexure. Beneath it are the innominate bone and the capsule of the hip-joint. The inner margin is in contact with the psoas and the To the anterior crural nerve. The connections of the united psoas skteis and iliacus below Poupart's ligament are given with the psoas, dissection of the thigh. The quadratus lumborum is a short thick muscle be- This tween the crest of the ilium and the last rib. About two has two inches wide inferiorly, it arises from the ilio-vertebral liga-o^er~~ ment, and the crest of the ilium anterior to it. The fibres i^g^tis