565 ABDOMINAL AORTA. the pieces of the ribs together with the diaphragm, except part of the pillars and the arches at the posterior part, may be taken phragm. away to facilitate the dissection of the deep vessels and muscles. The large vessels of the abdomen, viz. the aorta and the Aorta, vena cava, are now to be cleaned by removing from their branch^ surface the cellular membrane with the remains of the sym- es' pathetic nerve and the lymphatic glands; and their branches are also to be followed to the diaphragm, to the kidney and the supra-renal body, to the testicle, and to the lumbar ver tebrge and the spinal cord. In like manner the large iliac divisions of the aorta and cava are to be laid bare as far as Poupart's ligament. The ureter and the spermatic vessels are to be cleaned as they cross the iliac artery; and on this artery, branches of a small nerve (genito-crural), are to be sought near the thigh. The psoas, quadratus, and iliacus muscles are to be cleaned Dissect on the right side; but on the left side the fascia covering psoas* the muscles is to be shown, and the fat to be cleared away from about the kidney. The psoas muscle is the more in- Nerves ternal, and lies on the side of the spine: on its surface, and bar in the fat external to it, the branches of the lumbar plexus will be found. The genito-crural nerve lies on the front, and four other nerves issue at the outer border—the ilio- hypogastric and ilio-inguinal near the top, the external cutaneous about the centre, and the large anterior crural at the lower part. Along the inner border of the muscle the gangliated cord of the sympathetic is to be sought, with a chain of lumbar lymphatic glands; and somewhat below the pelvic part of the muscle, the obturator nerve. External to Dissect the psoas is the quadratus lumborum muscle, and crossing it tuSa?um- near the last rib is the last dorsal nerve, with an artery. In borum- the hollow of the os ilii is the iliacus muscle. Both these macus may be cleaned on the right side, whilst the fascia that covers them may be observed on the opposite side. The abdominal aorta extends from the last dorsal ver- Extent tebra to the left side of the body of the fourth lumbar ver- aorta! tebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. Its commencement is between the fleshy pillars of the diaphragm, and its termination is nearly on a level with the highest part of the crest of the ilium. The connections of the vessel Connec- o o 3 tions*