141 MEATUSES OF THE NOSE. space present in the dried bones is filled by the triangular cartiia- cartilage of the septum, which forms part of the partition between the nostrils, and supports the cartilages of the ante- rior aperture. Fixed between the vomer, the ethmoid plate, and the nasal bones, the cartilage rests anteriorly on the median ridge between the superior maxillary bones, and projects even beyond, between the cartilages of each nostril. The septum narium is commonly bent to one side. The outer boundary has the greatest extent and the most outer irregular surface. The bones entering into this wall come dary, in the following order, when they are enumerated from before backwards : — the nasal and superior maxillary ; the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, with the small os unguis ; and posteriorly the ascending part of the palate bone, with the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone : of these, the nasal and lingual reach only half-way from roof to floor, whilst the others extend the whole depth ; and altogether in front of the bones, the lateral cartilages may be said to con- struct part of this boundary. On this wall are three COnvO- is irre- luted osseous pieces, named spongy or turbinate bones, which surface; project into the cavity: — the two upper are processes of the ethmoid bone, but the lower is the separate inferior spongy bone. Between each turbinate bone and the wall of the presents nose, is a longitudinal hollow or meatus; and into these fissures> hollows, the nasal duct, and the sinuses of the surrounding bones, open. The meatuses are the spaces overhung by the spongy bones, but as these are limited to a certain part of the outer wall, so is the extent of the spaces that are determined by them. The upper one is the smallest of the three meatuses, and upper occupies about the posterior half of the outer boundary : or mea- into it the posterior ethmoidal and the sphenoidal sinuses tus' open — the first at the front, the other at the back; and at its posterior part, in the dried bone, is the spheno-palatine foramen, by which the nerves and vessels enter the nose. The middle meatus is longer than the preceding, and reaches middle, about two-thirds of the length of the outer wall. It com- municates anteriorly by a funnel-shaped passage (infundibu- lum) with the frontal sinus and the anterior ethmoidal cells ; and near its middle is a small aperture, about the size of a