104 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. Section VIII. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE AND VESSELS. superior The remaining trunk of the fifth nerve, viz. superior maxil- rv nerve lary, may be learnt conveniently after the dissection of the pterygo-maxillary and submaxillary regions. Dissec- Dissection. — The superior maxillary division of the fifth tlon* nerve, in its course to the face, occupies successively the skull, the spheno-maxillary fossa, and the infra-orbital canal; and to lay bare the whole extent of the nerve, it will be necessary to open the skull, the fossa, and the orbit. The skull and orbit are supposed to be opened ; but if the latter is not, see the dissection necessary for that step (p. 42.). in sphe- To trace the nerve in the spheno-maxillary fossa, the stu- iiiary " dent may make the following dissection : — The middle fossa lossa. o£ ^e kase Q£ skull is to be cut through from the inside with a chisel, from the foramen lacerum orbitale in front to the foramen spinosum behind, and the cut is to be made ex- ternal to the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale. The side of the skull is then to be sawn through vertically in front of the petrous-part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall end at the posterior extremity of the cut made in the base. Afterwards, with a bone forceps or a saw the outer wall of the orbit is to be divided into the spheno-max- illary fissure. The piece of bone forming part of both the skull and orbit is now loose, and is to be removed with the temporal muscle. The nerve can be partly seen as it crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa; but to bring it more completely into view, some of the sphenoid bone bounding the fossa must be taken away, so as to leave only an osseous ring round the nerve at its exit from the skull. In the fat of the fossa the student is to seek the following offsets, — the orbital branch, branches to Meckel's ganglion, and dental branches to the upper jaw. in floor To follow onwards the nerve in the floor of the orbit, the contents of the cavity must be away, and the bony canal in which it lies must be opened even to the face. Near the front of the orbit the anterior dental branch is to be traced downwards for some distance in the bone. The infra-orbital vessels are to be prepared with the nerve.