298 DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. radius, this artery passes transversely beneath the muscles, and anastomoses with a similar branch from the ulnar artery. From the arch thus formed at the lower border of the pronator quadrat us muscle, offsets are given to the carpus. Varia- Peculiarities of the radial artery. — The origin of the radial artery the ori- may be carried upwards in the arm, from the usual place even to sin the axilla ; and the unusual beginning of this vessel in the humeral is much more frequent than that of either of the other arteries of the fore-arm, bearing to their variation in this particular the pro- portion in a given number of cases of about three to four. In one instance (Quain), it was noticed between two and three inches below the elbow joint, and in that case a vas aberrans connected it and with the axillary artery. When the radial artery has the high therSe °f origin, its course in the arm is close to the brachial artery, along radial. e(jge Qf ^Q bicepS muscle; and. in passing the bend of the elbow it may be subcutaneous, viz. above the deep fascia, and be mistaken for a vein in venesection. In the fore-arm it may likewise be sub- cutaneous, and superficial to the supinator longus muscle. Connect- The vasa aherrantia, or the long slender branches of the axillary branch- or brachial trunks, open commonly into the radial artery. In some cases of high origin of the radial, there is a connecting branch, at the bend of the elbow, between that irregular vessel and the trunk in the place of the brachial artery. Dissec- Dissection. — To bring into view the remaining muscle of tion. . 0 .... the superficial layer (flexor sublimis digitorum), the origin of the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus must be cut through near the inner condyle of the humerus, and turned to one side. Small branches of the ulnar artery and median nerve may be seen to enter the under surface of those muscles. For the present, the pronator teres may be left uncut. Superfi- The FLEXOR DIGITORUM SUBLIMIS Vel PERFORATUS is the flexor of largest of the muscles of the superficial layer, and is named from its position with regard to another flexor in the deep Origin, layer of muscles. It arises from the inner condyle of the humerus, from the internal lateral ligament, and from the intermuscular septa, in common with the preceding muscles ; and it takes origin in addition from the bones of the fore- arm, viz. from the inner part of the coronoid process of the ulna; and from the oblique line on the radius, from the tubercle to as far as two inches below the insertion of the pronator teres. Rather below the middle of the fore-arm the muscle ends in four tendons, which are continued across