359 STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. A A 4 for their attachment. These structures must be studied on heart a separate heart, or on that of the ox or sheep, in which the animus- fibres have been hardened by boiling, so that they can be separated. The description of the structure of the heart may therefore be omitted till a fit preparation of the fibres can be made. The fibrous structure forms rings around the auriculo- Fibrous -. • i -. i i • bands ventricular and arterial orifices, and sends prolongations into the valves connected with those openings. a. The auriculo-ventricular rings give attachment to the form u ° . rings muscular fibres both of the auricles and ventricles, as well around . . auriculo- as to the framework of fibrous tissue in the tricuspid and ventri- cular mitral valves. These bands are distinct from those encircling open- the arterial mouths, except at the right part of the left auriculo-ventricular opening, where the auricular and the arterial circles are blended. b. An arterial ring surrounds each large artery (aorta and a ^ and pulmonary), fixing those vessels, and giving attachment arterial to the muscular fibres and the semilunar valves. Each is a *ngs. circular band, with an uninterrupted margin towards the ventricle, and a toothed or wavy margin towards the artery. This last margin has three notches, which are filled by To these corresponding projections of the artery, and give attach- sigmoid ment, internally, to the sigmoid valves along their semilunar edges. The artery is connected with the band of fibrous tissue in and mid- the following manner: — The middle coat presents three of the artery projecting convex pieces, that are received into and con- are^ nected with the notches of the 'fibrous ring, but most inti- mately with the points; and the union between the two is strengthened externally by the parts around the vessel, and internally by the endocardium. The muscular substance forms concentric bands of fibres, Muscu- which are arranged mostly in a circular or spiral direction, stance of and enclose the different cardiac cavities. In the wall of the is dis. auricles the fibres are quite distinct from those in the ven- auricles tricles, though both sets are attached to the fibrous circles tricks?" around the cardiac orifices, as to a common point of origin or insertion. Some of the fibres enter the bases of the auriculo-ventricular valves. The fibres belong to the invo-