126 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. and is the oesophagus, with the recurrent nerves. On each side are the common carotid artery and the thyroid body. The structure of the trachea is described at p. 174. ceso- The (esophagus, or gullet, reaches from the pharynx to phagus the stomach. It commences, like the trachea, opposite the occupies fifth cervical vertebra, and ends opposite the tenth dorsal thorax, vertebra. In length it measures about nine inches. This tube reaches through part of the neck, and through the whole of the thorax, and occupies, for the most part, the middle line of the body. Position In the neck its position is behind the trachea, till near the thorax, where it projects to the left side, beyond the air tube, and comes into connection with the thyroid body and and con- the thoracic duct. Behind the oesophagus is the longus colli nections. . muscle; and on each side is the common carotid artery, the proximity of the left being greatest, because of the projection of the oesophagus towards the same side. The structure of the oesophagus will be learnt in the dis- section of the thorax. Muscles Directions.—Let the dissector examine next the digastric nerves and stylo-hyoid muscles, with the hypo-glossal nerve; and, terfor afterwards, the trunk of the external carotid, with its follow- tnangie. branches, superior thyroid, facial, occipital, posterior auricular, and superficial temporal. The description of the right side (p. 79.) may be used for these parts, pterygo- The dissector is not to examine the pterygo-maxillary or maxilla- sub-maxillary regions on this (the left) side of the neck, gums"to because the proceeding would interfere writh subsequent dis- be^omit- gec^ons# Before learning the pharynx he should lay bare, on this side, the middle and inferior ganglia of the sympathetic and their branches. Dissec- Dissection.—For the dissection of the two lower ganglia of the sympathetic and their branches, it will be necessary to cut across the common carotid artery at the lower part of the neck, and the external and internal carotid where they are crossed by the digastric muscle. In removing these vessels with the internal jugular vein, care must be taken of the sympathetic beneath them. The upper end of the sternum with its attached clavicle is next to be taken away, by cutting through the middle of the first rib ; and the piece of bone thus obtained is to be put aside for the subsequent tion of