DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 28 is seen membrane has been removed, this muscle will be seen to mouth, arise from a fossa near the symphysis of the lower jaw, and to descend to its insertion into the integument of the chin. Its position is internal to the depressor of the lip, and the attachment of the orbicularis. Zygo- The zygomatic muscles are directed obliquely from the muscles; arch of the same name towards the angle of the mouth. One is longer and larger than the other; hence the names major and minor, large The zygomaticus major arises from the outer part of the malar bone at its union with the temporal, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, and The zygomaticus minor is attached to the malar bone anterior to the other, and is blended more frequently with last the fibres of the elevator of the. upper lip, than with the absent! orbicularis at the angle of the mouth. RiS0. The risorius muscle (Santorini) is a narrow bundle of ilmscie fibres, sometimes divided into two or more parts, which is aimost arises externally from the fascia over the masseter muscle, verse". ana* is connected internally with the apex of the depressor anguli oris. Buccma. The buccinator is a thin flat muscle, that occupies the tor mus- . . .... cie. interval between the jaws, and bounds in this direction the Origin, cavity of the mouth. Superiorly and inferiorly the muscle arises from the outer surface of the upper and lower maxillse, as far forward as the first molar tooth; and in the interval between the jaws it is attached to a band of fascia—the inser- pterygo-maxillary ligament. From this origin the fibres are corners directed forwards to the angle of the mouth, where they mix mouth, with the other muscles and both parts of the orbicularis ; and as some of the central fibres descend to the lower lip whilst others ascend to the upper lip, a decussation takes place at Parts in the corner of the mouth. On the cutaneous surface of the contact with it. buccinator are the different muscles that converge to the angle of the mouth; and crossing the upper part is the duct of the parotid gland, which perforates the muscle opposite the second upper molar tooth. Internally the muscle is lined by the mucous membrane of the mouth, and externally it is covered by a fascia that is continued to the pharynx. By the intermaxillary origin the buccinator corresponds to an attachment of the superior constrictor of the pharynx.