194 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. and is then directed forwards to enter an aperture in the tentorium cerebelli, near the posterior clinoid process, and Deep origin. — In entering the valve of Vieussens, the nerves Sylvian _ r . °. _ _ . &. _-. . _ . ' aque- oi opposite sides cross, ii-ach then divides into two parts : one (an- terior) enters a nucleus of gray matter on the side of the aqueduct of Sylvius ; the other (posterior), a nucleus (upper trigeminal), near the top of the fourth ventricle, and in front of the prolonga- tion of the gray matter of the locus cseruleus. Fifth The fifth or trigeminal nerve is the largest cranial has two nerve, and consists of two parts, large and small. This roots. . , . nerve resembles a spinal nerve, in possessing two roots, ganglionic or sensory, and aganglionic or motor, which are blended beyond the ganglion. Origin The nerve is attached to the side of the pons Varolii, pons. nearer the upper than the lower border. The small or aganglionic root is highest, and is separated from the other by two or three of the transverse fibres of the pons. Both roots pass outwards, through an aperture in the dura mater, above the petrous part of the temporal bone, where they are blended in the peculiar manner stated in p. 20. near Deep origin. — Both roots penetrate the fibres of the pons, and fourth are connected with nuclei near the floor of the fourth ventricle, ventn- rp^Q iarge r00f divides into two parts near the mass of gray begin- matter called locus caeruleus (p. 237.). One of these bends down- ofthe wards to the restiform body. The other, which is smaller, arises root! fr°m tne l°cus casruleus, and from the gray matter near it (upper trigeminal nucleus) which the lower part of the trochlear nerve enters ; from the gray substance in the floor of the fourth ventricle, near the hypoglossal nucleus ; and from a deeper nucleus, lower trigeminal, opposite the lower border of the pons, within the fibres continued from the lateral tract of the medulla, and of The small root begins with the fourth nerve in the upper tri- geminal nucleus, which is in front of the prolongation upwards from the locus casruleus, and anterior to the floor of the fourth ventricle. origin The sixth nerve, abducent nerve of the eyeball, springs nerve, from the pyramidal body, close to the pons, and sometimes from the lower part of the pons. Arises Deep origin. — The fibres of the nerve bend backwards, through fourth the medulla oblongata, to a nucleus in the floor of the fourth ven- e£! "~ tricle, whose position is on the outer part of the fasciculus teres, and on a level with the anterior fossa. See Anatomy of Fourth Ventricle.