682 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. tor ar- the pelvis (p. 602.), and enters the thigh through the upper tery part of the thyroid foramen; whilst in its aperture the divides artery divides into two parts, that inosculate, and form a into two, J r 7 7 circle around the obturator membrane beneath the muscle, upper The upper branch extends along the inner half of the lower membrane, and anastomoses inferiorly with the other. The branch; lower perforates the membrane beneath the upper branch, and turns downwards to form a circle by uniting with the tlilesar Prece(^ng: tn^s supplies an articular twig to the hip-joint. ticuiar Offsets of the obturator artery are furnished to the twig. J muscle that covers it; and some small twigs extend even to Muscu- ° iar- the upper part of the adductors. Branch- Branches of nerve to the muscle come from the deep divi- es of the r nerve. si0n of the obturator trunk, and perforate the membrane with the lower branch of the artery. Section II. THE BUTTOCK, OR THE GLUTEAL REGION. Position Position.—During the dissection of the back of the thigh Jbody. the body is placed with the face down; and the pelvis is to be raised by blocks until the lower limbs hang almost verti- cally over the end of the dissecting table. Direc- Directions.—Now the body is turned, the student can better recognise the points of bone that mark, posteriorly, the limit between the thigh and the abdomen (p. 645.). Both this section and the following one are to be gone through in the time appointed for the body to lie in its present position. Take up Dissection.— The integument is to be raised from the the skm. j^^k means of these incisions : — One is to be made along the crest of the ilium, and to be continued in the middle line of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx ; another is to be begun where the first terminates, and to be carried outwards and downwards on the thigh till it is about six inches below the great trochanter. The flap of skin thus marked out above and below is to be thrown down, cutane- Several of the cutaneous nerves of this region will be nerves found in the fat, or beneath it, along the line of the crest of