POPLITEAL NERVES. and articular offsets, but only the inner one supplies branches and ■ J 11 outer. to muscles. The internal popliteal nerve is larger than the external, The in- and occupies the middle of the ham. Its connections are nerve the same as those of the artery, that is to say, it is partly space! superficial and partly covered by the gastrocnemius : like the vessel it extends through the back of the leg, and retains the name popliteal only to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. Its position with reference to the vessels has been already noticed. The branches that arise from it here are Branch- the following : — Two or three small articular twigs are furnished to the knee- two or joint with the vessels. One is with the lower internal articular a^icu- artery, and is of considerable size ; and another takes the same lar; course as the azygos artery. Occasionally a third may be found with the upper internal articular artery. Muscular branches arise from the nerve between the heads of to the the gastrocnemius. One supplies both heads of the gastrocnemius ciaT^" and the plantaris; another descends beneath the gastrocnemius and ™"hee8 enters the cutaneous surface of the soleus; and a third penetrates pe0p'1f.nd the popliteus at the under aspect, after turning round the lower teus '■> border. The external saphenous nerve (ram. communicans tibialis) is the external largest branch, and is a cutaneous offset to the leg and foot. It no^T" lies on the surface of the gastrocnemius, but beneath the fascia, as nerve- far as the middle of the leg, where it becomes cutaneous, and will be afterwards seen (p. 707.). The external popliteal nerve (peroneal) lies along the External outer boundary of the ham, and follows the biceps muscle to nerve, the head of the fibula. Below the head of that bone the nerve enters the fibres of the peroneus longus muscle, and divides beneath it into two,—musculocutaneous and anterior tibial. Its branches whilst in the popliteal space are cuta- Branch, neous and articular. es; The articular nerve runs with the upper external artery to the one ar- outer side of the knee, where it sends a twig along the lower arti- tlcular* cular artery, and enters the joint. The peroneal communicating branch (ram. communicans fibu- A com- laris) is a cutaneous nerve, and joins the external saphenous jJ5gmcat" branch of the internal popliteal about the middle of the leg. It branch- arises near the head of the fibula, and soon pierces the deep fascia; cutaneous offsets are given by it to the back of the leg. One or two other cutaneous offsets are furnished by the external Cutane-