DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 248 and half. The weight of the breast ranges from six to eight weight. ° o to ounces. Position Nearly in the centre of the gland (rather to the inner side of the of the centre) is the conical or cylindrical projection of the mppie. n-ppie or mamilla. This projection is about half an inch or rather more in length, is slightly turned outwards, and presents in the centre a shallow depression, where it is like- andjhe wise rather redder. Around the nipple is a coloured ring, Colour is the areola, about an inch in width, whose tint is influenced altered. ^ ^ complexion 0f ^he body, and, in life also, during the skin has time of menstruation, pregnancy, and lactation. The skin gland*, -^offo of the nipple and its areola is provided with nume- rous papillae and lubricating glands ; and on the surface are some tubercles marking the position of the ducts of those glands. Breast In the male the mammary gland resembles that of the male! female in general form, for it is prominent, though in a much less degree; and it possesses a small nipple, which is sur- rounded by an areola provided with hairs. Farther than this the similitude does not hold, for the glandular or secre- tory structure is very imperfect, struc Structure. — In its texture the mamma resembles those ture. compound glands that are formed by the vesicular endings of branched ducts. During lactation the glandular mass is of a reddish white colour, and consists of small vesicles, which are united to form lobules and lobes. Connected with each lobe is an excretory or lactiferous duct; and the whole is surrounded, and bound together by areolar tissue, invest- A cellular layer, containing fat, surrounds the gland, and luiar penetrates into the interior, subdividing it into lobes. Some and ■ fibrous septa fix the gland to the skin, and support it; these tissue, are the ligamenta suspensoria of Sir A. Cooper. In the ultimate structure of the gland, in the nipple, and in the areola, there is not any fatty substance. Texture Vesicles, lobules, and lobes. — The little vesicles or cells form of at the ends of the most minute ducts are lenticular or rounded ciees.vesl" in shape, and when filled with milk or mercury are just visible to the naked eye, being about the size of a small pin- hole in paper. — (Cooper.) Each is surrounded externally Vesicles by a close vascular network. A collection of the vesicles lobules, around their duct forms the smallest divisions of the gland,