DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 18 of dura- dura mater is very uncertain. Offsets to it are derived from both the cranial and sympathetic nerves. To make these nerves apparent, it would be necessary to steep the dura mater in diluted nitric acid.* Cranial Cranial Nerves. — The cranial nerves consist of nine base of™ pair, and pass from the brain through apertures in the base s u die, o£ skuii# as each leaves the cranium it is invested by processes of the membranes of the brain, which are thus dis- posed :—those of the dura mater and pia mater are lost on the nerve; whilst that of the arachnoid membrane, after a short distance, is reflected back to the skull. Some of the nerves, those in the middle fossa of the skull for instance, are received into sheaths of the dura mater before they approach the foramina of transmission. oniy Only part of the course of each nerve will be now seen, sea«n!y the rest must be learnt in the dissection of the base of the brain. oifac- The first nerve ends anteriorly in the enlargement of nerve, the olfactory bulb. This swelling lies on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and supplies filaments to the nose, ends m which descend through the small foramina in the subjacent the nose. it bone. These delicate nerves are surrounded by prolonga- tions of the membranes of the brain, whose disposition will be noticed in the dissection of the nose, optic The second nerve diverging from its commissure to the enters eyeball, is seen entering the orbit through the optic fora- tbe eye. men. accompanying the nerve is the ophthalmic artery. Dissec- Dissection. — The third, fourth, and ophthalmic trunk of third the fifth nerve lie in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus ; fourth and it will be necessary, in order to see them, to remove the sheaths of the dura mater that they receive, of firth Afterwards the student should follow outwards the roots of the fifth nerve into the middle fossa of the skull, and take away the dura mater from the surface of the large Gasserian ganglion, as this lies on the point of the petrous part of the temporal bone. And the two large trunks that leave the * Many of the cranial nerves are said to supply the dura mater ; and the student who is desirous for further information may consult Kbl- liker's Mikroskopische Anatomie, p. 495.