106 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. orbital of the internal maxillary artery in the sphenomaxillary artery fogga^ an(j accompanjes the superior maxillary nerve. Taking the course of the nerve through the infra-orbital canal, the vessel appears in the face beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip, and ends in branches, which are distributed, like those of the nerve, to the part of the face between the eye ends in and the mouth. In the face, its branches anastomose with the facial and buccal arteries. has a In the canal in the upper maxilla this artery furnishes branches branch , ,-1 ^ ., to orbit, to the orbit. and one Another branch, anterior dental, runs with the nerve of the same r?ornte" name, and supplies the incisor and canine teeth. This gives teeth, branches to the antrum of the maxilla, and near the teeth it anas- tomoses with the posterior dental artery, orbital ve*ni accompanying the artery, communicates in front with vein. the facial vein ; and behind, with a plexus of veins correspondin g to the branches of the internal maxillary artery in the spheno- maxillary fossa (p. 149). Section IX. DEEP VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE NECK. Parts in IN this section are included the deepest styloid muscle, the this sec- 1 J tion. internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves. Position. Position. — The position of the part is to remain still the same, viz. the neck is to be fixed over a small block. Dissec- Dissection, — To see the remaining styloid muscle: the the sty- posterior belly of the digastric, and the stylo-hyoid muscle ryngeus. should be detached from their origin, and thrown down. At the same time, a filament of the facial nerve may be some- times seen to perforate the digastric muscle, and join the glossopharyngeal nerve beneath. The trunk of the external carotid artery is to be removed by cutting it through where the hypo-glossal nerve crosses it, and by cutting those branches that have been already examined, as well as, if it is necessary, the veins accompanying the arteries. In cleaning the surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve and its branches may be prepared. The side of the jaw is still to remain turned upwards, as in the dissec- tion of the submaxillary region.