648 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. the su- one set (artery and vein) are directed inwards to the pubes, vessels, and named external pudic; another, superficial epigastric, upwards over Poupart's ligament; and the third, or the superficial circumflex iliac, appears at the outer border of the limb. The large vein in the middle line of the thigh to which branches converge, is the internal saphenous. Some ticsPha~ °^ ^e sma^ lymphatic vessels may be traced from one inguinal gland to another. arKj A small nerve, the ilio-inguinal, is to be sought on the erves' inner side of the saphenous vein, and close to the pubes ; and one of the terminal branches of the genito-crural nerve may be found a little outside the vein. The Superficial Vessels. — The small cutaneous arteries at fromThe the top of the thigh are the highest branches of the femoral ll* artery, and are furnished by that trunk as soon as it enters the thigh. They pierce the deep fascia of the limb (fascia lata), and iaphe-e are distributed in the integuments and the glands of the groin. A vein accompanies each artery, having the same name as its companion vessel, and ends in the upper part of the saphenous vein ; but the description of these veins will be given in a subsequent page, one ex- ^he external pudic artery (superior) crosses the spermatic pudic1 cord in its course inwards, and ends in the integument of artery; tjie pern-s an(j scrotum, where it anastomoses with offsets of another the internal pudic artery. Another external pudic branch the fas? (inferior) pierces the fascia lata at the inner border of the Veil join the saphe nous. cia. thigh, and ramifies also in the scrotum. In the female these branches supply the labium pudendi. super- The superficial epigastric artery passes over Poupart's gastric1?1" ligament to the lower part of the abdomen (p. 463.), and communicates with branches of the deep epigastric artery. Super- The superficial circumflex iliac artery is the smallest of iliac. the three branches; and appearing on the outer border of the thigh, near the crest of the ilium, it is distributed in the integument. inguinal The superficial inguinal glands are arranged in two lines ; two sets, one set lies across the thigh, near Poupart's ligament, and the other along the side of the saphenous vein. In the which lower or longitudinal collection the glands are larger than receive ° ° ° different in the upper, and receive the lymphatic vessels from the