659 FEMORAL HERNIA. u u 2 ligament. In this affection the gut descends always in the Defini- crural or femoral sheath, and commonly on the inner side of the vein, though occasionally it may be situate on the outer side of the artery. Course. — At first the intestine takes a vertical direction course; in its progress from the abdomen to the surface of the body, first ver- and passes through the crural ring, and along the crural canal as far as the saphenous opening. At this spot it next^ ^ changes its course, and is directed forwards; and should the for- . . . wards, gut protrude still farther the hernia again alters its direction and then t upwards. and ascends towards the abdomen, in consequence of the ascent being easier than the descent on the front of the thigh. The winding course of the hernia must suggest to the dissector the direction in which attempts should be made to replace the intestine in the abdominal cavity. "With the By what n •'" i • 11 i . . .n i means it view oi making the bowel retrace its course, it will be neces- is to be n . pushed sary first to press it down towards the saphenous opening, back, and afterwards backwards and upwards towards the crural canal and ring. The previous dissection will have demon- strated the necessity of raising the limb, and rotating it inwards during the manipulation to return the displaced in- testine to its cavity, in order that the margin of the saphe- nous opening, and the other tissues may be relaxed. Coverings. — As the intestine takes the course above Cover- specified it is clothed by the following structures, which it thl^ut* elongates and pushes before it: they are here enumerated from within outwards, in the order in which they are re- ceived. First is a covering of the peritoneum lining the abdomen ; next one from the crural septum across the crural perito- ring ; after this comes a stratum from the femoral sheath, cmrai unless the hernia bursts through an aperture in the side ; C£U1|*' still farther out is a layer of the cribriform fascia; and, cribri„' lastly, there is an investment of the superficial fat or fascia., f°srma> together with the skin. From without inwards the order of skin.nd the different strata will be reversed. The coverings may The co- vary, or be conjoined in different degrees according to the ml^ie condition of the hernia. In some instances, as above ex- plained, the prolongation from the femoral sheath is wanting ; and in an old hernia the covering derived from the septum crurale is usually united with that from the crural sheath, so as to form one layer, the fascia propria (Cooper). In