BASE OF THE CEREBRUM. 207 (lamina cinerea) ; and still farther forwards is the anterior part of the great longitudinal fissure between the hemi- spheres, with the white corpus callosum in the bottom of it. At the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius is another spot, perforated by vessels, and distinguished by the name locus perforatus anticus. Parts of some special convolutions may now be seen. Parts of A convolu- One convolution, that of the corpus callosum (gyrus forni- tions of i ,. . . corpus catus), is visible at its beginning and ending; its anterior callosum part is in contact with the body from which it takes its name, and its posterior extremity rests on the outer side of the crus cerebri. Another is the convolution of the margin of the great of medt- median fissure, wrhich is bare at its anterior part, and con- sure," tains the olfactory nerve in a groove on its surface. A third large convolution surrounds the fissure of Sylvius ; of fissure and in that fissure are some other small convolutions, which Sg/yln" will be examined with it. The several parts of the base of the brain are now to be noticed more in detail. Lobes of the cerebrum. — There are three lobes in each Three hemisphere, but this division into parts is confined to its ladfm under aspect. The anterior lobe is triangular in form, and sphere ; the apex is turned backwards ; it is somewhat excavated on anterior, the surface now seen, which, in the natural position of the brain, rests on the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The olfactory nerve lies near the inner margin. The middle lobe middle, is the most prominent of the three, and projected before the brain was removed, into the middle fossa of the base of the skull. The fissure of Sylvius intervenes between it and the anterior lobe. The posterior lobe has no fissure to separate poste- it from the middle one; its extent forwards is determined, as before said, by the anterior or outer margin of the cere- : " bellum. This lobe would not be in contact with the base of the skull, supposing it in position, but would be supported on the tentorium cerebelli. The fissure of Sylvius is directed outwards between the Fissure . . . ofSyl- anterior and middle lobes, and branches externally into two vius parts, one of which passes before, and the other behind some small convolutions, to which the term island of Reil has been applied. At the inner extremity of the fissure is a narrowed