55 PLATYSMA MYOIDES. E 4 clavicle as far as the acromion/ The triangular flap of skin is~to be reflected from before back towards the trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia, which will be then brought into view, contains the platysma; and to see that muscle, it will be necessary to take the subcutaneous fat from its surface. The platysma myoides is a thin subcutaneous muscular piatys- layer, which is now seen only in its lower half. The muscle de.mus" ' *is placed across the side of the neck, and extends from the top of the shoulder to the face. Its fibres take origin from the su- arises at perficial fascia over the upper part of the pectoral and deltoid der; muscles, and then ascend over the clavicle and the triangular spaces of the neck, to be inserted into the jaw. The lower inserted part of the muscle is more closely united to the skin than the m °jaw' upper, and covers the external jugular vein as well as the lower part of the posterior triangle. At first the fibres of the covers muscle are thin and scattered, but they increase in strength tnangle* as they ascend. The direction of the fibres should be noted, because in venesection in the external jugular vein the inci- sion is so made as to cut them across. Dissection.-— The platysma is now to be cut across near Dissec- the clavicle, and to be reflected upwards as far as the incision over the sterno-mastoid muscle, but it is here to be left at- tached. In raising the muscle the student must be careful of the deep fascia of the neck, of the external jugular vein, and of the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus, which are close beneath it. The external jugular vein, commences in the parotid Exter- gland (p. 32.), and is directed backwards between the pla- iar vein tysma and the deep fascia to the lower part of the neck, where it pierces the fascia to open into the subclavian vein. Its course down the neck will be marked by a line from the crosses angle of the jaw to the middle of the clavicle. The part of neck to the vein now seen is joined by small superficial branches, vian. and an offset connects it with the anterior jugular vein. Its size, and the level at which it i crosses the sterno-mastoid muscle, are very uncertain. The deep cervical fascia consists, like the aponeuroses in cervical other regions of the body, of a superficial layer that sur- rounds the part continuously, and of processes that are pro- longed inwards between the muscles. In some bodies this