403 THE FASCIA LUMBORUM. D D 2 that have been left in the previous dissection. Firstly, there tachedto may, or may not remain a piece of the external oblique muscle. After the removal of this muscl^(supposing a part to be left), the internal oblique will be seen to be attached to a subjacent aponeurosis, and to the ribs and the crest of the ilium; its attachments above and below are to be cut through, and it is to be raised from the transversalis muscle, as far as it can be, towards the spine. Then the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle (fascia lumborum) appears, and perforating it are two nerves : — one, the last dorsal, with an artery near the last rib; and the other, the ilio-hypogastric, close to the crest of the ilium. Two offsets are prolonged backwards from this fascia to of pro. the transverse processes. To see one prolongation, that is &om\t. attached to the apices of the processes, the latissimus dorsi is to be cut through (both its aponeurosis and fleshy part) by an incision directed outwards from the middle line, on a level with the spinous process of the third lumbar vertebra; on raising the outer border of the muscle (erector spinas), which comes into view, the strong process of the fascia will be apparent. After dividing this first prolongation trans- versely, another muscle (quadratus lumborum) will be seen : and on raising its outer border the second thin offset of'the fascia will be evident on the abdominal aspect of that muscle. The fascia lumborum is the posterior aponeurosis of the Fascia transversalis abdominis muscle, and occupies the interval rum is between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. By its Frans-f cutaneous surface it gives attachment to the internal oblique abdomi- muscle, sometimes to the external oblique, and slightlyms' to the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. The last dorsal and ilio-hypogastric nerves pierce the aponeurosis in their course from the abdomen. From the inner part of the aponeurosis two prolongations reach the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebra?, and enclose the quadratus lum- borum. The more superficial of the two is the strongest; has two it passes beneath the erector spinse, in this position of the behind body, and is connected to the apices of the transverse pro- one to cesses, but it also fills the intervals between those pieces of apex' bone. The deeper or anterior prolongation passes on the abdominal surface of the quadratus lumborum, to be fixed other to