DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 446 Poste- ct. The posterior branch appears at the front of the ischio-rectal nor fossa, and entering beneath the superficial fascia, is continued for- crosses wards with the artery of the same name to the back of the scro- fossa turn. Whilst in the fossa, the nerve gives inwards an offset to the scrotum integuments in front of the anus, and this communicates with the inferior hemorrhoidal nerve, and an- b. The anterior branch, appearing somewhat farther forward than has same the other, passes either over or under the transverse muscle, and as poste- accompanies the posterior branch to the scrotum. At its origin rlor; muscular offsets are furnished to the levator ani muscle, muscular Other muscular branches arise from the pudic nerve at the same branch- gpot ag ^e preceding nerve, but these will be afterwards examined, both are The superficial perinaeal branches communicate with one Inddis- another, and the posterior one is joined by the inferior toscro- pudendal nerve. At the scrotum they are distributed by penis!™1 long slender filaments, some of which reach as far as the under surface of the penis. In the female these nerves supply the labia pudendi. inferior The inferior pudendal nerve is a branch of the small nervedal sciatic ; it pierces the fascia lata about one inch in front of the tuberosity of the ischium, and coursing forwards along the inner part of the thigh, enters beneath the superficial fascia of the perinaeum ; finally, it passes forwards with the ends in superficial perineal nerves, and ends in the outer part and and joins the front of the scrotum. A communication takes place ciaPiept" between this nerve and the posterior of the two superficial nnasai. perjna3a]^ branches. In the female the inferior pudendal nerve is distributed to the labium, other On the surface of the thigh some other offsets (internal small i branches) of the small sciatic nerve may be observed. Dissec- Dissection. — For the dissection of the muscles, the super- m°unSc4> ficial fascia, as well as well as the vessels and nerves that urethra nave been examined, must be taken away from the anterior penis. nalf °f perinaeal space: it will be also necessary to re- move a thin subjacent aponeurotic layer from the muscles. The muscle in the middle line is the accelerator urinae; and in cleaning it the student is to follow two fasciculi of fibres, the posterior and anterior, which are prolonged from it. On the outer side of the space is the erector penis ; and . behind, passing horizontally between the other two, is the transverse muscle, of The student should seek, on the right side, the branches of nerves.