DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 358 and office. Its segments consist of thicker and thinner parts, and in the notches at the sides there are also secondary Attach- pieces between the segments. The strong tendinous cords cordL°f ascend to be attached to the valve in the lateral notches be- tween the tongues, and each of the large papillary muscles acts on both divisions of the valve. The ending of the ten- dinous cords is the same as in the tricuspid valve. Aortic The opening of the aorta is somewhat on a higher level opening, t^an tjiat 0f the auricle, and is next the septum of the ven- position tricles. By slitting up the side of the vessel without cutting form. the pulmonary artery, its aperture will be found to be round, and rather smaller than that of the pulmonary artery, be- neath, and below and internal to which it lies : with respect to the wall of the thorax, it is opposite the lower border of the third left costal cartilage, behind the contiguous part of is guard- the sternum. In its interior are three semilunar or sigmoid ed by three valves, which are lamer and stronger than the analogous sigmoid • , ■ t , , ,., valves, parts in the pulmonary artery, but have a like structure, attachment, and function. The projection in the centre of each valve, viz. corpus s. nodulus Arantii is also better marked. Opposite each valve the coat of the aorta is bulged as on the right side, though in a greater degree, and presents also a little hollow on the inner side named sinus of Valsalva. Above the free margin of two of the small valves are the apertures of the coronary arteries. Relative Apertures in the heart. — Two openings have been seen in of the each ventricle, one of the auricle of its own side of the heart, tures of and one of an artery. The apertures of the arteries (aorta heart, and pulmonary) are nearest the septum; and as the two vessels were originally formed from one tube, they are close together, but the pulmonary artery is the more anterior of the two. The aperture of communication with each auricle is next the side of the heart (the right in the one case, and the left in the other), and is posterior in its position to the artery that issues from the fore part of the ventricle. The po- From sition of the openings to one another, from before backwards, back, has been before referred to ; thus the right auriculo-ventri- cular is before the left; and the opening of the pulmonary artery is before that of the aorta, and rather higher than it. struc- Structure.—The heart is composed of strata of muscular the6 °f fibres, and of certain fibrous rings which serve as fixed points