483 OBLIQUE INGUINAL HERNIA. the fascia should be cut away to show the vessel on the side of the abdominal ring. Inguinal Hernia. — A protrusion of the intestine through situa- tion of the lower part of the abdominal wall above Poupart s liga- inguinal .... hernia. men t,—-the part corresponding to the inguinal region, is named an inguinal hernia. The escape of the intestine in this re- gion is predisposed to by the deficiency in the muscular Predis- strata, by the passage of the spermatic cord through the abdo- Satura?- minal parietes, and by the existence of fossae on the inner ly' surface of the wall. The gut, in leaving the abdomen, either course passes through the internal abdominal ring with the cord ; or }0^!" is projected through the part of the abdominal wall between the epigastric artery and the edge of the rectus muscle. The hernia of this region is distinguished by the names Two external and internal, derived from its position to the epi- external gastric artery ; and by the terms oblique and direct, from lique; its position in the abdominal wall; so that the hernia that comes through the internal abdominal ring with the cord is called synonymously external or oblique, whilst the hernia between the edge of the rectus and the epigastric artery is internal . . or direct. named, in like manner, internal or direct. External or Oblique Inguinal Hernia leaves the ab- External domen with the spermatic cord, and traversing the inguinal f^e." canal, makes its exit from the wall of the abdomen by the external abdominal ring. Anatomy. — To acquire a knowledge of the anatomy of Ana- this hernia it will be necessary to study the space in which pa™* °f it lies (inguinal canal), the apertures by which it enters and cemed. leaves the wall of the abdomen (abdominal rings), and the coverings that it receives in its progress to the surface of the body. The inguinal canal is the interval between the flat mus- inguinal canal. cles of the abdominal wall, which contains the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Its Direc. direction is oblique downwards and inwards, being nearly parallel to Poupart's ligament; and its length is about one Length inch and a half. Superiorly it communicates with the cavity open- of the abdomen by the internal abdominal ring, and infe- lngs' riorly ends on the surface at the external abdominal ring. Towards the surface of the body the canal is bounded, Bound- though unequally, by the two oblique muscles: —thus* in next surface. I I 2