DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 24 ture. There are three distinct sets of muscles: one of the opening of the eyelids; another of the nostril; and a third of the aperture of the mouth. One of the muscles of masti- cation, viz. the masseter, is also now seen, but it will be afterwards examined. Four Of the Eyelids. — The muscles of the eyelids are four in ™fUeSye!s number, viz. orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator supercilii, llds' levator palpebral superioris, and tensor tarsi.* The two latter are dissected in the orbit, and will be described with that part. orbicu- The orbicularis palpebrarum is the sphincter muscle of paipe- tht elliptical opening between the eyelids. It is a flat and brarum ^n layer, which extends from the margin of the lids beyond arises in-the circumference of the orbit. At the inner angle of the temaiiy, ork^ ^e mUscle is fixed to the surface and borders of the small tendo palpebrarum; above that tendon to the nasal process of the upper maxillary bone, and to the internal an- gular process of the frontal bone ; and below it to the same process of the superior maxillary bone, and to the inner part of the margin of the orbit. From this origin the fibres are directed above and below the aperture of the lids, giving rise to ovals, which lie side by side, and increase in size and con- towards the outer margin of the muscle. The external fibres three (orbital) are the strongest, and project beyond the margin of fibres, the orbit; the internal fibres (ciliary) are very pale and thin, and form a small bundle close to the cilia or eyelashes; whilst the fibres (palpebral), which occupy the eyelids, are connec- intermediate in size. The muscle is subcutaneous, and its partsW th circumference is free, except above, where it is blended with around. ^e occipito-frontalis. Beneath the upper half of the orbicu- laris, as it lies on the margin of the orbit, is the corrugator supercilii muscle with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve; and beneath the lower half is part of the elevator of the upper lip. At the outer part of the orbit the palpebral loops are fixed to the subjacent bone by means of dense fibrous tissue (external palpebral ligament) ; and sometimes slips from the outer fibres join the other contiguous muscles, corru- The corrugator supercilii is found beneath the orbi- * The tensor tarsi muscle (p. 51.) is sometimes described as part of the orbicularis.