372 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. CEso- 4. (Esophageal branches are furnished to the gullet all along the branches thorax, but in greatest abundance in the lower half. Below the root of the lung the branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves sur- form a round the oesophagus with a network, which has been named plexus piexus* gules. Part of Sympathetic Nerve. — In the thorax the sympathetic the sym- . . pathetic nerve consists, as in the abdomen, of a knotted cord alonp; in tho- • rax con- each side of the spinal column, which communicates with the sists of . spinal nerves: and of a large prevertebral or cardiac plexus, which distributes branches to the viscera, viz. to the heart and the lungs. a^gangii- The gangliated cord will be seen in a future stage of cord, the dissection, after the heart and the lungs have been removed. and a The cardiac plexus lies at the base of the heart, around cardiac the great bloodvessels. A part of this network, the super- piexus. £jcjaj car(^jac plexus, has been already described (p. 350.). The remaining part, or the deep cardiac plexus, will be found beneath the arch of the aorta by means of the follow- ing dissection: — Dissec- Dissection. — The cardiac plexus has been interfered with the by the previous examination of the heart, but, by following plexus. . _. . . . i * 11 i • i the directions now given, the student will obtain a know- ledge of the disposition of the nerves, and will be able to make a complete dissection of them when the opportunity offers. To find The arch of the aorta is to be cut across with care, close the nght akoye ^ pUimonaly artery, and to be drawn well over to the left side: next, the descending cava is to be divided above the entrance of the vena azygos, and its lower part thrown down. By the removal of some cellular membrane • and lymphatic glands, the right part of the plexus, in which the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic and pneumo- gastric nerves of the right side are united, will be seen in front of the trachea, above the right branch of the pul- monary artery. The offsets to the heart should be followed downwards on the trunk of the pulmonary artery ; and those to the right lung should be traced along the branch of that artery. To ex. To lay bare the part of the plexus into which the cervical pose the left part, branches of the sympathetic and vagus nerves of the left