412 DISSECTION OF THE BACK. artery will be found with the suboccipital nerve; and the occipital artery will be seen crossing the occipital bone, of the Opposite the thorax the dorsal nerves and vessels will same in the readily be dissected on the removal of a little cellular mem- do rsal ^ region, brane from between the transverse processes, and on the inner side of the longissimus dorsi muscle. External and internal branches are to be traced from each trunk; some of the former have been seen in the interval between the sacro- lumbal and longissimus dorsi. in the The lumbar nerves and vessels resemble the dorsal, and region, are found in the same line ; but the inner branches are more difficult to recognise. The sacral nerves are beneath the multifidus spinas, and will be dissected after the examination of that muscle (p. 420.). Poste- Posterior Branches of the Spinal Nerves.—The vision of spinal nerves, with a few exceptions in the cervical and nerves, sacral parts of the spinal column, bifurcate in the interver- tebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary branches. The posterior resulting from this division turn backwards to supply the integument and the muscles of the back, and are now to be described, in the In the neck. — The posterior primary branches of the cer- vical nerves are eight in number. All, except those of the first two, appear beneath the posterior intertransverse muscles, and still divide into an internal and an external they branch. In both the first and second nerves, the posterior divide into two. primary branch crosses the arch of the vertebra next beneath, after leaving its trunk. External CL» The external branches are very inconsiderable in size, branches muscles inserted into the transverse pro- smdlL cesses, viz. the splenius, and the prolongations from the None to erector spinas muscle. There is not any external branch to the first. t^e first? or the suboccipital nerve. Internal b. The internal branches are larger than the external, above All are directed inwards beneath the complexus towards the last, give spinous processes ; and those of the three lowest nerves pass neous in addition beneath the semispinalis muscle. By the side of the spines of the vertebrae, cutaneous branches are furnished to the neck and the head by those nerves that are superficial to the semispinalis; these superficial offsets ascend to the