DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. 448 passing between it and the body of the penis, and join in a covers central tendon with the muscle of the opposite side. The thra, and accelerator muscle covers the bulb, and the urethra for two rounds inches in front of the triangular ligament. If the muscle be siing. cut through on the right side, and turned off the urethra, the insertion on the opposite aspect of that tube will be ap- parent. com- Some of the deeper fibres, that immediately surround the pressor t of the bulb, have been described as a separate stratum by Kobelt. These are separated by a cellular layer from the superficial, and join those of the opposite side by a small tendon above the urethra. The name compressor hemisphcerium bulbi has been proposed for it by that anatomist. Trans. The transversalis perin^ei is a small thin muscle, which perin^i. lies across the perinaeum opposite the base of the triangular Origin, ligament. Arising by a tendon from the inner aspect of the ascending ramus of the ischium, the fibres run inwards, Ends in and join in the central point of the perinaeum with the point muscle of the opposite side, and with the sphincter ani and nseum! the accelerator urinae. Behind this muscle the superficial fascia dips down to join the triangular ligament. Acces- Sometimes there is a second small muscular slip anterior trans- to the transversalis, which has been named transversalis alter ; this throws itself into the accelerator muscle. a trian- Now the three muscles above described have been separated fpiee from one another by the dissection, they may be seen to en- the close a triangular space, of which the accelerator urinae forms muscles the inner boundary, the erector penis the outer side, and the scribed, transversalis perinaei muscle the base. In the area of this interval is the triangular ligament of the urethra, with the The superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves. Into the posterior enters part of this space the knife enters during the deeper incisions iitho-n in the operations of lithotomy ; and as the instrument is tomy* carried backwards in the direction of the external incision, it will cut the transverse muscle and artery, and probably the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves. Dissec- Dissection.—Yov the display of the triangular ligament, see" t0 the structures that are superficial to it, viz. the muscles and guiar the crus penis are to be detached in the following way :— On mint, the left side the accelerator urinae is to be removed com- pletely from the front of the ligament, and the erector muscle