OSSICLES OF THE TYMPANUM. 779 root of the handle on the outer side, and is connected with and long the membrane of the tympanum. The long process — pro- process* cessus gracilis, is a flattened slender point of bone, which is connected with the neck of the malleus at the anterior as- pect, and extends into the Glasserian fissure: in the adult this process cannot be separated from the surrounding bone with which it is joined. The incus is a flattened bone, and consists of a body and incus, two processes. The body is hollowed at the upper and an- its body ? terior part to articulate with the malleus. The two pro- pro- cesses (lone; and short) extend from the side opposite to the short ' . -, . , • if-!-, and long, articulation: — the shorter process is somewhat conical, and is received into the aperture of the mastoid cells ; the long process decreases towards the extremity, where it curves and ends in a rounded and convex point, the orbicular with or- bicular process. point. The stapes has, like a stirrup, a base or wider part, and stapes; two sides or crura that are blended at the opposite end in a head. The base is formed by a thin osseous plate, which is base; convex at one margin and almost flat at the other, corre- sponding to the shape of the fenestra ovalis; the surface that is turned to the vestibule is convex, whilst the opposite is excavated. The head is marked by a superficial depression, head; that receives the orbicular process of the incus; and below it is a constricted part, the neck of the bone. The crura crura, extend from the base to the neck, and are grooved, like the base, on the inner surface: the anterior crus is shorter and straighter than the other. Position of the ossicles. — The malleus is placed vertically Position in the tympanum, with the head upwards, and the articular malleus, surface turned backwards to be connected with the incus: its handle is attached externally to the membrana tympani; and its long process is directed forwards into the Glasserian fissure. The incus is so placed that the long process is ver- of the tical, and the short one horizontal. Externally it is united incus' with the malleus, and its processes are thus disposed:—the short one is received posteriorly into the mastoid cells; and the long process descends, like the handle of the malleus, but rather posterior to it and nearer the inner wall of the cavity, to join inferiorly with the stapes. The stirrup bone has a and of horizontal position, with the crura directed forwards and Hapes.