707 CUTANEOUS VESSELS AND NERVES. z z 2 leg, and terminates at the middle of the inner border of the foot, nous in In the leg the nerve gives off lateral * cutaneous offsets, and the the leg' ■ outer of these turn over the tibia to the anterior aspect. nation? The external saphenous nerve is a branch of the internal popliteal External (p. 699.) ; perforating the deep fascia about the middle of the leg, nous6" it is continued with the external saphenous vein below the outer ^sfo°0". ankle, and is distributed to the outer side of the foot and little toe. As soon as the nerve appears it is joined by the Communicating branches branch of the external popliteal, and near the heel it gives large !eg.he long branches to the integuments of that part. Cutaneous nerves of the external popliteaL — One branch of the Branch- external popliteal trunk (r. communicans fibularis, p. 699.) joins 0fthe the external saphenous nerve, usually, about the middle of the leg*; P°Pllteal but it is not uncommon to find this branch extend as a distinct ^caUng nerve, unconnected with the other, as far as the heel. The other small cutaneous offsets of the external popliteal terminate over the and cu- . -, o ii l taneous. outer side of the leg. The small sciatic nerve perforates the fascia near the popliteal Termi- space, and reaches with the external saphenous vein to about the small" °f middle of the leg; it ramifies in the integuments, and joins the sciatlc- external saphenous nerve. Offsets of the internal cutaneous.— Behind the internal saphenous Termi- nerve, near the knee, are the terminal branches of the inner divi- Tnter'nai^ sion of the internal cutaneous nerve of the thigh (p. 672.) ; these qu?16" extend to the middle, sometimes the lower third of the leg, and communicate with the internal saphenous nerve. Dissection. — The deep fascia will be seen by removing Take the fat. The superficial vessels and nerves may either be faTfy the cut or turned aside. The special or deep fascia on the posterior aspect of the Deep leg covers the muscles, and sends a thick process between the deep and superficial layers. Above, it is continuous with conti- the investing membrane of the thigh, and receives offsetsnuatlon* from the tendons about the knee; below, it joins the internal annular ligament. Externally it is continued uninterruptedly and from the one aspect of the limb to the other, but internally ments." ' it is fixed to the edge of the tibia. Veins are transmitted through it from the superficial to the deep vessels. Dissection. — The fascia is to be divided along the centre Take of the leg as far as the heel, and to be taken from the sur- faS.tbe face of the gastrocnemius muscle. By fixing with a stitch * Occasionally the junction may take place in or near the popliteal space.