DISSECTION OF THE UPPER LIMB. 262 differ* In the intervals corresponding to the true ribs, they cease near above the cartilages, and a thin aponeurosis is continued onwards below, from the point of ending to the sternum. In the lower spaces, the muscles are continued between the cartilages (Theile), and in the last two they reach the ends of the ribs. Dissec- Dissection. — T.he internal intercostal muscle will be seen deeper by cutting through and removing the external layer in one of muse e, ^e SpaceSj sav the second, where it is widest; the muscle will be recognised by the difference in the direction of the fibres, of nerves Far back between the two muscles, and close to the rib vessels, above, the intercostal nerve and artery will be found. A branch of the nerve to the surface (lateral cutaneous of the thorax) should be followed through the external muscular layer ; and the trunk of the nerve is to be traced forward in one or more spaces to the sternum and the surface of the thorax. The hinder part of these muscles will be seen in the dissection of the back, and that of the thorax. Inner The internal intercostal muscle is attached to the inner the6r °f border of the ribs bounding the intercostal space. It begins deficient in front at the anterior part of the space, and ceases behind rioriy"? near the angle of the ribs. Behind, the muscles do not end joins at the same distance from the spine, for the upper and lower oblique approach nearer than the middle set; and, in front, in the below. . two lowest spaces, the muscular fibres are continuous with those of the internal oblique of the abdomen. One surface is covered by the external muscle and by the intercostal vessels and nerve; and the opposite surface is in contact with the pleura. Dissec- Dissection. — To bring into view the triangularis sterni internal muscle and the internal mammary vessels, the cartilage of maly each true rib, except the first and seventh, is to be taken vessels. away Qn rjght side of the body*; but those ribs are to be left untouched for the advantage of the dissectors of the abdomen and the head and neck. Small branches of arteries to each intercostal space and to the surface of the thorax, as well as the intercostal nerves, are to be preserved. The surface of the triangularis sterni will be made apparent, after the removal of the cartilages, by cleaning the cellular mem- brane from it. * On the left side the vessels and the muscle will be injured by the injection of the body.