750 DISSECTION OF THE FOOT. Longi- c. The lateral ligaments are longitudinal; they lie deeply interos- between the bones, and are connected with the second and isfg°a"s third metatarsals : they will be better seen by partly cutting ments* the transverse bands joining the bases of the metatarsals. The bone of the second toe has two, one on each side; — the inner being strong and attached to the internal cunei- form, and the outer to the middle or the outer cuneiform bone. The bone of the third toe is also provided with two lateral bands : of these, the outer is fixed into the external cuneiform, and the inner into the middle cuneiform bone.* Line of Line of the articulation. — The line of the articulations ticuia- between the tarsus and metatarsus is zig-zag, in consequence across of the unequal lengths of the cuneiform bones. To open the articulations the knife should be carried obliquely forwards from the tuberosity of the fifth to the base of the second metatarsal bone; then about two lines further back for the union of the second metatarsal with the middle cuneiform; and, finally, half an inch in front of this last articulation for the joint of the internal cuneiform with the first metatarsal bone. Three The synovial membranes in the articulation are three in synovial num|3er> There is one between the internal cuneiform and branes. metatarsai bone. A second is between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsals, and serves for the adjacent lateral articular surfaces of these bones. The third is placed in the articulation between the middle and the external cuneiform with their corresponding (second and third) metatarsal bones, and is an offset of the common synovial membrane that belongs to the articulation of the scaphoid with the cunei- form bones (p. 748.) : prolongations from it are furnished to the lateral articular parts of the second, third, and fourth (inner side) metatarsals. Separate Dissection. — All the superficial ligaments having been for inter- taken away, the cuneiform bones may be forcibly separated osseous £rom one anotner am} from the os euboides; the latter from the os scaphoides ; and the bases of the metatarsal bones from one another to see the interosseous ligaments between them : the dissector will sometimes find the bones tear sooner than the ligaments. * The ligaments inserted into the contiguous surfaces of the middle and external cuneiform bones, may occasionally be wanting.