ANTERIOR HALF OF PERINEAL SPACE. 443 the coccyx, the nerve ends by supplying the external sphinc- supplies t i t t • *i i sphinc- ter, and the integument behind the anus. ter. One or two cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve cuta- turn round the lower border of the gluteus, in their course to offsets the integuments on its surface, sciatic. ANTERIOR HALF OF THE PERINEAL SPACE. In the anterior part of the perinatal space the tube of the contents urethra is lodged, as this comes from the interior of the pelvis to the surface of the body. It is supported about midway and ge- between the bones by a fibrous structure, named the trian- sition of gular ligament. Muscles are collected around it, to aid in parts* the expulsion of the urine: some of these are before, and some behind the triangular ligament before alluded to. The vessels and nerve lie, as in the posterior half, along the outer side, and send inwards offsets. Supporting the anterior part of the urethra is the penis : this body with its muscles and vessels has to be examined generally with the other contents of this division of the peri- nasal space. Dissection. — To raise the skin from the anterior part of incisions the perinaeum, a transverse cut is to be made at the back of the skin, the scrotum, and continued for a short distance (two inches) on each thigh. A second incision along the middle line will allow the flaps of skin to be reflected. After the reflection of the skin the superficial fascia, Blow up covering the front of the perinatal space, is to be blown up cpafes- by means of a blow-pipe introduced beneath it at the poste- reflect it. rior part. Each side is to be inflated to demonstrate the fact that a partition exists behind in the middle line : at the same time, it will be evident that there is another partition between the space and the thigh, for the air does not pass along the limb. The student is next to cut through the superficial fascia, on the left side, from the scrotum to the ischio-rectal fossa, and to remove some cellular membrane, in order to bring into view the line of attachment of that fascia to the bones externally, and to the triangular ligament posteriorly: the septum along the middle line should also be defined. To demonstrate more completely Define the partition of the superficial fascia between the perineal between