653 THE FASCIA LATA. branches over the patella; its ramifications communicate with offsets from the external and middle cutaneous, and the trunk of the saphenous nerve, and form an interlacement (plexus patellce) forms a over the joint. When this branch is small its place is taken by the w\thUS internal cutaneous nerve. others. Dissection, — Let the fat and the inguinal glands be now clean 1 removed from the surface of the fascia lata, without however See of"" destroying the cutaneous nerves. At the upper part of the SaiSa" thigh the student is to define the margin of the saphenous opening, by detaching the bands of fibrous tissue that are and de- blended with the superficial fascia. After those bands are saphe- nous broken through, the handle of the scalpel being the instru- opening, ment used, the outer semilunar margin of the saphenous opening comes into view, but the student must not expect to find it so defined as it is represented in drawings. The fascia lata is the deep aponeurosis of the thigh. It Fascia # lata sur- surrounds the limb, giving this a firm sheath, and sends in- rounds Wards septa between the different muscles. This membra- nous investment is of a bluish white colour, and very vari- , able thickness, though it is always stronger on the outer strength than on the inner aspect of the limb, in consequence of the insertion into it of the tensor vaginae femoris and gluteus maximus muscles. In fat bodies it is sometimes so slight as to be taken away with the superficial fascia. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the trans- Aper- mission of the cutaneous nerves and vessels, and the largest i"resm of these is near Poupart's ligament, for the passage of the internal saphenous vein. The processes, prolonged from Pro- the under surface, form septa between, and fibrous sheaths between for the several muscles. Some of these are larger than the cies. rest, and are named specially the intermuscular septa of the thigh: thus two, outer and inner, are fixed to the femur, so as to limit on the sides the extensors of the leg ; and a third intervenes between the adductors and the flexors of the W. The position of these partitions is marked on the surface by white lines. At the upper extremity of the thigh the fascia is fixed to Con- i • -, , n * i • m , nected the prominent and bony parts of the pelvis. Taking the with circumference of the limb, the student will find it connected upper^ externally with the crest of the ilium; in the middle line thish- behind with the lower end of the sacrum and the coccyx;