DISSECTION OF THE TONGUE. 154 conical The conical and filiform papillae are the numerous small form, ^ projections, like the villi on the mucous membrane of the small intestine, that cover the anterior two thirds of the situation dorsum of the tongue. Some of the papillae (conical) are die of wider at their attached than at their free end, and these tongue; are most developed over the central part of the tongue. Others become longer (filiform), especially towards the sides of the tongue. These small papillae are covered with secon- dary minute hair-like processes ; and towards their limit be- hind, as well as on the side of the tongue, they have a linear arrangement, mngi- The fungiform papillae are less numerous but larger than the preceding set, amongst which they are scattered. They are wider at the free end, than at the part fixed to the mostly tongue, and they project beyond the other set ; they are and mostly situate at the tip and sides of the tongue. The free sides; m r ■ . . or larger end is covered with small filamentous projections, caiici- The caliciform (papillae vallatae) are fewer in number and near'f larger than the others, and are placed at the junction of the tongue; two anterior, with the posterior third of the tongue. Their number varies from eight to ten. These papillae extend across the tongue in a line resembling the letter V. Each form papilla consists of a central truncated part of a conical form, which is surrounded by a fold of the mucous membrane. Its wider part or base projects above the surface, whilst the is mark- apex is attached to the tongue. Both the papilla and the other surrounding fold are furnished with smaller secondary papillae papillae. second- Minute simple papillae exist in the part of the tongue be- piUae.a hind the caliciform kind; but they cannot be observed till the epithelium is removed.*— (Todd and Bowman.) struc- Structure of the papillce. — The simple papillae are con- papiike. structed like those of the skin, viz. of a projecting cone of of sim- formative membrane, which is covered by epithelium, and filled with a loop of the capillaries, and a loop of a nerve, of com- The three other compound forms of the papillae may be said to be formed by aggregations of the simple kind. Thus * These same papillae are said, by Mr. Salter, to occupy " the whole of the under surface of the free portion of the tongue."— Cyclop, of Anatomy; art. Tongue.