327 LIGAMENTS OF RADIUS AND ULNA. and is applied around the neck of the radius. The radius moves freely in the socket formed by the ligament and the cavity of the ulna. The synovial membrane is a prolongation of that lining ™**y- the elbow joint; it projects between the neck of the radius rem- and the lower margin of the annular ligament. Shafts of the bones. — The aponeurotic stratum connect-Union ing together the bones in nearly their whole length consists shafts, of the two following parts: — The interosseous inembrane is a thin fibrous layer, which ?n?edsins is attached to the contiguous margins of the radius and ulna, JJjfddIe and forms an incomplete septum between the muscles on the J)£S^J" front and back of the fore-arm. Superiorly the membrane ™^ is wanting for a considerable space, and through the interval the posterior interosseous vessels pass backwards. Some ™cs^nt small apertures exist in it for the passage of vessels; and aDOve- the largest of these is about two inches from the lower margin, through which the anterior interosseous artery turns to the back of the wrist. The membrane gives attachment to the deep muscles. Most of its fibres are directed obliquely inwards towards the ulna, though a few on the posterior surface have an opposite direction. The round ligament is a slender band above the inter- by round osseous membrane, whose fibres have a direction opposite to ment. those of the membrane. By one end it is fixed to the front of the coronoid process, and by the other it is inserted into the radius below the tubercle. This ligament divides the space above the interosseous membrane into two parts. Oftentimes this band is not to be recognised. The lower radio-ulnar articulation cannot be well seen The . . . lower till after the examination of the wrist ioint. end TV ... after- Dissection. — To see the ligaments of the wrist joint, the Dissec- tendons and the annular ligaments must be removed from tlon' both its front and back; and the cellular membrane and the small vessels must be cleaned away carefully from the surface of the ligaments. The Wrist Joint. — The lower end of the radius and Bones a"U n n • forming the first row of the carpal bones enter into the wrist joint; wrist and four ligaments maintain the osseous surfaces in contact, viz. anterior and posterior, and two lateral. The ulna is united y 4 by*