657 CRURAL OR FEMORAL SHEATH. common cellular sheath of the blood-vessels. Its outer border is nearly straight, and is perforated by the genito- crural nerve. Its inner border is oblique, and is pierced by the lymphatics and the saphenous vein ; this part of the sheath appears in the saphenous opening, and is connected to the falciform margin and the superficial fascia. In front of the sheath and behind it is the fascia lata of the thigh. The how tube of membrane is continuous with the fascise that line the abdomen in this way ; the anterior part is prolonged beneath Poupart's ligament into the fascia transversalis, and the posterior half is continued into the fascia iliaca (p. 491.). Crossing the front of the crural sheath below the arch of Deepi Poupart's ligament, is a thickened fibrous brand, which has arch, been named the deep crural arch. This band is supposed to occasion sometimes the stricture of the subjacent intestine in a femoral hernia. A notice of it is given with the description of the fascia transversalis (p. 479.). Dissection. — The student may open the sheath by an open incision across the front, and raise the loose anterior part crural with hooks. A piece of the cellular investment of theS ed femoral vessels is to be cut out over the situation of both the artery and the vein. When this has been done two thin partitions may be defined; one is on the inner side of the vein separating it from a gland, the other is between the vein and the artery. A cellular stratum may be seen over k the upper aperture of the sheath, closing the tube towards the abdomen. The interior of the crural sheath is occupied by the Contents femoral vessels, and is divided into three compartments by sheath, two partitions. The position of those septa has been before referred to,—one being internal to the femoral vein, and the other between the two large vessels. In the outer compart- Space to r divided ment is the femoral artery, lying close to the side of the jnto^ sheath; in the middle one is the femoral vein ; and in the ParLs- inner one (crural canal) is only a lymphatic gland. The femoral vessels are surrounded by a common cellular cover- ing, which is distinct from the crural or femoral sheath now described. Crural canal. — This term is applied to the innermost The in- rr ner of space in the interior of the crural sheath. Its extent is aboutthe thrfe , , spaces is half an inch, for it reaches only from the base of Gimbernat's thfcru- J ral canal. u u