4 DISSECTION OF THE EXTERIOR OF THE HEAD. upper part of the cranium, and is continuous across the middle line with the same structure of the opposite half of the head. On the side it gives origin to the auricular muscles, and a thin fascia is here prolonged from it over the fascia covering the temporal muscle. Posteriorly, the aponeurosis is attached to the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone between the fleshy parts of the muscles of opposite sides. The aponeurotic expansion is closely at- tached to the skin; but it is connected to the pericranium only by a loose cellular membrane devoid of fat, so that it moves freely over the skull, its con- Superficial to the occipito frontalis are the cutaneous nections. vesseis an(j nerves 0f the scalp. In front, the muscles of opposite sides are joined above the root of the nose. How to Dissection.—After the removal of the superior auricular porai muscles, together with the temporal vessels, and the epi- cranial aponeurosis and its lateral prolongation, the attach- ment of the temporal fascia may be seen on the side of the head. Tempo. The temporal fascia is a white, shining membrane, which da. is much stronger than the epicranial aponeurosis, and gives Attach- attachment to the subjacent temporal muscle. Superiorly it is inserted into the curved line that limits the temporal fossa oo the side of the skull; and inferiorly, where it is narrower connec- and thicker, it is fixed to the zygoma. By its cutaneous surface the fascia is in contact with the muscles already ex- amined, and with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves, and lay- An incision into the fascia, a little above the zygoma, shows it to consist there of two layers, which are fixed to the mar- gins of that process of bone. Between the layers is some cellular membrane, with a small branch of the temporal artery, and a slender twig from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. To see Dissection.— The temporal fascia is now to be detached muscle!11 from the subjacent muscle and the skull, and to be thrown down ; then a soft cellular tissue that lies beneath it, near the zygoma, is to be taken away. The difference in thick- ness of parts of the fascia will be now evident. Tempo- The temporal muscle is only in part laid bare. Wide rai mus- aD0Ve, it becomes narrower and thicker at the Origin, lower part. The muscle arises from the temporal fascia,