DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 624 some of the circular fibres of the gut.* The most constant of these is about three inches from the anus, on the front of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder; another is found on the right side of the intestine near the top; and the third is on the left side, midway between the other two: occasionally there is a fourth on the back of the rectum, about an inch from the anus. These folds are not well seen unless the gut. has been hardened in spirit, whilst it is in its natural condition in the pelvis. struc- The mucous membrane has the same general structure as in the colon, but towards the anus the secretory apparatus gradually disappears. Arteries. Blood-vessels. — The arteries are supplied from three different sources: they are, superior haemorrhoidal, from the inferior me- senteric ; middle haemorrhoidal, from the internal iliac artery ; and Veins inferior haemorrhoidal, from the internal pudic. The veins are outWlth" deficient in valves, and communicate freely around the lower end valves. 0£ gU-k Above, they join the inferior mesenteric vein, and, through it, reach the vena portae; and, posteriorly, they pour some blood into the internal iliac vein by branches corresponding to the middle haemorrhoidal artery. Nerves; Nerves and lymphatics. — The nerves for the intestine are ob- tained from the sympathetic, and those for the sphincter, from the lymph- spinal system. The lymphatics terminate in the chain of glands on atics. the sacrum. Section VI. ANATOMY OF THE VISCERA OF THE FEMALE. viscera The viscera of the female pelvis consist of those common to pelvis, both sexes, viz. the bladder and the urethra, with the rectum ; and of those that are special to the female, viz. the organs of generation. To re- Dissection. — The contents of the pelvis are to be removed viscera e together with the genital organs. In this proceeding, the student is to keep the scalpel close to the osseous boundary of the pelvic outlet, to avoid the end of the rectum, and the crura of the clitoris that are connected to the bone. After * Vol. v. of the Dublin Hospital Reports, " Observations on the Mucous Membrane of the Rectum."