371 PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. Lying between the left subclavian and the common carotid the root arteries, the nerve courses over the arch of the aorta, then lung, beneath the root of the lung, and forms there a larger plexus than on the right side. From the pulmonic plexus one or and on ° L 1 the front two branches pass to the front of the oesophagus, and join ^fg^a with the corresponding branches of the right nerve in a sus- plexus on that tube. Finally, the divisions of the nerve are collected into one trunk, which is continued on the front of the oesophagus to the anterior part of the stomach. The branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve in the thorax Branch. 1 ° es are, are the following : — 1. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve is the first branch ™™r- in the thorax. Arising on the right side on a level with the sub- ryngeal clavian artery, and on the left at the lower border of the arch of thorax; the aorta, the nerve bends backwards to the trachea, along which it ascends to the larynx. On each side this branch is freely con- nected with the cervical cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve, especially on the left side beneath the arch of the aorta. 2. Cardiac branches (thoracic). — Besides the cardiac branches cardiac furnished by the vagus in the neck, there are other offsets in front in the of the trachea to communicate with the cardiac plexus. These thorax' branches come from the trunk and the recurrent branch of the nerve on the right side, but they are supplied by the recurrent nerve alone on the left side. The termination of the lower cervical cardiac branch of each lower nerve (p. 116.) may now be seen. The branch of the right vagus branch lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins a cardiac nerve neck6; of the sympathetic from the neck ; but the branch of the left vagus crosses over the arch of the aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus. 3. Pulmonary branches. — There are two sets of branches for the Puimon- lung, one. to the anterior and the other to the posterior aspect of branch- the root. a. The anterior branches are two or three in number, and of Small small size, and communicate with filaments of the sympathetic on the pulmonary artery, to form the anterior pulmonary plexus. These nerves are best seen on the left side. b. The posterior branches are the largest and much the most Large numerous, and are obtained by the splitting of the trunk of the X\oT~ nerve after it has become flattened. Forming a plexiform arrange- form a ment (posterior pulmonary plexus) behind the root of the lung, piexus" these nerves are joined by filaments from the third and fourth ganglia of the knotted cord of the sympathetic, and are conveyed into the interior of the lun# on the divisions of the air tube.