THE AXILLARY SPACE. 251 teres major, and the latissimus dorsi muscles : this boundary teres and reaches lower than the anterior, especially near the humerus, puians and its lower margin, which is formed by the latissimus dorsi, projects beyond the level of the subscapulars. On the inner side of the arm-pit are the first four ribs, parts at with their corresponding intercostal muscles, and the part andlnner of the serratus magnus that takes origin from those bones, sides. On the outer side the space has but small dimensions, and is limited by the humerus, and by the biceps and coraco- brachial muscles. The apex of the hollow is situate between the clavicle, the situa- upper margin of the scapula, and the first rib; and the fore the apex finger may be introduced into the space, for the purpose of ascertaining its depth, as well as its upper boundary. The and base, base or widest part of the conically-shaped interval is turned downwards, and is closed by the thick aponeurosis that reaches from the anterior to the posterior fold. Contents of the space. — In the arm-pit are contained the Contents axillary vessels and the brachial plexus, with their branches; space, some branches of the intercostal nerves ; together writh lym- phatic glands, and a large quantity of loose cellular tissue and fat. The position of all these, with reference to the boundaries of the space, is to be carefully studied. Position of the trunks. — The large axillary vessels cross Position the space obliquely between the neck and the upper limb. The part of these vessels, that can now be seen, reaches beyond the line of the anterior fold of the arm-pit, and is covered and con- only by the common superficial layers, viz. the skin, the of thens fatty or superficial fascia, and the deep fascia. Behind the vessel? vessels are the tendons of the latissimus and teres muscles. On looking into the arm-pit, from below, the axillary vein will be found to lie to the thoracic side of the artery, and to conceal it. After the vein has been drawn aside, the arterial trunk will be seen to lie amongst the large nerves of the upper limb, with the median nerve to the outside ; the ulnar, and the small nerve of Wrisberg to the inner side ; the in- ternal cutaneous generally in front of, and the musculo-spiral nerve behind it. This part of the artery gives branches to the side of the chest and to the shoulder. The vein, like- wise, receives some branches in this spot.