284 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. Position lies on the humerus and the articulation of the elbow. Its elbow16 origin embraces by two parts the attachment of the deltoid, J01a ' and its insertion is placed between two corresponding fleshy and con- pieces of the flexor profundus digitorum. The inner border nec ions. toucnes t^e intermuscular septum in all its length; but the outer border is in contact with the septum, only above, for about one inch and a half, and is separated from it lower down by two muscles of the fore-arm (supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior), which extend upwards on the humerus, The tendon of insertion will be seen in the dissection of the fore-arm. BACK OF THE ARM. Position Position. — During the examination of the back of the part. arm the limb is to be turned over, and raised into a semi- flexed position by means of a block of moderate thickness beneath the elbow. The scapula is to be drawn away, till it is nearly in a line with the humerus, so as to tighten the muscular fibres; and it is then to be fastened with hooks in that position. How to Dissection. — On the back of the arm there is only one triceps.6 muscle, the triceps, with a nerve and an artery beneath it. The muscle will be readily laid bare, for it is covered only by fascia—the skin having been before reflected, if the directions before given have been followed by the dissector. To take away the fascia, an incision is to be carried along the limb as far as to rather below the elbow; and in reflect- ing it the sub-fascial cellular tissue should be removed at the same time. ' Triceps The triceps muscle is divided superiorly into three parts ; muscle _ i i t r» • • • • has and, as a consequence, three heads oi origin to it,—inner, heads, outer, and middle, have been described. Two of these are attached to the humerus, and one to the scapula. Origin The middle piece, or head, is the longest, and has a ten- die head, dinous origin, about an inch wide, from the inferior costa of the scapula, close to the glenoid cavity, where it is con- head ter necte^ w*tn the capsule of the shoulder joint. The external head reaches from the outer condyle of the humerus, to the insertion of the teres minor muscle, and is attached to the outer part of the posterior surface of that bone, as well and of as to the intermuscular-septum of the same side. Them-