629 THE UTERUS. THE UTERUS. The uterus, or the womb is formed chiefly of unstriped Defini- muscular fibres. Its office is to receive and retain for atlon? fixed period the developing ovum. This viscus, in the virgin state, is pear-shaped, or rather form; triangular in consequence of the body being flattened, and presents inferiorly a rounded narrow part or neck. Devia- tions from the standard shape will be found in this organ in how the infant, in which the neck is larger than the body ; and in changed- that of the aged female, in whom there is little separation between the same two parts. Commonly the uterus measures about three inches in Dimen- length, two in breadth at the upper part, and an inch in slons* greatest thickness. Its weight varies from an ounce to an ounce and a half. But after gestation its size and volume always exceed the specification here made of them. The upper end is convex, and is covered by peritoneum: upper the term fundus is applied to the part of the organ above the end* attachment of the Fallopian tube. The lower end is small and The rounded, and in it is a transverse aperture of communication endls between the uterus and the vagina, named os uteri {os tincce), sma115 whose margins or lips (labia) are smooth, and anterior and opening, posterior in situation, but the hinder one is the longest. Towards the lower part the uterus is constricted, and this diminished portion is called the neck of the uterus {cervix Neck> uteri) ; it is surrounded by the vagina, and is covered by this to a greater extent behind than in front. It is about half an inch in length, and gradually tapers towards the ex- tremity. The body, or the intervening part of the uterus, is body. more convex posteriorly than anteriorly, and decreases in size down to the neck. It is covered on both aspects by the peritoneum, except about half an inch in front at the lower part, where it connected to the bladder. To each side, which sides> is straight, the parts contained in the broad fold of the peri- toneum are attached, viz, the Fallopian tube at the top, the round ligament rather below and before it, and the ovary and its ligament below and behind the others. Dissection. — To examine the interior of the uterus, a cut 0penthe is to be made along the anterior wall, from the fundus to the uterus- s s 3