787 COCHLEA AND ITS SEPTUM. senting a free margin.* The axis is perforated by canals that transmit vessels and nerves in the fresh state; and a central one is larger than the others. Winding around the axis is the Around to to it is a thin osseous plate before referred to, the lamina spiralis, spiral ... . piece of which projects a certain distance into the spiral tube, and bone, forms part of the septum. Septum of the spiral tube. — The partition dividing the Septum tube of the cochlea into two passages, in the recent bone, tube r & ' ' bony and consists of an osseous and a membranous portion. mem. branous. a. The osseous part, which is formed by the lamina spi- osseous ralis, extends about half way across the tube. It begins in - part 5 feriorly in the vestibule, where it is wide, and is attached to the outer wall so as to shut out the fenestra rotunda from that cavity; and diminishing in size in its progress, it ends in a free point, named the hamulus, opposite the margin of ^v|"^s the modiolus at the last half turn of the cochlea. Between the a P°int point in which the osseous lamina terminates and the margin referred to, is a space that, in the recent state, is converted by membrane into a foramen (hiatus helicotrema), and allows the intercommunication of the passages of the cochlear over an aperture, tube. The lamina spiralis is formed by two plates of bone, through' that enclose osseous canals for vessels and nerves, and are the scalar separated furthest at the modiolus. The side turned to the lower of the two cochlear passages is freely pierced by nerves differ, and vessels; whilst the opposite is covered in the outer fifth two of its extent, by a structure resembling cartilage, which ends on upper in a toothed edge near the margin of the spiral lamina, and theeden- has been named denticulate lamina. (Todd and Bowman.)| struc- b. The membranous part reaches from the edge of the Mem\ lamina spiralis to the groove in the outer wall of the tube of JJJJJ?us the cochlea, and is continued upwards to the top of that tube Awards- beyond the terminal hook of the lamina spiralis. Near the PieCe bony part of the partition this structure has a glassy appear- gldssy' ance, like the elastic layer of the cornea; but beyond that * Some Anatomists apply the term infundibulum to the appearance that this bent part of the modiolus (?top of the cochlear tube) presents when it is looked at from the second turn of the cochlea. Others under- stand by the term the funnel-shaped space enclosed in the terminal half bend of the tube of the cochlea. t In the work before referred to, Physiological Anatomy, &c. 3 e 2