202 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. to it, in front, from the anterior pyramid, and from the enters lateral column. Superiorly, its fibres are continued to both cere- 1 * brum the large and the small brain in the following manner: — The wedge-shaped part (funic, cuneatus) divides into two rather above the point of the fourth ventricle ; the external and cere- offset bends outwards to the cerebellum without entering the pons, whilst the inner one is continued with the slender fasciculus (funic, gracilis, p. 199.) or posterior pyramid, along the floor of the fourth ventricle, with the fasciculus teres of the same side, into the peduncular fibres of the cerebrum (p. 208.> Commis- Arched or commissural fibres of the medulla. In each fibres, half of the medulla oblongata are fibres directed almost hori- zontally, from behind forwards, both on its exterior, and through its substance. And in the middle line the same system of fibres forms a septum or raphe between the oppo- site halves. Origin The transverse fibres, both outer and inner, seem to be derived Arrange, from the restiform body and the crus cerebelli: — the external set outer set more or less marked in different bodies cross, on the front of the medulla, the olivary and pyramidal bodies, and some may be seen entering the median fissure; below the olivary body they often form a band, the fibrce arciformes of Rolando. At the back of the medulla some may be seen issuing from the median fissure, and crossing that part, to enter the auditory nerve and the crus cere- and in- belli. The internal set can be seen only on sections of the hardened ner set. prepared medulla : they penetrate all the fibres of the medulla, except the anterior pyramid, and end at the middle line; in their course they perforate the gray capsule of the olivary body as well as its contiguous deposit, and are said by Stilling to constitute the white substance of the former. Septal The septum consists of both antero-posterior and transverse fibres, fibres. antero-posterior reach from the one median fissure to the other, and consist of two strata, one casing each half of the medulla. These fibres are continuous with the external set, but some of the inner transverse seem to be added to them. Between the two strata of antero-posterior fibres is a slight interval, which is oc- cupied by the inner transverse fibres, that cross from the one half to the other of the medulla. Gray Gray matter of medulla oblongata. — In the medulla ob- matter, iongata ^ere js ^e continuation of the gray matter in the kTnds • interior of the spinal cord, and there are also some special