680 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. wards, whilst one side is attached to the femur and the other is free at the inner part of the thigh, origin is The muscle takes its origin from the part of the innomi- nate bone that corresponds to the subpubic arch, extending from the lower border of the symphysis pubis to the lower part of the tuberosity of the ischium. The fibres are directed with different degrees of obliquity, to their attachment to the fibres femur. Thus the upper fibres, from the rami of the pubes and to their ischium, diverge from their origin, and construct almost a dis- til" tinct part: they are horizontal above, but become more and more oblique below, and are inserted (from above down) into the linea quadrati and the line continuede from the great tro- some chanter to the linea aspera, into all the linea aspera, and into horizon- a smaU Part °f the line leading from that crest of bone to tal' the inner condyle of the femur. Whilst the remaining others fibres from the tuberosity of the ischium are vertical in vertical, directi0n, and end in a tendon at about the lower third of the thigh; this tendon is inserted into the inner condyle of the femur, and is connected by a fibrous expansion to the line leading upwards from that point of the bone to the linea aspera. and form The muscle consists of the two parts above described, different which differ in their characters. The upper one, thin and parts, fleghy^ forms a septum between the other adductors and the muscles on the back of the thigh; but the inner or lower piece, partly fleshy and partly tendinous, constitutes the Connec- inner thick margin of the muscle. On the anterior surface th°enan- are the other two adductor muscles and the pectineus, with and°r the obturator nerve and the profunda artery. The posterior surface? surface is in connection with the hamstring muscles and the upper great sciatic nerve. In contact with the upper border are fower the obturator externus and the quadratus femoris, with the borders; internaj circumflex artery; and along the lower or inner border are the gracilis and the sartorius. At its attachment fnSder-S to tne femur tne niuscle is closely united with the other tion- adductors, particularly the adductor longus, and is there pierced by apertures for the passage of the femoral and perforating arteries. Opening The opening in the adductor for the transmission of the vessels; femoral vessels into the popliteal space is tendinous on the anterior, but fleshy at the posterior aspect. It is situate at