ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The origin of a nerve is not determined by the place at is appa- i n n " i -i • n rent an(i which it appears on the surface of the brain, for fibres or real.; roots may be traced deeply into the nervous substance. Each nerve has, therefore, a superficial or apparent, and a deep or real origin in the encephalon. Respecting the superficial attachment to the brain there cannot be any doubt; but respecting the deep origin there is much difference of opinion, in consequence of the difficulties real enters attending any investigation. When the roots are followed grey into the encephalon, they are found to be connected with masses of grey substance, which Stilling has named, in many instances, nerve nuclei.* The cranial nerves may be regarded either as nine or twelve ^q^" pairs, according to the mode of classifying them. Those anato- mists, who take the smaller number, include in one nerve all the trunks contained in the same aperture of the skull: this may be instanced in the eighth nerve, which consists of three trunks in the foramen lacerum jugulare. But those who enumerate twelve nerves, consider each of the three trunks of the eighth nerve before mentioned, and all other trunks issuing from the encephalon, to constitute a separate cranial nerve, notwithstanding that it may be combined with others in its foramen of exit. The nomenclature of the several nerves has a three-fold origin: a.nd <J?" o signation Thus, the designation may be numerical, as first, second, third, and from so forth, and this mode of naming applies to all and is the one number generally used. But a second name is obtained, by a few nerves, from the parts to which they are supplied; as instances of this the terms hypo-glossal, pneumogastric, may be taken. And a different of appellation is given to others, in consequence of the function con- 0rfunc- ferred on the part to which they are distributed, as the terms audi-tlon* tory and olfactory express. In this way two names may be em- ployed, almost indifferently, in referring to a nerve: — one being numerical, the other local or functional. The first or olfactory nerve (olfactory process) is very soft and pulpy, being destitute of a neuriLemma; and it may be considered an advanced part of the brain, for it has both grey substance and white fibres in its composition, like the cerebrum. The olfactory process is a flat-looking band, wider at each * The statements of Stilling concerning the deep origin are here adopted, as his inquiries are the most complete, but^many will probably require modification.