343 THE PERICARDIUM. z 4 The root is situate at the inner surface, about midway be- situa- tween the base and apex, and about a third of the breadth of that surface from the posterior border of the lung. In front tions. of the root, on both sides, are the phrenic nerve and the anterior pulmonic plexus, the former being at some little distance from it; and anterior to the right root is the descending cava. Behind, on both sides, is the posterior pulmonic plexus; and on the left side there is, in addition, the descending aorta. Above, on the right side, is the vena azygos, and on the left side the arch of the aorta. Below- each root is the fold of pleura called ligament um latum pulmonis. In the root of the lung are found the vessels connected Consti- *n ' i* n • n •• • t • • n • tuents of with the function 01 respiration, viz. a division 01 the air the root; tube (bronchus), a branch of the pulmonary artery, and two pulmonary veins; together with small nutritive bronchial arteries and veins, and some nerves and lymphatics. These different bodies have the following position to one an- other : — On both sides, the bronchus is most posterior, the pul- J^1eaitrive monary veins most anterior, and the pulmonary artery position, between the other two. In the direction from above down- wards, the position on the right side is, bronchus, pulmonary artery, and pulmonary veins; but on the left side there is a slight difference, owing to the bronchus and artery having changed places; consequently the relative position will there be, artery, bronchus, and veins. This difference in the two sides may be accounted for by the fact of the left division of the air tube being at a lower level than the right one. THE PERICARDIUM. The bag that contains the heart is named the pericardium. situa. It is situate in the middle of the thorax, in the interval be- tlon* tween the pleurae of opposite sides. Before proceeding with the anatomy of this sac, the following dissection should be undertaken: — Dissection. — Supposing the surface of the pericardium to Clean be already cleaned, the student should next dissect out the lYttit large arteries and veins connected with the heart. He smliieeIc should afterwards seek carefully the following nerves, that 38nff