665 SARTORIUS MUSCLE. and from the interval between this and the inferior process. Its fibres constitute a thin, riband-like muscle, which ends course ' over the in a tendon below the knee, and is inserted into the inner thigh; surface of the tibia, for about an inch below the tubercle, and three quarters of an inch from the crest of the bone. The muscle is superficial throughout, and is perforated by some cutaneous nerves and vessels. Its upper part is Connec- oblique, and forms the outer boundary of the triangular [hTfirst space that contains the femoral artery ; it rests on the iliacus, rectus, and adductor longus muscles, as well as on part; the anterior crural nerve and the femoral vessels. The of the middle part is vertical: at first it lies in a hollow between ™lxt\Q the vastus internus and the adductor muscles, this connection continuing as low as the opening for the femoral artery; but beyond that point, the sartorius lies between the vastus and the inner hamstring muscles, where it bounds the popli- teal space at the inner side. The femoral vessels and their accompanying nerves are concealed by this portion of the muscle. The lower or tendinous part lies on the internal and 0f lateral ligament of the knee-joint, superficial to the tendons part.°wer of the gracilis and semitendinosus, and separated from them by a prolongation of their synovial membrane: from its upper border there is an aponeurotic expansion that joins, over the knee, that from the extensors; and from its lower border, another that blends with the fascia of the leg. Below the tendon the great saphenous nerve appears with its artery; and piercing it, is the branch of the same nerve. Dissection, — The sartorius is to be turned aside, or cut Divide through if it is necessary, to follow the remaining part of tonus, the femoral artery. Beneath the muscle is an aponeurosis between the adductor and extensor muscles; when this IS and dis- divided the internal saphenous nerve, and a nerve to the nerves vastus internus muscle that sends an^.qf^j^fce the knee-joint, vessels, will come into view. The plexus of nerves on the inner side of the thigh may now be more completely dissected. The femoral vessels and their branches are to be nicely cleaned. Where the femoral artery passes to the back of the limb its small anastomotic branch arises; this is .to be pursued in the fibres of the vastus internus to the knee, and a branch of it is to be followed with the saphenous nerve.