DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 778 and ter- carotid artery. Externally it ends in a dilated and somewhat mina- . . . . tion., oval opening, with the longest measurement in a vertical direction; its margin is irregular, and gives attachment to the special cartilage that completes the canal. The carti- Cartiia- laqinous part of the tube is nearly an inch in length, and ginous * . 0 part. extends from the temporal bone to the interior of the pharynx. Xetube (^ee P* 132.) Through this tube the mucous membrane of the tympanum is continuous with that of the pharynx; and through it, by reason of its inclination downwards, the mu- cus passes from that cavity. Mem- The secondary membrane of the tympanum is placed fenestra within the fenestra rotunda, and is rather concave towards the tympanum, but convex towards the cochlear passage which it closes. Con. It is formed of three strata, like the membrane on the struction 0pp0Sjf-e g^e 0f £}ie tympanum, viz. an external or mucous, of three derived from the lining of the tympanum; an internal or layers. gerous^ continuous with that clothing the cochlea; and a cen- tral layer of fibrous tissue with, according to Pappenheim, some elastic tissue at the circumference, ossicles Ossicles of the Tympanum. — These are three in num- tympa- ber, and are placed in a line across the tympanic cavity, three. The outer one is named malleus from its resemblance to a mallet; the next, incus, from its similitude to an anvil; and the last, stapes, from its likeness to a stirrup. For the examination of these little bones the student should be pro- vided with some separate dry specimens, besides the ossicles that are in position in the cavity. Malleus The malleus is the longest bone and is twisted and bent: has it is large at one end (head) and small and pointed at the other (handle), and has besides two processes, with a nar- head, rowed part or neck. The head or capitulum is free in the cavity, is oval in shape, and is smooth except at the back, where there is a depression for articulation with the next neck, bone. The neck is the slightly twisted part between the handle, head and the processes. The handle or manubrium decreases in size towards the tip, and is flattened from before back- wards, except at the extremity where it is compressed in the opposite direction : to its outer margin the membrana tym- pani is connected. The processes of the bone are two in short number, long and short: — The short one springs from the