STRUCTURE OF THE SPLEEN. 539 1. The serous or peritoneal coat incases the spleen, cover- serous ing the surface, except at the hilus and the upper and pos- nearly terior border. It is closely connected to the subjacent fibrous piete. coat. 2. The fibro-elastic coat (tunica albuginea) gives strength ™™us to the viscus, and forms a complete case for it. At the ?ends, 1 x m inwards fissure on the inner surface, this investment enters the in- pro. cesses. terior of the spleen with the vessels, to which it furnishes sheaths. If an attempt is made to detach this coat, numerous fibrous processes will be seen to be connected with the inner surface. Its colour is whitish; and its structure is made up Fibres of areolar and elastic tissue. In certain animals, some con- form it. tractile muscular fibre cells are present in it. Dissection. — The spongy structure will come into view, interior by washing and squeezing a piece of fresh (bullock's) spleen spleen, under water, so as to remove the grumous looking material. The trabecular tissue forms a network .through the whole and dis- interior of the spleen, similar to that of .a sponge, which is of joined on the one hand to the external casing and on the tissue in other to the sheaths around the vessels. The fibrous pro- To form cesses are white, flattened or cvlindrical, and average from fn are°- 7 ■ J > o ]ar struc- to |- of a line: they consist of fibrous and elastic tissue,ture- though Kolliker thinks there may be muscular fibre cells in the smallest microscopic bands. The interstices between the fibres communicate freely together, and contain the proper substance of the spleen,, and the vessels. Microscopic appearances.—The characters of the sub- Parts stance of the spleen, and those of the Malpighian bodies with must be made out with the aid of the microscope. scope." The splenic pulp is a soft semi-fluid red-brown mass, splenic which fills the areolae of the interspersed white trabecular stance; structure. Under the microscope this material is composed and of very fine fibres and blood vessels, with special cells, and ce iS* small masses of blood undergoing transformation into pale nucleated cells (Kolliker). The special cells are united by a reddish-yellow fluid, and ceils of form the half of the pulpy substance: they are of different puipe.n sizes, apparently as if in different stages of growth, the smallest being nucleus-like bodies, and the largest, pale one or two nucleated, and granular cells. The Malpighian corpuscles are best seen in the human Maipi-