CAVITY OF EIGHT VENTRICLE. 353 septum; whilst the current of systemic or impure blood, coming in by the superior .cava, flows downwards in front of the other to the right ventricle. Dissection. — Seizing the right ventricle, the student To open . . right should pass the scalpel through it below the opening from ^eentri" the auricle, and bring it out inferiorly near the apex of the heart, without injuring the septum ventriculorum. A flap is thus formed, like the letter V, of the anterior part of the ventricle. In the examination of the cavity of the right ventricle, both the flap and the apex of the heart should be raised with hooks, so that the space may be looked into from below. The CAVITY OF THE RIGHT VENTRICLE is triangular in form, Cavity of and has the ^ge turned upwards to the auricle of the same ventri- side. On -afcrjss section the cavity would appear semilunar in form, and the septum between the ventricles, convex towards the cavity. The apex of the cavity reaches the right border of the Apex, heart, at a little distance from the apex. At its base the Base and ventricle is sloped, and is perforated by two apertures ; one ings°.pen of these, on the right, leading into the auricle, is the right auriculo-ventricular opening; the other on the left, and much higher, is the mouth of the pulmonary artery,. The part of the cavity which communicates with the pulmonary artery is funnel-shaped and is named infundibulum, or conus arteriosus. The' anterior wall, or the loose part of the ventricle, is^nndterior comparatively thin, and forms most of the anterior surface of the ventricular portion of the heart. The posterior wall P^erior corresponds in greatest part to the septum between the ven- tricles, and is of considerable thickness. Over the greater part of the cavity the surface is irregu- interior lar, and is marked by projecting fleshy bands of muscular cavity is fibres, the columnse carneae, but near the aperture of the pulmonary artery the wall becomes smooth. The fleshy columns are of various sizes, and of three different kinds. Onu Some merely form a prominence in the ventricle, as on the three sets of septum. Others are attached at each end, but free in the fleshy middle (trabecule carnese). And a third set, which are fewer in number, and much the largest, project into the cavity, and form rounded bundles, named musculi papillares; A A