DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 128 baseof^ the basilar process of the occipital bone, between the attach- temaiiy, ment of the pharynx and the muscles of the spinal column, the cut being directed backwards. Turning upwards then the inner surface of the base of the skull, the dissector will make the following incisions in the posterior fossa. On the and cut right side, a cut with a chisel is to be carried alonjr the line the re- ° mainder of union of the petrous part of the temporal with the occipital side, bone, as far forwards as the incision across the basilar pro- cess. On the left side, another cut with the chisel is to be made in the same direction, but through the occipital bone, internal to the foramen lacerum jugulare and the inferior petrosal sinus : this is to begin rather behind the foramen lacerum, and to end opposite the one on the other side. Lastly, the side of the skull is to be sawn through close behind the mastoid part of the temporal bone, so that the incision shall meet the posterior end of the cut made with and then the chisel. The base of the skull is now divided into two parts, parts ; one having the pharynx attached to it, the other arti- culating with the spine, — which can be readily separated with a scalpel. Preserve The spinal column, with the piece of the occipital bone spine.of connected with it, should be set aside, and kept for after-ex- amination. Fasten Dissection of the pharynx, — Let the student take the an- in pasi-X terior part of the divided skull, and, after filling the pharynx with tow, fasten it with hooks on a block, so that the oeso- phagus may be pendent and towards him. Dissect On the left side of the pharynx a view may be obtained of Snieft the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves near the skull, slde' when some cellular membrane, and the styloid process with its muscles have been removed, andmus- Afterwards, on one side, say the right, the dissector may the op- proceed to remove the fascia from the constrictor muscles in posite. tjie direcj-ion 0f their fibres, which radiate from the side to the middle line. The margins of the two lower constrictor muscles (middle and inferior) are to be defined. Beneath the lower one, near the larynx, will be found the recurrent nerve ; whilst, intervening between the middle and superior, are the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. To see the attachment of the superior constrictor to the lower jaw and the pter'ygo-maxillary ligament, it will be