NERVES OF THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 475 the side of the abdomen (lateral cutaneous, p. 462.) ; and offsets, whilst between the abdominal muscles they supply muscular branches, as well as offsets of communication one with ano- ther. A greater part of the lower than of the upper nerves is visible, because of the shortness of the inferior intercostal spaces. The last dorsal nerve is placed below the twelfth rib, and Last therefore not in an intercostal space, but otherwise it has nerve, connections and distribution like those of the preceding. As it extends forwards to the rectus it sometimes communicates with the ilio-hypogastric nerve : its lateral cutaneous branch perforates the two oblique muscles. b. Two branches of the lumbar plexus, viz. ilio-hypogas- Branch- trie and ilio-inguinal, are contained for a certain distance lumbar between the muscles of the wall of the abdomen, as they plexus' course forwards to the surface of the body. The ilio-hypogastric nerve perforates the back of the iuo-hy- transversalis muscle, near the crest of the ilium, and gives trie lies off the iliac or lateral cutaneous branch. The nerve then crest of turns forward near the crest of the ilium, and is connected with its companion (ilio-inguinal), near the front of that bone. Perforating then the fleshy part of the internal Fur- oblique, and the aponeurosis of the external oblique near the cuta- linea alba, the nerve becomes cutaneous as before seen branch, (p. 462.). The iliac branch pierces both oblique muscles, close to the crest of the ilium, to reach the gluteal region. The ilio-inguinal nerve perforates the transversalis, near iiio-m- the front of the crest of the ilium, where it is connected with issues the preceding. The nerve afterwards pierces the internal ring, oblique, to which it supplies branches, and coursing over that muscle, reaches the surface of the thigh through the external abdominal ring (p. 462.). This nerve may be so small as to end by joining the ilio-hypo- May be gastric branch. In such case the ilio-hypogastric furnishes an Imln. offset that takes the usual place of, and corresponds in distribution to the ilio-inguinal nerve. Dissection.—For the purpose of seeing the transversalis ^sec- fascia, it will be necessary to raise, on the right side, the t™™^ lower part of the muscle of the same name by two incisions ; fascia- — one of these is to be carried through the fibres that are attached to Poupart's ligament ; the other, across the muscle