ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 193 peduncle it is placed between the locus perforatus anticus, on the outside, and the tuber cinereum, on the inside, but whether it receives filaments from one or both of those bodies is uncertain. The commissure (chiasma) of the optic nerves is somewhat its com- v ' A m missure. of a square shape, and lies on the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, within the circle of Willis. It is placed in front of the tuber cinereum; and passing beneath it (in this position of the brain) is the thin lamina cinerea. In the situa- commissure there is a partial crossing of the fibres oi the struc- nerves after this manner; — the outer fibres of each nerve, few in number, are continued straight to the eyeball of the Arran%- ? t ° J ment ot same side, but the greater part of its fibres decussate,—those fi&res. of the right nerve being continued to the left, and vice versa, and enter the eye of the opposite side. At the front and back of the commissure are other transverse fibres : the posterior are continued through the optic tracts back to the brain, without entering the eyes; and the anterior are pro- longed through the part of the nerve in front of the com- missure to the eyeballs, but have not any connection with the brain. The origin of the nerve will be afterwards seen to come Origin from two of the corpora quadrigemina (nates and testis of cere- one side), and from the optic thalamus and the corpora geni- culata. The third nerve, muscular nerve of the eyeball, is round origin and firm, and is attached to the inner aspect of the cerebral nerve is peduncle, near the locus perforatus, and close in front of the pons Varolii. Deep origin.—The fibres of the nerve pierce the peduncle, deep in passing through the locus niger, and enter a mass of gray substance cerebri, in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius.* The fourth or trochlear nerve cannot be followed origin backwards, at present, to its origin. It is the smallest of the nerve cranial nerves, and springs from the valve of Vieussens, over cerebei- the fourth ventricle. The nerve appears between the cere- brum and the cerebellum, on the side of the crus cerebri, * The origin of this nerve, and of the others as far as the eighth, is taken from the following work of Stilling, Untersuchungen iiber den Bau des Hirnknotens. O