DISSECTION OF THE LEG. belonging to this kind of articulation connect together the bones. Dissec- Dissection.—To make the dissection required for the liga- the1 an- ments of the ankle-joint, the cellular membrane and vessels kie-jomt, must removed from the front and back of that articulation. For the purpose of defining the lateral ligaments, the limb must be placed first on one side and then on the other: the internal ligament is wide and strong, and is beneath the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; the external is divided into three separate pieces, and to find these the peronei muscles, and the remains of the annular ligament below the outer malleolus should be taken away. Anterior The anterior or tibio-tarsal ligament is a thin fibrous is^thin membrane, which is attached to the tibia close to the articular perfeS" surface, and to the upper part of the astragalus near the arti- culation with the scaphoid bone. The ligament is not usually a continuous membrane, for in it are some cellular intervals and apertures for vessels. On the sides it joins the lateral ligaments. Poste- The posterior ligament is formed chiefly of transverse ment!ga" fibres, which seem to be continuous with the posterior piece of the external lateral ligament. It is inserted into the tibia and the astragalus, close to the articular surfaces, internal The internal lateral or deltoid ligament is attached by its toid^1" upper or pointed part to the inner malleolus, and by its base attach- to the astragalus, the os calcis, and the scaphoid bone. From its upper attachment the fibres radiate to their insertion be- low in this manner ; — the posterior are directed to the hinder part of the inner surface of the astragalus ; the middle pass vertically to the side of the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis ; and the anterior which are thin and oblique, join the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, and the inner side of the scaphoid bone. The tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum are in contact with this ligament. External The external lateral ligament consists of three separate partsh-ree pieces, anterior, middle, and posterior : two of these (anterior and posterior) are attached to the astragalus, and the other anterior, to the os calcis. The anterior piece is a short flat band, which is directed from the fore part of the malleolus to the astragalus, in front of the lateral articular surface. The middle, middle portion is round and cord-like, and descends from the