576 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. Section VI. LUMBAR SPINAL NERYES AND THE CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. The spinal nerves of the loins resemble those in the lower part of the neck, in being united in a plexus, and supplying a limb, and the parts of the trunk contiguous to it. Dissec- Dissection.—The lumbar nerves and their plexus are to thTium- he seen on the left side, and to bring them into view, the pfexus dissector should scrape away the left psoas. For the most Side?** part the fleshy fibres may be removed freely; but a small branch (accessory of the obturator) should be looked for at first at the inner border of the muscle. In the substance of the quadratus lumborum a communication may sometimes be found between the last dorsal and the first lumbar nerve, and of The branches of the sympathetic that join the spinal nerves nerves are to be followed along the lumbar arteries, jommg Qn tjie pjgkj. g^e pSoas mav ke left untouched to see and on at what places the nerves issue from it. right. r Four Spinal Lumbar Nerves. — The anterior primary branches n"™besr °f tne lumbar nerves, except the last, enter into the lumbar piexusj16 plexus. Five in number, they increase in size from the first to the last, and are joined by filaments of the sympa- and thetic near the intervertebral foramina. They supply muscfes; branches also to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, fifth The fifth or lowest nerve receives a communicating branch sacral from the fourth nerve, and descends into the pelvis to enter named the sacral plexus. After this nerve is joined by the offset sacraT." from the fourth, the name lumbosacral is applied to the common trunk. Plexus The lumbar plexus is formed by loops of communica- formed. tion between the four highest lumbar nerves. Contained in situa. the substance of the psoas, near its posterior part, the plexus t101" increases in size from above downwards, like the individual Connec nerves. Superiorly a connection is sometimes found be- with tween the first lumbar and the last dorsal nerve, and infe- riorly the large lumbo-sacral cord unites the lumbar and sacral plexuses. nerves.