CONNECTIONS OF THE FEMALE VISCERA. 597 Q Q 3 the surface of the body, to the part of the perineum between the anus and the vulva. The levatores ani are on each side, and unite below it, and the sphincter muscles surround the extremity. The uterus is somewhat of a conical shape, and is flat- Form tened from before backwards. It is situate in the pelvis ation. between the bladder and the rectum, and is retained in place by the broad ligaments. Its wider end is free and placed upwards, and the lower end communicates with the vagina : unless enlarged, it lies below the brim of the pelvis. This Position viscus is tilted forwards, so that its position is oblique in the brim of cavity of the pelvis ; and a line through the centre of the peivls~ organ would correspond to the axis of the inlet of the pelvic Axis, cavity, but not to that of the vagina. The anterior surface is covered by peritoneum, except in surfaces the lower fourth, where it is in "contact with the bladder. The 'posterior surface is altogether invested by the serous membrane. The upper end (fundus vel basis uteri) is the largest part Extre- of the organ, and is in contact with the small intestine. The lower end, or the neck (cervix uteri) is received into the vagina. To each side is attached the broad ligament with the On the Fallopian tube, the round ligament, and the ovary. a. The Fallopian tube is contained in the free border of Faiio- the ligament; one end is connected to the upper angle of the tube, uterus, whilst the oiher is loose in the cavity of the pelvis. At its attachment to the uterus the tube is of small size, but at the opposite extremity it is dilated, like the end of a trumpet, and fringed, forming the corpus fimbriatum. b. The round or suspensory ligament is a fibrous cord, round that is directed outwards through the internal abdominal ring, and the inguinal canal, to the groin. This cord lies over the obliterated hypogastric, and the external iliac artery; and is surrounded by the peritoneum, which accompanies it a short way into the canal. c. The ovary is placed nearly horizontally, and bulges at and the the posterior aspect of the broad ligament ; it is connected to and7 the uterus at the inner end by a special fibrous band, ligament its liga. of the ovary. Its form is oval, and its margins are turned ment* forwards and backwards. Its size is very variable.