571 BRANCHES OF THE VENA CAVA INFERIOR. branches from the testicle, the kidney, the supra-renal body, abdo- and the liver. The veins belonging to the digestive appa- exce'pt ratus, viz. to the intestinal canal, the spleen, and the pan- aP|traIe creas, are united to form the vena portse (p. 519.); and thetus- blood circulating in those veins reaches the cava only after it has circulated through the liver, and then through the indirect channel of the veins of the liver, — the vense cava3 hepaticae. The lumbar veins enter the posterior part of the vena Lumbar cava, and correspond in number and course to the arteries of after, the same name : they will be dissected with those arteries. The spermatic vein enters the abdomen by the internal sperm- M m J atic vein abdominal ring, after forming the spermatic plexus in the cord (p. 478.). At first the vein consists of two branches in the abdomen, which lie on the sides of the spermatic artery; but these soon merge into one trunk, which ends on the left end« <*if- ... ferently side in the renal vein, opening into it at right angles : and on left . . ° . ° and right the right side, in the inferior cava, which it pierces obliquely sides, below the renal vein. As the vein ascends to its destina- tion, it receives one or more branches from the wall of the abdomen, and from the fat about the kidney. In the female this vein (ovarian) has the same ending as vein in in the male, and it forms a plexus in the broad ligament of female, the uterus. The renal or emulgent vein is of large size, and joins the Renal vena cava at a right angle. It commences, by many branches, position in the kidney; and the trunk resulting from their union is [°™.~ superficial to the renal artery. The right is the shortest, differ, and joins the cava higher up than the other. The left vein two crosses the aorta close to the origin of the superior mesen- teric artery : it receives separate branches from the spermatic B ranch- and supra-renal veins of the same side. The supra-renal vein is of considerable size when it is supra, compared with that of the body from which it comes. On endsdif- the right side it opens into the cava, and on the left side into ferently' the renal vein. The diaphragmatic veins (inferior), two for each artery, Phrenic spring from the under surface of the diaphragm. They join velns' the cava either as one trunk or two. The hepatic veins enter the cava where it is in contact Hepatic with the liver. These veins are described in the dissection before of the liver (p. 547.).