FACIAL NERVE IN THE BONE. 149 L 3 superior palatine in the roof of the mouth. This branch accom- panies the naso-palatine nerve, and covers the septum with nu- merous ramifications. 3. The pterygo-palatine is a very small branch, which, passing pterygo- backwards through the canal of the same name, is distributed to branch^ the Eustachian tube and the lining membrane of the pharynx. 4. The vidian or pterygoid branch is contained in the vidian vidian canal with the nerve of the same name, and, escaped from the branch* canal, ends on the upper part of the Eustachian tube and the pharynx. Some other small nasal arteries are furnished by the anterior and Other posterior ethmoidal branches of the ophthalmic (p. 49.), and by teries. the facial artery near the nostril. Veins.—The veins corresponding to the terminal branches Veins; of the internal maxillary artery unite in the sphenomaxil- lary fossa in the alveolar plexus. Into this plexus offsets alveolar are received from the pterygoid plexus and the infra-orbital plexus* vein ; and from it a large trunk (alveolar, anterior internal maxillary vein) is directed forwards below the malar bone to join the facial vein (p. 30.). Beneath the mucous membrane of the nose these vessels have a plexiform arrangement, which is particularly large over the free margin of the spongy bones. Facial nerve in the temporal bone.—The nerve winds Facial nerve. through the petrous part of the temporal bone, where it is followed with difficulty, in consequence of the extreme den- sity of the bone, and the absence of marks on the surface to indicate its position. To render this dissection easier, the student should be provided with a temporal bone, in which the course of the facial nerve and the cavity of the tympanum are displayed. Dissection.—The examination of the nerve is to be begun Dissec- at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and to be traced inwards from nerve in that point. With this view, the side of the skull should be sawn through between the meatus externus and the anterior border of the mastoid process, so as to open the posterior part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The nerve will then be seen entering deeply into the substance of the temporal bone; and it will be readily followed if the dissector cuts away with the bone forceps all the bone projecting above it. In this last step, the cavity of the tympanum will be more or less opened, and the chain of bones in it exposed. The