FISSURES OF THE LIVER. 543 The fissure or groove for the vena cava is placed on the one for the vena right side of the Spigelian lobe, and is frequently bridged cava, over by the liver. If the cava be opened, the large hepatic veins will be seen entering it. Fossce. — On the under surface of the right lobe are these Fossae beneath. depressions: one for the gall-bladder, to the right of the square lobe ; another for the colon, near the anterior part; and a third for the kidney, near the posterior part. Vessels of the transverse fissure. — The vessels lying in vessels J J J & in the the transverse fissure, viz. vena portae, hepatic artery and trans- duct, have the following disposition:—the duct is anterior, fissure; the portal vein posterior, and the artery between the other two. Hepatic duct.—The duct that conveys away the bile, is Ration formed by two branches; these issue from the liver, one branch- J . ing. from each lobe, and are soon blended in a common tube or hepatic duct. After a distance of two inches, the hepatic duct is joined by the duct of the gall-bladder; and the union of the two gives rise to the common bile-duct. The hepatic artery is divided into two, one for each lobe, and its branches are surrounded by nerves and lymphatics. The vena portce branches, like the artery, into two trunks, for the same lobes, and gives an offset to the Spigelian lobe : its left branch is the longest. Fcetal condition of the umbilical vein.—In the longitudinal ,In th.e J ° longnu- fissure are the remains of a vessel which has the undermen- <*inal fissure tioned arrangement in the foetus. Before birth the large *n *he .... . foetus, umbilical vein occupies the longitudinal fissure, and opens posteriorly into the vena cava; but the part of the vessel beyond the transverse fissure receives the name ductus venosus, Branches are supplied from the vein at that period to both lobes of the liver, and a large one, that is directed to the right lobe, is continuous with the left divi- sion of the vena portse. After birth the anterior part of the umbilical vein is closed, and becomes eventually the round condi- ligament: and the posterior part, or the ductus venosus, is birth! er also obliterated, only a thin cord remaining in its place; whilst the lateral branches, which are in a line with those of the vena portse, remain open, and subsequently form part of the portal system of vessels. Occasionally the ductus venosus is found more or less pervious.