301 NERVES ON FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. The ulnar nerve enters the fore-arm between the attach- ulnar i it ii nerve in ments of the flexor carpi ulnaris to the olecranon and the the fore- inner condyle of the humerus. Under cover of that muscle the nerve reaches the ulnar artery about the middle (in length) of the fore-arm, and is then continued on the inner side of the vessel to the hand. On the annular ligament the nerve is rather posterior to the artery. In the fore-arm it its furnishes articular, muscular, and cutaneous branches as are below: — a. Articular nerves. — In the interval between the olecranon and to elbow the inner condyle, the ulnar nerve gives slender filaments to the J01nt' articulation against which it lies. b. Muscular branches. — It furnishes offsets near the elbow joint twomus- to two muscles of the fore-arm, viz. flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor fo?e-°f profundus. One branch enters the upper part of the flexor carpi arra» ulnaris, and another supplies the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. c. Cutaneous nerve of the fore-arm and hand. — About the middle cutane- of the fore-arm a small cutaneous branch (palmar) arises from the branch nerve, and continues on the ulnar artery, sending twigs around it, of hand, to end in the integuments of the palm of the hand. Sometimes a cutaneous offset from it perforates the aponeurosis of the fore-arm, and joins the internal cutaneous nerve. d. The dorsal cutaneous nerve of the hand arises about two inches cuta- above the end of the ulna, and passes obliquely backwards beneath nerve of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle : it finally perforates the aponeu- hand°f rosis of the limb, and is lost on the back of the hand and fingers (see p. 292.) The median nerve leaves the hollow of the elbow between Median the heads of orign of the pronator teres, and takes the middle nerve line of the fore-arm in its course to the hand. It is placed iies be- beneath the flexor sublimis as low as two inches from the theetwo annular ligament, but it then becomes superficial along the muscles! outer border of the tendons of that muscle. Lastly the nerve dips beneath the annular ligament to enter the palm of the hand, where it is distributed. This is the muscular nerve of the front of the fore-arm, for it furnishes cutaneous offsets only to the hand. a. Muscular offsets leave the trunk of the nerve near the elbow, Supplies and are distributed to all the muscles of the superficial layer in cies!™113" front of the fore-arm, except the flexor carpi ulnaris ; in addition, one^and the nerve supplies the deep layer through the following branch a half>