DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. 168 rent nerve larynx, and to the mucous membrane of the pharynx. After- wards the superior laryngeal is to be followed to the mucous membrane of the interior of the larynx, and to that of the pharynx. Two communications are to be found between these nerves; one is beneath the thyroid cartilage, the other in the mucous membrane of the pharynx. An artery accom- panies each nerve, and is to be dissected at the same time. Nerves Nerves. — The nerves that supply branches to the larynx, vagus, are the superior and inferior laryngeal branches of the pneumo-gastric nerve (p. 115.) ; the former is distributed to the mucous membrane, and the latter to the muscles. Recur- «• The inferior laryngeal nerve (recurrent), when about to enter the larynx, furnishes backwards an offset to the mucous mem- brane of the pharynx, which joins with filaments from the upper supplies laryngeal nerve. The nerve then passes beneath the ala of the muscles thyroid cartilage, and ends in branches for all the special muscles one?Pt of the larynx, except the crico-thyroideus. Its small muscular branches are easily followed, but that to the arytenoid muscle passes beneath the crico-arytsenoideus posticus. Beneath the thyroid cartilage this nerve is joined by a long offset of the upper laryngeal nerve. Superior b. The superior laryngeal nerve pierces the thyro-hyoid liga- lgel\~ ment, and gives offsets to the mucous membrane covering the nerve back of the larynx ; it also furnishes a long branch, beneath the joins re- ala of the thyroid cartilage, to communicate with the recurrent current, nerve> rpjie trunk of the nerve then terminates in many branches and ends for the supply of the mucous membrane : — Some of these ascend in cousU* the arytamo-epiglottidean fold of that membrane to the epiglottis, brane an(^ tne ro°* °^ ^e tongue. The others, which are the largest, descend on the inner side of the ventricular pouch, and supply the lining membrane of the larynx as low as the vocal cords. One nerve of this set pierces the arytaenoid muscle, and appears (?) to supply it. Arteries Vessels. — The arteries of the interior of the larynx are furnished from the superior and inferior thyroid branches (pp. 74. 83.). from su- cl. The laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery enters thyroid; tne larynx with the superior laryngeal nerve, and divides like it into ascending and descending branches ; some of these enter the muscles, but the rest supply the mucous membrane of the epiglottis, that of the root of the tongue, and that of the interior of the larynx. It anastomoses with the following artery both beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and in the mucous membrane of the pharynx.