454 DISSECTION OF THE PERINEUM. Parrs Parts cut in the operation of lithotomy, — A review of the litho- relative position of the parts in the perinaeum will bring to tomy* mind those that must be injured in reaching the bladder, and those that are to be avoided, in cut- In making the external incisions the knife is entered in from the middle line of the perinaeum, one inch in front of the face to anus, and is drawn backwards, on the left side, to midway the staff, ' . n , ' T between the tuberosity 01 the ischium and the anus. In this proceeding the skin and the superficial fascia, and the inferior haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, lying across the ischio-rectal fossa, would be cut; and the transverse perinaeal muscle and artery, with, possibly, the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves, may be then divided. In the subsequent attempt to reach the staff, when the knife is introduced into the anterior part of the wound, the lower part of the tri- angular ligament and the deep transverse urethral muscle and in will be divided; and when the knife is placed within the knifelng groove of the staff, the membranous part of the urethra, with staff into the circular muscular fibre about it, will be cut. Lastly, as the knife is pushed along the staff into the bladder, it in- cises in its progress the membranous part of the urethra, and part of the substance of the prostate gland with the large vessels around it. Parts to The several parts to be avoided in the stages of the ope- S areld" ration are the following: — In the first incisions in the ischio- rectum, recta| fossa? ^he rectum may be cut if the knife is turned inwards across the intestine, instead of being kept parallel with it, and if the gut is not kept out of the way with the pudic fore-finger of the left hand. The pudic vessels on the outer vessels, ^ ischio-rectal fossa may be wounded near the an- terior part of that hollow, where they approach the margin of the ramus of the pubes; but, posteriorly, they are very securely lodged inside the projection of the tuberosity of the ischium. Whilst making the deeper incisions to reach the bulb and staff, the bulb and its artery lie immediately in front of the tery, knife, and will be entered if the incisions are made too far forward; but the vessel must necessarily be cut, when it arises farther back than usual, and crosses the front of the ischio-rectal fossa in its course to the bulb of the urethra. p;acuia. In dividing the prostate gland the edge of the knife is to be uuct. turned outwards and downwards, in the direction of a line