713 POSTERIOR TIBIAL VESSELS. The peroneal artery is often as large as the posterior Pero- tibial, and arises from that vessel about one inch and a half artery if from the beginning. It takes the fibula as its guide, and lying close to the bone in the fibres of the flexor pollicis, JaS*in reaches the lower part of the interosseous membrane. At poinds, this spot it sends forwards a branch to the front of the leg (anterior peroneal), and continues over the articulation be- tween the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the foot, where it terminates in branches, and anastomoses with the tarsal Terrat- 7 nation and external plantar arteries. Two companion veins surround the artery. Branches. — Besides the anterior peroneal, it furnishes Jranch~ muscular, nutritious, and communicating offsets. Muscular branches are distributed to the soleus and the deep Jj£scu" flexors, and some turn round the fibula to the peronei muscles. The nutritious arterv is smaller than that to the tibia, and is *?utn; •* t 1 tious to transmitted through the tibialis posticus, to the aperture about the fibula, middle of the fibula. The anterior peroneal branch passes forwards through an aper- Anterior 1 1 . . peroneal ture in the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and is directed in front of the fibula to the dorsum and the outer part of the foot: on the front of the leg and foot it anastomoses with the external t°£ront ° m of foot. malleolar and tarsal branches of the anterior tibial artery. A communicating offset near the ankle joint joins in an arch, as ^j^"" before mentioned, with a similar branch of the posterior tibial ; sometimes there is a second arch between the same vessels. Peculiarities in the arteries. — The posterior tibial artery may be ®.i*,e1of smaller than usual, or absent; its place will then be supplied below changes, in the foot by a large peroneal artery, which will be directed in- wards at the lower end of the tibia, and either join the small tibial vessel, or run alone to the sole of the foot. The peroneal artery may arise from the popliteal, or from the JJjjgg"d anterior tibial artery. And its anterior peroneal branch may take ingot' the place of the anterior tibial artery on the dorsum of the foot. neal A compensating principle may be observed amongst the arteries g^ti of the foot as in those of the hand, by means of which the defi- tutions. ciency in one is supplied by an enlarged offset of another. The posterior tibial veins begin on the inner side of the Pos. foot by the union of the plantar veins ; they ascend, one on tibial each side of their artery, and unite with the anterior tibial trunks at the lower border of the popliteus, to form the large popliteal vein. They receive the peroneal veins, and branches