DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 598 Extent The Vagina is the tube by which the uterus communicates form; with the exterior of the body. It is somewhat cylindrical in length; shape, though flattened on the front and back; and its length is from four to five inches. The vagina is slightly curved axis; as it follows the bend of the rectum, and its axis therefore corresponds at first to the centre of the outlet, but higher up to that of the cavity of the pelvis. In front the vagina is in contact with the base of the bladder, and the urethra ; and beneath or below it is the rectum. To the side is attached connec- the recto-vesical fascia, which sends a sheath alons; the lower tions. ° half of the tube. The upper end receives the neck of the uterus by an aperture in the anterior or upper wall; and the lower end is the narrowest part of the canal, and is sur- Lower rounded by the sphincter vaginae muscle. In children, and closed in the virgin, the external aperture is closed by the hymen, times. The vagina is surrounded by a large plexus of veins. Bladder The Bladder is placed at the anterior part of the pelvis, above the vagina and in contact with the back of the pubes. resem- Its form, position, and connections so closely resemble those of the of the bladder in the male body, as to render it unnecessary to repeat them again (see p. 589.). The chief differences in the bladder of the two sexes are the following : — Differ- In the female the bladder is larger than in the male, and between its transverse exceeds its vertical measurement. The base two is of less extent; it is in contact with the vagina and the lower part of the uterus ; and it does not project below the level of the urethra, so as to form a pouch as in the male. On the side of the viscus there is not any vas deferens ; and the prostate is absent from the neck, course The ureter has a longer course in the pelvis of the female oi ureter' than in that of the male, before it reaches the bladder. After crossing the internal iliac vessels, it passes by the neck of the uterus ere it arrives at its destination. Urethra; The urethra is a small narrow tube about one inch and a andgth half long, which curves slightly below the symphysis pubis, connec- tne concavity being upwards. Its situation is above the wiTh "vagina, and its external opening is placed within the vulva, around ^n *ts course to tne surface it is imbedded in the tissue of the vaginal wall, and perforates the triangular ligament of the perineum; but before reaching the last structure it is sur- rounded by the muscular fibres of the constrictor urethras