FALLOPIAN TUBE. 633 Blood-vessels and nerves.—The ovarian artery pierces the ovary Artery; at the anterior or attached border, and its branches run in zig-zag lines through the stroma. The veins of this body, after escaping veins; from its substance, form a plexus {pampiniform) near the ovary, and within the fold of the broad ligament. The nerves are derived nerves, from the sympathetic on the ovarian and uterine vessels. Fallopian Tubes. — These tubes convey the ova from use, the ovaries to the uterus, and correspond in their office to the vasa deferentia in the male. The tubes are two in number, one on each side. Each is length, about four inches in length : it is cord-like, at the inner end, where it is attached to the upper part of the uterus, but and increases in size towards the outer end, and terminates in a form' wide extremity, like the mouth of a trumpet. This dilated itisdi- lated ex- end is fringed and named corpus Jimbriatum, and the serra- temaiiy, tions of its circumference are called fimbriae: when the lim- and fim_ briated end is floated out in water, one of the processes may briatea- be seen to be connected with the outer end of the ovary. In the centre of the fimbriae is a groove, that leads to the orifice of the Fallopian tube. On opening the tube with care, the size of the contained size of space, and the small aperture into the uterus can be observed, u feSJat Its canal varies in size at different spots; — the narrowesttheends' part is at the orifice into the uterus, where it scarcely gives passage to a fine bristle; towards the outer end it increases a little, but it is again rather diminished in diameter at the outer aperture. Structure. — This excretory tube has the same structure a mus- as the uterus with which it is connected, viz. a muscular struc- tunic, which is covered externally by peritoneum, and linedture' by mucous membrane. The muscular coat is formed of an external or longitudi- Fibres' nal, and of an internal or circular layer; both these are con- ed°fr°om" tinuous with similar strata in the wall of the uterus. The mucous membrane forms some longitudinal folds, Mucous particularly at the outer end. At the inner extremity 0fcoat the canal it joins the mucous lining of the uterus, but at the outer end it is continuous with the peritoneal,covering. A is con- columnar ciliated epithelium covers the surface, as in the S?th°pe- uterus. ujre- The blood-vessels and nerves are furnished from those that supply Vessels, the uterus and the ovary.