747 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TARSUS. The external calcaneo scaphoid is an interosseous ligament, external and is outside the head of the astragalus; it is about half an ments inch deep. Behind, it is fixed to the os calcis, between the articular surfaces for the cuboid bone and the astragalus; and in front it is attached to the outer side of the os sca- phoides. These ligaments enter into the articulation of the enter * into as- astragalus with the scaphoid bone, and are lined by the tragaio. ° . i , scaphoid same synovial membrane. articuia- d. The os calcis with the cuboid bone,—-The ligaments in 0s calcis this articulation are plantar and dorsal, the former being bofdCU" much the strongest; and there is also an internal or inter- bone'by osseous band. The dorsal ligament (superior calcaneo-cuboid) is a thin dorsal fasciculus of fibres, which is attached to the upper surfaces of the contiguous ends of the os calcis and the cuboid bone, and is divided into one or two parts. At the inner side of the os cuboides is another rather strong internal or inter- osseous band from the os calcis. The inferior calcaneo- and infe- cuboid ligament in the sole of the foot is the strongest, and gament. is divided into a superficial and a deep part: — The superficial portion {ligamentum longum plantce) is attached to the The last under surface of the os calcis, and its fibres pass forwards to est'and8 be connected to the ridge on the under part of the cuboid into two bone; whilst some are prolonged over the tendon of the pe- parts' roneus longus muscle, assisting to form its sheath, and are attached to the tarsal ends of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. The deep piece of the ligament will be seen, on division of the superficial, to extend from the eminence on the fore part of the under surface of the os calcis, to the portion of the cuboid bone behind the ridge. A single synovial synovial membrane belongs to the articulation. Dissection* — The interosseous ligament uniting the astra- Dissec- galus and the os calcis is now to be cut through to demon- strate the articular surfaces, the synovial sacs, and the attachment of the ligament. Articulations of the scaphoid bone. — The scaphoid union bone articulates in front with the three cuneiform bones, and scaphoid laterally with the os cuboides, by dorsal and plantar bands. bone a. In the articulation with the cuneiform bones there are to the three small dorsal ligaments, one to each bone, but the inner- form1" most is the strongest. The place of plantar bands is sup-