391 LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. pericardium in the middle. In the muscle are the fol- Aper- tures in lowing apertures:—one tor the oesophagus and the pneumo- it. gastric nerves, another for the vena cava, and a third for the aorta with the thoracic duct and the vena azjgos. The phrenic vessels and nerves enter the upper surface, external to the pericardium; and the splanchnic and sympathetic nerves are transmitted to the abdomen through the posterior part. Directions. — The dissector of the thorax now waits while The dis- section the dissection of the back is made. Afterwards he is to of the back is examine the ligaments of the ribs, and those of the spine: a now ° A made. notice of these will be found in the following section. Section II. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The ligaments connecting together the vertebrae, the ribs to Enume- the spinal column and the sternum, and the pieces of the the liga- • • ments. sternum one to another, are described in this section. Articulation of the Ribs. — The rib is united to the a rib is vertebrae on the one side, and to the sternum on the other, with the by three sets of ligaments, viz. one between the head of the and the bone and the bodies of the vertebrae; a second from its neck and tubercle to the transverse processes of the vertebrae ; and a third, for each true rib, between its cartilage and the sternum. Dissection. — For the purpose of examining the ligaments Tosee between the head and neck of the rib and the vertebrae, take mints a piece of the spinal column with three or four ribs attached, verte! After removing the intercostal muscles and the cellularbnB* membrane from the surface of the bones, the student will be able to define the following under-mentioned ligaments, as these pass to the spinal column and the transverse pro- cesses. The ligaments attaching the costal cartilage to the rib and To rib the sternum are to be dissected on the part of the anterior num!ter wall of the thorax that was removed in opening the thoracic cavity. A. Ligaments from the head of the rib. — The head of the Liga-