393 LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS AND STERNUM. vial membrane will be found in the joint, but this is absent ^ovial in the two lowest ribs. The middle or interosseous costotransverse is placed hori- Middle A costo- zontally between the neck of the rib and the transverse trans. * t verse. process with which the tubercle articulates. It will be best seen by sawing horizontally through the rib and the trans- verse process. Its fibres are mixed with reddish cellular membrane. C. Ligaments from the cartilages of the ribs. —The costal Union cartilages of the true ribs are united to the sternum by costal ° . . J carti- anterior and posterior ligaments, which cover a synovial lages membrane; and they are further joined externally to the bony part of the rib. Some of the lower cartilages touch, and are connected together by fibrous bands and synovial membrane. a. In the chondro-sternal articulation, the cartilages ofwiththe \ ° ster- the true ribs are received into the depressions on the side of num; the sternum, and are fixed in position by surrounding fibres, but chiefly in front and behind, where they give rise to an anterior and a posterior ligament. Between the cartilage and the articular surface of the bone is a synovial mem- brane. A separate band of fibres passes between the carti- lage of the seventh rib and the xiphoid cartilage, and is named costo-xiphoid ligament b. Costal cartilage ivith the rib.—The bony part of the with the rib is hollowed to receive the costal cartilage, and the two are united only by the investing membrane of the rib. c. One costal cartilage to another. — The contiguous sur-with one faces of the costal cartilages, from the sixth to the ninth, are er* connected by ligamentous fibres, and the articulations are provided with synovial membranes. Articulation of the Pieces of the Sternum. — The union of n • Tiii pieces of upper piece 01 the sternum is connected to the lower by an- sternum, terior and posterior longitudinal fibres, and between them is an intervening cartilage. Articulation of the Vertebrae. — The several vertebrae Two sets composing the spinal column are united together by two sets menu" of ligaments—one between the bodies, and the other be- the ver- tween the processes of the bones. These ligaments have a general resemblance along the spinal column, and one description will suffice for all except