481 VESSELS OF THE WALL OF THE ABDOMEN. anastomoses with a similar branch from the opposite side. Behind joins ob- the pubes it communicates with a small offset from the obturator ^1™* artery : the size of this anastomosis varies very much, but its situa- offset* tion is internal to the crural ring. b. A cremasteric branch is furnished to the coverings of the cord Cremas- teric. as before mentioned. c. Muscular branches are given from the outer side of the artery Muscu- to supply the abdominal wall, and to anastomose with the inter- costal arteries. Other branches enter the rectus. d. Some cutaneous offsets pierce the rectus, and ramify in the in- ^stane" tegument with the anterior cutaneous nerves. Two veins are found with the epigastric artery ; finally fv^- these join into one and open into the external iliac vein. veins. Peculiarities. — The position of this artery on the trunk of the Peculiar external iliac may be gradually shifted upwards, from the level of origin. Poupart's ligament, as far as two inches and a half above it; or the origin of the vessel may be below the ligament, being trans- ferred to the superficial or the deep femoral artery. Union with branches. — Frequently the epigastric furnishes the May obturator artery to the pelvis; in such case the small communicating obtura! offset, which is ordinarily given to the obturator, may be supposed tor* to be enlarged. Or the epigastric may arise from the obturator— this having its usual course. The circumflex iliac artery arises from the outer side of circum- i i, . • t flex iliac the external iliac, opposite the epigastric, and then courses outwards around the crest of the ilium, as the name expresses. Having pierced the tube of membrane that surrounds the is in wail r . ofabdo- upper part of the femoral vessels, the artery lies at first be- men, low Poupart's ligament, but it next passes beneath the trans- versalis muscle to the middle of the crest of the ilium. Here the vessel pierces the transversalis, and is continued back- and wards, between it and the internal oblique, to anastomose mo?efcs°~ with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal iliac artery. Its lumbar?" branches are muscular and anastomotic. Near the front of the crest of the ilium a small branch ascends Muscu- lar off- sets. between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplying them, and anastomoses with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. As the vessel extends backwards it gives lateral offsets, that supply the neighbouring muscles, and communicate on the one side with the ilio-lumbar, and on the other with the gluteal artery. The companion vein with this artery is formed by the circum- j unction of two collateral branches, like the epigastric, andflexvem' 11