TYMPANIC CAVITY. 775 3 d 4 enclosed within the temporal bone, and consist of two large auditory spaces, named tympanum and labyrinth, with their accessory parts. The tympanum, or drum of the ear, is a hollow interposed Tympa- between the meatus auditorius and the deeper labyrinthic cavity. It communicates with the pharynx by a tube (Eus- tachian), through which the mucous membrane and the air have access to it; and it is traversed by a chain of small bones, with special muscles and ligaments connected with the ossicles. Numerous and minute vessels and nerves are in the space. Dissection, — The tympanic cavity is to be opened in both Dissec- a dried and a recent bone. On the dry temporal bone, after removing most of the to open squamous portion by means of a vertical cut of the saw dry" e through the root of the zygoma, and the Glasserian fissure, n ' the tympanum will be brought into view by cutting away with the bone forceps the anterior part of the meatus audi- torius, and the projecting bone above that forms the roof of the cavity. In the recent bone, in addition to the preparation already and in made of the meatus auditorius, only the roof of the tympa- cent num should be taken away as far as may be necessary, and without doing injury to the membrana tympani, the chorda tympani nerve, and the chain of bones with its muscles. Form. — The cavity of the tympanum has the form of a Form small, round, flat box, placed on the edge, for the outer and inner boundaries are flattened and the circumference is cir- cular. Its size is greater from point to point of the circum- dimen- ference than across the space, or from without inwards, being in the former direction about half an inch, but in the latter not more that half that measurement. The inner boundary is of greater extent than the outer, inner and on it the following objects are to be noticed. About the is mark- centre is the large projection of the promontory, which be-proton - comes pointed posteriorly, and is marked by two or three its7 an minute grooves that lodge the nerves forming the anasto- srooves* mosis of Jacobson. Above and below the posterior or nar- rowed part of the promontory is a large aperture, and both lead into the labyrinthic spaces. The upper opening re- sembles in shape the half segment of a circle, with the con-