348 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. Left. veins of the substance of the heart. The left auricle receives the two pulmonary veins from each side. Theven. The ventricles constitute the fleshy part of the heart, and commu- are thicker than the auricles, below which they lie. Two nicate ... terie-ar" *n numker> ^e tne auricles> each has an opening into the Number, auricle of its own side, by which it receives blood, and an- other opening into an artery, by which the blood is trans- mitted from the cavity. Their unequal extent on the aspects The 0f the heart has been before alluded to : thus the right ven- nght. . . tricle forms the right thin border, and the greater part of the a? anterior surface, and is prolonged upwards on the left side The left, into the pulmonary artery. The left ventricle enters alone into the apex, the left border, and most of the posterior surface of the heart: with its cavity the aorta is connected. Dissect Dissection,—Before opening the heart, the vessels for the cor°- . . n / • nary ves. nutrition of its substance (coronary arteries) are to be dis- sels and . nerves, sected on the surface, together with the small nerves and veins that accompany them. The small vessels appear on the sides of the pulmonary artery, and occupy the grooves on the surface of the heart, where they are surrounded by fat; one branches over the right, and the other over the left side. With the anterior artery is a plexus of nerves, which is to be followed upwards to the superficial cardiac plexus; and with the remaining artery is another plexus, and co- At the back of the heart, in the groove between the sinus7 auricles and ventricles, the student will find the large coro- nary vein, and the dilated coronary sinus in which it ends: the last should be defined and followed to its ending in the right auricle. Two The coronary arteries are two small vessels that are so of the" named from their course around the heart; they are the viz.r' first branches of the aorta, and arise close above the semi- lunar valves. One is distributed on the right, and the other on the left side of the heart, right a. The right coronary branch appears on the right side of nary", the pulmonary artery, and is directed onwards in the depres- sion between the right auricle and ventricle, to the posterior aspect of the heart, where it anastomoses with a similar circular offset from the left coronary artery. In this course branches are distributed upwards and downwards to the right half of the heart. Two of these are of larger size than