CONNECTIONS OF THE LUNG. 341 is to be dissected out, by taking away the pleura and the lung, cellular tissue from its front and back, without injuring its several vessels. In this dissection the phrenic artery and nerve will be found, near the front of the root, together with Trace the a small plexus of nerves (anterior pulmonary); the last nerves, is best seen on the left side. Behind the root of the lung is the large vagus nerve. For the present, the arch of the aorta and the small nerves on it may be left untouched. CONNECTIONS OF THE LUNG. The lungs are two in number, and are contained in the Number cavity of the thorax, one on each side of the spinal column. In these organs the blood is changed in respiration. and use. The lung is of a somewhat conical form, corresponding to Form, the shape of the half of the chest in which it is lodged, and is unattached on all sides, except at the inner part, where the vessels enter and form its root. It is covered, as before said, by the bag of the pleura, except at the root. From the irregularity of its shape, it presents for examination a base and apex, two borders, and two surfaces; it is also divided into lobes by fissures, and has a root composed of the vessels and nerves entering its inner surface. The base of the lung is hollowed, and fits on the convexity Base of the diaphragm; and at its circumference is a thinned dia- part, that projects into the narrow space between the muscle phra°m' and the thoracic wall. Following the shape of that muscle, shape ° L and it is sloped obliquely from before backwards, and in conse- level, quence reaches much lower at the posterior than at the ante- rior edge. Its position with respect to the wall of the tho- rax may be ascertained externally by taking the levels of the diaphragm as guides (p. 337.); and it must be remembered that the lung will be half a rib's breadth lower in front on the left, than on the right side. The apex is rounded, and Apex is projects an inch to an inch and a half above the first rib, neck, where it lies beneath the clavicle, the anterior scalenus muscle, and the subclavian artery. The anterior edge or border is thin, and overlays in part Anterior the pericardium. On the right side it lies along the middle thin, of the sternum as low as the sixth costal cartilage. On the onright left side it is in contact with its fellow, only pleura being g"dglef£ z 3