564 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. the pii- is the larger of the two, and is fixed by tendinous processes to the bodies of the first three lumbar vertebras, as well as their intervertebral substance, and reaches to that be- tween the third and fourth vertebras. The left pillar*, which is situate more on the side of the spine, is partly con- cealed by the aorta, and does not reach so far as the right by the depth of a vertebra, or of an intervertebral substance. Two The arches (lisfamenta arcuata) are two fibrous bands over arches, . x ° ' the quadratus, lumborum and psoas muscles on each side, internal The arch over the psoas (lig. arcuat. internum) is the or true, . strongest, and is connected by the one end to the tendinous part of the pillar of the diaphragm, and by the other end to the transverse process of the first or second lumbar vertebra, and ex- The external arch over the quadratus lumborum muscle ternal or 1 false. (lig. arcuat. externum) is only a thickened part of the fascia covering that muscle, and extends from the same transverse process (first or second lumbar) to the last rib. As before said, fleshy fibres take origin from both bands. Aper- Apertures. — There are three large openings in the dia- are— phragm for the aorta, the vena cava, and the oesophagus; For the with some smaller fissures for nerves and vessels. The opening for the aorta is rather behind than in the diaphragm, for it is situate between the pillars of the muscle and the its con- spinal column : it transmits the aorta, the thoracic duct, and tents. For " sometimes the vena azygos. The opening for the oesophagus gus and" an(^ pneumo-gastric nerves is rather above and to the left nerves. 0f the aortic aperture : it is situate in the muscular part of the diaphragm, and is bounded by the fibres of the pillars, ve°nathe as a^ove explained. The opening for the vena cava is cava. placed in the right division of the central tendon, or between the right and middle pieces, and its margins are attached to the vein by tendinous fibres. It is described as being of a square form (foramen quadratum). Fissures There is a fissure in each pillar for the splanchnic nerves, pillars, with one, in the left, for the small azygos vein. Sometimes the large azygos vein pierces the right pillar instead of passing with the aorta. Take Dissection.— After the diaphragm has been learnt, the away , greater ribs that support it on each side may be cut through, and * Not very unfrequently this pillar may be found wanting.