314 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. the fore-finger. At the lower border of the abductor indicis this branch is connected by an offset with the superficial arch; and at the end of the finger it unites with the digital branch furnished to the opposite side by the ulnar artery, branch ^ne ^eeP branch of the ulnar nerve accompanies the deep of ulnar palmar arch of the radial artery as far as the muscles of the nerve. A •> thumb, and terminates in branches to the adductor pollicis, the inner head of the short flexor, and the abductor indicis. ter0Cff-~ Branches. — Near its origin the nerve furnishes branches sets- to the muscles of the little finger. In the palm it gives an offset to each palmar and dorsal interosseous muscle, and to each of the two inner lumbrical muscles, besides the terminal branches to the muscles before mentioned, ment of iransverse metacarpal ligament connects together the heads of heads of the metacarpal bones. Its cutaneous surface is metacar- A pai; hollowed where the flexor tendons cross it; and beneath it bones. the interossei muscles pass to their insertion. To the pos- terior border the fascia that covers the interossei muscles is united. This ligament should be taken away to see the interossei muscles. Seven The interossei muscles are so named from their position ossei between the metacarpal bones, and are seven in number. Two muscles occupy each space, except the first, in which there is only one, and they are inserted into the first phalanx divided of each finger. They are divided into palmar and dorsal in- paimar terossei, but all the small muscles are evident in the palm sai. °r~ of the hand, though some project more than the others. Number The palmar muscles are three in number, and are smaller g?n of1" than the dorsal set, although they are most prominent in the palmar pa|m! Undivided at the posterior part, they arise from the palmar surface of the metacarpal bones of the fingers on which they act, viz. those of the fore, ring, and little fingers, and are inserted into the ulnar side of the fore, and the radial side of the other digits, (supposing the hand supine) : attach, their attachments may be kept in mind by considering ments' them adductors of the fingers before mentioned to the middle line of the second. Dorsal The dorsal interossei extend farther back than the palmar set' set, and arise by a double head from the lateral surfaces of the two metacarpal bones, between which they lie. The Number, dorsal muscles are thus allotted to the dibits: two belong to