144 DISSECTION OF THE HEAD. spongy upper spongy bones, and on the flat surface of the ethmoid bone in front of them. As the branches of the olfactory nerve leave the skull, they receive tubes from the dura mater and pia mater, which are lost in the tissue to which the nerves are distributed. The nerves ramify in the pitui- tary membrane, and form tufts of filaments that communicate freely with the contiguous twigs, forming a network, but their mode of termination in the tissue is unknown. struc- The olfactory nerve differs in structure from the other cranial nerves ; its branches are deficient in the white sub- stance of Schwann, are not divisible into fibrillar, and are nucleated and granular in texture. They resemble the gelatinous fibres in appearance, and seem to be formed of an extension of the nervous matter of the olfactory bulb. — (Todd and Bowman.) The other branches of the nerves, and the vessels, which are found in the nose, will be described in the following section. Section XIV. SPHENOPALATINE AND OTIC GANGLIA, FACIAL AND NASAL NERVES, AND BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. Branch- Branches of Meckel's ganglion. — From the ganglion of Meckd's Meckel in the spheno-maxillary fossa, branches are furnished ISon; to the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, to the palate through the canals of the same name, and to the facial nerve along the vidian canal. The position of these several nerves may first be ascertained by examining their apertures of transmission in the skull, seek Dissection,—The branches of the ganglion that enter the toathehes nose may be found on the left part of the sawn skull, by nose' seeking them opposite the spheno-palatine foramen, through which they enter the nasal fossa with corresponding arteries. One of these nerves (naso-palatine), before referred to as lying in the membrane of the septum, is to be isolated from the pituitary membrane, and followed forwards to where it enters the floor of the nose. Branches of the internal max- illary artery accompany the nerves, and are to be dissected with them.