80 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. has two posterior belly, the larger of the two, arises from the groove beneath the mastoid process, whilst the anterior belly takes origin from the border of the lower jaw, on the side of the symphysis. From these places of origin the fibres are directed to the intervening tendon : — those of the posterior belly are the longest, and are inclined obliquely forwards, and those of the anterior belly pass downwards, but less ob- which liquely. The tendon of the muscle is surrounded by fibres are join- # . J edbya, of the stylo-hyoideus ; and it is attached to its fellow and to tendon. J J the os hyoides by means of an aponeurotic expansion, that keeps in position the arch of the muscle, and is inserted below into the body, and a part of the great cornu of the Position hyoid bone. The arch formed by the digastric is superficial, to other J . . parts. except at the outer part, where it is beneath the sterno and trachelo-mastoid muscles. The posterior belly crosses the carotid vessels and the accompanying veins and nerves, and is placed across the anterior triangular space of the neck in the position of a line from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone ; along its lower border will be found the occipital artery and the hypo-glossal nerve, the former passing back- wards, the latter forwards. The anterior belly rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle. The The digastric muscle describes an arch across the side of muscle ° bounds a the neck, and forms the lower boundary of a space that reaches space m . upwards to the jaw and the mastoid process, and to the base of the skull in front of the ear. This space is divided that con- into two parts by the stylo-maxillary ligament. In the pos- rotid and terior part are contained the parotid gland and the vessels maxii- and nerves in connection with it (p. 31.); in the anterior glands, are the submaxillary gland and the facial vessels, and deeper still the muscles between the chin and the hyoid bone, stylo- The styxo-hyoid muscle is thin and slender, and has the us°lde same position as the posterior belly of the digastric. It origin, arises from the outer aspect of the styloid process, near the inser- base or about the middle, and is inserted into the body of the sur- os hyoides. The muscle has the same connections as the digastric digastric (posterior belly) : and its fleshy fibres are usually tendon. perforate(j ^e tendon of that muscle. In many bodies the stylo-hyoid muscle is absent. Ninth The hypo-glossal nerve (ninth cranial) may now be the ante- examined, at least that part of it which is seen in the anterior