527 STRUCTURE OF THE SMALL GUT. vertical tubes that lie side by side^ and project into the sub- of tubes mucous cellular tissue. Measuring from -J^th. to -^th °f an size : inch in length, the tubes are closed at the deep end ; but they open on the surface of the stomach both in the alveoli, and in the inter-alveolar spaces. For the most part they are mostly straight, but towards the pylorus they become longer, and with^ somewhat sacculated at the deep extremity. Their interior deep is lined by columnar epithelium, which becomes spheroidal in lined by the bottom of the tube ; and filling them is a colourless fluid, bum; . , ~. i contain which contains a granular material. fluid. Over the surface of the mucous membrane small lentiform Fom- | follicles are scattered, which have a depression in the centre, and correspond to the solitary follicles in the intestine. These are in greatest number near the pyloric end of the stomach, and are most marked in young children. A columnar epithelium covers the surface of the mucous Epithe. membrane, and enters the small tubes, as before mentioned, venng. Blood-vessels and nerves of the stomach. — The different arteries Arteries, of the stomach, after supplying the muscular coat, ramify in the submucous cellular tissue, and terminate in the mucous coat. From that anastomosis in the submucous stratum, small offsets are continued on the tubes to the inner surface of the mucous mem- brane, where they form a net-work. The veins begin in the veins, mucous coat, receive branches from the muscular coat, and deliver their blood into the portal system. Two layers of lymphatics, super- lymph- ficial and deep, are found in the stomach. The nerves are derived andS' from the pneumogastric and sympathetic, as before said, p. 523. nerves- SMALL INTESTINE. The three parts into which the small intestine is divided, charac- viz. duodenum, jejunum, and ileum, have the followingters* differences in their characters : — The duodenum measures about as much as the breadth of Length twelve fingers (about ten inches), and is more fixed than the edness." rest of the intestinal tube. It is wider in capacity than width either the jejunum or the ileum, and its muscular coat is thick- also thicker. Into it the common bile duct and the pancre- ™**'tg atic duct pour their contents. entering The jejunum and the ileum together are about twenty feet Length, long, and are connected to the mesentery by one border. There is not any perceptible difference between the termi-