LOWER PART OF THE FEMORAL VESSELS. 667 muscles leave the outer part of the femoral artery, and be- branch- long mostly to the sartorius and the vastus internus. The femoral vein, in its connections with the parts around, Femoral and in its branches, corresponds closely to the femoral artery. Its position with respect to the artery is, as above said, ex- ternal to, and in contact with it. Peculiarities in the splitting of the artery. — Occasionally the The fe- femoral artery is split into two below the origin of the profunda, artery Four examples of this peculiarity have been met with, but, in all, divided, the trunks were blended again into one above the opening in the adductor muscle. Position of the vein. — The femoral vein may change its position The vein here, as in the upper part (p. 663.), and be found on the inner side {Usfde6 of the artery ; or it may be divided into two trunks, that lie on the j^tery; sides of its companion vessel. Size of the vein.— In some bodies this part of the femoral vein or split; is very small in size, in consequence of the popliteal coursing along small".7 the back of the thigh to enter the profunda vein, instead of accom- panying the main artery of the limb through the aperture in the adductor magnus. Dissection. — The femoral artery and vein are to be cutToex- across below the origin of the profunda, and to be thrown muscles downwards, preparatory to the deeper dissection. After o?the"* these are cut, all the cellular membrane and the small veins femur* are to be carefully removed from amongst the branches of the profunda artery and the anterior crural nerve. By this step the upper part of the vastus internus and crureus mus- cles will be prepared for learning. The TENSOR VAGLNiE FEMORIS extends Only along the Tensor upper third of the thigh, and is the smallest and the most Sorts external of the outer set of muscles. It takes origin from the fromS front of the crest of the ilium, at the outer aspect, and from pelvls' the anterior margin and the two anterior spinous processes of the same bone. Its fibres form a fleshy belly about two inches wide, and are inserted into the fascia lata about three ends in inches below, and in front of the line of the great trochanter lata, of the femur. At its origin the muscle is situate between the sartorius and the gluteus medius, and its fibres are blended with the latter. Beneath it are the ascending Parts branches of the external circumflex artery, and a branch of the superior gluteal nerve that enters it at the under aspect. A strong sheath of fascia surrounds the muscle.