EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 81 triangle of the neck. Appearing at the lower edge of the nor tn- digastric muscle, the nerve hooks round the occipital artery; angle' it is then directed forwards below the digastric, and disap- pears in front beneath the mylo-hyoid muscle. As the nerve crosses the neck, it lies over the carotid vessels ; and near the cornu of the os hyoides it crosses the lingual artery, so as to become higher than it. Branches, — In this part of its course the nerve gives the its descendens noni branch, and a small muscular offset to the hereahreS thyro-nyoideus. iar. The descending branch (ram. descend, noni) arises from the Branch trunk of the hypo-glossal on the outer side of the carotid artery, hyoid er and descends on the front, or in the sheath of the vessel, to about muscles the middle of the neck, where it is joined by the communicating branches of the cervical nerves. After the union of the spinal is joined nerves offsets are supplied to the lower hyoid muscles, viz. omo- Ticai °er" hyoid (both bellies), sternohyoid, and sterno-thyroid. Some- nerves times another offset is continued to the thorax, where it joins the phrenic and cardiac nerves. The connection between the descen- by inter- dens noni and the spinal nerves is formed by two or more cross n?catin^ filaments, so as to construct an arch with the concavity upwards; fibres- and an interchange of filaments between the two nerves has been described. The EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY Springs from the bifur- External cation of the common carotid at the upper border of the vesseL thyroid cartilage, and furnishes branches to the face, the neck, and the outer parts of the head. From the place of origin the vessel ascends to the interval Extent, between the jaw and the mastoid process, and ends in the internal maxillary and temporal branches, near the condyle of the jaw. In this course the artery lies at first to the Course inner side of the internal carotid, but it afterwards becomes Action, superficial to this vessel; and its direction is somewhat- arched forwards, though the position would be marked suffi- ciently by a line from the front of the meatus of the ear to the cricoid cartilage. At first the external carotid is com-Parts su- paratively superficial, and easily reached from the surface, t0en,clal being overlaid only by the common coverings of the anterior triangular space, viz. the skin, the superficial and deep fasciae with the platysma, and the superficial nerves. But above the situation of a line extended from the mastoid