500 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. bypos- mer level. In the upright and sitting postures this viscus body, descends lower than in the horizontal condition of the body; so that in the former state, the anterior border may be felt underneath the edge of the ribs, but in the latter it is with- an d by drawn within their margin. The connections of the liver in other with the surrounding parts may be changed by the growth of tumours, by collections of fluid in the chest or in the abdomen, or by constricting the space for its lodgment, as in tight lacing. situa- The spleen. — The spleen lies deeply in the left hypochon- spieen. drium, between the stomach and the ribs, and is connected by peritoneum to the great end of the stomach on the one side, and to the diaphragm on the other side. Its position Connec- is almost vertical. Its outer surface is convex, and corre- sponds to the diaphragm, and is opposite the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. At the inner surface, which is concave, the vessels enter, and to it the fold of peritoneum, the gastro- splenic omentum, is attached; in front of the vessels it touches the stomach, and behind them it is in contact with the left crus of the diaphragm, the suprarenal capsule, and the tail of the pancreas. Below the spleen are the kidney and the beginning of the descending colon. When the stomach is distended the spleen is somewhat behind it. Kidney The hidney. — The kidney should be examined on the left side of the«body, so that the duodenum may not be displaced. In order that it may be seen, the descending colon1 and the peritoneum must be separated from the abdominal wall. This viscus is surrounded with fat, and is situate in the lum- bar region (one on each side), opposite the last dorsal, and the two or three upper lumbar vertebrae. Its position is somewhat oblique, so that the upper is nearer than the lower Parts in end to the spinal column. In front of the kidney are the behind, peritoneum and the colon; and behind it, are the quadratus lumborum and psoas muscles, and the diaphragm and the above, last two ribs. Above each kidney and resting on it, is the below, suprarenal capsule ; and below each is the crest of the ilium, inside. The inner border looks to the spine and receives the vessels: whilst the outer border projects towards the side of the ab- dominal wall. Sometimes the two are united in front of the aorta, and form the horse-shoe kidney. Right Difference on opposite sides. — The right kidney is placed highest. occupies lumbar region.