473 TRANSVERSALIS AND RECTUS MUSCLES. fascia lumborum, is described in the dissection of the back rior apo- J " . neurosis. (p. 403.). Connections of the muscle.—Superficial to the transversa- Connec- ■/ L tions of lis are the two muscles before examined; and beneath it is trans- versalis the thin fascia transversalis, which separates it from the muscle, peritoneum. Its fleshy attachments to the ribs digitate with like processes of the diaphragm. The lower border is fleshy in the outer, but tendinous in the inner half, and is arched over the internal abdominal ring. Occasionally the muscle arises from Poupart's ligament as low down as the internal oblique, with which, and with the cremaster, it is then inse- parably united. Dissection. — To remove the aponeurosis from the rectus To ex- muscle, make a longitudinal incision through the tendinous tus and°" sheath, and turn it to each side. A small muscle, the pyra- daSs?" midalis, will be exposed at the same time near the pubes. The dissector should take care of the nerves entering the outer border of the rectus. The rectus muscle extends along the front of the abdo- Rectus men from the pelvis to the chest. The muscle is narrowest inferiorly, and is attached to the pubes by two tendinous Attach- processes ;—one, internal to the other and the smallest, arises pubes. from the front of the symphysis, where it joins that of the opposite side; and the external process is attached to the crest of the pubes. Becoming wider towards the thorax, the insertion muscle is inserted by three large fleshy processes into the cartilages of the three last true ribs ; and the highest slip, which is also external, is attached to both the bone and the cartilage of its rib. The muscle is contained in an aponeu- rotic sheath, except above and below ; and its fibres are Has cross interrupted at intervals by irregular tendinous lines, the inscriptiones tendinece. Sheath of the rectus. — The aponeurotic casing of the rec- its tus muscle is derived from the splitting of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique ; for one of the pieces passes before, how the other under the muscle, and the two unite at the inner border. Inseparably united with the stratum in front of the muscle is the aponeurosis of the external oblique ; and joined in a similar manner with that behind, is the aponeurosis of the transversalis. The sheath is deficient behind, both above its ex- and below. Above, the muscle rests on the ribs, withouttent*