DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. 711 z z 4 it and the peronei muscles, and from the aponeurosis over to fibu- the tibialis. Inferiorly the tendon of the muscle enters a groove in the astragalus, and afterwards crosses the sole of the foot to reach the great toe. In part the muscle is is partly covered by the soleus; but in part it is superficial, and is in ficFah contact with the fascia. It rests on the fibula and the lower end of the tibia, and conceals the peroneal vessels. Along Muscles the inner side are the posterior tibial nerve and vessels ; and vesseic . i n . on sides. contiguous to the outer margin, but separated by the iascia, are the peronei muscles. The FLEXOR LONGUS DIGITORUM PEDIS is attached tO the Flexor longus posterior surface of the tibia from the popliteus to about digito- ruui lies three inches from the lower extremity, and it also takes on tibia; origin from the aponeurosis covering the tibialis posticus. Its tendon enters a partition in the annular ligament behind in the the sheath of the tibialis^ and escaped from the ligament ment; divides in the sole of the foot into tendons for the four outer toes. The muscle is narrow and pointed superiorly and isParti» A ... super placed beneath the soleus; but in the lower half it is in con- ficjai^ tact with the fascia, and the posterior tibial nerve and vessels soleus. lie on it. The deep surface rests on the tibia and the tibialis posticus. The tibialis posticus occupies superiorly the interval Tibialis between the bones of the leg, but it crosses inferiorly beneath intero:- the long flexor of the toes to reach the inner side of the foot, mem- The muscle arises from the posterior surface of the inter- osseous membrane, except about two inches below, and from the aponeurosis that covers it: from a surface of the tibia, contiguous to the interosseous membrane, which reaches from the head of the bone to rather below the attachment of the flexor longus digitorum ; and from the adjacent inner surface of the fibula for the three middle fifths of its length. In the lower fourth of the leg this muscle is directed beneath crosses ° beneath the flexor digitorum; and its tendon entering the inner Lhe .' flexor of space in the annular ligament, reaches the inner side of the the toes, foot to be inserted into the scaphoid and other bones. The tibialis is concealed by the aponeurosis before mentioned, Muscles . . and ves- and is overlapped by the neighbouring muscles, but in the sels in lower fourth of the leg it is placed between the tibia and the g°n with long flexor of the toes : on the muscle are the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. The upper part presents two