THE GALL-BLADDER. 547 vena portae. The hepatic artery is consumed in the nutrition of the structure Hepatic of the liver. Whilst surrounded by the capsule of Glisson it fur- ncmmh- nishes vaginal branches to that sheath, which ramify in it and give it a red appearance in a well injected liver; it supplies other twigs and joins to the coats of the vena portae and the biliary duct. From the [ vaginal branches some few offsets are sent to the lobules to supply their structure. This artery is supposed by Mr. Kiernan to ter- minate in venous capillaries that communicate with the branches of the vena portaa. The hepatic veins (venae cavae hepaticae) begin by a plexus in the Hepatic interior of each lobule, and from it an intralobular vein issues at without the base; these join together and form still larger or sublobular a sneath branches. The next sized branches cease to receive any intra- lobular twigs, and merely unite with neighbouring branches to produce larger veins. Finally, the hepatic veins are collected into be?in large trunks, that are directed from before backwards to the vena lobules, cava inferior, into which they open by large orifices. The venae and end cavae hepaticae may be said to be without a cellular sheath, for it is vena very slight only in the larger trunks ; so that when they are cut cava* across the ends remain patent in consequence of their close con- nection with the hepatic structure. THE GALL BLADDER. The gall-bladder is the receptacle of the bile, and is situate Use and in a depression on the under surface of the right lobe of the tion; liver, to the right of the square lobe. Conical in form, or form; pear-shaped, its larger end {fundus) is directed forwards beyond the margin of the liver ; whilst the smaller end, or the neck, is turned in the opposite direction, and bends downwards to end in the cystic duct by a zigzag part. In size < length the gall-bladder measures three or four inches, and in breadth rather more than an inch at the fundus, or the widest part. It holds rather more than an ounce. By one surface connec- the sac is in contact with the liver, and on the opposite it is covered by peritoneum. The larger end touches the abdo- minal wall opposite the tip of the cartilage of the tenth rib, and is contiguous to the transverse colon ; and the small end touches the duodenum. Structure.—The wall of the gall-bladder has a peritoneal, ®J™£f a fibrous and muscular, and a mucous coat, with thin inter- wail, vening cellular layers. The serous coat is stretched over the under or free aspect serous 1 cant.