310 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. to their having passed through, that tendon, is inserted into the base inser- _ tion. oi the last phalanx. Tendon Tendon of the flexor pollicis longus.—Beneath the an- nexorgof nular ligament this tendon is external to those of the flexor profundus ; it then turns outwards between the heads of the to its in- flexor brevis pollicis, and is inserted into the last phalanx sertion. ^ ^e thumb. The common synovial membrane surrounds it beneath the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation, as before said, into its digital sheath. Lumbri- The lumbricales muscles are four small fleshy slips that cies are are connected with the tendons of the deep flexor. They to deep arise from the side of the tendons, near the annular liga- ment, and are directed to the radial side of the fingers, one for each, to be inserted into an aponeurotic expansion on an^first the dorsal aspect of the first or metacarpal phalanx. These muscles are concealed for the most part by the tendons and Differ- vessels that have been removed; but they are subcutaneous ence in origin, for a short distance in the hand between the processes of the palmar fascia. The outer two arise from single tendons, but each of the others is connected with two tendons. Dissec- Dissection—The deep palmar arch of the radial artery muscles and the interossei muscles will come into view if the flexor and little profundus is cut above the wrist, and thrown with the lum- ntoGr' bricales muscles towards the fingers ; but in raising the ten- dons the student should endeavour to preserve two small nerves that enter the two inner lumbrical muscles. The dissection of the short muscles of the ball of the thumb and of the little finger is next to be prepared. Some care is necessary to make a satisfactory separation of the different small muscles of the thumb: those of the little finger are more easily defined. Four Short muscles of the thumb.— These are four in num- SThe68 ber, and are named from their action on the thumb. The the most superficial is the abductor pollicis; beneath it is the viz. ' opponens pollicis, which is recognised by its attachment to the whole length of the metacarpal bone. To the inner side of the last is the short flexor; and the wide muscle coming from the the third metacarpal bone is the adductor of the thumb. Abduc- The abductor pollicis is thin, about an inch wide, and tor.