783 VESTIBULAR SPACE. upwards to join the large superficial petrosal nerve in the sal hiatus Fallopii (p. 147.). And the third filament has the and a' following course to reach the otic ganglion: it ascends otic gan- towards the upper surface of the petrous part of the temporal 8llon, bone, passing in front of the fenestra ovalis but beneath the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, and near the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve, to which it is connected by filaments (p. 151.). Beyond the union with the facial, this nerve is named small superficial petrosal, and is continued called forwards external to the hiatus Fallopii, but without appear- petrosal, ing on the surface of the temporal bone, until it issues from the skull to end in the otic ganglion (p. 152.). Nerves to muscles.—The tensor tympani muscle is supplied Nerves by a branch from the otic ganglion (p. 152.); the stapedius muscles, receives an 'offset from the facial trunk; and the laxator tympani from the chorda tympani nerve. The chorda tympani is a branch of the facial nerve, and is Chorda i n . i —.J tympani now seen m the part ot its course through the tympanum, crosses Entering the cavity behind, it crosses the membrana tym- cavlty' pani, and issues from the space by a special aperture to join the gustatory nerve. It is described at page 151. The auricular branch of the vagus nerve, though not a Branch of vagus nerve of the tympanum, is an offset to the outer ear, and to the 'may be now traced in the softened bone. Arising in the ear. jugular fossa (p. 115.), the nerve enters a canal which con- ducts, it across the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and through the substance of the temporal «bone to the back * of fhe pinna of the ear. ' * The Labyrinth. — The inner and fundamental portion of Laby- the organ of hearing is so named from its complexness. It formed consists of dense osseous parts ; and of membranous sacs for ous and the expansion-of the auditory nerve, which are contained branous within the former. It is divided into an osseous and a mem- parts* branous labyrinth. - ' • * .* • A. The osseous labyrinth consists of three parts, viz. the 'Consti-' vestibule, the semicircular canals, and the cochlea; these of the communicate externally with the tympanum, and internally part, with the meatus internus that transmits the'auditory nerve. The vestibule is the common cen'tral cavity of the osseous vesti- labyrinth, and is placed behind the cochlea but in front of1™16' the semicircular canals. f « • •