776 DISSECTION OF THE EAR. Fenestra vexity placed upwards, and is named fenestra ovalis: to- °va s> wards the vestibular cavity (part of the labyrinth) it has a sharp, prominent margin ; and into it, in the recent state, the inner bone (stapes) of the osseous chain is fixed. The lower aperture is in form like the upper one, though more arched ; and the base is vertical and directed backwards : it is named fenestra fenestra rotunda, and leads into the cochlea. In the recent rotunda. ft js c}oge(j \yj a thin membrane, secondary membrane of the tympanum, in outer The outer boundary of the cavity is formed by the mem- a?y nd~ brana tympani, and by a small part of the surrounding bone, brana Above the membrane and in front of it, is the Glasserian or tympam gjenoid fissure, which is occupied, in the fresh condition of SnSse" the body, by the long process of one of the small bones (mal- fissure. ]eug^ an(j by a sman muscle (laxator tympani). Crossing the membrane towards the upper part, is the chorda tympani nerve, which passes through an aperture internal to the Glasserian fissure. Circum- The circumference of the tympanum is circular, and in ference, gome partg ft jg r0Ugn an(j uneven on the surface. In pass- ing around the cavity, the student may observe the following points in its anatomy, roof; The roof is wide and flattened, and consists of the thin osseous plate forming part of the cranial surface of the tem- floor. poral bone. The floor is narrow, and curved over the sub- jacent jugular fossa; it presents in the dry bone more or less of an areolar or spongy texture, as well as some small apertures that open into that fossa. At back, At the posterior part of the circumference, towards the roof, is a large aperture leading into the mastoid cells. Be- opening low this aperture, but near the inner wall and on a level toid with the narrowed part of the promontory, is a small conical pyramid; projection, named the pyramid: this is perforated by an aperture, and contains the stapedius muscle; attaching it generally to the above-mentioned part of the promontory, is aqueduct a small round spiculum of bone. In a line with the pyramid, pius.all°" and arching upwards from it above the fenestra ovalis, is a ridge of bone marking the situation of the aqueduct of Fal- in front lopius. The front of the tympanic cavity corresponds to the canals carotid canal, only a thin scale of bone intervening: in it sor tym- are the apertures of two canals that lie on the outer side of