735 NERVES TO THE FRONT OF THE LEG. partly concealed by the tendons of the long extensor. Its inner tendon crosses the dorsal artery of the foot. Dissection,— The branches of artery and nerve that are Cut beneath the extensor brevis will be laid bare by dividing extensor that muscle near its front, and turning it upwards. By cutting through the lower band of the annular ligament over the tendon of the extensor pollicis, and throwing outwards the external half of it, the different sheaths of the ligament, the attachment of it to the os calcis, and the origin of the extensor brevis digitorum from it may be observed. The anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous nerves are to be Follow followed upwards to their origin from the external popliteal; nerves, and a small branch from the same nerve is to be traced through the tibialis anticus to the knee-joint. Nerves to the front of the leg.—Between the fibula Nerves of the and the peroneus longus muscle the external popliteal nerve front of divides into the recurrent articular, musculo-cutaneous, and anterior tibial branches. The recurrent articular branch is very small, and takes Recur- the course of the artery of the same name through the tibialis anticus muscle to the knee-joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve is beneath the fascia in the Muscu- . . lo-cuta- first part of its course, and is continued between the extensor neous longus digitorum and the peronei muscles to the lower third of the leg, where it pierces the fascia, and is distributed to the dorsum of the foot and the toes (p. 728.). Before the supplies VA ' peronei. nerve becomes cutaneous, it furnishes branches to the peronei muscles. The anterior tibial nerve (interosseous) is directed inwards Antprior beneath the extensor longus digitorum, and reaches the with the artery of the same name about the middle of the leg. From this spot it takes the course of the vessel along the foot to the first interosseous space, in which it ends on the surface (see p. 729.). In the leg it crosses the anterior tibial artery once or more, but its position on the foot is external to the dorsal artery. Branches.—In the leg the nerve supplies the anterior Branch- tibial muscle and the extensor of the toes. On the dorsum es* of the foot it gives a considerable branch to the short ex- tensor ; this becomes enlarged, and gives offsets to the articulations of the foot.