365 BRANCHES OF THE AORTA. rests on the trachea, but as it ascends it is placed on the and con- ... . nections. risrht of the air tube. On its right is the innominate vein of the same side, with the phrenic nerve. Usually no lateral branch arises from the artery. Peculiarities. — The length of the artery may exceed two inches, length or it may be only one inch or less : in these different states the altered; place of bifurcation will be altered, being in one case beyond, and in the other below the level of the tipper border of the clavicle. Branches. — The left carotid is frequently joined with this artery ^an^es at its origin. Or a branch to the thyroid body (art. thyroidea ima), or to the thymic body, or to the root of the lung, may arise from the innominate. Position. — The innominate artery belongs to the left side of the Position, neck in cases of transposition of the arch. (See p. 364.) Left common carotid artery. — The common carotid artery Left i common of the left side of the neck springs from the arch of the carotid . . artery aorta, and is therefore longer than the right by the distance arises 4 ' „ from between the arch and the top of the sternum. arch of aorta. In the thorax, the artery ascends obliquely to the left connec- sterno-clavicular articulation, but not close to the first piece thTtho- of the sternum and the origin of the depressor muscles ofiax* the hyoid bone and larynx. In that course it crosses be- neath the left innominate vein, and the remains of the thymus gland ; and it lies at first on the trachea, but it after- wards crosses to the left of that tube, so as to be placed over the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its outer side is the left pneumo-gastric nerve, with one or more cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. In the neck, the connec- tions of the vessels of opposite sides are the same (p. 78.). Peculiarities in origin. — This is the most frequent change in the Pecu- vessel. The carotid is sometimes united with the innominate in its artery; or, should the innominate artery be absent, the common ongin- carotids, right and left, arise usually by one trunk. Its junction with the left subclavian is rare, except with transposition of the arch. In position. — It seldom changes its relative position with respectin posi- to the other branches of the arch, but if this is altered it tends generally towards the right. The left subclavian artery arises from the arch of the aorta, Left sub- and ascends to the lower part of the neck through the upper artery" aperture of the thorax. Beyond the first rib the vessels of opposite sides are alike (p. 70.).