618 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. quarters of an inch in length and larger behind than before, which is prolonged anteriorly towards the membranous part of the canal, and is named crest of the urethra (veru mon- tanum, caput galinaginis); it is formed, like the uvula, by a in the thickening of the submucous tissue. In the central fold or pouch, crest of the mucous membrane, near its posterior extremity, is a slight hollow named vesicula prostatica, or sinus pocu- laris. Vesicu- The depression in the mucous fold, or the vesicula pro- jects into statica, is a csecal appendage to the urethral canal, and is state, directed backwards and downwards in the substance of the prostate, for the distance of a quarter of an inch or rather more, passing beneath the middle and between the lateral lobes ; its orifice in the urethra is about a line wide, and its closed extremity is dilated. In its wall, on each side, and in it is contained the common ejaculatory duct, which opens by a ejacuia- narrow slit on or within the free margin of the mouth of the ducts, sac. Small glands likewise open on the surface of the mucous membrane lining it. Some bristles should be intro- duced into the ejaculatory ducts, to render evident their position and apertures. Prostatic On each side of the central ridge or crest is an excavation also in of the glandular substance, named the prostatic sinus. Into this hollow the ducts of the lateral lobes of the prostate open ; whilst the apertures of those of the middle lobe are seen at the posterior part of the central ridge, behind the hollow in it. Mem- The membranous part of the urethra is nearly an inch in part. length, and intervenes between the apex of the prostate gland and the bulb of the corpus spongiosum urethrse. This Dimen- is the narrowest portion of the whole canal, with the excep- slons* tion of the orifice, and measures rather less than a quarter of Parts an inch. It is the weakest of the three divisions of the around. cana^ an(j js SUpp0rted only by a thin stratum of erectile tissue, by some vessels, and by the compressor urethras muscle. Spongy The spongy part includes the rest of the urethra, viz. to parc* the end of the penis. It is about five inches in length, and its strength depends upon an enveloping material, named Dimen- corpus spongiosum urethrse. The average size of the canal S10ns* is about a quarter of an inch in diameter, though at the