DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 134 plate. The position of the Eustachian tube with respect to those muscles should be defined, on left On the left side, the mucous membrane is to be raised pharyn- with care from the posterior aspect of the palate, to obtain a geus' view of the superficial fibres. Immediately beneath the mucous covering are some transverse fibres of the palato- pharyngeus muscle, and beneath these, in the middle line, azygos the longitudinal fibres of the azygos uvulae. The student mu 88 should next remove the mucous membrane from the muscular fibres constituting the arches of the palate, and should follow these upwards and downwards: in order to see those of the and anterior fold, it will be necessary to take the membrane from palato- , 7 J giossus. the anterior aspect of the palate. If the part is not tolerably fresh, some of the paler fibres will not be visible. Aponeu- Aponeurosis of the soft palate. — Giving strength to the palate, velum is an aponeurosis, which is attached to the hard palate. This structure becomes thinner as it descends in the velum; and it is joined by the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. Nine^ The muscles of the soft palate are four on each side,— an elevator and tensor ; together with the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus, which act as depressors. In addition, there is a small central azygos muscle. Elevator The levator palati is a thick, roundish muscle, and is arises partly situate outside the pharynx. It arises from the under pharynx, surface of the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone, and from the inner aspect of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The fibres descend, enter the pharynx above the superior constrictor, and then spread out in the soft palate, where they join along the middle line with those of the and is 7 muscle of the opposite side. Outside the pharynx this muscle leium. rests against the Eustachian tube. In the palate it forms a stratum, that reaches the whole depth of that structure, and is embraced by the two planes of fibres of the palato-pha- ryngeus. Tensor The tensor vel ciRCTJMFLEXUS palati arises like the pre- muscle ceding outside the palate and pharynx : it is a thin, riband- like band, which is tendinous at its deep border, and is situate between the internal pterygoid plate and the ptery- arises goid muscle. The muscle is about one inch and a half pharynx wide at its origin, and is attached to the slight depression