FASCIA OF THE FRONT OF THE LEG. 729 three outer interosseous spaces, and bifurcate at the web of the foot for the supply of the contiguous sides of the four toes cor- responding to those spaces: it joins the external saphenous nerve on the outer part of the foot. The anterior tibial nerve becomes cutaneous in the first inter- Anterior osseous space, and is distributed to the opposed sides of the great where toe and the next. The musculo-cutaneous nerve joins it, and found* sometimes assists in supplying the same toes. The external saphenous nerve comes from the back of the le£ External saphe- below the outer ankle, and is continued along the foot to the out- nous, side of the little toe. Occasionally it supplies both sides of the little toe, and part or more of the next. The fascia of the front of the leg is thickest near the knee- peep joint, where it gives origin to muscles. It is fixed internally the leg; and externally to the tibia and fibula. Intermuscular septa attach- are prolonged from the deep surface, and one of these, that is attached to the fibula, separates the muscles on the front from those on the outer side of the leg. Superiorly the fascia is connected to the heads of the bones, but inferiorlj it is continued to the dorsum of the foot. Above and below trans- the ankle-joint are some strong transverse fibres, marking fibres at the position of the two parts of the anterior annular liga- ankle, ment; and below the end of the fibula is another band, the external annular ligament. Dissection. — The fascia is to be removed from the leg, Take and the dorsum of the foot, but the thickened band of the SscL 16 annular ligament above and below the end of the tibia, is to be left. On separating the fascia from the anterior muscles, let the edge of the scalpel be directed upwards. In like manner the fascia may be taken from the peronei muscles on the outside of the fibula, but without destroying the band below that bone. On the dorsum of the foot the dorsal vessels with their CIean nerves nerve, and the short extensor of the toes are to be dissected : and ves- sels. and, in the leg, the anterior tibial nerve and vessels are to be followed into their intermuscular space and then cleaned. The anterior annular ligament consists of two parts, Anterior upper and lower, which confine the muscles in their position : iiga-lar the former serving to bind the fleshy part to the bones ofment' the leg, and the latter to keep down the tendons on the dorsum of the foot.