166 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. Parts face are the fibres of the thyro-arytasnoid muscle, and in the around. . . anterior part is the aperture into the laryngeal pouch. Pouch of The laryngeal pouch (sacculus laryngis) will be best seen laiynx. ^ removing, still on the right side, the thyro-arytaenoid Form muscle, and some fibrous tissue that covers it. It is a small and po- sition, membranous sac, half an inch deep, and cylindrical in form, which projects upwards between the thyro-arytaenoid muscle and the upper thyro-arytaenoid ligament, and reaches some- times as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. Its cavity communicates with the front of the ventricle by a narrow aperture, provided mostly with two folds of mucous sur- membrane. On the outer surface are numerous small glands, ing W hose ducts are transmitted through the coats of the sac to parts' the inside. Numerous nerves are distributed over the inner aspect of the sac. Its upper part is covered by the mus- cular slip before referred to (p. 164.). Dissec- Dissection,—The mucous membrane should be removed on the right side from the two whitish bands, thyro-arytaenoid ligaments, that bound the ventricle of the larynx above and below. Then the lateral crico-arytaenoid muscle, and any fibres that may remain of the thyro-arytaenoideus should be taken away. Thyro- The thyro - a rytcenoid ligaments, or the vocal cords, are nouf" two bands, on each side, which are extended from the angle nients. of the thyroid to the arytaenoid cartilage, — one forming the upper, the other the lower margin of the ventricle, — and are about seven lines long in man, and two less in the woman. Inferior a. The inferior ligament (chorda vocalis) is a band of cord elastic tissue, which is almost transverse in direction. At- tached, in front, to the angle of the thyroid cartilage, about half way down, the fibres of the ligament are directed back- ward parallel to one another, and are inserted into the ante- has these rior prominence at the base of the arytaenoid cartilage. Inter- tions?c" nally, this band is covered only by thin mucous membrane, and projects towards its fellow into the cavity of the larynx, the interval between it and the opposite one being the glottis ; externally, it is connected with the thyro-arytaenoid muscle ; and inferiorly it is continuous with the crico-thyroid mem- brane. The edge that bounds the ventricle is straight and well defined, and vibrates to produce sounds.