686 DISSECTION OF THE BUTTOCK. and in- and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. At its insertion it sertion, covers the upper end of the femur with the great trochanter, and the origin of the vastus externus. Between the muscle and each prominence of bone (tuberosity and trochanter) is a large, loose synovial membrane; and between it and the vastus externus is another sac. and by In the hollow between the pelvis and the femur the mus- the in- L terven- cle conceals, from above downwards, the undermentioned ing part of the parts : — First is a portion of the gluteus medius ; and below muscle. * 1 ° it is the pyriformis, with, the superficial branch of the gluteal artery between them. Coming from beneath the pyriformis are the sciatic vessels, and the sciatic nerves (large and small), which descend to the back of the thigh between the great trochanter and the tuberosity of the ischium ; with these are the pudic vessels' and nerve, and the nerve to the obtu- rator internus muscle, which are directed inwards through the small sacro-sciatic notch. Still lower down is the tendon of the obturator internus muscle, with a fleshy fasciculus (gemellus) above and below it. Next follow the thin quad- ratus femoris muscle, and the upper part of the adductor magnus; at the upper border of the quadratus is the tendon of the obturator externus, and at the lower border, between it and the adductor, is one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery. The ex- Sacral nerves.— The external branches of the posterior branches divisions of the three first sacral nerves, after passing out- nerves wards beneath the multifidus spinge (p. 420.), are joined by" are united loops on the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, gluteus. Two or three cutaneous offsets are derived from this inter- communication, and pierce the fibres of the gluteus maximus to be distributed on the surface (p. 683.). Gluteus The gluteus medius is triangular in form, and has its medius , . . , . n -r base at the innominate bone, and its apex at the temur. It arises arises from the outer suface of the os ilii, between the crest mi, and the superior curved line, except where the gluteus maxi- mus is attached ; and from the strong fascia covering its an- terior part. The fibres of origin converge to a tendon which and in- is inserted into an impression across the outer surface of the into tro- great trochanter, extending from the tip behind to the root in front. The superficial surface is concealed in part by the connec- gluteus maximus; and the deep is in contact with the glu- tions.