MEMBRANES OF THE CORD. 425 around the cord, is much looser than the like part on the brain. The outer or parietal part is inseparably joined to P^tal the inner surface of the dura mater, and gives to that mem- tacned . , layer, brane its shining appearance. The inner or visceral layer and surrounds the cord loosely, so as to leave a considerable or vS! interval between the two (subarachnoid space) : at the lower lTyer. part of the spinal canal this loose sheath is much the largest, and envelops the mass of nerves that form the cauda equina. As the different spinal nerves extend to the intervertebral Between foramina they receive sheaths from the loose or visceral cord is part of the arachnoid membrane, and retain the same till arach. they perforate the dura mater, space. Dissection. — The subarachnoid space of the cord may be to ex- made evident, either by placing the handle of the scalpel sub! beneath the visceral layer, or by putting a detached piece of ™o\t~ the cord in water, with the posterior aspect uppermost, and spACe' blowing air beneath the serous membrane. The subarachnoid space is situate between the loose or sub- visceral part of the arachnoid membrane, and the spinal cord noid invested by pia mater. Larger at the lower than at the ingest upper part of the spinal canal, the space contains a special contai'ns fluid (cerebro-spinal); and it communicates with the cavity com- in the interior of the brain by the aperture in the fourth ™su ventricle. Crossing the space are bundles of fibrous tissue, ^iues^f at the posterior part of the cord, especially in the neck, bram* where these bands are collected into an imperfect partition There is or septum along the middle line. In the space likewise are perfect the serrations of the ligamentum denticulatum, and the roots behind1, of the spinal nerves, with some vessels. Dissection. — For the purpose of seeing the next covering pissec- of the cord with the ligamentum denticulatum, the arachnoid next co- membrane is to be taken away. The pia mater is much less of a vascular structure on the Pia spinal cord than on the brain. Thicker and more fibrous in its nature, the membrane closely surrounds the cord; it supports sends thin prolongations into the anterior and posteriorthe cord' median fissures of the cord, and furnishes offsets to the roots gives of the spinal nerves. The outer surface of the pia mater is offsets' mater Kolliker. According to the view of this anatomist, the membrane is a simple tube corresponding to the visceral layer in the text.