108 DISSECTION^OF THE NECK. backwards, over or under the vein, the spinal accessory nerve. External to the position of the vessels will be found a loop of the first and second cervical nerves, over the transverse pro- cess of the atlas, which communicates with the large ganglion of the sympathetic beneath the artery, and with the eighth and ninth nerves. Ascending to the cranium, on the inner side of the carotid, is the ascending pharyngeal artery, in the To open the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and to bone.°ral follow the contained artery into the cranium, make a cut down the side of the skull in the following manner: — the saw being placed behind the mastoid process, cut forwards to the foramen spinosum'in the wing of the sphenoid bone (to which spot the side of the skull has been already taken away), and let the instrument be directed through the stylo- mastoid foramen and the root of the styloid process, but rather external to the jugular foramen and the carotid canal. When the piece of detached bone has been taken away, the carotid canal may be opened with the bone forceps. In dissecting the artery in the canal, large reddish branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic will be found on it; and with care two small filaments may be re- cognised, one from Jacobson's nerve, joining the sympathetic at the posterior part of the canal; the other from the vidian nerve, at the front of the canal. Piece of On the piece of bone that is cut off, the dissector may numPo"b- prepare very readily the tympanum with its membrane, chain of bones, and chorda tympani nerve, intem&i The carotid artery springs from the bifurcation of the enters'1 conimon carotid trunk, and extends from the upper border of the skuii. the thyroid cartilage to the base of the skull, then through the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and lastly along the base of the skull to the anterior clihoid process, where it its ends in branches for the brain. This winding course of the fimrhe 1S artery may be divided into three parts:—-one part in the neck, another in the temporal bone, and a third inside the skull. through Cervical part.—In the neck the artery ascends almost the neck, verticaUy fr0m its origin to the carotid canal, and is in con- tact with the pharynx on its inner side. Its depth from the surface varies as in the external carotid ; and the line of the digastric muscle may be taken as the index of this difference.