197 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. o 3 The filaments of origin unite into two bundles, which origin separately pierce the dura mater, and do not become blended medulla, together till they are outside the cranial aperture. Deep origin.—The filaments of this nerve are traced to a nucleus origin ] in the floor of the fourth ventricle, between the groove of the from middle line and the nuclei of the glossopharyngeal and vagus ventri- nerves, which corresponds to the lower part of the fasciculus teres. cle' Section III. MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLII. The medulla oblongata and the pons are interposed between the spinal cord and the brain proper ; and in these bodies the elements of the cord are re-arranged and increased in volume before entering the cerebrum and the cerebellum. Directions.— On a single brain the student may ascertain Direc. nearly all the anatomy of the parts composing the medulla tlons' and the pons.; but if he can procure one hardened specimen of the medulla and the pons united, and another of a vertical section through those same bodies, his knowledge will be much more perfect. Position.—The brain is to remain in the position in which Position of the it was placed during the examination of the nerves and the pare, vessels. The medulla oblongata is the upper dilated part of the Upper . ... Part of spinal cord which is contained in the cranium. Its limit is spinal 1 cord. the lower border of the pons in one direction, and the level situa- tion of the upper margin of the atlas in the opposite direction. This part of the cord is pyramidal in form, and measures and about one inch and a quarter in length, half an inch in thickness, and three quarters of an inch in breadth at its widest part. The larger part or the base of the medulla joins the pons, Base, the transverse fibres of the latter marking its limit; and the apex is blended with the cord at the spot before mentioned. Apex. The anterior surface is irregularly convex, and is in contact surfaces, with the hollowed basilar process of the occipital bone. The opposite surface is somewhat excavated superiorly, where it forms the floor of the fourth ventricle, and rests in the