DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. 290 of the the thumb and the fingers. The lines on the palmar surface of the fingers may be used to point out the articulations of the phalanges. Thus the joint between the metacarpal phalanx and the next will be found about a line in front of the chief of the transverse grooves, that appear about the middle (in length) of the finger ; whilst the articulation between the two last phalanges is situate about a line in front of the single groove, that is nearer the tip of the finger. Dissec- Dissection. — With the position of the limb still the same, remove an incision is to be carried through the skin along the the skin* middle of the front of the fore-arm, as far as an inch beyond the wrist; and at its termination a second transverse one is to be united with it. The skin is next to be reflected care- fully from the front and the back of the fore-arm, without injury to the numerous superficial vessels and nerves that are beneath; and it should also be taken from the back of the hand, by prolonging the ends of the transverse cut along the margins of the hand to a little beyond the knuckles. One finger should have the integument removed from it, in order that the nerves may be traced to the end. seek the The superficial vessels and nerves can now be traced in Salves- the fat. They have the following position: — Along the nerves* inner side of the fore-arm are the ulnar veins, with the con- mfiont, ^inuation of the internal cutaneous nerve; and near the wrist there is occasionally a small offset from the ulnar nerve. On the outer side, are the radial vein and the super- ficial part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Close to the hand, in the middle of the fore-arm, is the small palmar branch of the median nerve, behind. At the back of the fore-arm the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve is to be traced, and offsets are to be followed to this aspect from the nerves in front. On the posterior part of the hand is an arch of superficial veins; and the radial nerve, and a branch of the ulnar nerve, are to be found on the back of the hand, as they run to the fingers, — one along the outer, the other along the inner border of the hand. subcu- Cutaneous Veins. — The superficial veins of the fore-arm veins of are named median, radial, and ulnar, from their position in arm are the limb. They commence in the hand, chiefly at the dorsal