62 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. side of the neck, which reach as low as the hyoid bone. Most of the branches end in the platysma, but a few fila- ments perforate it and supply the integument. Beneath the muscle there is a communication established between these branches of the facial and the offsets of the superficial cervical nerve. Cervical The part of the deep cervical fascia in front of the sterno- front of mastoideuS is stronger than it is behind that muscle, and mastoid has the following disposition. Near the sternum the fascia forms a white firm membrane, which is attached to that. bone; but higher in the neck it becomes thinner, and is fixed to the base of the jaw and the zygoma, covering the parotid gland. From the angle and ramus of the* jaw a piece is prolonged downwards, between the parotid and sub- forms maxillary glands, to join the styloid process ; this piece is majdi- named stylo-maxillary ligament. Intermuscular partitions mentlsa" are sent between the muscles, and the layer beneath the sheath of sterno-mastoid is connected with the sheath of the cervical vessels. vessejg> Qne 0f these strata, viz. that beneath the sterno- thyroid muscle, descends in front of the great vessels at the root of the neck to the arch of the aorta and the pericardium. Dissec- Dissection. — To define the anterior triangular space, take anterior away the deep fascia of the neck, and clean the surface triangle. ^ ^ jjy0j^_ muscles that appear along the middle line, dissecting out at the same time the anterior jugular vein. Next, the parts that occupy the anterior triangle are to be brought into view by taking away the fat and fascia, but without displacing or injuring them, seek a In removing the sheath from the cervical vessels, as these nerve, appear from beneath the muscles at the lower part of the neck, the dissector should be careful of the small descending branch of the ninth nerve in front of it. In the sheath between the vessels (carotid artery and jugular vein) will be found the pneumo-gastric nerve, and behind the same the Trace sympathetic nerve. The trunks into which the artery arteries. ]3ifurcates are to fa followed upwards, especially the more superficial one (external carotid), whose numerous branches are to be traced as far as they lie in the space. Crossing and the space, in the direction of a line from the mastoid process nerves. ^ ^ hyoid bone, are the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles; and lying below them is the hypo-glossal nerve, which gives