DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 522 A communication takes place between the phrenic nerve of the cervical plexus and these branches of the sympathetic, has a On the under surface of the diaphragm is a small ganglion where ganglion . , . . on right this offset of the plexus joins the spinal nerve, and from it filaments are supplied to the vena cava and the supra-renal body. The ganglion is absent on the left side. — (Swan). supra- The supra-renal nerves are very large and numerous, in renal f . . nerves, comparison with the mass supplied, and are directed almost horizontally outwards to the supra-renal body, which they enter at the upper part. One of the splanchnic nerves com- municates with this plexus. Renal The renal plexus is derived from the semilunar ganglion, and the outer part of the solar plexus, and it is further joined by one of the two smallest splanchnic nerves. The nerves surround the renal artery, having small ganglia on them, and enter the kidney with the vessels. An offset is sperm- given from the renal nerves to the spermatic plexus (p. 511.). atic. rpjie ccenac piexu§ js a direct continuation forwards of the Coeliac ■* plexus solar plexus around the artery named coeliac axis. It is further joined by the small splanchnic nerve on each side, and by an offset from the right pneumogastric nerve. The divides plexus surrounds the artery, and divides, like it, into three like the 1 artery, parts—coronary, splenic, and hepatic. into co- a. The coronary plexus accompanies the coronary artery to the ronary Upper border of the stomach which it supplies. It communicates with the left vagus nerve, and with the sympathetic on the pyloric. artery. splenic, , b. The splenic piexus surrounds the splenic artery, and is con- ducted by it to the substance of the spleen. It furnishes offsets, like the artery, to the pancreas, and other nerves to the stomach along the left gastro-epiploic artery. This plexus is joined by twigs from the left semilunar ganglion, and by an offset from the right pneumogastric nerve, and c. The hepatic plexus is continued on the vena porta?, the hepatic hepatic. arj.ery^ an(j kjie duct to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it enters the liver and ramifies on the vessels. Whilst ascending in the small omentum the plexus is joined on the left side by offsets from the left vagus and phrenic nerves. — (Swan.) Theiast Secondary plexuses are furnished around the branches of the second- hepatic artery, which have the same name and distribution as the ary' vessels. The following are these plexuses : — pyloric, A pyloric plexus accompanies the pyloric artery to the upper gastro- border of the stomach. There are two other plexuses—gastro- duode- A