STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. Z5 it the tendon of the levator palpebrse. Vessels and nerves are furnished to these parts. Dissection.—The student may continue with the structure Examine of the lids on the left side, on which the muscles are dissected. tureCof Let the bit of tow or wool remain beneath the lids, and letllds' the palpebral part of the orbicularis palpebrarum be thrown inwards by means of an incision around the margin of the orbit. In raising the muscle, care must be taken of the palpebral ligament, and of the vessels and nerves of the lids. Orbicularis palpebrarum. — The palpebral and ciliary Layer of fibres of this muscle form the thin pale layer that occupies ilti™' the eyelids. A thin stratum of cellular tissue, without fat, connects the muscle with the skin. The palpebral ligament is a stratum of fibrous membrane, a fibrous that is continued from the margin of the orbit to join the layer* tarsal cartilage. At the inner part of the orbit the ligament is thin and loose, but at the outer part it is much thicker and stronger. The tarsal cartilages, one for each eyelid, give the form Fibro- and strength to the lids, and are of the nature of yellow or formsage spongy Cartilage. Each is fixed internally by the ten do thfiid. palpebrarum, and externally by a fibrous band—external tarsal ligament—to the outer part of the orbit. The margin corresponding to the edge of the lid is free, and thicker than the rest of the cartilage, whilst the opposite margin is thin, and is united with the palpebral ligament. On the inner surface each cartilage is lined by the mucous membrane or conjunctiva. The cartilages are not alike in the two lids. In the upper Differ- eyelid, in which the cartilage is the largest, it is about half an the two inch wide in the centre, but gradually tapers to the ends;llds' and to its upper convex border is also attached the tendon of the levator palpebrse. In the lower lid the cartilage is a narrow baud, about two lines broad, with borders nearly straight. Tendon of the eyelids (tendo palpebrarum, tendo oculi) is Tendon a small band at the inner part of the orbit, which is attached tSll to the anterior margin of the lachrymal groove. It is about cartu a quarter of an inch long, and divides into two processes, Uges* which are united one with each tarsal cartilage. This tendon gives a fibrous expansion to cover the lachrymal sac, D 2