345 THE HEART. of that tendon, and reaches the fleshy fibres. This membrane J^^uc- is thickest at the upper part, and is formed of fibres that cross in different directions, many being longitudinal. When the pericardium has been cut open, the serous lining will be discernible. The serous sac lines the interior, of the fibrous peri- Serous layer cardium, and is reflected over the surface of the heart, ijnes ' fibrous, Like other serous membranes, the arachnoid for example, it has a parietal and a visceral part. After lining the interior of the fibrous case, to which it gives the shining appearance, the membrane is conducted to the surface of the heart by and the different vessels. As it is reflected on the aorta and the surface pulmonary artery, it contains those vessels in one tube, not passing between their contiguous surfaces; and at the pos- peCu- terior part of the pericardium it forms a pouch between the inaitsies pulmonary veins of opposide sides. The cavity of the serous tfons°.~ sac is lubricated by a little fluid. The vessels of the pericardium are derived from the in- vessels, ternal mammary, the bronchial, the oesophageal, and the phrenic arteries. THE HEART AND ITS LARGE VESSELS. The heart is a hollow muscular body, and is divided into This J9 _ hollow four compartments bv septa. It is the centre of the vas- body is " Centre °f cular system, and the agent m the propulsion of the blood circuia- through the body. Into it all veins enter, and from it the arteries issue. Form.—When the heart is distended, its form is rather Form, conical; and it lies in the chest with the wider part, or the base directed upwards and to the right, and the rounded apex forwards and to the left side of the cavity. It is Sur- rather flattened from before backwards, and rounded on the borders, left side, so that the surfaces and borders have differences which serve to distinguish one from another:—thus the anterior surface is slightly convex, whilst the posterior is nearly flat; the left border is thick and round, but the right is thin, sharp, and less firm. Size.—The size varies greatly, and in general the heart size, of the woman is smaller than that of the man. The mea- surements may be said to be, commonly, four inches and