PART OF WALL OF THE THORAX. 421 * The coccygeal nerve may be recognised with care by Coccy- the side of the coccyx. It is joined by the last sacral nerve, nerve, and ends on the posterior aspect of the coccyx. * Small sacral arteries leave the spinal canal with the small sacral sacral nerves ; they supply the muscular mass of the erector arteries, spinse, and the structures on the back of the sacrum. Anas- tomoses take place between these vessels and the branches on the sacrum from the gluteal and sciatic arteries. Dissection, — The examination of the posterior part of the Dissec- 1 1 tionof wall of the thorax may be made before the body is again inter.- turned. By the removal of the sacro-lumbalis and longissi- struc- • tures. mus dorsi, opposite the ribs, the small levatores costarum will be uncovered. The hinder part of the external inter- costal muscle will be denuded at the same time. * The levatores costarum are twelve small fan-shaped Leva- . tores muscles, and are connected with the hinder part of the ribs, costa- rum Each, except the first, arises from the apex and lower border extend of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra, and is inserted, trans- verse the fibres spreading out, into the upper border of the rib be- pro- ^ neath, from the tubercle to the angle. The muscles increase ribs.,, in size from above down, and their fibres have the same direc- tion as the external intercostal layer. The first is fixed above to the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra, and below to the outer surface of the first rib. In some of the four lower muscles a few fibres are con- other tinued beyond one rib to that next succeeding. These muscles, longer slips have been named levatores longiores costarum. * The external intercostal muscle is continued backwards Outer in- along the ribs as far as the tubercle, and is overlaid by the muscle, elevator muscle. Beneath this outer muscle are the inter- costal nerve and artery. Dissection. — To trace the anterior and posterior primary pissec- branches of the dorsal nerves to their origin in a common trunk, the elevator of the rib and the external intercostal muscle are to be cut through in one or more spaces. The intercostal artery, with its posterior branch, is laid bare at the same time. * The dorsal nerves can now be seen to split in the inter- Dorsal vertebral foramina into anterior and posterior primary hasVe branches. E E 3