RADIAL ARTERY AND BRANCHES. 297 the styloid process of the radius. This vessel is smaller than the ulnar artery, though it appears in direction to be the continuation of the brachial trunk. In all its extent the radial artery is quite superficial, being Connec- . , Hons covered only by the common tegumentary investments and with the deep fascia, and during life it can be felt beating as over it, the pulse near the wrist. Its connections with the surround- ing muscles and the radius are these : — in the upper half of ™^e the fore-arm the artery is placed between the supinator longus externally and the pronator teres internally, the former somewhat overlapping it; but below that point it lies between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis muscles. At first the vessel is on the inner behind, . and with side of the radius, but afterwards over that bone; it is the radius. placed successively over the following parts, viz. the fleshy supinator brevis, the tendon of the pronator teres, the thin radial origin of the flexor sublimis, some muscles of the deep layer, viz. flexor pollicis longus and pronator quadratus, and lastly on the end of the radius. The usual venae comites are veins found on the sides of the artery. The radial nerve is on the nerve . . with it. outer side of, though not in contact with the vessel, in the upper two thirds of the fore-arm, or until it passes back- wards beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and be- comes cutaneous. Branches. — The radial artery furnishes in the fore-arm Branch- many unnamed muscular and nutrient branches to the sur- niuscu- rounding parts; and three named branches, viz. recurrent anasto- radial, superficial volar, and anterior carpal. a. The radial recurrent is the first branch of the artery, and Radial supplies the muscles of the outer side of the fore-arm. Its course rent!" is almost transverse to the supinator longus muscle, beneath which it terminates in muscular branches. One offset ascends beneath the supinator, to anastomose with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. h. The superficial volar branch usually arises near the lower Super- end of the radius, but its exact place of origin is uncertain. It is volar, directed to the palm of the hand, across the mass of muscle in the ball of the thumb, and it either ends in those muscles, or joins the superficial palmar arch. c. The anterior carpal branch is very inconsiderable in size, and Anterior will be seen in the examination of the deep layer of muscles on the carpd1, front of the fore-arm. Arising rather above the lower end of the