253 PECTORAL MUSCLES. origin the fibres take different directions,—those from the clavicle being inclined obliquely downwards, and those from the lower ribs upwards, beneath the former; and all end in a tendon, which is inserted into the outer edg£ of the bicipital 1™**$^ groove of the humerus. This muscle bounds the axilla h"sme"- anteriorly, and is connected sometimes to its fellow by fibres in front of the sternum. Besides the superficial structures Parts; 1 covering and the mamma, the platysma covers the pectoralis major ifc> .close below the clavicle. A cellular interval, which corre- sponds to the depression on the surface, separates the clavi- cular from the sternal attachment. One border (upper) is and i v along in contact with the deltoid muscle, and with the cephalic the borders. vein and a small artery; and the lower border forms the margin of the anterior fold of the axilla. Dissection.—-It will now be necessary to cut the great Djssec- pectoral muscle, but this may be done in the following man- ^rtthgebe ner. First, only the clavicular part is to be divided, so that jjeath a branch of nerve and artery to the muscle may be found, raiis. and a thin membrane around the blood vessels be prepared. By raising the cut part of the muscle, and carefully remov- ing, with the handle of the knife, the fat that appears above the border of the small pectoral muscle, the membra- nous sheath (costo-coracoid), that contains the axillary ves- sels and nerves, will be seen; at the same time the cepha- lic vein will be detected crossing inwards to the axillary vein. A branch of nerve (anterior thoracic), and the acro- mial thoracic artery perforate this tube of membrane, and are to be followed to the pectoral muscles. ; The remaining part of the pectoralis major may be cut its inser- about its centre, and the pieces thrown inwards and out- wards. Any fat, now coming into view, is to be removed, and the insertion of the tendon of the pectoralis is to be fol- lowed to the humerus. The parts beneath the pectoral muscle are now laid bare. Insertion of the pectoralis. — The tendon of this muscle Tendon n , ofinser- consists ot two parts, anterior and posterior, at its attachment tion of to the bone; the anterior receives the clavicular and upper rails?" sternal fibres, and joins the tendon of the deltoid muscle ; and the posterior gives attachment to the lower ascending fibres. The tendon is one inch and a half to two inches wide, and sends upwards one expansion over the bicipital