698 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. cnemius, but are not on the same level on the two sides of the limb, for the inner one descends below the head of the tibia, whilst the outer one is placed above the fibula. Each lies beneath the lateral ligament of its own side. also ex- The external branch supplies the outer side of the knee-joint, and anastomoses with the other vessels on the articulation, and with the recurrent branch of the anterior tibial artery: it sends an offset beneath the ligament of the patella to join a twig from the lower internal branch. and in- The internal arterv turns upwards to the ioint at the anterior ternal • " . . ' border of the internal lateral ligament, and after taking its share in the free anastomoses over the joint, ends in offsets for the arti- culation and the head of the tibia, and one The azygos branch enters the back of the joint through artery, the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the ligamentous structures and the synovial membrane of the interior. Popliteal The popliteal vein originates in the union of the vense vein. _ comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels, and has the same extent and connections as the artery it accompanies. Position At the lower border of the popliteus muscle the vein is artery, internal to the arterial trunk ; between the heads of the gastrocnemius it is superficial to that vessel; and thence to the opening in the adductor magnus it is to the outer side, Branch, and close to the artery. It is joined by branches correspond- ing to those of the artery, as well as by the short saphenous vein. Popliteal Peculiarities in the division of the artery. — The chief peculiarity may7 of the popliteal artery consists in its early division into terminal soonf branches. In some bodies the artery will be found divided as high as the back of the knee-joint, and in such instances the anterior tibial artery may lie beneath the popliteus muscle. Vein Course of the vein. — The popliteal vein may pass through the Save adductor magnus at a spot higher than the common opening, and teryar" enter the profunda vein. or be Double vein. — Or there may be a venous trunk on each side of spht* the artery for a certain distance, in consequence of the venae comites of the tibial arteries not being blended together as soon as is usually the case. Popliteal The popliteal nerves are two large trunks that are anTtwo, derived from the division of the great sciatic in the thigh; they are named internal and external from their relative inner position. In the popliteal space each furnishes cutaneous