DISSECTION OF THE ARM. 288 Capsular The capsular ligament surrounds the articular ends of the ment. bones, and receives some fibres from the contiguous tendons. At the upper part it is fixed around the neck of the scapula, where it is connected with the middle head of the triceps. Attach- At the lower part the ligament is attached to the humerus ments. 1 0 close to the hemispherical articular surface; and its conti- nuity is interrupted between the tuberosities of the bone by the tendon of the biceps muscle. Below the coracoid pro- cess, and on the inner side, there is an aperture in the capsule through which the synovial membrane of the joint Muscles projects beneath the tendon of the subscapularis. The fol- around. . , . lowing muscles surround the articulation: — superiorly are the tendons of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor; inferiorly, the capsule is only partly covered by the subscapularis: and internally, it is well supported by the same muscle. Acces. On the front of the capsule is a thickish band of fibres,— bS. the coraco-liumeral or accessory ligament, which starts from the base of the caracoid process of the scapula, and ends in the great tuberosity of the humerus. Dissec- Dissection. — The articulation is to be opened by cutting through the capsule near the scapula. When this has been done, the attachment of the capsule to the bones, the glenoid ligament, and the tendon of the biceps will be fully seen. Tendon The tendon of the biceps muscle arches over the head of bleeps, the humerus, and serves the purpose of a ligament in re- straining the upward movements of that bone. It is attached to the upper part of the glenoid fossa of the scapula, and is connected on each side with the glenoid ligament. As it is directed outwards, it becomes round, and is received into the groove between the tuberosities of the humerus, in which it is confined by a prolongation from the tendon of the pecto- ralis major muscle. Glenoid The glenoid ligament is a firm, fibrous band, that surrounds ment. the fossa of the same name, deepening it for the reception of the head of the humerus. It is about two lines high, and is connected in part with the sides of the tendon of the biceps; but some of its fibres are fixed separately to the edge of the glenoid fossa. Synovial The synovial membrane lines the articular surface of the brane. capsule, and is continued along it from the one bone to the