42 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. corner of the buccinator they join the branch of the inferior maxillary nerve to that muscle, supra- The supra-maxillary branches course inwards above the Srybe- base of the lower jaw to the middle line of the chin, and mouth supply the muscles and integument between the chin and andchm* mouth. Beneath the depressor anguli oris the branches of the facial join offsets of the labial branch of the inferior dental nerve, in the same manner as the union is made below the orbit, viz. the branches of the facial cross those of the fifth nerve in their course onward to the middle line, infra- The infra-maxillary branches are placed below the jaw, ™ryll_ and are distributed to the upper part of the neck. The branch- anatomy 0f these nerves will be given with the dissection of the anterior triangle of the neck (p. 61.). Section IV. DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. Direction,—The orbit should be dissected on that side on which the muscles of the face have been seen. Position Position.^—In the examination of the orbit, the head is body, placed in the same position as in the dissection of the sinuses of the base of the skull, open Dissection.—In order that the contents of the orbit orbit, may be seen, it will be necessary to take away the bones forming the roof of the space in the following manner: — Two cuts should be made with a saw through the margin of the orbit, one being placed at the outer, the other near the inner angle of the cavity; and these should be con- tinued backwards with a chisel, along the roof of the orbit, nearly to the optic foramen. The piece of bone included in the incisions may now be tilted forwards, but is not to be cut away. Afterwards all the rest of the roof of the orbit is to be cut away with the bone forceps, except a ring of bone around the optic foramen; and any overhanging bone on the outer side, that may interfere with the dissection, may likewise be got rid of. The dissector should take care that all the wadding is removed from the eyelids, and that the eye is pulled gently forwards. The periosteum is now left detached from the bone.