225 CENTRAL BODIES OF THE CEREBRUM. receives fibres from the optic thalamus, which it touches, and then divides into two terminal bands: — one of these is connected with the gray matter in the external geniculate body, and is continued onwards to one of the corpora quadri- gemina (nates); the other is similarly connected with the internal geniculate body, and then continued to another of the quadrigeminal bodies (testis). Dissection. — The origin of the fornix in the optic tha- Dissec- & _ tion. lamus is next to be followed out. But the anterior com- missure and the anterior part of the corpus callosum should be first cut along the middle line, so that the left hemi- sphere can be separated from the other; on this the crus of the fornix is to be traced downwards to the corpus albicans, and then upwards into the optic thalamus. Anterior pillar of the fornix. — The fornix begins in the °jjg™of thalamus opticus, near the tubercle on the upper surface, j^optic From this origin it descends in a curved direction to the mus; corpus albicans, where it makes a turn like half of the figure 8, and furnishes a white envelope to the gray matter how of that body. The crus then ascends, with a bend forwards, corpus . . albicans. through the gray substance on the side of the optic thalamus, and is here joined by the fibres of the taenia semicircularis Joined and the peduncle of the pineal gland. Lastly, the crus is fibres, applied to the like part of the opposite side to form the body of the fornix. The pineal body and the corpora quadrigemina, which are placed behind the third ventricle, are to be next seen. Dissection. — All the pia mater should be carefully re- Dissec- moved from the surface of the quadrigeminal bodies, espe- cially on the left side, on which they are to be examined. The posterior lobe of the hemisphere of the same side may be cut off. The pineal gland (conarium) is a small conical body, Pineal which is situate above the posterior commissure, and be- position, tween the anterior pair of the corpora quadrigemina. In shape, shape like the cone of a fir, it is less than a quarter of an inch in length, and has the base or wider part turned for- wards. It is connected to the optic thalami by two white bands,—peduncles of the pineal body: these begin at the attach, base of the pineal gland, and extending forwards, one onthaia.to each side, along the inner part of the optic thalami, end by mus' Q