DISSECTION OF THE FACE. 38 the several eminences of the external ear, except from the antihelix. seek the Dissection.—In seeking the following small muscles, let small ° ° 7 muscles, the integument be removed only over the spot where each muscle is said to be placed. A sharp knife and a good light are necessary to display the muscular fibres. Fre- quently the dissector will not find one or more of the set described below. One The muscle of the tragus is always found on the external aspect oTtrl- °f the process from which it takes its name. The fibres are short, gus- nearly transverse, and extend from the outer to the inner part of the tragus. Onefrom The muscle of the antitragus is the best marked of all. It arises gufto' from the outer part of the antitragus, and the fibres are directed helix, upwards to be inserted into the pointed extremity of the antihelix. One on The Small muscle of the helix is often indistinct or absent. It is heiix?f placed on the part of the rim of the ear, that extends into the concha. Another The large muscle of the helix arises above the small muscle of the onheiix. same part, and is inserted into the front of the helix, where this is about to curve backwards. It is usually present. And one The transverse muscle of the auricle is found at the back of the attack ear> m tne depression between the antihelix and the convexity of cha°n" ^e surface* I* arises from the convexity of the cartilage that forms the concha, and is inserted into the back of the antihelix. The muscle is mixed with much fibrous tissue, but it is well seen when this is removed. clean Dissection.—The pinna may now be detached by cutting tiiagCea.r" it as close as possible to the bone. When the integuments are entirely taken off, the cartilage of the pinna will be apparent; but in removing the integuments, the lobule of the ear, which consists only of skin and fat, will disappear. Carti- The cartilage of the pinna resembles much the external iofms ear in form, and presents for notice nearly the same parts, of exter- The rim of the helix, however, subsides posteriorly about nai ear. mj^^e 0f the pjnna jn the antihelix ; whilst anteriorly Defi- a small piece projects from it, and a fissure will be found feriorly" near tnat projection. The antihelix is divided posteriorly into two pieces ; one of these is pointed, and is joined by the helix, the other is continued into the antitragus. Inferiorly, and at the cartilage is fixed to the margin of the external auditory upper _ part of aperture in the temporal bone, and forms the outer part of