SYMPATHETIC AND VAGUS NERVES. 521 lymphatic glands and a dense cellular membrane, which re- quire to be removed with care. The student should then trace the ending of the pneumo- Follow gastric nerves on the stomach. The left nerve will be found ingof the in front near the upper border ; and the right nerve will be nervls. seen at a corresponding point on the opposite aspect. Branches are to be traced from the right nerve to the plexus of the sympathetic by the side of the coeliac axis, and from the left to the hepatic plexus. The epigastric or solar plexus is the largest of the solar prevertebral plexuses of the sympathetic, and furnishesp!exus; nerves to all the viscera of the abdomen above the pelvis. It is a large network of nerves and ganglia, which lies in appear. front of the aorta and the pillars of the diaphragm, and ex- ance' tends from the supra-renal capsule of one side to that of the other. It surrounds the coeliac axis and the. superior me- extent; senteric artery, and extends downwards to the pancreas. The plexus is connected on each side with the large and small splanchnic nerves, and it is joined also by some twigs from the right pneumogastric nerve. Large offsets are fur- gives nished to the different viscera along the vessels. on^biood The semilunar ganglia of the solar plexus, one on each g^ls* side, are the largest ganglia in the body. Each is situate at j^grlia. the upper and outer part of the plexus, close to the supra- renal capsule, and on the side of the pillar of the diaphragm. The ganglion of the right side is beneath the vena cava. situa- Irregular in shape, the mass is sometimes oval, and at other tlon; ... . form. times divided into smaller ganglia. From the outer side nerves are directed to the kidney and the supra-renal cap- Nerves sule, and to the inner side the cords of the solar plexus are ed™uh~ connected. By the upper end it is joined by the greateach* splanchnic nerve. Offsets of the plexus. — The nerves supplied to the viscera several are conveyed on the branches of the aorta, forming plexuses uSets °f around them; thus there are coeliac, mesenteric, renal, sper- plexus,j matic, and other plexuses. The diaphragmatic artery has also a Separate plexus on it. Diaphragmatic plexus.—The, nerves that form this plexus piexus come from the upper and outer part of the semilunar dL-he ganglion. They are placed at first on the phrenic artery, phrdgm but they soon leave it to enter the substance of the diaphragm.