SURFACE MARKING OF THE LEG. 705 taneous in all its extent, and is limited in front and behind by a sharp ridge. Above, it presents in front a prominent tubercle into which the ligament of the patella is inserted ; and below, it ends on the inner side of the ankle in the inter- nal maleolar projection. On the outer side of the leg the fibula may be felt with ease in the lower half of its length, but with more difficulty in the upper half, in consequence of the prominence of the muscles of the calf. The head of this bone may be recognised below the knee; and the lower end forms the projection (malleolus) on the outer side of the ankle-joint. On the posterior aspect of the leg is the projection of the Behind calf: this is formed by the superficial muscles, and from it the leg. descends the firm band of the tendo Achillis, by which those Tendo muscles are connected with the heel. Between the tendon us and and the edge of the tibia, but nearest the former, is the vessels, superficial part of the posterior tibial artery. In front, be- Before, r r A J 7 anterior tween the tibia and fibula, are the extensor muscles of the tibial vessels, i foot and toes, amongst which the anterior tibial artery lies deeply: the position of the vessel will be indicated by a line from the centre of the ankle-joint, to the inner side of the head of the fibula. On the sides of the ankle-joint are the prominent malleoli; Ankie- and when the joint is extended, the head of the astragalus projects below the border of the tibia. At the inner border of the foot, about an inch from the Inner border of internal malleolus, is the prominent scaphoid bone pointing the foot, out the spot at which an amputation (that of Chopart) is practised; whilst farther forwards, by about one inch and a half, is a slight depression that marks the articulation be- tween the internal cuneiform bone and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. About the centre of the outer border of °uter . . n border. the foot is the eminence of the tarsal end of the fifth meta- tarsal bone. A line over the dorsum of the foot, from the Dorsal centre of the ankle-joint to the interval between the two inner toes, will be over the position of the artery of this part. Position. — For the dissection of the back of the leg the Position of the limb is to be placed on its front, with the foot over the side part, of the dissecting-table, and the muscles of the calf are to be put on the stretch by fastening the foot. z z