DISSECTION OF THE FORE-ARM. 318 is con- the humerus, by a tendon common to it and the three follow- tained in the fore- ing muscles, viz. the common extensor of the fingers, the arm. ° a extensor of the little finger, and the ulnar extensor of the wrist: it also takes origin from aponeuroses on its under and inner sides. The tendon of the muscle is closely con- nected with the preceding, and after passing with it through Son*" same compartment of the annular ligament, is inserted tacarpai" *n*° kase °^ tne m^tacarpal bone of the middle finger. bone. Concealed by the two preceding muscles, this extensor rests on the radius and on some of the muscles attached to it; Has a that is to say, on the supinator brevis, the pronator teres, common J 7 t L t m A ongin and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Along the inner three side is the common extensor of the fingers, and the extensors follow- fog. of the thumb come between the two. Both the radial extensors of the carpus have usually a bursa at their inser- tion. Common The extensor communis digitorum is single at its origin, extensor ... muscle, but is divided inferiorly into four tendons. It arises from thefore" the common tendon, from aponeurotic septa between it and arm* the muscles around, and from the aponeurosis of the limb. Near the lower part of the fore-arm the muscle ends in three tendons, which pass through a compartment of the annular ligament with the indicator muscle. Escaping from the ligament, the most internal tendon divides into two, and all four are directed along the back of the hand to their insertion into the two last phalanges of the fingers, inser- On the back of the fingers the tendons have the following the ten- disposition : — Opposite the metacarpophalangeal articula- intothe tion each tendon sends down lateral bands to join the cap- langes. sule ; and on the dorsum of the first phalanx it forms an expansion with the tendons of the lumbricales and inter- ossei muscles. At the anterior part of the first phalanx this tendinous expansion is divided into three parts: the central one is fixed into the base of the second phalanx, whilst the lateral pieces unite at the front of the same pha- lanx, and are inserted into the last. On the fore and little -fingers the expansion is joined by the special tendons of those digits. connec- This muscle is placed between the extensors of the wrist the m°ufs- and little finger, and conceals the deep extensors. The cle' tendon of the ring finger is united by an oblique band with