DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 496 to be tion in the different regions of the abdomen, should be ex- seen. . , ammed. Position The stomach, — The stomach intervenes between the mach." gullet and the small intestine, and is retained in position partly by folds of the serous membrane. It is somewhat of a conical form, with the larger end to the left side; and it occupies the left hypochondriac, the epigastric, and part of the right hypochondriac region. Extre- At the left end it receives the cesophagus, and it is there- mities, m . large fore firmly fixed by this tube to the diaphragm. This end lies beneath the ribs, and is in contact with the spleen, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum (splenic omen- tum) : when this part of the stomach is distended it pushes up the diaphragm, and encroaches on the space for the heart, and and the left lung. The right extremity ends in the small in- testine and reaches towards the gall bladder; it is in contact with the wall of the abdomen and the under surface of the liver. surfaces. The anterior surface is in contact, from left to right, with the diaphragm, the abdominal wTall, and the under part of the liver; and the posterior surface corresponds to the pancreas, the pillars pf the diaphragm with the aorta, and the solar plexus. Borders. The upper border is connected to the liver by a fold of peritoneum, the small omentum ; and the lower border gives attachment to another peritoneal fold, the great omentum or epiploon, which floats freely over the intestine. Connec- The connections with the surrounding parts will be in- pendon" Auenced by the condition of the stomach: for when this ditioru" viscus is empty its surfaces look forwards and backwards, and its borders upwards and downwards ; but when it is dis- tended, it becomes somewhat circular, and makes a half ro- tatory movement, so as to bring forwards the border usually lowest, and to turn upwards that surface which is directed forwards at other times. Altera- The position and the connections of the stomach may be position also changed by an alteration in the size of any of the sur- easT.dls" rounding organs, or by accumulation of fluid in the chest, or in the belly. The stomach may likewise be dragged down by the great omentum entering a hernial sac, or it may be forced down towards the pelvis by the pressure of tight stays.