LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 637 The common ligaments between the bodies of the two By liga- bones are an anterior and a posterior ligament, with an in- in the tervening fibro-cartilaginous substance. Between the neural brae, arch and the spines are the ligamenta subflava, and inter- spinous bands ; and between the articular processes are cap- sular ligaments and synovial membranes. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a strong bundle of fibres, and^by a that reaches from the under aspect of the tip of the trans- band, 1 A sacro- verse process of the last lumbar vertebra, to the lateral part verte- of the base of the sacrum. Widening as it descends, the ligament spreads, and joins the fibres in front of the lateral articulation between the sacrum and the innominate bone. Sacrococcygeal Articulation. — The sacrum and the Union of sacrum coccyx are united by a fibro-cartilage, and by an anterior *nJ? and a posterior common ligament. Dissection. — Little dissection is necessary for these liga- J^sec- ments. When the cellular membrane has been removed altogether from the bones, the ligaments will be apparent. The anterior ligament (sacro-coccygeal) consists of a few An an- fibres that pass between the bones in front of the fibro- and cartilage. The posterior ligament is wide at its attachment to the a poste- x m rior liga- lower margin of the orifice of the sacral canal, but narrows ment, as it descends to be inserted into the coccyx. The fibro-cartilage resembles that between the vertebrae, and a and is attached to the surfaces of the bones. cani- Whilst the several pieces of the coccyx remain separate, union they are connected together by anterior and 'posterior bands, and by intervening thin fibro-cartilage. But in the male coccyx adult the bones are generally joined by ossific matter. Sacro-iliac Articulation.—The irregular surfaces by union which the sacrum and the innominate bone touch, are united thela!n by cartilage, and maintained in contact by anterior and pos- and™1 terior sacro-iliac ligaments. Inferiorly the bones are further connected, without being in contact, by the strong sacro- sciatic ligaments. Dissection. — To see the posterior ligaments, the mass of To dis- muscle at the back of the sacrum is to be removed on the liga- side on which the innominate bone remains ; but the anterior bands will be visible on the removal of some cellular mem- brane. The great sacro-sciatic ligament is dissected with