293 APONEUROSIS OF THE EORE-ARM. similar investment of the arm; it furnishes the muscles fascia of with sheaths, and is thicker behind than before. It is of a arm. pearly white colour, and is formed of fibres that cross obliquely. Near the elbow it is stronger than towards the hand; and at that part it receives fibres from the tendons of the biceps and brachialis anticus, and joins the muscles attached to the inner condyle of the humerus. On the back Pn,th<* J back of of the fore-arm, the aponeurosis is connected to the margins the limb- of the ulna, so as to leave the upper part of that bone sab- cutaneous ; and it receives some fibres from the tendon of the triceps. Horizontal processes are sent downwards from Inter- the aponeurosis to separate the superficial and deep layers of l^eces muscles, both on the front and the back of the fore-arm ; and longitudinal white bands indicate the position of the different intermuscular processes, which isolate one muscle from another, and give origin to the muscular fibres. At the wrist the fascia joins the anterior annular ligament; at*he u . . wrist; and near this band, the tendon of the palmaris longus pierces the fascia, and receives a sheath from it. Behind the wrist annular it is thickened by transverse fibres, and gives rise to the ment. posterior annular ligament; but on the back of the hand and fingers the fascia becomes very thin and cellular. Dissection. — The skin is to be replaced on the back of the Take away fore-arm and hand, in the same manner as on the back of fascia, nerves, the arm, in order that the parts that are denuded may not a"d . J veins. become dry. Beginning with the dissection of the anterior aspect of the limb, let the student divide the aponeurosis along the front of the fore-arm as far as the wrist, and take it away with all the cutaneous vessels and nerves, except the small palmar cutaneous offsets of the median and ulnar nerves near the wrist. In cleaning the muscles, it will be impossible to remove the aponeurosis from them, at the upper part of the fore-arm, without detaching the muscular fibres. After the aponeurosis has been removed, the termination Vessels of the brachial artery will be observed to lie in some fat in a seen- hollow in front of the elbow, between two masses of muscles, — one arising from the inner, and the other from the outer condyle of the humerus. Two large arteries are in part laid bare ; one (radial) lies along the radial border of the fore- arm, the other (ulnar) is superficial only in the lower half of