306 DISSECTION OF THE HAND. bone for a short distance. The same disposition exists in each of the processes. Liga- The transverse ligament of the fingers is a thin fibrous mentof v J J V the fin- band, which stretches across the roots of the fingers, and is gers. , contained in the fold of skin forming the rudiment of a web between them. Beneath it the digital nerves and vessels are continued onwards to their terminations, sheath Sheath of the flexor tendons. — Along each finger the tendons flexor tendons are retained in position against the phalanges varies in by a fibrous sheath. Opposite the middle of each of the two ness. nearest phalanges, the sheath is formed by a strong fibrous band, which is almost tendinous in consistence; but oppo- site the joints of the fingers it consists of scattered and Has a oblique fibres, that form a thin membrane. If the sheath be synovial sac. opened, it will be found to be lined by a synovial membrane that lubricates the tendons, and forms vascular folds (vincula vasculosa) between the tendons and the wall of the sheath. Dissec- Dissection. — The palmar fascia, and the thinner parts of the sheaths of the tendons opposite the joints of the fingers, may now be taken away. On the removal of the fascia the palmar arch of arteries, and the median and ulnar nerves become apparent. superfi- Palmar Part of the Ulnar Artery.—In the palm of nlarpal" the hand the ulnar artery is directed outwards towards the arch* muscles of the thumb, where it communicates with the radial artery through the superficial volar branch, and the branch to the radial side of the fore-finger. The curved part of the artery, that lies across the hand, is named the superficial Position palmar arch. Its convexity is turned towards the fingers, hancUnd and its position in the palm would be nearly marked by a line across the hand from the root of the thumb. The arch connec- is comparatively superficial; it is covered in greater part lons* only by the integuments and the palmar fascia, but at the inner border of the hand the palmaris brevis muscle overlays it. Beneath it are the flexor tendons and the branches of the ulnar and median nerves. Branch- Branches. — From the convexity of the arch proceed the digital arteries, and from the concavity, some small offsets to the palm of the hand. A small branch (profunda) arises as soon as the artery enters the hand. to join a. The deep or communicating (profunda) branch is small