233 INTERIOR OF THE CEREBELLUM. laminae, an incision may be made across them on the upper laminae, surface of the left hemisphere. And the medullary centre, with its contained corpus den- of centre, tatum, may be seen on the right side by removing all the laminae from the upper surface. This object may be accom- plished by placing the scalpel in the horizontal fissure, at the circumference, and then carrying it inwards as far as the upper vermiform process, so as to detach the cortical stratum. If the corpus dentatum does not at first appear, thin slices j^d cor- may be made till it is reached. tatum. Structure of the lamince*—Each lamina consists of aAia- . i . mina has white internal, and a gray external substance. The white white in- part is derived from the central medullary mass, and dividing, like the branching of a tree, ends in small lateral offsets, that enter the subdivisions of the laminae. Besides the white stalk of the lamina, which is derived coiia. 7 • teral from the central mass, there are other white fibres that pass white 7 A fibres ; from one lamina to another. The stratum of gray matter, that envelops the white sub- and gray i-i • f i outside. stance, resembles somewhat the cortical covering ot the con- volutions of the cerebrum. It is constructed of two strata, inner and outer, that can be distinguished by the difference in their colour. The superficial stratum is gray, and about equal to the other in thickness ; but the deeper one is of a rust-colour, and is generally thickest in the hollows between the laminae. Medullary Centre.—A large white mass occupies the white1 centre of each cerebellar hemisphere, and contains in its sub- cere- substance a dentate body. From its surface offsets are fur- gives nished to the different laminae; and from the anterior part; proceed three large processes or peduncles—superior, middle, and inferior. a. The superior peduncle (processus ad cerebrum) is superior directed forwards towards the testis. It is rather flat in c?edun" shape, and forms part of the roof of the fourth ventricle: between the peduncles of opposite sides the valve of Vieus- sens is situate. Continuous behind.with the inferior vermi- is above form process, its fibres receive an offset from the interior of vemri- the corpus dentatum, and then pass beneath the band of the fillet, and beneath the pair of the corpora quadrigemina of