DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 124 chest, and longer than the right. The part of the artery between its origin and the upper piece of the sternum will be seen in the dissection of the thorax, in the Beyond the sternoclavicular articulation the vessels, on neck J both sides, so nearly resemble one another that the same description will serve for the two (p. 78.). It must be re- differ- marked, however, that, on the left side, the jugular vein and ence in . vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve are much nearer to the accompa- nerve. . nying artery than on the right side, and are commonly placed over the artery in the lower third of the neck. Thyroid The thyroid body is a soft reddish mass, which is situate consists opposite the upper part of the trachea. It consists of two ?obes° l°Des> one on each side, which are united by a narrow piece across the front of the windpipe; this connecting piece, by i cros pieces about half an inch in depth, is named the isthmus, and is placed opposite the second and third rings of the air tube. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, with the smaller Connec- end upwards, and is about two inches in length. It is inter- tionsand p0gej between the windpipe and the sheath of the common carotid artery, where it is covered by the sterno-thyroid, extent of sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The extent of the lobe depends upon the variations in its size ; but usually the lateral piece reaches as high as the ala of the thyroid carti- lage, and as low as the sixth ring of the trachea. Accesso- From the upper part of the thyroid body, and most com- TJr pyrcae. monly from the left lobe, there is occasionally found a conical mid* piece — pyramid — ascending towards the hyoid bone, to which it is connected by a fibrous band. Sometimes this part is attached to the hyoid bone by a slip of muscle, the levator glandulce thyreoidece of Soemmerring. weight This body is of a brownish red or purple hue, and weighs and size. from one to two ounces. Its size is larger in the woman than in the man. No excretory tube has been found attached to it. Nodis- Structure. — The thyroid body is not provided with a dis- canpCsuie. tinct capsule, but is surrounded by cellular tissue, that pro- jects into its substance and divides it into masses. It has a granular texture. Consists The substance of the gland consists of spherical or eieirK elongated vesicles, which vary in size, some being as large as the head of a small pin, and others only of an inch.