DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 570 the body, those most distant from the heart will be first described. Anato- The external iliac continues the femoral vein to the ab- external domen beneath Poupart's ligament. It has an extent like that of the artery of the same name, and ends by uniting with the vein from the pelvis (internal iliac) to form the Position common iliac vein. On the pubes it is on the same level to artery . . . 7 as the artery, and lies mside it between the psoas and pec- tineus muscles; but this position is not retained throughout, for, though the left vein remains internal to, the right slips beneath its artery. Branch. The veins that open into it are the epigastric and circumflex iliac (p. 481.). Com- The common iliac vein ascends by the side of its com- iliac panion artery, the right almost vertically, and the left form obliquely, to the right side of the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra (the upper part), wThere the two are blended in one Differ, trunk—the vena cava. The right vein is the shortest, and ence in length is at first behind, but afterwards outside the artery of the nections. same side. The left is altogether below the artery of its own side, and moreover crosses beneath the right common iliac artery. Veins to Each receives the ilio-lumbar, and the lateral sacral it. . ' branch sometimes; and the common iliac of the left side is joined by the middle sacral vein. Place Peculiarities. — Instead of the common iliac veins uniting at the the veins spot mentioned, they may be continued upwards, one on each side changiy °f tne aorta, as high as the kidney, before the left crosses the spine to join the right, and give origin to the vena cava. In these cases the vein on the left side receives one renal vein, and the two common iliacs are connected by a small intervening branch at the spot where they are usually united. Lower The vena cava inferior collects, and conveys to the bytide heart the blood of the lower half of the body. Taking aorta? origin, as before said, on the right side of the fifth lumbar vertebra, rather below the bifurcation of the aorta, this large vein ascends on the right side of the vertebral column, Extent and reaches the heart by perforating the diaphragm. Its nections". connections with the surrounding parts have been already described (p. 513.). Branch- In this course the cava receives parietal branches from the es rom wall of the abdomen and the diaphragm, and visceral