589 CONNECTIONS OF RECTUM AND BLADDER. of the sacrum and coccyx; it is divided into three parts, and di- . , n , visions. upper, middle, and lower. The upper part, longer than the others, extends obliquely F.irst from the sacro-iliac junction to the centre of the third piece of the sacrum. It is surrounded almost entirely by the peri- most 1 - i • • t covered ritoneum which forms the meso-rectum behind it; it liesbyperi- . p lii toneum. against the sacrum, and on the pyritormis muscle and the sacral plexus of the left side. In contact with its left side are the branches of the internal iliac artery, and the left ureter. In some bodies this part of the intestine is much curved to the right side.* The middle piece lies beneath the bladder, and reaches to Middle the tip of the coccyx : it is about three inches in length, and piece is covered by peritoneum on the upper aspect, for about two thirds of its extent. Resting on it is the lower or triangular only covered part of the bladder, with the vesiculae seminales and the in front, prostate gland; and behind it is the bone. On the left side is the coccygeus muscle. The lower part is about an inch and a half in length, and Last is curved from the tip of the coccyx to the anus : at first it ^unco- is much dilated, but at the anus it is contracted. This end of the intestine is without peritoneal covering, and is sup- ported by the lower part of the triangular ligament of the urethra, and by the levatores ani muscles. Above the ex- Connec- tremity of the rectum (in this position of the body) are the with prostate,, the membranous part of the urethra, and the bulb around, of the same tube; but as the gut gradually recedes from the urethra, an angular interval is left between the two. The levatores ani muscles descend on its sides, and unite beneath it, supporting it in a sling; and the sphincter muscles surround the aperture. Sometimes this end of the some- intestine is very much enlarged, especially in women or old dUated. men; and it rises up on each side of the prostate in the latter, so as to surround this except above. The urinary bladder (vesica urinaria) is situate in the Bladder is in * In the dissecting-room of the College (Session 1851—1852) I saw an example of the rectum being placed altogether on the right side of the sacrum. In this body the lower end of the left colon crossed the spine, at the top of the sacrum, and the rectum descended through the pelvis, on the right of the middle line to the end of the coccyx. The body was dissected by Messrs. Gange and Merry weather.