DISSECTION OF THE NECK. 110 clavian, to form the innominate vein (p. 79.). As far as the thyroid cartilage this vein accompanies the internal carotid, is on but below that point the common carotid artery ; and it is outside 1 J t?dsar°" P*ace(^ on tne outer side °f each.* Its contiguity to the artery is not equally close in all its extent, for near the skull there is a small interval between them, containing the eighth and ninth nerves, and at the lower part of the neck there is a still larger intervening space, in which the pneumogastric nerve is found. The size of the vein remains much the and is same till near the os hyoides, where it is suddenly increased branches by the addition of those branches of the head and neck, cor- below os hyoi- responding to the branches of the external carotid artery, that do not join the external jugular vein. The following branches open into the internal jugular, viz. the facial, lingual, thyroid (superior), occipital, and pharyngeal; and at the lower part of the neck it receives the middle thyroid vein. itg°pha" ascen^n9 pharyngeal artery is a long slender branch ryngeai of the external carotid, which arises near the commencement artery of that vessel. Directed upwards on the spinal column, be- tween the internal, carotid and the pharynx, the artery be- comes tortuous near the skull, and divides into branches for ends the pharynx and the cranium. In the neck the artery gives skull, in some small branches to the surrounding parts, viz. the mus- cles on the vertebrae, the nerves, and the lymphatic glands ; and other branches anastomose with the ascending cervical artery. a branch The meningeal branch enters the cranium through the foramen rSnges, lacerum medium (basis cranii), and is distributed to the meninges of the middle fossa of the skull. and an- The pharyngeal branch, which is larger than the preceding, pharynx turns inwards to the pharynx, and dividing into several twigs, palate, supplies the muscular structure of the pharynx, the soft palate, and the Eustachian tube. The size of the palatine branch depends upon that of the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery: it courses above the upper constrictor, and ends in branches for the front and back of the soft palate, that lie beneath the mucous membrane. * Sometimes the term internal cephalic is applied to the vein between the skull and the hyoid bone, whilst that of internal jugular is given to the part below that bone, and the junction.of the large branches at that spot.