209 BASE OF THE CEREBRUM. tract of one side cross offsets from the tract of the other, so that there is a decussation, like that in the pyramids, across the middle line, and the peduncle consequently contains fibres that are continued into both sides of the medulla ob- longata.* In addition to those fibres derived from the me- dulla oblongata, are others coming from the cerebellum, which decussate across the middle line, and mix with the former (see p. 235.). The fibres obtained from these sources are situate beneath (as now seen) the gray matter : besides being deeper, they are finer than the superficial set, and are interspersed with gray matter. The deeper part of the crus, form teg. viz. that at the cerebral aspect, is constructed by these fibres, and is named tegmentum. c. The gray matter of the crus (locus niger) is nearer the The gray inner than the outer margin, and is convex towards the free surface, but concave in the opposite direction. The posterior perforated spot (pons Tarini) is situate be- Locus tween the peduncles of the cerebrum ; it consists of grayish tus.°ra matter, into which numerous vessels enter. This structure corresponds to part of the floor of the third ventricle. The corpora albicantia (corp. mamillaria) are two small, Corpora white bodies, about the size of peas, which are formed, as it tia. will be afterwards seen, in greater part by the crus of the fornix. If one, say the left, is cut across, it will be found to contain gray matter. In front of them is a mass of gray substance, and behind they are connected together by white substance. The tuber cinereum, or the mass of gray matter behind Tuber 7 ° J cine- the optic commissure, forms part of the floor of the third reum ventricle, and is continuous with the gray substance in that cavity. In front of it is the optic nerve, and from its centre projects the following: — The infundibulum (funnel) is a ^nddi.^- conically-shaped tube, that reaches to the upper part of the ium. posterior lobe of the pituitary body. In the fetus this tube is open between the third ventricle and the pituitary body, but in the adult it is closed inferiorly. It consists of a layer * This is part of the median commissure of M. Foville, which reaches through the medulla oblongata, pons, and cerebral peduncles. See the work of M. Foville, entitled : Traite complet de VAnatomie, fyc, du S^s- teme Nerveux cerebrospinal, p. 323.