61 SUPERFICIAL CERVICAL NERVES. narrow block beneath the neck, and make this tense by means of hooks, so that the position shall be nearly the same as that for the dissection of the posterior triangular space. Dissection. — An incision along the base of the jaw will Dissec. readily allow the piece of integument in front of the sterno- mastoideus to be raised towards the middle line. Beneath the skin is the superficial fascia,, containing the ramifications of the superficial cervical nerve. The nerve is to be fol- lowed forwards from its trunk, and the fat is to be taken away from the anterior part of the platysma muscle. Platysma Myoides. — The anterior part of the platysma, patyg- viz. from the sterno-mastoid muscle to the lower jaw, covers ciein , . . , • i . front of the anterior triangular space m the same manner as it con- stemo- cealed the posterior. The fibres have the same appearance in this as in the lower half of the muscle, but they are rather stronger. At the base of the jaw they end in the following inser. manner : — the internal fibres are blended with the muscle jaw. of the opposite side; the external are inserted for the most part into the oblique line on the side of the jaw, but some are continued upwards to the corner of the mouth, or even to the zygomatic muscle ; and the intervening fibres mingle with the depressor anguli and depressor labii inferioris muscles. This part of the muscle is superficial, and conceals the following nerves : — The superficial cervical nerve has been traced from its Superfi- origin in the cervical plexus to its position superficial to the vicai fascia of the neck (p. 59.); and the nerve may arise from the plexus by two pieces. Beneath the platysma it divides into an ascending and a descending branch. The ascending branch perforates the platysma, and is distributed Branch- to the integuments over the anterior triangle, about half way down Ste- the neck, as well as to the platysma. Whilst this branch is beneath 1"™^! the platysma it joins with the facial nerve. ofSneck The descending branch likewise passes through the platysma, and is distributed below the preceding, reaching as low as the sternum. Dissection.—Raise the platysma to the base of the jaw, ™ssec_ and dissect out the cervical branches of the facial nerve that are beneath it. Clean also the deep fascia of the neck. The infra-maxillary branches of the facial nerve (rami Branch- subcutanei colli) pierce the deep cervical fascia, and pass facial forwards beneath the platysma, forming arches across the the neck.