195 ORIGIN OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The SEVENTH CRANIAL NERVE (Willis) appears at the Seventh lower border of the pons, near where this is joined by the has two restiform body. It consists of two distinct trunks, facial parts"' and auditory; the former being the motor nerve of the face, and the latter the special nerve for the organ of hearing. The facial nerve (portio dura, seventh nerve, Soemmer- Origin J vr of the ring) is firm and round, and smaller than the auditory, in- facial, ternal to which it is placed. It issues from the lateral tract of the medulla, close to the pons, and is connected with the lower border of the pons. The facial nerve receives a small accessory band of fibres small that is intermediate between it and the auditory (intermediate ry piece, portion of Wrisberg); it is then applied to the auditory nerve, and with it enters the internal meatus. The auditory nerve (portio mollis, eighth nerve, Soemmer- Audito- ring) has a surface attachment to the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, and the restiform body. The nerve is very soft, for it obtains its neurilemma, and thereby consistence, only in the meatus auditorius. Deep origin. — The facial nerve penetrates to the floor of the Deep fourth ventricle, and arises from the same nucleus as the sixth far<!fain.of nerve. The auditory nerve has a superficial connection with the ofaudi- white transverse fibres that issue out of the median groove in the tory* floor of the fourth ventricle. But it is connected deeply with the lower end of the gray mass, called locus cseruleus, by means of many fibres, that penetrate the upper part of the restiform body, and the lower part of the pons. It is said by some to be joined with the crus cerebelli by a fasciculus of fibres. Stilling notices gray matter in connection with its fibres, as these penetrate the pons Varolii. The eighth cranial nerve (Willis) is placed along the Eighth side of the medulla oblongata, and consists of three distinct {JaTthree trunks, glossopharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal acces- parts' sory: the names of the two first indicate their destination, whilst the last joins the pneumo-gastric, and supplies some muscles. a. The glossopharyngeal nerve (ninth nerve, Soemmerring) origin of is the smallest of the three, and is situate highest. Its phJryn- apparent origin is by three or more fibrils, which penetrate gea1' the fibres of the lateral tract, close to the facial nerve. b. The pneumo-gastric or vagus (tenth nervej Soemmer- vagus, ring) is connected with the lateral tract of the medulla, below