DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. 646 Groove of the femoral artery beneath: the position of this arterial femoVai trunk may be ascertained by a line on the surface from the artery. centre Q£ interval between the symphysis pubis and the crest of the innominate bone, to the inner side of the patella. Position On the outer side of the thigh, about four inches below the trochan- crest of the ilium and the same distance from the anterior ter. spine, the student will be able to recognise the well marked Head of projection of the great trochanter of the femur. In a thin femur, body the head of the femur may be felt by rotating the limb inwards and outwards, whilst the thumb of one hand is placed in the hollow below Poupart's ligament, and the fingers behind the great trochanter. Bony At the knee the outline of the several bones that enter nencesofinto the formation of the joint may be traced with ease. Thus, in front of the joint, when it is half bent, the rounded Patella, prominent patella may be perceived ; this is firmly fixed whilst the limb is kept in the same position, but is moved with great freedom when the joint is extended so as to relax Con- the muscles that are inserted into it. On each side of the theGfe-f patella is the projection of the condyle of the femur, but that on the inner side is the largest. If the fingers are passed along the sides of the patella whilst the joint is half bent, they will be conducted by the condyles of the femur to the Tubero- tuberosities of the head of the tibia, and to a slight hollow the tibia, between the bones. Behind the joint is a slight depression behind™ over ^e s^uation °f tne nam or popliteal space ; and on the sides of it are firm boundaries, formed chiefly by the tendons (ham-strings) of the flexor muscles of the leg. Dissec- Dissection. — With the position of the limb the same as before directed, the student begins the dissection with the examination of the subcutaneous fatty tissue with its nerves and vessels. Take up At first the integument is to be reflected only from the at the hollow on the front of the thigh close below Poupart's liga- th?ghUhe ment. To raise the skin from this part an incision of about four inches in length, and only skin deep, is to be made from the pubes along the inner border of the thigh: at its lower end another cut is to be directed outwards across the front of the limb to the outer aspect; and at its upper end the knife is to be carried along the line of Poupart's liga- ment as far as the crest of the innominate bone. The piece