SUBLINGUAL GLAND. 103 H 4 Branches. — On the hyo-glossus the ninth nerve furnishes its branches to the muscles of the submaxillary region, except the supply65 mylo-hyoid, viz. to the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, genio-hyoideus, muscles and genio-hyo-glossus. Further, some offsets ascend on the hyo- glossus to communicate with the gustatory nerve. Along the middle of the tongue the nerve sends upwards long filaments with the branches of the ranine artery, that supply the structure of the and the tongue, and communicate with the gustatory nerve. The duct of the submaxillary gland, or Wharton's duct, whar. issues from the deep part of the glandular mass that turns duct* round the border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It is about two inches in length, and is directed upwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, and beneath the gustatory nerve, to open on the side opens by of the frasnum linguae, in the centre of an eminence. The lingua?, duct consist of three coats, an external thin and fibrous, a middle or muscular, and an internal or mucous; and its struc. opening in the mouth will be seen if a bristle be passed along ture* it. This is the only salivary duct that, according to Kolliker, possesses a stratum of the muscular contractile cells in its composition. The deep part of the submaxillary gland ex- tends, in some instances, even to the sublingual gland. The sublingual gland is somewhat of the shape of an subiin- almond, and the longest measurement, which is about one 1^ inch and a half, is directed backwards. It is situate beneath isbe. the anterior part of the tongue, in contact with the inner tongue, surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. Separated from the cavity of the mouth by the mucous membrane, the gland is prolonged across the upper border of the genio-hyo- glossus muscle, so as to touch the one of the opposite side. The sublingual resembles the other salivary glands in its struc- composition (p. 32.). The ducts of the lobules (ductus Eivi- niani) are from eight to twenty in number, of which some °penin / ° J mouth. open beneath the tongue along a crescentic shaped fold of the mucous membrane, but others join the Whartonian duct; and one or more form a larger tube, that either joins that duct or opens near it.