PEEVEETEBEAL VEINS. 383 or the innominate vein. On the left side the superior inter- right and on costal vein is formed by branches from the two or three left side, highest spaces; it is joined by the left bronchial vein, and ends in the left innominate vein, after crossing the arch of the aorta. The PEEVETEBEAL OE AZYGOS VEINS are two in number, Two azygos large and small, and receive branches corresponding to the veins, offsets furnished by the thoracic aorta. By means of the larger vein, the inferior cava communicates with the supe- rior, so that blood may reach the heart from the lower part of the body or vice versa, if one of the cavse should be obliterated. The smaller or left azygos vein (inferior) begins in S™all>or the abdomen, in the lumbar veins of the left side of the vertebral column. Having entered the thorax along with begins in the aorta, or through the crus of the diaphragm, the vein men, ascends on the left of the aorta as high as the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, and then crosses beneath that vesselends in & ' > larger and the thoracic duct to end in the larger or right vein, azygos. It receives the four or five lower intercostal veins of the left Branch- es. side, and some oesophageal and mediastinal veins. Most commonly there is a second left azygos vein (supe- There rior Breschet), which is formed by offsets from the spaces another - azygos between the superior intercostal and the highest branch of vein, the small azygos vein. Receiving three or four branches, the trunk either joins the lower azygos, or crosses the spine to open separately into the larger vein. The larger or right azygos vein begins in the lumbar Large ^ veins on the right side of the spine, and its origin is de- azygos scribed with the vessels of the abdomen. It enters the right side of thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and spine, ascends on the right side of the thoracic duct, over the inter- costal arteries and the bodies of the vertebras. Opposite the and joins superior third intercostal space, the vein arches forwards above the cava, root of the right lung, and enters the superior cava as this vessel pierces the pericardium. Its valves are very incom- plete, so that the intraspinal and intercostal veins may be injected through it. Branches, — In this vein are collected the intercostals of Branch- the right side below the upper two spaces; some of the ingJ it? intercostals of the left side of the thorax, by means of the