STRUCTURE OF THE RETINA. 767 the centre of that spot is a minute aperture, foramen cen- foramen trale ( Soemmerring), which is supposed to penetrate through the nervous layer of the retina, though not through the outer flocculent stratum or the membrane of Jacob. In the eye of a fetus of the ninth month, which had been hardened in chromic acid, Mr. Bowman found the foramen to be but the narrow neck of a small " follicular pouch" of the retina, which projected towards the vitreous body.* Structure. — In the retina are two layers or strata of dif- Two layers ferent materials, together with blood-vessels: the inner of in the , retina. the two is formed by nerve substance; and the outer, or Jacob's membrane, by peculiar elements. a. The layer of nerve substance is made up of the same One of elements as the gray matter of the encephalon, viz. of a gra- Tub-6 nular matrix containing different-sized nerve cells, with stance nerve fibres instead of nerve tubes ; these constituents have the following arrangement: — The tubules of the optic nerve, has two having become solid in texture and gray in colour from the absence of the white substance of Schwann, radiate from the an inner of alter. end of the optic trunk, and communicate together to con- ed nerve r 7 ° tubules, struct a thin stratum at the inner aspect of the nervous layer; this delicate lamina diminishes in strength as it is followed forwards. Outside the nerve fibres is a stratum of and an the granular material: this begins around the entrance of the granular optic nerve, and becomes thinner, like the fibrous, as it ex- clear tends forwards. Scattered through its substance are large pale nucleated vesicles, with a few caudate nerve cells (Bow- man) ; and towards its outer aspect are other nucleus-like cells (agglomerated granules), which are globular in shape and closely united together. In the yellow spot of Soemmerring the nerve elements inyeiiow have a special arrangement: the nerve fibres pass around how ar- instead of over the surface ; and the granular stratum, with rdnged* its nucleated (and caudate ?) vesicles increased in number, seem alone to occupy that part of the retina. In the nervous layer is a plexus of blood-vessels, which is Blood- derived from the central vessels of the retina contained in the in this optic nerve (p. 49.). When the nerve becomes membrani- layer* form the artery divides into four or five branches; these pierce * Vol. vi. p. 102. of the Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science.