664 DISSECTION OF THE THIGH. small nerves along its inner border, viz. : the two branches and pre- of the internal cutaneous above; the great saphenous and nerves in its branch below; and a plexus between the saphenous, with it. internal cutaneous, and obturator, at the middle of the thigh. The dissector is to avoid displacing the muscle whilst he is removing its sheath of fascia. Dissect Internal to the sartorius are some strong muscles (ad- thead- N . . ductors, ductors) that are inclined outwards: these are to be laid bare; and the student is to seek a branch of the obturator nerve, to the plexus before mentioned, beneath the more superficial muscle (adductor longus), near where this touches the sartorius. and On the outer side of the sartorius are the large extensor the ex- muscles of the leg. For the dissection of these the knee is muscles, to be bent to make tense their fibres : and the expansion, below, from their tendon to the fascia lata and the knee- joint is to be looked to. One little muscle at the upper part of the thigh, tensor of the fascia lata, is to be cleaned; and a strip of the fascia, corresponding to its width, should be left along the outer aspect of the thigh: behind this slip, the investing membrane is to be divided by one or two trans- verse cuts, and to be followed backwards to its attachment to the linea aspera of the femur. Muscles Deep parts on the front of the thigh. — The muscles front of on the front of the thigh are the sartorius, and the extensor thigh, of the leg. Many muscles are combined in the extensor, viz. the rectus, vastus externus, and vastus internus and crureus. At the top of the thigh is the small tensor of the fascia lata. vessels. A portion of the femoral vessels, viz. the lower half, lies amongst the muscles and supplies them with branches. Nerves. One large kqg&& the anterior crural, furnishes offsets to the muscles on the front of the thigh, and is to be learnt with them. i sarto- The sartorius is the longest muscle in the body, and nus' extends from the pelvis to the leg : it arches over the front of the thigh, passing from the outer to the inner side of the limb, and lies in a hollow between the extensors on the one origin; side, and the adductors on the other. It has a tendinous origin from the anterior upper spinous process of the ilium,