94 DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. anterior. The anterior branch supplies the greater part of the muscle, and usually communicates with the buccal nerve. Masse- 2. The masseteric branch takes at first a backward direction ter'j above the external pterygoid muscle, and then a horizontal one, behind the temporal muscle and through the sigmoid notch, to the under surface of the masseter muscle. In the masseter the nerve can be followed to near the anterior border. As this branch passes by the articulation of the jaw it gives one or more twigs to that joint. Branch-, 3. The pterygoid branches are supplied to the muscles of that ptery- name. The branch or branches to the external pterygoid enter muscles. tne under-surface, but the nerve to the internal pterygoid is placed on the pharyngeal aspect of this muscle close to the skull: this last, which cannot now be seen, will be learnt in the dissection of the otic ganglion, Section 14. Buccina« 4. The buccal branch is longer than the others, and perforates the external pterygoid near its inner attachment; afterwards it is directed inwards, beneath the coronoid process and the temporal muscle, to the surface of the buccinator, where it ends in two ter- This minal branches. As the nerve perforates the pterygoid muscle ends°in filaments are given to the fleshy substance ; and after it has passed parts through the fibres, it furnishes a branch to the temporal muscle, which frequently joins the anterior deep temporal nerve. Some offsets are likewise distributed to the upper part of the buccinator muscle and to the mucous membrane lining it. upper The upper bi^anch resulting from the division reaches the upper and part of the buccinator muscle, and communicates with the facial nerve around the facial vein, lower. The lower bra7ich is in direction the continuation of the nerve. Its offsets are inclined towards the angle of the mouth, supplying the integument, together with the buccinator muscle and the lining mucous membrane. This branch is united freely with the facial nerve, and forms a kind of plexus, sensory B. The larger branch of the inferior maxillary nerve trunk of inferior ends in three trunks, auriculotemporal, dental, and gusta- lary. tory nerves. A few of the fibres of the small (motor) root a ?ew6ys of the fifth are applied to this trunk, and are conveyed by it tibres. to certain muscles, viz. tensor tympani, circumflexus palati, and mylo-hyoideus. Auricu- The auriculo-temporal nerve separates from the others p0o"raim" near the base of the skull, and oftentimes has two roots. Its division courge j0 t^e surface 0f the head is first backwards beneath lies be. tne external pterygoid muscle, as far as the inner part of the jawf1 articulation of the jaw; and lastly upwards with the tern-