LOWER OCULAR MUSCLES. 51 ferent nerves before mentioned enter the orbit, viz. the third, the nasal branch of the fifth, and the sixth, together with the ophthalmic vein. Dissection.—By opening the optic foramen, the attach- Dissect P rr inferior ment of the recti muscles will be more fully seen. To dissect oblique, out the inferior oblique muscle, let the eyeball be replaced in its natural position, then by taking away the conjunctival lining of the lower eyelid near the inner part, and removing some fat, the muscle will appear beneath the eyeball, bending from the inner to the outer side. The inferior oblique muscle is situate near the anterior Lower • . oblique margin of the orbit, and diners from the other muscles in muscle, the circumstance of its course being directed across, instead of in the axis of the orbit. It arises from the superior Origin, maxillary bone, between the margin of the orbit and the groove for the lachrymal sac. From this spot the muscle Course, passes outwards beneath the inferior rectus, and between the eyeball and the external rectus, to be inserted into the inser- J , tion. sclerotic coat, between the last muscle and the superior rectus. The borders of the muscle look forwards and backwards, and the posterior receives the branch of the third nerve. The Connec- tendon of insertion is close to that of the superior oblique muscle, but rather nearer to the optic nerve. Dissection. — To expose the small tensor tarsi muscle, the Seek tensor attachment of the eyelids to the margin of the orbit must be tarsi, cut through, where this has not been done, but the lids must be left connected at the inner commissure by means of the tendo palpebrarum. By looking to the posterior aspect of the tendon attaching the tarsal cartilages, after the lids have been placed across the nose, the pale fibres of the tensor tarsi will be seen. The tensor tarsi muscle arises from the ridge on the Tensor ° tarsi os unguis, and slightly from the bone behind the ridge. Its muscle, fibres are pale, and form a very small flat band, behind the tendo palpebrarum, which divides like that tendon into a slip for each eyelid. In each eyelid the slip surrounds the inser- lachrymal canal, and blends with the other muscular fibres attlon' the free margin of the tarsal cartilage. Dissection. — A small nerve, the orbital branch of the su- Trace perior maxillary nerve, lies in the outer angle of the floor of superior the orbit, and will come into view by the removal of the iary