396 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. the external pieces are bent, so that the convexity is towards the surface, and the internal have the convexity towards the centre of the disc. The laminae of the fibro-cartilage form complete rings less frequently than those composed of fibrous fibres tissue. Each layer is constructed of oblique fibres, and the cross, fibres of one layer are directed across those of another like the parts of the letter X. This disposition of the fibres will be best seen on the discs between the lumbar vertebrae ; and it may be rendered evident by dissecting layer after layer, inner The central portion of the disc is very soft and elastic, part . and projects when two vertebrae and the interposed mass without are sawn through. It has a yellowish colour, and is deficient marked . .« . strata; m the stratiform arrangement so conspicuous at the circum- ference. Towards the confines of the two portions of the tiontruc" intervertebral substance, there is still an alternating arrange- ment of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage, though the former is gradually diminishing; but towards the centre a loose fibrocartilaginous material preponderates, and amongst it are spaces containing fluid. Cartilage The surfaces of the vertebrae in contact with the discs, covering bones, have a cartilaginous covering. This may be seen by cutting the intervertebral substance from the bone. Over the centre of the osseous surface it forms a continuous layer, but towards the circumference it consists of separate pieces. Several B. Ligaments of the processes of the vertebrce. — The ments of several processes of the vertebrae have special uniting liga- tebrai meiits i — thus the articular processes are joined by a cap- cesses, sular ligament and a synovial membrane ; the plates of the vertebrae are connected by yellow ligaments; the spinous processes have one band along the tip and another between them ; and the transverse processes are provided with inter- vening bands of fibres. To the a. Liqaments of the articular processes. — Between the articular, o u x suie°and articulating processes there is a moveable joint. The bones sac- are covered with cartilage, and are surrounded by a loose capsular ligament of scattered fibres, which encloses a syno- vial membrane. In the cervical region of the spine, the capsular ligaments are larger and looser than in the dorsal or lumbar part. Those b. Ligaments of the arches. — The ligamenta sub/lava, so arches named from their colour, are situate between the plates or