671 ANTERIOR CURAL NERVE. and the linea aspera, its place is supplied by the strong ten- don of the adductor magnus. The internal articular vessels are transmitted through it to the front of the knee-joint. The external circumflex artery is the chief vessel for the ffigg supply of the muscles of the front of the thigh. It arises muscles rr J ) ° on the from the outer side of the profunda (deep femoral) artery, £°ntof and is directed horizontally outwards through the divisions thish- of the anterior crural nerve, and beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles, to the under surface of the vastus externus, where it ends in branches. Offsets are given from this Jts . ° branches artery to the rectus and the sartorius ; and its terminal re- branches consist of an ascending, a transverse, and a de- scending set. a. The ascending branches are about three in number, an as- " g t cending and are directed beneath the tensor vaginae femoris to the set, back of the ilium, where they anastomose with the gluteal artery. b. The transverse or middle set, the least numerous and a trans- verse, the smallest in size, perforate the vastus externus, and anas- tomose on the back of the thigh with the sciatic and per- forating arteries. c. The descending branches are the largest, and are dis- and a descend tributed to the vasti muscles. One considerable offset enters ing set. the vastus externus, and reaching the knee, anastomoses on it with the external articular arteries. Peculiarities in the origin of this artery are very frequent. Thus Varie- ties in the the vessel may arise as one trunk from the superficial instead of the deep femoral artery. Or it may be represented by two pieces, which may spring from either of the two femoral trunks: or these branch- may be derived from both trunks — one piece being obtained from each: this last arrangement is the most frequently found. The anterior crural nerve is derived from the lumbar Nerve of . ' the front plexus (p. 578.), and supplies the muscles and the integument of toe of the front of the thigh, and the integument of the inner side of the leg. Soon after the trunk of the nerve leaves isdi- the abdomen it is flattened, and is divided into a superficial or cutaneous, and a deep or muscular part. A. The superficial part of the nerve ends in these three From its branches : the internal and the middle cutaneous of the thigh, cSepart and the great saphenous. The middle cutaneous nerve perforates the fascia lata, middle