DISSECTION OF THE INTERIOR OF THE HEAD. 14 Tento- The tentorium cerebelli is the piece of the dura mater that rium ce- . . . . rebeiii; is interposed in a somewhat horizontal position between the its at- cerebellum and the posterior part of the cerebrum. Its moots upper surface is raised along the middle, where it is joined by the falx cerebri, and is hollowed laterally for the reception of the back part of the cerebral hemispheres; whilst its under surface corresponds to the little brain and the falx cerebelli. The anterior margin is free, except at the ends, where it is fixed by a narrow slip to each anterior clinoid process. The posterior or attached part is connected to the following bones: — occipital (its transverse groove), inferior angle of the parietal, petrous portion of the temporal (upper and the border), and posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid. Along inTtS.es the centre of the tentorium is the straight sinus, whilst in the attached edge are the lateral and the superior petrosal sinuses. Falx ce» The falx cerebelli has the same position below the tento- re e 1 rium as the falx cerebri above that fold. It is much smaller than the like process of the cerebrum, and will be seen by detaching the tentorium. Triangular in form, this fold is attached to the middle of the occipital bone, below the trans- verse ridge, and projects between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Its base is directed to the tentorium, and the contains apex ends below, at the foramen magnum, to each side of wThich it gives a small slip. In it are contained the occipital sinuses. occipital sinuses. sinuses The sinuses are venous spaces between the layers of the skull? dura mater, into which the blood is received. All the sinuses open either into a large space opposite the occipital pro- tuberance (torcular Herophili), or into the two cavernous sinuses by the sides of the body of the sphenoid bone. Occipi- A. The torcular Herophili is placed in the tentorium, trere-" opposite the centre of the occipital bone. It is of an irregular celves shape, and numerous sinuses open into it; viz. the superior longitudinal, the straight and inferior longitudinal, and the occipital and lateral sinuses, superior The superior longitudinal sinus has been already described }Zta- (see p. 11.). inferior The inferior longitudinal sinus resembles a small vein, diofh"" and is contained in the lower border of the falx cerebri at