DISSECTION OF THE EAR. 782 Nerves Nehves.—The lining membrane of the tympanum is sup- severai plied from the plexiform communication (tympanic plexus) established between Jacobson's and the sympathetic nerve ; but the muscles derive their nerves from another source. Crossing the cavity is the chorda tympani branch of the facial nerve. tion to" Dissection. — The preparation of the tympanic plexus will prepare require a separate fresh temporal bone, that has been nerves softened in diluted hydro-chloric acid, after the nerves have been hardened in spirit. The origin of Jacobson's nerve from the glosso-pharyngeal is first to be sought close to the entering s^u^ (P* 11"3») and the auricular branch of the pneumo- gastric is to be looked for at the same time, andjn^ Supposing the nerves to be found, the student should panic place the scalpel on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, cavity. . . and carry it backwards through the vaginal and styloid pro- cesses of the temporal bone, so as to take away the outer part of the tympanum, but not to open the lower end of the aqueduct ofFallopius, lest the facial nerve should be injured. After the tympanum has been laid open, Jacobson's nerve is to be followed in its canal, and the branches that lie in the grooves on the surface of the promontory are to be pur- sued—one of these arching forwards and two coursing upwards. The connections of the chorda tympani nerve can be seen on the preparation used for the muscles. . , Tympa- The tympanic branch of the, glosso-pharyngeal nerve nejve. ' (nerve of Jacobson, p. 113.) enters a special aperture in the temporal bone, and is Conducted by it to the inner wall of supplies the tympanum.' At this spot the nerve supplies filaments to brine. the lining membrane of the cavity ; and it terminates in the other ^iree following branches, that are contained in'grooves on branch- the promontory, and* connect this nerve with others.* one to Branches. — One branch is arched, forwards and d'ewn- pathS" wards, and enters the carotid canal to communicate ,with the to petro- sympathetic on the artery (p. 120.). * A second is directed * Instead of viewing these filaments as offsets of the nerve of Jacob- son, it may be supposed that they are branches' derived from the other nerves to which they are united.* According, to this view the tympanic plexus would be derived from ma.ny sources.