219 BODIES IN LATERAL VENTRICLE. verse and sometimes by longitudinal lines : the surface which by the is so defined has been called (incorrectly) the lyra. The fornix may also be described as consisting of two Fornix bands, right and left, which are united for a certain distance of two in the central part or body. According to this view, each band, commencing in the optic thalamus, passes over the foramen of Monro, and, after forming the body of the fornix, is continued as a distinct piece to the surface of the hippo- campus. The foramen of Monro is the aperture beneath the ante- This 47 47 A m apertur rior part of the fornix, in which the plexus choroides lies, joins . . lateral Through it the lateral ventricles communicate with oneven- ° . . tricles. another and with the third ventricle. Floor of the lateral Ventricle. — The student may in floor leave untouched, for the present, the membrane on which ventricle the fornix rests, and proceed to examine, on the left side, are ' the different bodies that have been enumerated as constitut- ing the floor of the lateral ventricle. The corpus striatum (superior ganglion of the cerebrum), Jjjjj*^ is the large gray body in the anterior part of the lateral ven- front, tricle. It has received its name from the striated appear- ance that it presents on a section being made through it; and it corresponds, externally, to the island of Reil in the fissure of Sylvius. Dissection,—To see the structure of the corpus striatum, Dissec. the student should make a cut in it from before backwards, struc- until certain white fibres, crossing it obliquely from within outwards, are reached. The knife should then be carried through this layer of white fibres until another mass of gray substance, similar to the first, is arrived at. The striate body now appears to be a conical mass of gray its form, matter of considerable thickness, which is surrounded by the white substance of the hemisphere, except where it projects into the lateral ventricle. Its position is oblique with re- position ; spect to the middle line of the brain, for the anterior part is near the septum of the ventricles, whilst the posterior part is external to the optic thalamus. By means of the incision that has been made into the corpus striatum, white fibres isdivided can be seen to be directed through it in such a way as to parity divide the mass of gray matter into two parts, — one being fibres.