CUTANEOUS NERVES OF THE BUTTOCK. 683 the ilium. Beginning in front, the student will first meet i ! \ found. with branches of the external cutaneous rather below the wbh°ere crest. Crossing the crest, near its front, is an offset of the last dorsal nerve, and, farther back, another from the ilio- hypogastric nerve ; whilst in a line with the outer border of the erector spinse are two or three branches of the lumbar nerves. By the side of the sacrum and coccyx are two or three offsets of the sacral nerves. The remaining cutaneous nerves are derived from the other small sciatic, and must be sought, beneath the fat, along the small80 line of the lower incision, where they come from underneath SLlatlc* the gluteus maximus ; some turn upwards over that muscle, and others are directed down to the thigh. Cutaneous Nerves. — The nerves distributed in the in- sources tegument of the buttock are small but numerous, and are cutane- derived from the spinal nerves (posterior divisions), from the nerves, branches of the lumbar and sacral plexuses, and from the last dorsal nerve. Branches from the spinal nerves.—The branches from the posterior From divisions of the lumbar nerves are two or three in number, and lumbar cross the crest of the ilium at the place of attachment of the erector spina? : they ramify in the integument covering the gluteus muscle, and some branches may be traced nearly to the trochanter major. The branches of the sacral nerves perforate the gluteus maximus and near its origin, and are then directed outwards for a short distance nerves, in the integument over it. These offsets are usually three in number; the largest is opposite the lower end of the sacrum, another is near the crest of the ilium, and the third is between the other two. Nerves from the lumbar plexus. — Parts of two nerves from the From lumbar plexus, viz. ilio-hypogastric and external cutaneous, are spent in the integument of this region. The iliac branch of the through ilio-hypogastric nerve crosses the crest of the ilium in front of the p0°'a^" branches from the lumbar nerves, and extends only a short distance tric> and below the crest: this branch is very variable in size, or it may be wanting. Offsets of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh bend external backwards to the integument above the great trochanter, and cross oul!"6" the divisions of the branch of the last dorsal nerve. Nerves from the sacral plexus. — Only one nerve of this plexus, From the small sciatic, sends superficial branches to the buttock. Its piejjJs, cutaneous offsets appear along the lower border of the gluteus through maximus : two or three ascend round the edge of the muscle, and sma11