85 BRANCHES OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. interval between the ear and the articulation of the jaw, the besides , • -I i terminal vessel divides on the temporal fascia, about two inches above branch- the zygoma, into anterior and posterior branches ; and these es'slves are distributed to the front and side of the head (p. 6.). The trunk of the artery gives offsets to the surrounding parts : viz.: — a. Parotid branches are furnished to the gland which conceals branch- . es to the artery. Articular twigs are supplied to the articulation of the parotid, lower jaw, and other muscular branches enter the masseter. Some cuiation anterior auricular branches are also distributed to the pinna and ^dthe meatus of the external ear. ear\ b. The transverse facial branch quits the temporal artery oppo- J^JJjJ1 site the condyle of the jaw, and is directed forwards over the mas- seter muscle (p. 30.); on the side of the face it supplies the muscles and the integuments, and anastomoses with the facial artery. c. The middle temporal branch arises iust above the zygoma, and Branch r J J ° ' to tem- pierces the, temporal aponeurosis to enter the substance of the porai temporal muscle. In the muscle it anastomoses with branches of the internal maxillary artery. d. A small branch of the temporal artery is likewise found and of between the layers of the temporal fascia; this becomes cutaneous pie. near the orbicularis muscle. The temporal vein commences on the side of the head Corre- /. hr \ i • • • xt i sponding (p. 7.), and is contiguous to its companion artery. Mear the vein, zygoma it is joined by the middle temporal vein; next by other branches corresponding to those of the artery ; and finally it ends by uniting with the internal maxillary vein. Directions.—The lower part of the neck will not be again returned to for some days, so that the dissector may stitch together the flaps of skin, when he has applied the fluid to preserve it. Section VI. PTERTGO-MAXILLARY REGION. In this region are included the muscles superficial to and Contents beneath the ramus of the jaw, together with the articulation region, of the bone. In connection with the muscles (pterygoid) beneath the ramus of the jaw, are the internal maxillary blood vessels and the inferior maxillary trunk of the fifth nerve. Dissection. — The masseter muscle which is superficial to Dissec- *■ tion. G 3