742 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. circular its fellow. Its anterior part is fixed to the bottom of the depression in front of the spine of the tibia, and close to that point of bone; and its posterior extremity is inserted into the middle of the spine, between the two osseous points, band of -^rom *ne posterior part of this disc a ligamentous fasciculus Jiga- ascends to the inner condyle of the femur, to be inserted ment. \ before or behind the posterior crucial ligament. This fibro- cartilage is less closely united to the capsule than the internal, for the tendon of the popliteus muscle separates it behind from that membrane. Trans- The transverse ligament is a narrow band of fibres be- verse li- <*#•!• gament. tween the semilunar cartilages at the front of the joint. Sometimes it is scarcely perceptible. Articu- Articular surface of the bones.— The lower end of the lar end J J femur ^emur presents on each side a large convex condyle, and between them a slightly hollowed part; of the two, the articular surface on the external condyle is the largest and extends highest. Each condyloid half of the bone has the following differences in its surface : altogether in front is a trochlea or pulley-like surface formed by both; at the pos- terior part each is rounded and convex, but the inner one most so; whilst the intervening part of each is flattened, tibia, On the head of the tibia are two articular surfaces, but the inner one is deepest, and has the greatest extent, and pa- The surface of the patella is divided into two parts, but unequally, by a vertical ridge, so that the outer, which cor- responds to the wider face on the external condyle of the femur, is the largest in size. Articu- Peroneo tibial articulations. — The tibia and fibula of tibia are united by ligamentous bands at the ends, where they la. touch, and by an interosseous ligament between the shafts of the bones. The surfaces in contact are tipped with car- tilage, and a synovial membrane is present in the joint. Dissec- Dissection. — The muscles are to be taken away from the the liga- front and the back of the interosseous ligament; and the ments* cellular membrane is to be removed from a small band in front of, and behind both the upper and lower articulations between the tibia and fibula. After the examination of the ankle-joint, a strong interosseous ligament may be seen at the lower part of the leg by forcibly tearing the bones one from another.