556 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. covers the testicle after the manner of other serous membranes; for tide. the testicle is placed behind it, so as to be partly enveloped and lines \yj it and vet not in the enclosed cavity. The sac, however, scrotum; J 7 J J is larger than is necessary for covering the testicle, and pro- * jects some distance above it. Like other serous membranes, it has an external rough, and an internal secerning smooth surface; and like them it has a visceral and a parietal part. To examine its disposition the sac should be opened. its vis- The visceral layer (tunica vagin. testis) covers the testicle, part except posteriorly, where the vessels enter or leave it, and is inseparably united with the special fibrous coat of the viscus, On the outer side it extends farther back than on the inner, and it passes between the testis and the arched body (epi- didymis) that lies on this aspect of the organ. and pa- The parietal part of the sac (tunic, vagin. scroti) is more extensive than the piece covering the testicle, and lines the immediately contiguous layer of the scrotum. Testicle Form and position of the testis. — The testicle is oval in shape, with a smooth surface, and is flattened on the sides. Margins. The anterior margin is convex, and the posterior, which is flatter, is pierced by the spermatic vessels and nerves. Bodies Stretching like an arch along the outer part of the testis is testicle, the epididymis, or the convoluted part of the excretory duct of the organ ; and attached to the upper part of the testis, or that of the epididymis, is a very small body, two or three lines in length, whose use is unknown. suspend- It is suspended obliquely, so that the upper part is directed liqueiy. forwards and somewhat outwards, and the lower end back- wards and rather inwards. Dimen- Size and weight. — In length the testis is an inch and a sions . half or two inches; from before backwards it measures rather more than an inch, and from side to side rather less and than in inch. Its weight is nearly an ounce, and the left is weight. frequently larger than the other. a dense Structure.—The substance of the testicle is composed of contains a mass of minute secerning tubes, around which the blood- secret- vessels are disposed in plexuses. Surrounding and support- tubes, ing the delicate seminiferal tubes is a dense covering of the tunica albuginea. Its excretory or efferent duct is named vas deferens. How to Dissection. — With the view of examining the investing