749 ARTICULATIONS OF THE METATARSUS. The interosseous ligaments are short, transverse fibres be- and in- tween the rough lateral surfaces of the four outer bones, and seous may be afterwards seen by tearing these asunder, ments. Lateral union. — The four outer bones touch one another Lateral union. laterally, and the second lies against the internal cuneiform. At those spots they are covered with cartilage, and provided with synovial membrane, that is derived from the sacs serv- Synovial ing for the articulation of the metatarsal with the tarsal bones. The metatarsal bone of the great toe, like that of the thumb, Articu. is not united to the others by any intervening bands : it has great" °f its own articulation with the internal cuneiform bone. The digital ends of all the metatarsal bones are further Anterior united by the transverse metatarsal ligament; this has been ment. described in page 725. Articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. Arficu% lation of — The last row of the tarsus articulates with the metatarsus the tar- sus and in the following manner ; the three cuneiform with the three metatar- ° 7 sus. inner metatarsal, and the cuboid with the two outer meta- tarsal bones. The bones are tipped with cartilage where they are in contact, and have, moreover, dorsal, plantar, and lateral ligaments. a. The dorsal ligaments are thin bands of fibres, that are Dorsal either longitudinal or oblique, as they extend from the tarsal mgents. , to the metatarsal bones. Each metatarsal bone has one, ex- cept that of the second toe, to which there are three : — the first has its band from the inner cuneiform bone; the second its three bands from the cuneiform bones, one from each ; the third has a ligament from the external cuneiform; and the fourth and fifth have a fasciculus to each from the os cuboides. b. The plantar ligaments are mostly longitudinal; there Plantar is one from each cuneiform to its corresponding metatarsal gitudinai bone, but between the cuboid and the remaining metatarsal Hque. bones there are only some scattered fibres. Oblique plantar ligaments between the same bones are also present in the sole of the foot: for instance, a superficial fasciculus of fibres extends from the front of the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsal bones ; and from the exter- nal cuneiform there is a superficial band to the metatarsal bone of the little toe.