631 STRUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. openings of the Fallopian tubes, and spread from these till they meet at the middle line of the uterus. The middle or an.a J middle. intervening set of fibres are more indistinct than the others, and have a less determinate direction. The mucous lining is continued into the vagina at one Mucous end of the uterus, and into the Fallopian tubes at the other. In the interior of the uterus it is thin, smooth, and adherent. Like the mucous membrane of the intestine, it possesses tubular glands, which may be either straight and simple, or covered may be twisted or branched : the apertures of these are glands, scattered over the surface. Between the rugse of the cervix Follicles uteri mucous follicles and glands are collected. The epithe- neck . ■ n , , .1 Epithe- lial covering 01 the mucous membrane is columnar and hum. ciliated as low as the middle of the cavity of the neck, but laminar beyond that point. The blood-vessels of the uterus are large and tortuous ; and the Vessels veins occupy canals in the uterine substance, in which they com- i™ge. municate freely together. The arteries are furnished from the Arteries; uterine and ovarian branches : the veins correspond with the arteries veins; in name and number. The nerves are derived from the sympa- nerves, thetic, and are very small in proportion to the size of the uterus : they are not enlarged in pregnancy.—Beck.* Mound ligament of the uterus. — This firm cord supports This the uterus, and is contained partly in the broad ligament , ends in and partly in the inguinal canal (p. 478.). It is about four 8r°m' or five inches in length, and is attached to the upper part of Attach- the uterus close below, and anterior to the Fallopian tube. merus° A process of the peritoneum accompanies the part of the cord in the inguinal canal, and sometimes remains pervious for a short distance. The ligament is composed of unstriped how muscular fibres, derived from the uterus, together with ves- sels and cellular membrane. OVARIES AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. Ovary.—-The ovaries are two bodies, analogous to the pOSition; testes of the male; they are contained in the broad ligaments of the uterus, -one in each, and at the posterior aspect. Each ovary is of an elongated form, and somewhat flat- form and colour ; * See a Paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1846.