CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA. 495 and the umbilical in the middle. Each of these regions is further subdivided into three by two lines, one on each side, from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the centre of Poupart's ligament. This vertical line will mark off on each side a piece from each of the three circles, which is named respec- tively, from above downwards, hypochondriac, lumbar, and iliac. In addition, the central and lower part of the hypo- gastric subdivision is named pubic region, whilst its lateral portion is designated the inguinal region. Contents and their position. — The alimentary tube and its Parts in it- -i -i i cavity. accessory parts, the liver, pancreas, and spleen, occupy the upper division of the cavity of the abdomen. The kidney is also situate in the same part of the abdominal space. The alimentary tube presents differences in form, and is General , . . . division divided into stomach, small intestine, and large intestine; of aii- . . mentary and each of these divisions is further subdivided as it will tube afterwards appear. The several viscera have the following general position : — The small intestine is much coiled, and occupies the j^p08*- greater part of the cavity ; whilst the great intestine arches around it. Both are fixed in position by folds of the serous Position, lining. Above the arch of the great intestine are located the cessive stomach, the liver, the spleen, and the pancreas ; and below PdItS* it is the convoluted small gut. Behind the large intestine on ofkid- ° m ° ney. each side is the kidney with its excretory tube. Superficial view of the contents— On first opening the Jyts of abdomen the following viscera appear: — On the right side seen ^ is the liver, which is partly concealed by the ribs. On the displace, left side a part of the stomach is visible; but this viscus lies chiefly beneath the ribs, and is somewhat overlaid by the liver. Descending from the stomach is a fold of peritoneum (the large omentum), which reaches to the pelvis, and con- ceals the intestine: in some bodies the omentum is raised into the left hypochondriac region, and leaves the small in- testine uncovered. If the bladder is distended, a small part of it may come into view just above the pelvis. CONNECTIONS OF THE VISCERA. Before the natural position of the viscera is disturbed, Connec- their connections wTith the surrounding parts, and their situa- viscera