498 DISSECTION OP THE ABDOMEN. ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. Caecum, The ccecum, or the commencement of the colon, is placed of cSon. in the right iliac fossa, in which it is fixed by the perito- situation neum stretched over it. In front are the convolutions of the small intestine, but when it is distended it touches the abdo- and con- minal wall. Behind, it rests on the iliac fascia, only cellular nections. , . . /-\ i ♦ membrane intervening. On the inner side it is joined by the small intestine ; and it presents inferiorly a worm-like piece — the vermiform appendix. Sometimes the perito- neum surrounds the caecum, and attaches it by a fold to the abdominal wall. Ascend- The ascending colon reaches from the caecum to the under ion. surface of the liver, on the right of the gall bladder. It lies against the quadratus lumborum inferiorly, but higher up it Parts is placed in front of the kidney. The peritoneum fixes it immoveably to the wall of the abdomen; and usually it does not surround more than two-thirds of the circumference, but it may be found to encircle the tube, and form a fold behind this, as in the caecum. To its inner side are the convolutions of the small intestine. Connec- The transverse colon passes obliquely upwards and to the the left, along the curvature of the stomach, as far as the spleen ; verse co- but in this course it is somewhat bent, for it is deeper at each end than in the middle, and is sometimes named the arch of the colon. In this extent it has above it the liver and the gall bladder, the stomach, and the spleen ; and below it the small intestine. In front is the great omentum ; and behind, is a fold of peritoneum, the transverse meso-colon, which attaches it to the back of the abdominal wall, and con- is most tains its vessels and nerves. The transverse colon is more moveable than any other part of the large intestine, its peri- large in- toneal fold allowing it to be raised and placed on t&e margin of the ribs. Small pieces of peritoneum, containing fat, the appendices epiploicae, are fixed along it. Descend- The descending colon commences below the spleen, and ion.c°" reaches to the left iliac fossa. At first it is deeply placed in the left hypochondriac region, and in its whole course it is situa- deeper than the right colon. In front of it are the convolu- tions of the small intestine ; and behind, are the diaphragm, the outer part of the kidney, and the quadratus lumborum.