741 LIGAMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 3 b 3 studied. When the joint is bent the posterior ligament is and ex- stretched, and when it is straightened the anterior band is made tense. In rotation inwards of the tibia the ligaments are crossed in rota- tion. tightly, and the movement is arrested by the anterior fasci- culus ; but in rotation outwards the ligaments untwist, be- coming almost parallel, and that bone may be turned back foremost. As long as both ligaments are whole the femur cannot be in keep- • > in£> the dislodged from the tibia. If the anterior be cut the femur bones in can be displaced backwards ; but if the posterior is divided, whilst the other remains entire, the same bone can be brought in front of the tibia. Since the ligaments act in the manner above stated in in ex. treme keeping the articular surfaces one on another, both will be flexion called into play in extreme flexion and extension. For in tension, great flexion the anterior will be stretched with the posterior crucial, because there is an attempt to separate the articular surfaces backwards at the same time. So in great extension, the posterior comes into action after the anterior ligament, to prevent the femur being carried forwards. The inter articular or semilunar cartilages are two fibro- semi- cartilaginous plates, which partly cover the articular surface carti- of the tibia. They are thickest at the outer margin, where two. they are united by fibres to the capsule; and are hollowed on the upper surface, so as to assist in giving depth to the fossse for the reception of the condyles of the femur. At their at- tachments to the bone they are coarsely fibrous, like the crucial ligament, and become cartilaginous only where they lie between the articular surfaces. The synovial membrane is reflected over them. a. The internal cartilage is semicircular in form, and is a internal . . is semi- segment of a larger circle than the external. In front it is circular. attached by a pointed part to an impression close in front of the inner articular surface of the tibia, and in a line with the anterior margin of the head of that bone. At the back, where it is much wider, it is fixed to the inner lip of the hollow behind the spine of the tibia, between the attachment of the other cartilage and the posterior crucial ligament. b. The external cartilage is nearly circular in form, and Exter- is connected to the bone within the points of attachment of Seiriy