DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 338 side for an inch or an inch and a half above the first rib, so is bifid, that the apex may be said to be bifid. Each point projects how between the scaleni muscles, so as to touch the subclavian bounded- blood-vessels, and is bounded by those bodies. In the in- terval between the apices are the several parts that pass between the neck and the thorax. size of Capacity. — The hollow of the thoracic cavity does not chest not , i • • that of correspond to the visible size of the thorax, for about the cavity ; lower half of the space included by the ribs is occupied by the abdominal viscera ; and, above, it reaches beyond the ribs into the neck. depth In consequence of the arched condition of the diaphragm varies ' r> »■■«•«»• the depth of the space must vary greatly at different points, before; At the centre, where the depth is least, it measures nbout behind; seven inches, but at the back as much again; and the other on sides, vertical measurements can be estimated by means of the data given with respect to the correspondence of the base to parts of the wall of the thorax, size is Alterations in capacity. — The size of the thoracic cavity altered . .. . in life; is constantly varying during life with the condition of the ribs and the diaphragm in breathing, in trans- It is increased in the horizontal measurements in inspira- tion- tion, when the ribs are raised and separated from one ribs • by another ; and is diminished in expiration as the ribs approach one another, and the sternum sinks, in depth An alteration in depth is due to the condition of the clia- d?a-the phragm in respiration ; for the muscle descends when air is phragm, ^^en ^Q lungs, thus increasing the cavity, and ascends when the air is expelled from those organs, so as to restore the previous size of the space, or in violent efforts to diminish but un- it. But the movement of the diaphragm is not equal equally, throughout, and some parts of the cavity will be increased proportionally more than others. For instance the central, tendinous piece is joined to the heart case and moves but slightly; but the lateral, bulging, fleshy halves descend freely, and add greatly to the size of the lateral part of the chest by their separation from the thoracic parietes. thorax It is evident that the thoracic cavity may be diminished byaddi- by the base being pushed upwards by enlargement, either tions to n .. . n abdo- temporary or permanent, 01 the viscera in the upper part or men.