548 DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. of the gall-bladder, and surrounds the large end when the viscus is distended. Fibrous The muscular coat which has not great strength, gives a muscu- complete covering to the sac, and has much fibrous tissue in- stratum. termixed with it. Mucous The mucuos coat is marked internally by numerous ridges is^eo- an(* intervening depressions, which give an areolar or honey- surface comb appearance to the surface. On laying open the gall- bladder, this condition will be seen, with the aid of a lens, to be most developed about the centre of the sac, and to dimi- nish towards each extremity. In the larger hollows, there and co- are other smaller depressions which lead to mucous follicles. vert-d by a coium- The surface of the mucous membrane is covered by a colum- nar epi- t t J theiium. nar epithelium. Projec- Where the gall-bladder is bent, at its junction with the tions of , the wail, cystic duct, its coats project into the interior, and give rise to ridges that resemble the parietal septa in the sacculated large intestine. Duct of The cystic duct joins the hepatic duct at an acute angle, bladder, to form the ductus communis choledochus. It is about an inch and a half long, and is distended and somewhat saccu- lated near the gall-bladder, struc- Structure.—The coats of the duct are the same as those of same as the sac from which it leads, but the muscular fibre cells are sac, and is very few« The mucous lining is provided with branched M™h ^u g^an(^s? as m the hepatic and common bile ducts (p. 532.). glands, j>uf- \n tne hepatic ducts the glands are arranged in a row on each side. Mucous Valve of the gall-bladder. — On slitting open the duct the coat like ■. . n • /? «i a screw, mucous membrane is seen to lorm a series ot semilunar pro- jections (from nine to twenty), which are arranged obliquely around the tube, like the thread of a screw, and increase in size towards the gall-bladder. This structure is best seen on a gall-bladder that has been inflated and dried; as in this state the parts of the bladder between the folds are most dis- tended, giving rise to the sacculated appearance. Artery, Blood-vessels and nerves. — The vessels of the gall-bladder are vein, named cystic ; the artery is a branch of the hepatic, and the vein nerves, opens into the vena portas near the liver. The nerves are derived ?ymph- from the hepatic plexus, and entwine around the vessels. The aucs. lymphatics follow the cystic duct, and join the deep lymphatics on the spinal column.