DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 376 Remove Dissection.— The lungs are next to be removed from the lungs to body in order that their physical characters and the structure them.me may be learnt. Those bodies will be detached as soon as the vessels of the root are cut through. Next, the remains of the heart and pericardium are to be taken away. To effect their removal the inferior cava is to be divided, and the pericardium to be detached from the surface of the diaphragm ; and in doing this, some care should be taken by the dissector not to injure the parts contained in the interpleural space in front of the spine. Surface PHYSICAL CHARACTERS OF THE LUNG. — The Surface of smooth; tne lung is smooth and shining, in consequence of its pleural is mark- investment. Through the serous covering the mass of the lobules lung may be seen to be divided by cellular septa, and by dark spots or sometimes lines, into small irregularly sized pieces or lobules. On looking closely at the pulmonary and substance, especially at a thin margin, the texture will be cSfs! perceived to be spongy, or composed of minute cells. Colour The tint of the lung varies with age. In infancy the withs colour is a pale red; but in the adult the texture becomes age* grayish in colour, and presents here and there dark gray spots or lines, whose colour deepens with increasing age, Acciden- and becomes even black in old people. From the position iour.°" of the body after death, the colour of the posterior border may be of a bluish black shade. Consist- To the touch the lung is soft and yielding, and on a sec- ence' tion being made into it, the pulmonary substance will appear porous and spongy; but the lung which is deprived of its Crepita- air by pressure has a tough leathery feel. In the ordinary condition of the lung, slight pressure with the thumb and finger drives the air from its containing cells through the pulmonary structure, and produces the noise known as cre- andeias- pitation. If the lung contains serum, a frothy red fluid will thTpuu run out when it is cut. The texture of the lung is very texture, elastic ; this elasticity causing the organ both to diminish greatly when the thorax is opened, and to expel air that may be blown into it. specific The specific gravity of the lung varies with the condi- gravity, ^ong 0f dilatation and collapse, or of infiltration with fluid. When the pulmonary tissue is free from fluid, and filled with air it floats in water; but when it is quite deprived of