761 STRUCTURE OF THE CHOROID COAT. the lens, like the many petals of a flower, forming a circle Position, (corpus ciliare). These processes lie side by side, and con- sist of larger and smaller folds; together they are about sixty Two i-i /i . . kinds, m number, but the latter do not reach the free extremities small, of the larger kind, and often blend with them. The folds and are thin externally at the commencement, near the ciliary ligament, but increase in depth internally, and projecting inwards, end around the lens; but at their inner extremity they are bent away from the lens towards the iris, and so assist to bound circumferentially the space (posterior cham- ber) behind the iris. Behind, the ciliary processes are connec- closely connected with the membrane on the front of the with vitreous humour, for they fit into hollows between folds on around, the anterior aspect of that membrane. In front they are in contact with the back of the iris, with the tissue of which they are continuous. Structure. — The choroid coat and its ciliary processes Parts are formed principally of blood-vessels, with dark pigment into its cells, for there is only a small quantity of white fibrous tissue ture. intermixed with the other structures. On the outer surface the larger branches of both arteries A plexus ° of blood. and veins lie side by side, and the veins form parallel curves vessels (yasa vorticosa) as they end in four or five chief efferent Z^ge trunks. On the inner surface the vessels may be seen in an Sfter-S injected eye to form a net-work of capillaries with smaller nally' meshes than elsewhere, whose interstices are rather less to- close in- wards the back than the front of the eyeball: this part of the ternallv- choroidal coat is sometimes described as a separate layer (tunica Ruyschiana). In the interspaces of the vessels to- wards the outer surface there are ramified irregular pigment ^^"y cells, which contain a nucleus and molecular grains of dark n*[^r" brown colouring matter; but towards the inner surface? where the vessels form so close a plexus, the pigment cells are wanting. In the ciliary processes there is also a texture of ramified struc- .... . . tureof blood-vessels, with intermixed pigment cells, as in the choroid ciliary coat; but the cells are in greatest abundance on the under or cesses, posterior aspect, as well as in the intervals between the pro- cesses. The pigmentary membrane (choroidal epithelium).— On Pigmen- the inner surface of the choroid coat and the ciliary processes layer