738 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. External CI, The external lateral ligament is round and cord-like; ligament it is attached to the outer condyle of the femur below the ' tendon of the gastrocnemius, and descends vertically between two pieces of the tendon of the biceps to the outer part of the head of the fibula. A second fasciculus, short external lateral ligament is sometimes found behind the other. Be- neath the ligament are the tendon of the popliteus, and the lower external articular vessels and nerve. Tendon The tendon of the biceps is inserted into the upper part of biceps is the head of the fibula by two processes, and from one of these there is a prolongation to the head of the tibia. The external lateral ligament passes between the pieces into which the tendon splits. Tendon The tendon of the popliteus may be followed to the femur popliteus by dividing the external lateral and capsular ligaments. It edatoach" arises from the fore part of the oblong depression on the condyle; outer surface of the external condyle of the femur; and, in its course to the outside of the joint, it crosses the external semilunar cartilage and the upper tibio-peroneal articulation. When the joint is bent, the tendon lies in the hollow on the condyle. adduc- The tendon of the adductor magnus is inserted into a nus to*8 tubercle on the inner surface of the internal condyle above the . . inner, the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. internal b. The internal lateral ligament is scarcely distinguisb- lateral iiga- able from the capsule at its attachment to the condyle of attach- the femur ; but it becomes thicker inferiorly, and is fixed to merits; . _ _ . the inner surface and the posterior border of the tibia nearly as low as the popliteus muscle. The tendons of the sar- torius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles lie over the is joined ligament; and the tendon of the semimembranosus, and the by semi- ° . mem- lower internal articular vessels are beneath it : to the brano- sus. posterior edge some fibres of the tendon of the semimem- branosus are added, inser- The tendon of the semimembranosus muscle is to be fol- tion of the semi-lowed beneath the internal lateral ligament. It is inserted mem- % . # brano- beneath the ligament into an impression at the hinder part of the inner tuberosity of the head of the tibia, and sends some fibres to that band; it gives also one membranous prolonga- tion to join the fascia covering the popliteus muscle, and another to the posterior ligament of the knee-joint.