CONNECTIONS OF THE INTESTINE. 497 In all these different changes in its position, the right end moves more than the left, because it is attached only by pe- ritoneum to the parts around. The small intestine, — The smaller part of the intestinal Sma11. A intestine. tube (intestinum tenue) reaches from the stomach to the rio-ht iliac region, where it ends in the large intestine. It situation — -| , 3 \ ■„ . anddivi- is divided into three parts, duodenum (twelve ringers mtes- sions. tine), jejunum, and ileum ; of the two last, one receives its name from its empty condition, and the other from its nu- merous coils. The duodenum cannot be satisfactorily seen at present, Duode- and it will be examined afterwards. The jejunum and ileum begin on the left side of the ^unum second lumbar vertebra, without any distinct mark of sepa- ileum, ration from the duodenum. Two-fifths of the intestine are given to the jejunum, and the remaining three-fifths to the ileum. This part of the intestinal tube forms many convo- situa- lutions in the umbilical, hypogastric, lumbar, and iliac re- gions of the abdomen; and it descends oftentimes in the female into the cavity of the pelvis. In front of the convo- lutions is the great omentum; and posteriorly the small in- Connec- testine (beyond the duodenum) is fixed to the spine by a fold of peritoneum named the mesentery, which includes the vessels and nerves. Surrounding the jejunum and ileum is the large intestine or colon; but on the left side of the body the large is concealed by the small intestine. The large intestine. — The large intestine or colon is sac- Large culated, and is less moveable than the small intestine. It howdis- begins in the right iliac region in a dilated part or head ed.smsh" (caput caecum coli), and ascends to the liver through the right iliac, lumbar, and hypochondriac regions. Then cross- course ing the abdomen below the stomach, it reaches the left hypo- chondriac region ; and it lies in this transverse part of its course between the epigastric and umbilical regions, or alto- gether in the latter. Finally, it descends on the left side and ex- through the regions corresponding to those it occupied on tent* the right, forms a remarkable bend (sigmoid flexure) in the left iliac fossa, and enters the pelvis to end on the surface of the body. The large intestine takes an arched course around the small intestine, and is divided into six parts, viz. caecum, Dn K K JlVl- sions.