DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 540 ghian body after sudden death, or in children. They are small size- ' ves^cu^ar bodies, averaging ^ of a line in diameter, and are appended, mostly without pedicles, to the sheaths of the smallest branches of the arteries ; they project into the pulp attach- of the spleen, and are surrounded by it except at the attached side. Each is a closed sac, having a membranous case, with contents. consti- The coat of the corpuscle is transparent, and consists of tuents. game tissue as the sheaths of the small arteries with which it is continuous. In the interior is a tenacious whitish mass, with different sized cells of the same nature as those in the spleen pulp. Splenic Blood-vessels.-—The branches of the splenic artery enter artery ^e spleen, and their ramifications are surrounded by the supplies sheaths of tissue, even to the terminal twigs. In this viscus So?" tne chief branches are said not to join together; and they spleen. accon3panv the veins till they have a size from i to y1^- of a line. Then they leave the veins, and, still surrounded by sheaths, end in the smallest branches; these pass by the Malpighian bodies, to which they are said to give fine twigs, and end by means of tufts of offsets in the splenic pulp, vein The splenic vein begins in the capillaries occupying the bygca- splenic pulp in the intertrabecular spaces, as in other parts of piiianes. ^e DOdy? and without dilatations (Kolliker). The branches of veins are much larger than the arteries which they ac- company to the fissure of the spleen; and in their course they receive accessory branches, some joining at a right angle. Lymph Nerves and lymphatics. — The lymphatics are superficial and atics. deep, and enter the glands in the gastro-splenic omentum; their Nerves arrangement in the spleen is unknown. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and surround the artery and its branches ; accord- ing to Ecker they end in free points by the sides of the arterial tufts. THE LIVER. office of The liver secretes the bile, and is the largest gland in the the liver. k0(jy. its duct opens into the duodenum with that of the pancreas. Clean Dissection. — Preparatory to examining the liver, the teisVon vessels at the under surface should be dissected out. This