237 FOURTH VENTICLE. very dark "gray substance" which has a bluish appearance, as it is seen through the thin stratum covering it, and is named locus cceruleus* ; and a bluish streak (tamia violacea) locus v 7 caeru- is continued upwards, at the outer edge of the eminentia leus» teres, to the opening in the top of the fourth ventricle. Crossing the floor on each side, opposite the lower border of the pons, are some white streaks, that vary much in their white arrangement, and sometimes are not to be recognised. They stna?' issue from the central median fissure, and enter the crus cerebelli, and the auditory nerve (p. 202.); but one may oftentimes be seen to enter the locus casruleus. Besides the objects above mentioned, there are other Emi- eminences in the floor of the ventricle, that have been re- "erveS °f ferred to by Stilling as indicating the position of the nuclei nuclel* of origin of certain nerves. In the lower half of the ven- In lower tricle—the part called calamus scriptorius—are three some- half; what triangular eminences on each side for the eighth and ninth nerves: — One of these, viz. that for the ninth nerve, of is close to the middle line, and corresponds to the lowerninth' pointed part of the fascic. teres. The other two are outside that fasciculus, and are placed in a line one above another, but separated by a well-marked groove ; the lower of the two is the nucleus of the vagus, and the upper, that of the of vagus, glossopharyngeal. Running into the vagus nucleus, below, giosso- is that of the small portion of the spinal accessory nerve, geai?n" which begins at the point of the fourth ventricle, close to sPinal ° *■ 7 acces- the middle line, and extends upwards and outwards. In scy- the upper half of the space some nerves take their origin, in upper but there is only one projection pointing out the locality. This is the common nucleus of the sixth and the facial °.f tl)e , sixth and nerve: it is a half globular elevation on the outer part offacial- the eminentia teres, about a line above the white cross striae on the floor, and close to the lower end of the fovea anterior. The fourth ventricle communicates at the upper part with Open- the third ventricle through the Sylvian aqueduct; and with the ven- the sub-arachnoid space of the cord and brain, through an aperture in the pia mater that intervenes between the * The term locus caeruleus seems to be applied to the spot, for the dark vesicular matter in it has been named substantia ferruginea.