70 DISSECTION OF THE NECK. scalenus The scalenus posticus is inconsiderable in size, and ap- Attachr-' pears part of the preceding. It is attached below by a slip, ments. akout na]f an \uc\i wide, to the upper border of the second rib, in front of the elevator of that bone; and above, it is inserted with the scalenus medius into two or three of the lower cervical vertebras. Meaning The subclavian artery is a given part of the large vessel of sub. 01 0 artery11 supplies the upper limb with blood, to which this name Extends has been applied from its position beneath the clavicle. This h°mt£per vessel of the limb is derived from the branching of the inno- minate artery behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, and the part of it named subclavian extends as far as the lower border of the first rib. To reach the limb the artery crosses the lower part of the neck, taking an arched course over the bag of the pleura and the first rib, and between the scaleni and is muscles. For the purpose of describing the numerous con- into nections of the subclavian artery the vessel may be divided three . . . parts, into three parts: the first extending from the sterno-clavi- cular articulation to the inner border of the anterior scalenus; the second, beneath the scalenus; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to the lower edge of the first rib. First First part. — Internal to the anterior scalenus the artery LTnaito lies deeply in the neck, and ascends slightly from the level is deep, of its origin. Between the vessel and the surface will be found the common tegumentary coverings and the deep fascia, the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a deep process of fascia from the inner border Parts in of the scalenus muscle. Crossing the artery near the scalenus are the large internal jugular, and the small vertebral vein; and. internal to these veins is the pneumogastric nerve. Some branches of the sympathetic are likewise placed in behind, front of the vessel. This part of the subclavian lies over the iongus colli muscle, though at some distance from it, and separated from it by cellular membrane, by the recurrent branch of the pneumogastric nerve, and by the sympathetic below, nerve. Below the artery, both in this and the next part, is the pleura, which ascends into the arch formed by the vessel. Branch- Three branches arise from the subclavian in this part of its es. v extent. second ' Second part.—Beneath the scalenus the vessel is less part be-