435 F f 2 INTRASPINAL VESSELS. nected with the lateral column, and enter the gray part of same side. the commissure of the cord. By means of the transverse Perhaps .fibres in the commissure the posterior root may possibly be °ift°ppo' connected, like the anterior root, with the opposite half of the cord. Neither in the anterior nor in the posterior roots could Do A m nerve Kolliker discover any junction of the nerve cells with the ^sand nerve fibres, whilst these were in the gray substance. j°in ? Intraspinal Vessels.— The arteries in the interior of vessels the spinal canal supply the cord and its membranes, and the spinal bodies of the vertebras. The veins form a remarkable plexus within the canal, but much of this will be destroyed in the process of sawing the bones and removing the cord. The intraspinal arteries are derived from the vessels Source along the sides and front of the spinal column, viz. from the intra- vertebral and ascending cervical, from the intercostal, and arteries, from the lumbar and lateral sacral. As each artery enters the spinal canal by the intervertebral Distri- foramen, it divides into two branches, upper and lower: these the^ver!0 branches are directed, one upwards and the other downwards, be- and"the hind the bodies of the two contiguous vertebras and outside the cord- edge of the posterior common ligament, to join in anastomotic loops with offsets of the intraspinal artery above and below. These loops extend from one intervertebral foramen to another, and furnish branches to the periosteum, and the bodies of the ver- tebras on their posterior surface, as well as anastomotic twigs to connect the arches across the vertebras. The intraspinal veins cannot be dissected unless they are veins injected. They consist of two anterior longitudinal veins, thehm which extend the whole length of the spinal canal behind canal are the bodies of the vertebras; of veins from the bodies of the larse* vertebrae; and of a plexus of veins beneath the plates or arches of the vertebrae. a. The anterior longitudinal veins are close to the bodies of the Anterior vertebrae, one on each side of the common ligament uniting those d°inaitU" bones; and are irregular in outline, owing to certain constrictions near the intervertebral foramina. They receive opposite the body are on of each vertebra the vein from that bone ; and they send outwards, verte- through the intervertebral foramina, branches of communication brae' with the veins outside the spine in the neck, the dorsal region, and the loins. b. Veins of the bodies of the vertebrae. — Within the canals in the Veins of