390 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. «re not ^ other spinal nerves of the body, inasmuch as they course a plexus, forwards almost horizontally to the middle line, without being united together in a plexus. Twelve in number they occupy the intercostal spaces, except the last, and this is below Upper the twelfth rib. There is the following difference between six are ° in the the upper and the lower nerves, viz. that the upper six lie spaces; AL 7 1 1 lower six between the ribs in all their extent, and are confined to the leave ' them in wall of the thorax, whilst the lower six enter the abdominal front. wall where the ribs cease in front, connec- At the posterior part of the chest the nerves are seen to with He at first between the pleura and the external intercostal Ses- muscle, with an artery and vein ; but they soon enter be- tween the two strata of the intercostal muscles, and extend forwards to the middle line of the body, as before said, with the Near the head of the rib each nerve is joined by filaments thetlc! from the sympathetic. In its course it supplies branches to offsets. tjie intercostal muscles of the ribs ; as well as cutaneous offsets to the surface, which are described in the dissections of the upper limb (p. 247.), and the wall of the abdomen* Excep- There are some deviations in the first and second nerves two first, from the general arrangement above specified. First The first nerve ascends in front of the neck of the upper enters riD, and ends in the brachial plexus. Before it leaves the plexus, chest, it supplies a small branch to the first intercostal space; this extends forwards furnishing muscular offsets, Has not, and becomes cutaneous by the side of the sternum. But cutSle7-' there is not any lateral cutaneous branch from this nerve, branch, except in those cases in which the next nerve is not as large as usual. second The second nerve may extend a considerable way on the wall of the chest before entering between the intercostal muscles, and may ascend even to the first space. It is re- markable in having a very; large lateral cutaneous branch (p. 247.). In front it ends like the others. Form of Upper surface of the diaphragm. — The anatomy of the suFface diaphragmatic partition between the thorax and the abdomen phragm. will be specially described with the deep muscles of the latter cavity. The arch of the muscle towards the thorax has been before referred to (p. 237.): the centre of the arch is Parts in tendinous, but the sides are fleshy. In contact with the contact J with it. upper surface are the lungs, one on each side, and the