DISSECTION OF THE PTERYGOID REGION. 92 ends in bone. When in the skull the artery ends in branches which sku11' ascend to the vertex of the head, and supply the bone and the but gives dura mater (p. 17.). Before the meningeal artery enters the skull, it furnishes the two following small branches, branch The tympanic branch enters the tympanum through the Glasse- panum" r^an fissure, and is distributed in that cavity, anastomosing with the other arterial branches of the part, to me- The small meningeal branch arises also near the skull, and passes mnges. through the foramen ovale with the inferior maxillary nerve ; it supplies the dura mater in the middle fossa of the skull. Branch- The branches from the second part of the artery, viz. second whilst it is between the muscles, are altogether muscular in paitare tkeir destination, and are named temporal, masseteric, buccal, and pterygoid. to the 1. The deep temporal arteries are two in number (anterior and muscle^ posterior), and each occupies the part of the temporal fossa indi- cated by its name. They ascend beneath the temporal muscle, and anastomose with the superficial temporal artery. The anterior also communicates, through the malar bone, with branches of the lachrymal artery. When the parent trunk has the unusual posi- tion beneath the pterygoid, the anterior branch is beneath that muscle, instead of over it. to the 2. The masseteric artery is directed outwards with the nerve of te?;Se the same name behind the tendon of the temporal muscle; and passing through the sigmoid notch, enters the under-surface of the masseter muscle. Its branches anastomose with the other branches to the muscle from the external carotid trunk to the 3. The buccal branch quits the artery near the upper jaw, and tor; in the unusual position of the artery it may perforate the fibres of the pterygoid; it then descends beneath the coronoid process with its companion nerve, and is distributed to the buccinator muscle and the side of the face, on which it joins the branches of the facial artery. to ptery- 4. The pterygoid branches are uncertain in their position; muscles, whether derived from the trunk or some of the branches of the internal maxillary, they enter the pterygoid muscles. Branch- Of the branches that arise from the artery when it is about third to enter, or has entered the spheno-maxillary fossa, only one, oniyone the superior dental, will be now described. The remainder seen. will be examined with the superior maxillary nerve and Meckel's ganglion (Section 14.); they are infra-orbital, superior palatine, pterygopalatine, spheno-palatine, and vidian.