DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 538 from the head of the pancreas may open separately into the duodenum, one inch or more from the chief duct. Vessels Vessels and nerves. — The arteries and veins have been described nerves, already: and the lymphatics join the lumbar glands. The nerves are furnished by the solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. Consist- The spleen is a vascular spongy organ of a bluish or purple colour11 colour, sometimes approaching to gray : it has but slight spleen; consistence, so that the texture is friable, and easily broken USe. under pressure. The use of the spleen is unknown, form; The viscus is somewhat elliptical in shape, and is placed position; vertically against the great end of the stomach, as before surfaces; described (p. 500.). On the outer aspect the surface is con- vex towards the ribs. On the inner aspect, the surface is marked by a longitudinal ridge, nearer the posterior than the anterior border, into which the vessels plunge to enter the interior ; whilst before and behind the ridge, the surface is flattened or somewhat hollowed. The spot where the ves. borders; sels enter, is named the hilus of the spleen. The anterior border is thinner than the posterior, and is often notched, ends. Of the two extremities, the lower is more pointed than the upper. SiZe The size of the spleen varies much at different times. In the adult it measures commonly about five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and one or one inch and a and half in thickness. Its weight lies between four and ten weight* ounces, and is rather less in the female than in the male. some- Small masses or accessory spleens (splenculi) are often" acces5- found near the fissure of the spleen, in the gastro-splenic spleens, omentum, or in the great omentum. Varying in size from a bean to a moderate sized plum, these bodies are commonly one or two in number; but they may be many more. In one instance they exceeded even a score. Two Structure.—Enveloping the spleen are two coverings, ^ts a serous and a fibro-elastic. The mass of the spleen is matedai f°rmecl by a network of fibrous tissue, which contains in its spleen meshes the proper splenic substance, and the Malpighian corpuscles. Throughout the whole mass the blood vessels and the nerves ramify. No duct exists in connection with this organ.