378 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. till they inch. When this last degree of diminution is arrived at, cells. the tubes give origin to the air cells. Differ- The larger bronchial branches have the same constituent ence in large and parts as the trachea, only these are somewhat differently tubes in arranged; and they are round in the lung, instead of being and in hemispherical as in the trachea. The smallest branches, and torm. tjie a«r ce]is? want some of the common structures ; and those from which the cells spring are irregular in shape, appearing to be spaces amongst the cells rather than tubes with con- tinuous walls. Consti- Changes in the elements of the bronchi. — The modifi- the air cations which the elementary pieces of the air tube undergo the lung, in the bronchial divisions and in the air cells are the follow- ing:— The pieces of cartilage, which are regularly arranged in a line in the trachea, become broken up in the bronchial tubes, and scattered over the wall as irregular fragments. Pieces of Becoming thinner and smaller as the subdivision of the air carti- ° lase- tube proceeds, they at last disappear, and are absent from Fibrous the terminal branches. The fibrous and elastic tissues of tic tis- the bronchial tubes are continued even to the air cells ; but in the small cell-bearing branches, the bundles of elastic tissue are diffused, and the two textures, much diminished in strength, are blended together to form the parietal struc- Mus- ture. The muscular fibres, that exist only at the back of cular J 9 J fibres, the trachea, are diffused over the inner surface of the bron- chi, where they have an annular arrangement, and extend along the air tube beyond the limit of the pieces of cartilage, Mucous but they cease where the cells begin to be formed. The mem- J ( ° brane. mucous membrane becomes thinner as it extends onwards along the air tube, and is finally continued to the cells, where it is transparent. Its ciliated columnar epithelium is changed for nucleated scaly or pavemental in the air cells. Lobules, Lobules and lobes.—A lobule is a cluster of air cells how formed, around a terminal branch of the air tube. Varying in size and shape, the lobule is invested by cellular tissue, and possesses its own offset of the air tube, as well as distinct Lobes, branches of vessels and nerves. The larger masses of the lung, viz. lobes, are produced by the aggregation of the lobules. Nature The air cells are the little sacs or dilatations in which the and form of the air smallest branches of the air tube terminate. They are poly-