151 OTIC GANGLION. L 4 swelling of the facial nerve receives three small twigs. One in perior front is the large superficial petrosal nerve (vidian) ; another is the u^y*1" small superficial petrosal of the tympanic nerve ; and the third is ^^j"d the external superficial petrosal, which is derived from the sym- JJJJPf" pathetic on the middle meningeal artery. c. Chorda tympani. — This long but slender branch of the facial to gusta- i i t • i * • • tory by nerve crosses the tympanum, and ends in the tongue. Arising chorda about a quarter of an inch from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the tympam* nerve is directed forwards to the tympanum, through a canal in the posterior boundary, and enters that cavity below the pyramid. In the cavity the nerve is directed forwards, across the handle of the malleus and the membrana tympani, to an aperture on the inner side of the Glasserian fissure, through which it leaves the tympanum. Outside the skull, the chorda tympani joins the gus- tatory nerve, and then continues along it to the submaxillary gan- glion and the tongue (p. 96.). The auditory nerve will be examined with the ear. It Audi. tory may now be seen to divide into two parts, one of which enters nerve, the cochlea, and the other the vestibule. Otic ganglion. — At this late period of the dissection, To be there is little to be seen of this ganglion, but the student a fresh should remember that it is one of the things to be examined part* in a fresh part. Its situation is on the inner aspect of the inferior maxillary nerve, close to the base of the skull, and it must therefore be arrived at from the inner side. Dissection. —Putting the part in the same position as for Dissec- the examination of Meckel's ganglion, the dissector should define the Eustachian tube and the muscles of the palate, and then take away the levator palati and the tube, using much care in removing the last. When some cellular mem- brane has been cleared away, the internal pterygoid muscle comes into view, with the trunk of the inferior maxillary nerve above it, and a small branch (internal pterygoid) descending from that nerve to the surface of the muscle. If this branch of nerve to the pterygoid muscle be taken as a guide, it will lead to the ganglion. * To complete the dissection, saw vertically through the To de- petrous part of the temporal bone, a little nearer the middle gan- line than the inner wall of the tympanum, the bone being ghon supported whilst it is divided. Taking off now some mem- and its brane that covers the ganglion, the student may follow es. backwards a small branch to the tensor tympani muscle, but