DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 636 arch bounding the notch containing the obturator vessels and nerve; from the surface of bone internal to the mem- brane ; and from all the smooth surface of the os ischii be- hind the obturator hole, reaching upwards to the brim, downwards to the outlet, and backwards to the great sacro- Arching sciatic notch of the pelvis. The fibres are directed back- tetldons wards and somewhat downwards, and end in four or five ischium, tendinous pieces, which turn over the sharp pulley-like surface of the ischium corresponding to the space of the small sacro-sciatic notch. Outside the pelvis these tendons inser- are blended into one, which is fixed into the great trochanter, and is met with in the dissection of the buttock. The pelvic Part of portion of the muscle is in contact by one side with the wall muscle . is in of the pelvis and with the obturator membrane ; by the pelvic cavity, other side with the fascia lining the pelvic wall, and towards its lower border with the pudic vessels and nerve. Above part in the level of the levator ani, viz. from the lower part of the space?31 symphysis pubis to the spine of the ischium, the muscle cor- responds to the cavity of the pelvis, but below that line, to the ischio-rectal fossa. Coccy- Coccygeus muscle.—The position and the connections of muscle this muscle may now be studied in the interior of the pelvis, to be The muscle is described at p. 584. again re- 1 ferred to. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. Outline The several bones of the pelvis have the following articu- articuia- lations with one another. The sacrum is joined by its base tlons* to the last lumbar vertebra, and by its apex to the coccyx, by special ligaments. Laterally, this central bone is united with the two innominate bones. And the innominate bones are connected together in front, as well as to the sacrum and the spinal column posteriorly. Union of Sacro-vertebral Articulation The base of the wfthXst sacrum is articulated with the last lumbar vertebra by liga- vertebra. ments similar t0 those uniting one vertebra to another (p. 394.) ; and by one special ligament — the sacro-vertebral. Dissec- Dissection.—For the best manner of bringing these dif- ferent ligaments into view, the dissector must consult the directions that have been given respecting the dissection of the ligaments of the vertebras (p. 394.). tion.