CAVITY OF LEFT AURICLE. 355 a a 2 into the auricle, but the farther protrusion of it into the latter cavity is arrested by the small tendinous cords. The mouth of the pulmonary artery will be seen when the Mouth incision in the anterior wall of the ventricle is prolonged monawv . . artery; upwards into it. It is situate on the left of the opening into position ; the auricle, and is opposite the upper border of the third costal cartilage of the left side, close to the sternum. Into it the funnel-shaped part of the right ventricle, or the infundi- bulum is prolonged, and in its interior are three semilunar or has sigmoid valves. Each valve is attached to the side of the semi- • lunar vessel by its convex border, and is free m the cavity by the valves; opposite border, in which there is a slight, thickened, and £^hr at" projecting part, that has been^ named the corpus Arantii. ment' The semilunar valves resemble in structure the tricuspid, struc- for they are formed of fibrous tissue, with a covering of the sigmoid valves lining membrane. In the valves the fibrous tissue has a special arrangement :—There is one band along the attached Arrange- margin ; a second along the free margin, which is connected fibrous with the projecting nodule; and a third set of fibres is di- rected from the nodule across the valve, so as to leave a triangular or semilunar interval almost free from fibres, be- tween it and the band in the free edge, which has been named lunula. The use of these little valves is obvious, viz. and use. to give free passage to fluid in one direction, and to prevent its return by closing the area of the vessel. Whilst the blood is entering the artery, the valves are placed against the wall; but when the vessel acts on the contained blood, the valves are thrown towards the centre of the cavity, and arrest the return of the circulating fluid into the ventricle. Dissection, — To open the cavity of the left auricle, the To open apex of the heart is to be raised, and a cut is to be made riciea.u" across the posterior surface from the right to the left pulmo- nary veins. Another incision should be made in the auricula, at right angles to the former one. The apex of the heart must necessarily be kept raised during the examination of this auricle. The CAVITY OF THE LEFT AURICLE is Smaller than that Shape of of the right side, which it nearly resembles.* Irregularly ieftau-°f conical in shape, the wider part is turned towards the spinal ncle' * The division of the cavity into auricle and sinus venosus may be made on this as on the other side.