DISSECTION OF THE ABDOMEN. 484 the outer third of its extent (half an inch) it is formed by both oblique muscles; but at the inner or lower two-thirds (one inch) it is bounded in front only by the aponeurosis abdomil6 °^ tne external oblique. Next the cavity of the abdomen v?tyCa" ^e wa^ °^ *ne canal *s constructed by the fascia transver- salis, and the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, in this wise:—the fascia reaches about half an inch of the distance, like the internal oblique; and the conjoined tendon, with the fascia transversalis behind it, extends the rest of the way (an inch) along the posterior boundary. Occasionally the triangular ligament projects far enough outwards to take part in the formation of the pos- terior wall of the canal, behind the external abdominal ring. Flooring Along the lower part, or the floor, the canal is limited by of the the union of the fascia transversalis with Poupart's ligament, canal. . - . and by the fibres of that ligament that turn back to the pectineal line; whilst along the upper part, its extent is determined only by the apposition of the muscles. Canal in In the female, the canal has the same length and bound- the fe- ° male. aries, though it is usually somewhat smaller. In that sex it lodges the round ligament, internal The internal abdominal ring is an aperture in the fascia abdomi- . . . nairing. transversalis, which is situate hair way between the sym- tion** physis pubis and the crest of the ilium, and half an inch Form above Poupart's ligament. It is oval in form, the extrem- margin. ities of the oval being directed upwards and downwards, and the fascia at its outer and lower parts is stronger than Upper at the opposite side. Arching above the aperture, and then descending on the inner side, is the lower border of the transversalis muscle; this is fleshy at the outer, but ten- inner dinous at the inner half. On the inner side of the opening ary.. lies the epigastric artery. This opening in the fascia trans- versalis is the inlet to the inguinal canal, and through it the cord, or the round ligament, passes into the wall of the Parts abdomen. The external hernia likewise leaves the abdomen trans- „ mitted at the same spot. All the protruding parts receive as a through . 1 . n n > n • it. covering the prolongation of the fascia from the margin 01 the opening. Exter. The external abdominal ring is the outlet of the inguinal dominal canal, and through it the cord, or the inguinal hernia, situa- reaches the surface of the body. This aperture is placed in tion.