352 DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. ofvieus- on the inner side, and gradually subsides inferiorly. Alto- Aper- gether at the lower part of the posterior wall, between the caSf opening into the ventricle and that of the inferior cava, is veins. t|ie smai]_ aperture of the coronary vein or sinus. Other small apertures are seen scattered over the surface: some lead only into depressions, but others are the mouths of the veins of the substance of the heart (venae cordis minimag), and are named foramina ThebesiL Aper- The chief apertures in the auricle are those of the two cavae. cavaa, of the coronary vein, and of the ventricle ; but the openings of the cavas should be specially noted, because they are so placed that the current of blood issuing from one, in the fetus, does not mix much with that from the other. The opening of the superior cava is in the front and top of the auricle, and its direction is downwards and somewhat forwards. The inferior cava enters the lowest part of the auricle near the septum, and is directed inwards and back- wards to the fossa ovalis. valves^ All those openings, except that of the superior cava, have aper- some kind of valve. In front of the inferior cava is a thin inferior °f tne lining membrane of the cavity, the Eustachian Sfpro- valve, but in the adult this is only a remnant of a structure, with* that is much larger in the fetus. This valve, in its perfect chian" state, is semilunar in form, with its convex margin attached to valve* the wall of the vein, and the other free in the cavity of the auricle. Its surfaces are directed forwards and backwards. In width, the valve surpasses the size of the vein, so that its extremities reach the surface of the auricle ; and the left end is connected with the annulus, or the rim of the fossa ovalis. Coro- The free margin of the valve is often recticular. The aper- veln. ture of the coronary vein in the lower part of the auricle is closed by a thin fold of the lining membrane — valve of Mm- Thebesius. The auriculo-ventricular opening will be seen, ^entd- in examining the right ventricle, to be provided with valves, opening, which prevent regurgitation into the auricular cavity, course In the adult there is but one current of blood in the right of blood .it,/. in au- auricle towards the ventricle. In the fetus there are two; ricle in adult, one of pure, and the other of impure blood, which cross one the fetus, another. The placental or pure blood entering by the in- ferior cava, is directed by the Eustachian valve chiefly into the left auricle, through the opening (foramen ovale) in the