INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. 109 Thus, below that muscle, the internal carotid is superficial in where it the anterior triangular space, being covered only by the fidafbe- common teguments, fascia, and platysma, and is on the same °w level as the external carotid, though outside it. But, above but deep above; that muscle, the vessel is placed deeply beneath the external carotid artery and the parotid gland, and is crossed by the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its branches, and by the pha- rvngeal branch of the vagus nerve. Whilst in the neck the resting ■, . , . . . . 011 long- internal carotid lies on the rectus capitis anticus major in us- uscoiii, cle, which separates it from the vertebras, also on the supe- rior laryngeal and sympathetic nerves. Accompanying the with m- artery is the internal jugular vein, which is placed on the jugular outer side, and between the two vessels is the pneumo-gastric vagus.nd nerve. This part of the artery remains much the same in size to the end, and usually does not furnish any branch. Part in the temporal bone. — In the carotid canal the tor- second tuous course of the vessel commences. Following the wind- temporal ing of its canal, the artery first ascends in front of the cochlea and tympanum; next it is directed forwards almost horizontally; and lastly turns upwards into the skull opposite the foramen lacerum medium (basis cranii.) The ascending Sur- N ' 0 rounded branches of the sympathetic nerve surround the carotid by sym- J 1 pathetic. artery in the temporal bone. The cranial part of the artery is described with the base Third of the skull (see p. 21.). Peculiarities in the carotid. — The length of the internal carotid ^ecu: vessel varies in a given number of bodies, both from difference in in the length of the neck, and in the point of division of the common length' carotid trunk. The course of the vessel may be very tortuous, direc- instead of being straight. It has been already said (p. 79.), that and ori_ the internal carotid may arise sometimes from the arch of the sin- aorta. Further, this vessel may be absent from the neck: in such Absence cases the common carotid may take its place, and give the usual offsets of the external carotid. In one case (Quain) where the artery was deficient in the neck, two branches of the internal maxillary entered the skull, and formed by their union a substi- tute for it in the cranium. The INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN is Continuous With the Internal lateral sinus of the skull, and extends from the foramen veSai lacerum jugulare to the sterno-clavicular articulation. At joins in- 1 i r* 1 • feriorly the lower part 01 the neck it has been seen to join the sub- subcia-