DISSECTION OF THE THORAX. 330 tube. Remak describes small ganglia on the sympathetic fila- Lym- ments. The lymphatics of the lung are both superficial and deep, phatics. an(j enter the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. PARTS IN FRONT OF THE SPINE AND THE CORD OF THE SYMPATHETIC. In front of the spinal column are the several parts enu- merated as lying in the interpleural space of the posterior half of the mediastinum, viz. the aorta, vena azygos, thoracic duct, and oesophagus. Dissec- Dissection.—The small thoracic duct should first be found the parts near the diaphragm, and on the right of the aorta: this men? slender vessel may be injected with tallow. Next, the cel- uoned, ]u]ar membrane is to be cleared away from the different parts before mentioned, and the thoracic duct to be followed upwards beneath the arch of the aorta and along the oeso- phagus, till it leaves the upper aperture of the thorax. The azygos or intercostal veins, one on the right, and two on the left of the aorta, should likewise be dissected, and of After raising the pleura from the inner surface of the thetfc! thorax, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve will be seen lying along the side of the spinal column, over the heads of the ribs. Branches should be followed outwards from the ganglia to the intercostal nerves, and others should be traced inwards over the bodies of the vertebrae to form the three trunks of the splanchnic nerves. Thora- The thoracic aorta is the part of the great systemic Extenta' vessel> which is above the diaphragm. Its extent is from the lower border of the third dorsal vertebra (the left side), where the arch ceases, to the front of the last dorsal ver- course, tebra. Contained in the interpleural space, in front of the spine, the vessel is rather arched in its course, lying at its upper part on the left, but at its lower part on the front of the spine, so that the resulting curve has its convexity turned to the left. In front of the vessel is the root of the and con- left lung with the pericardium. On the left side, in all its ' length, it is covered by the pleura ; and on the right side are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct, but near the dia- phragm the former is placed over the aorta. Beneath the vessel are the vertebrae and the smaller azygos vein. Branch- The branches of the vessel are distributed to the sur-