419 FIFTH LATER OF MUSCLES. Dissection. — The multifidus spinas muscle, which fills the Dissec- hollow by the side of the spinous processes, may now be St? dissected. Over the sacrum it will be necessary to remove spina?, from it the the thick aponeurosis, that covers it and the erector spinas. In the neck, and in the dorsal region the muscle will appear on detaching the semispinalis from the spines, and turning it aside. * The multifidus spinae muscle extends from the sacrum Muiti- to the second vertebra, and is much larger towards the pelvis sp^me than in the neck. It takes its origin inferiorly from the extend aponeurosis covering the surface; from the back of the origin, sacrum, between the central and external row of processes, as low as the fourth aperture ; from the inner surface of the posterior superior spinous process of the innominate bone, and from the ligaments connecting this bone to the sacrum. Along the side of the spine, the muscle arises differently in the several regions : — Thus in the loins it arises from the accessory and the articular processes of the lumbar vertebras; in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebrae; and in the neck, from the arti- cular processes of the four or five lower cervical vertebrae. From this origin the fibres are directed obliquely inwards, some extending more than the length of one vertebra, to be inserted into the spines and the laminae of all the vertebrae Jnser_ except the first. This muscle chiefly fills the vertebraltlon' A " Connec- groove, and is concealed by the erector spinae and the semi- tions. spinalis. The internal branches of the vessels and nerves of the back lie along its outer border. The following small muscles may be said to be parts of the multifidus. * Eotatores spince. — These are eleven small muscles Rota. beneath the multifidus spinae in the dorsal region, and are spina separated from that muscle by cellular tissue. Each is ofemuitf- attached on the one hand to the tip and the upper edge offidus' a transverse process, and on the other to the lower border of the lamina of the vertebra next above. The first starts from the transverse process of the second vertebra. The aponeurosis of the multifidus is connected in the middle Aponeu. line with the spines of the lower lumbar vertebrae, and with muiti? those of the sacrum. On the outer side it is attached to the Mus'