559 STRUCTURE OF THE TESTIS. two, or more tortuous seminal tubules ; and the tubes of one them and lobe are sometimes united with those of the neighbouring meSf' lobes. Towards the apex of each lobe the tubules become less bent, and are united together; and the tubuli of the several lobes are further joined at the same spot into larger canals that form the tubuli recti. Tubuli recti.—The seminal tubes that issue from the They several lobes unite together, becoming larger in size and S?" straighter in direction, and are named tubuli recti or vasa (ESS* recta: they are about twenty in number, and pierce the reCt°; fibrous mediastinum, entering into its interior. Rete testis. ^-In the substance of the mediastinum the tubes lose their former name, and are directed to the upper end of the testis. They are situate in the anterior part of after, that fibrous process, in front of the blood-vessels, and freely St. communicate, so as to form a network, the rete testis. fretT Vasa efferentia.— About twelve or twenty seminal tubes teStis)' issue from the top of the rete testis, and leave the upper part of the testicle as the vasa efferentia. These are larger and then than the tubes of which they are the continuation, and end™6 in the common excretory duct. Though straight at first, SS5n. they soon become convoluted ; whence the name coni vascu- ^ losi, that has been given to them. When they are unravelled, they are from six to eight inches long; and they will be found to join the excretory duct at intervals of about three inches. The excretory duct of the testis receives the vasa effe- Excre rentia from the upper part of the gland, and extends thence S to the urethra. Its first part, which is in contact with the testis, is very flexuous, and forms the epididymis; but the remainder is straight, and is named vas deferens. The epididymis extends, in the form of an arch, along the is bent outer side of the testis, from the upper to the lower end, and receives its name from its situation. Opposite the upper S!S'ng part of the testicle it presents an enlarged portion or head, dymis; the globus major, and at the lower part of that organ it becomes, more pointed or tail-like — globus minor, before ending in the vas deferens. The intervening narrow part how of the epididymis is called the body. Its head is attached to named; the testis by the vasa efferentia that open into it; and its tail or lower part is fixed to the tunica albuginea by some