590 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. pelvis pelvis, and is the receptacle for the fluid secreted by the when . . empty, kidneys. When the bladder is contracted it is of a trian- gular form, and lies within the pelvis against the anterior ?ectspr°" wa^ °^ ^e cav^y* wnen ^ is distended it becomes of when6 a conical snaPe> witn the larger part directed towards the ful1- rectum, and the apex to the abdominal wall; and it is slightly curved over the anterior part of the pelvis as it Axis. projects beyond the bone. If a line through its centre were prolonged, it would touch the abdominal wall somewhere (according to the distension) between the umbilicus and the pubes in the one direction, and the end of the coccyx in the other direction. The organ is maintained in its position by the recto-vesical fascia, and the peritoneum, which form its ligaments. See pages 586. 588. Divi- Yor the purpose of studying its connections the bladder is sions. 11 J ° divided into the following parts: — a summit and base, and a body and neck. Apex The summit or apex of the bladder is rounded, and from on it. its anterior part three ligamentous cords are prolonged to the umbilicus: the central one of these is the remnant of the urachus, and the two lateral are formed by the obli- terated hypogastric arteries. If the bladder is full, the apex is above, but otherwise below the pubes. All the surface behind the obliterated vessels is covered by peri- toneum. Base The base (fundus) is large, and rests on the middle piece of the rectum. In the state of emptiness of the bladder the alters in base is scarcely prominent; but in distension of the viscus, shape, t^.g extends lower, and becomes widened. Connected parts in 1 contact with the under part of the bladder are the vesiculas seminales with it. . and the vasa deferentia; and between these is a triangular space, from which the peritoneum is absent, sur- Surfaces of the body.—The anterior part of the bladder Interior is in contact with the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, or with the lower part of the abdominal wall if it is distended, and is altogether free from peritoneum; whilst and pos- the posterior surface, on the other hand, is entirely covered lateral ^y serous membrane. Extending along the upper part of each lateral region is the obliterated hypogastric vessel, and crossing it lower down is the vas deferens; near the under part is the entrance of the ureter into the bladder. All the