52 DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT. eyeball and its muscles. This nerve is very soft and easily broken. Two branches, temporal and malar, are to be traced forwards from it; and a filament of the lachrymal nerve is to be followed to its junction with the former. The outer wall of the orbit may be cut away, bit by bit, to follow the tem- poral branch through to the surface of the head, branch oro^a^ branch of the superior maxillary nerve arises of supe- in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and enters the orbit by the maxii- fissure of the same name. At the back of the orbit the lary nerve; nerve divides into malar and temporal branches, which ramify in the face and the side of the head. its malar a. The malar branch (r. subcutaneus malaa) is directed forwards along the floor of the orbit, and through a foramen in the malar bone to the face. After emerging from its foramen, this branch supplies the orbicularis, and communicates with the facial nerve. and tem- b. The temporal branch ascends on the outer wall of the orbit, branch either beneath the periosteum, or in a groove in the bone, and being joined by a filament from the lachrymal nerve, passes into the temporal fossa through a foramen in the malar bone. The nerve then turns upwards between the temporal muscle and the bone, and perforates the temporal fascia near the orbit. Its dis- tribution has been seen in the examination of the cutaneous nerves of the head (p. 8.). Appara- Lachrymal Apparatus.—The lachrymal gland and ducts, the with the puncta, canals, and sac, constitute the apparatus by which the tears are formed and conveyed to the nose. The gland has been already described (see p. 44.). Dissec-r Dissection.— Some bristles should be introduced into the tlon' lachrymal canals through the puncta of the eyelids that re- main attached. The lachrymal sac will appear by removing the tensor tarsi and the cellular membrane from its surface? as it lies on the os unguis. The prolongation from the tendo palpebrarum over the sac should likewise be prepared. Aper- The puncta lachrymalia are two small apertures, one for eyelids? each lid, by which the tears enter the lachrymal canals. Each is situate in the free margin of the lid, about a quarter of an inch from the inner canthus, and in the elevation of the papilla lachrymalis. canals The lachrymal canals are two small tubes that reach tears!6 from the puncta, and convey the tears to the lachrymal sac; their situation is marked by the bristles that are inserted in