592 DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. much with increasing age, and in old people it may acquire a considerable magnitude, seminal The vesicula seminales are two small elongated sacs, ' each about two inches long, between the under part of the their bladder and the rectum. Each is pyramidal in form, and connec- tions. hag the larger end turned backwards towards the ureter, whilst the smaller is surrounded by the prostate. Along the inner side is the vas deferens. At the prostate gland the vesiculse are almost close together; but farther backwards they diverge from one another, and enclose with the pouch of the peritoneum a triangular space at the under aspect of the bladder. The vesiculse are contained in a membranous sheath, which is derived from the recto-vesical fascia. Vas de- The vas deferens or the excretory duct of the testis, in ' its course to the urethra, enters the abdomen by the in- ternal abdominal ring, and is then directed inwards along course; the side and under part of the bladder to the base of the unites prostate, where it forms the common ejaculatory duct by duct joining with the duct from the vesicula. The position of vesicula. this tube to the external iliac artery has been noticed; on the bladder it may be seen to lie internal to the ureter, and internal to the vesicula of the same side. By the side of the vesicula the duct is much enlarged, and is saccu- lated. The The urethra is the excretory passage for the urine and ' semen, and reaches from the bladder to the end of the penis, length; jts length varies from seven and a half to eight inches and a half, and it presents one or twro curves according to the state it is of the penis. At first the canal is directed forwards and curved 1 . n accord- upwards, through the triangular ligament 01 the perinaeum, thScon. to the body of the penis, forming a large curve with the con- dition of X , m, ... the cavity to the pubes. 1 hence to its termination the urethra Pen S' is applied to the penis; and whilst this body remains pendant, it forms a second bend with the concavity downwards, but if the penis is raised, the canal makes but one curve through- its dm- out. The canal is divided into three parts, prostatic, mem- sions. branous, and spongy. Pros- The prostatic part is contained in the prostate gland, and t<UiC> . Till receives its name from that circumstance. Its length and connections are the same as those of the gland (p. 591.). br'm us memoraneus Part is nearly an inch long, and inter-