FIFTH LAYER OF MUSCLES. 417 small interspinal muscles internal to it; and occupying a corresponding position in the loins is the multifidus spinae. The small intertransverse muscles of the lumbar vertebrae will be found by cutting through the erector spinae. Fifth Layer. — In this layer are the following small Muscles J ° of the muscles ; — the recti and obliqui, the semispinals, inter- spinales, multifidus spinae, and intertransversales. The rectus capitis posticus major is the largest of Rectus ° capitis the three muscles between the occipital bone and the first maJ°r 1 passes vertebrae. It arises from the side of the spine of the second between 1 axis and vertebra, and is inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital 7 bone. occipital bone for about an inch, as well as into the surface below it: its upper attachment is beneath the superior oblique muscle. This muscle is directed outwards very obliquely, and forms one side of the triangular space that contains the suboccipital nerve. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR is internal to the Rectus capitis preceding, and is much smaller than it. Arising from the minor posterior arch of the atlas, the muscle ascends to be inserted, passes close to the middle line, into the inferior curved ridge of the atlas to occipital occipital bone, and between this and the foramen magnum, bone. This small muscle is fan-shaped, and is deeper than the rectus major : it covers the ligament between the atlas and the occipital bone. The two recti muscles are analogous to the interspinales between the other vertebrae. The obliquus inferior lies obliquely between the first owi- A ^ quus m- two vertebrae. It arises from the spinous process of the lerior axis, external to the rectus maior muscle, and is inserted 7 0 7 tween into the transverse process of the atlas. first two A verte- The obliquus superior takes origin from the extremity brae, of the transverse process, where the preceding muscle termi- quusfsu- nates, and is directed inwards to be inserted between the pe"or extends curved lines of the occipital bone, near the mastoid process, atiasto This muscle is concealed by the complexus and trachelo- occiPut- mastoideus, and crosses the vertebral artery. Its insertion connec- is beneath the splenius, but above the rectus major muscle. tlons" The semispinals occupies the vertebral groove in the Semi- dorsal and cervical regions, and extends from the transverse spmalis to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. The lower part of is di- the muscle is called semispinalis dorsi, and the upper part h!tod semispinals colli. e e