232 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. and bu lastly, attached to the side of the pyramid, is the biventral ventral. • *J lobe. other ^W0 otner l°Des appear between the biventral lobe and vaUey"1 ^e me^u^a oblongata: — One of these is the amygdaloid Amygda- lobe, which projects into the vallecula opposite the uvula, l01d and touches the medulla oblongata. The other is a small pyramidal slip,, that is directed outwards over (the under and floe- surface being uppermost) the crus cerebelli, and is named flocculus, or subpeduncular lobe. Dissec Dissection. — To see the flocculus and the posterior me- tion. x dullary velum, the biventral and slender lobes of the under surface are to be sliced off, on the left side, so that the amyg- daloid lobe may be everted. The flocculus is then bared, and passing from it to the tip of the uvula is the thin white layer of the posterior velum; beneath the last a bit of paper may be inserted. The furrowed band on the side of the uvula can now be fully seen. position Flocculus and medullar?/ velum. — The position of the flocculus to the crus cerebelli, and in front of the biventral structure lobe, has been before mentioned. This body resembles the of floe- ' J cuius, other lobes in structure, and may be considered a rudimen- tary lobe, for it is divided on the surface into lamina?, and contains a white medullary centre, from which offsets are furnished to those divisions. Poste- Passing from the flocculus to the tip of the inferior vermi- rior me- / duiiary form process (nodule) is a thin white layer, the medullary velum (inferior or posterior), which serves as a commissure Form to the flocculi. On each side this band is semilunar in form, and at- . . . tach- its anterior edge is free, but its posterior border is attached ments- . i r in front of the transverse furrowed band. In front of the nodule the pieces of opposite sides are united, and form the membranous velum. cere- Interior of the Cerebellum. — In the cerebellum there belium is . solid in. is not any cavity or ventricle enclosed, as in the cerebrum. ternally. . J In the interior there is a large white centre, corresponding to that of the cerebrum, which furnishes offsets to the laminae, and to other parts' of the encephalon. The space of the fourth ventricle is between the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata. ttoa of" Dissection—For the purpose of seeing the structure of the