DISSECTION OF THE PELVIS. 620 spongy fibrous than in muscular elements; and the latter are only parts' longitudinal in direction. Erectile In the prostatic and membranous divisions of the urethra tissue .... through- there is, in addition, a thin enveloping layer of vascular or erectile tissue, that is continued backwards from the corpus spongiosum urethrse to the neck of the bladder. Penis Structure of the Penis. — The form and the connec- oftwo tions of the penis having been described at page 593., it re- vascular . , erectile mains now to notice the tissues 01 which it is composed. The section already made through the penis shows this body to be made up of two masses of spongy and vascular tissue, incased in fibrous membranes—one constituting the corpora cavernosa, the other the corpus spongiosum urethras. Cavern- Corpora cavernosa. — Each corpus cavernosum is con- teriaTf structed of a firm fibrous tunic, that encloses a cavernous struc. or trabecular structure, and contains a plexus of vessels in which it the intervals of the spongy mass. An incomplete median septum exists along the body of the penis between the cor- pora cavernosa. a fibrous The fibrous case of the corpus cavernosum is a white. case strong, elastic covering, from half a line to a line in thick- that ness. Along the middle line of the penis a septal process is process- sent inwards from it; and numerous other finer bands or es'vlz' trabecular of the spongy structure are connected with its inner surface. It is formed of white shining fibres* that are mostly disposed longitudinally. One The septal process extends along the body of the penis, piece! and is thicker and more perfect behind than in front. At the point of junction of the crura of the penis, this partition separates the enclosed cavity of the organ into two parts ; which is.' but as it reaches forwards it becomes less strong, and is imper- . , feet, pierced by elongated apertures, which give it the appearance of a comb, whence the name septum pectiniforme. Through the intervals in the septum the vascular tissue of one corpus cavernosum communicates with that of the other, andnu- The cavernous or trabecular structure is a network of band"8 fibrous cords, that fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa, cords to The fibrous processes are thinner towards the centre than at network, the circumference of the fibrous case; and the areolar spaces are larger in the centre and at the fore part of the contained cavity, than at the circumference or in the crura of the