£ i • 3 * 6 (h) Glasgow University LibraryN. ■> ’ ^ v' \ ^CHAIR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OE EDINBURGH. TESTIMONIALS IN FAVOUR OF MOSES STEYEN BUCHANAN, M.yI>. PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN ANDER80N's UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW; MEMBER AND TREASURER OF THE FACULTY OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS; LATE SURGEON AND LECTURER ON CLINICAL SURGERY TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY; CONSULTING SURGEON TO THE GENERAL LYING-IN HOSPITAL; MEMBER AND COUNCILLOR OF THE MEDICO-ClllRURGICAL SOCIETY, ETC. GLASGOW: PRINTED BY BELL AND BAIN, ST. ENOCH SQUARE MDCCCXLVI.CONTENTS Page Letter to the Right Honourable the Lord Provost, the Magistrates, and Councillors of the City of Edinburgh, Patrons of the University. ... 5 Testimonial from the President and Managers of Anderson’s University, . . 7 Copy of Letter addressed to the Trustees of Anderson’s University, ... 8 Address and Testimonial from the Students of Anderson’s University, . . 9 From George Watson, Esq., President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, a Trustee of Anderson’s University, and one of the Managers of the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, die., 11 From Robert Hunter, Esq., M.D., Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology, Westmin- ster Hospital; and Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, (fee., . 12 From James Watson, Esq., M.D., late President of tho Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, die., 13 From William Weir, Esq., M.D., Physician to tho Royal Infirmary, Ac., . . .14 From Harry Rainy, Esq., M.D., Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Glasgow, <fcc., 15 From James Wilson, Esq., M.D., Vice-President of tho Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, &o., 15 From John Couper, Esq., M.D., Professor of Mntcria Medica in tho University of Glasgow, &c., . 16 From John Macfarlane, Esq., M.D., late Senior Surgeon to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, &c., . 17 From Thomas Thomson, Esq., M.D., Professor of Chemistry in tho University of Glasgow, dse., 17 From A. Dunlop Anderson, Esq., M.D., Follow of the Royal Collego of Surgeons of England, and late Physician to tho Glasgow Royal Infirmary, (fee., . . . 18 From J. M. Pagan, Esq., M.D., Professor of Midwifery in the University of Glasgow, (fee., 18 From William Davidson, Esq., M.D., late Lecturer on Materia Medica in the Portland-Street Medical School, Ac., 19 From J. A. Easton, Esq., M.D., Professor of Materia Medica in Anderson’s University, die., 19 From Andrew Anderson, Esq., M.D., Professor of Institutes of Medicine in Ander- son’s University, die., 20IV From James Paterson, Esq., M.D., Professor of Obstetric Medicine, Anderson’s University, &c., From John Crawford, Esq., M.D., M.R.C.S.L., Professor of Medical Jurisprudence and Police, Anderson’s University, &c., From Andrew Buchanan, Esq., M.D., Professor of tlie Institutes of Medicine in the University of Glasgow, and Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, Ac., . From Charles Ritchie, Esq., M.D., Physician to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Ac., . From Frederick Penny, Esq., Ph.D. Professor of Chemistry in Anderson’s Uni- versity, Ac., From Robert Perry, Esq., M.D., Physician to the Fever Hospital, late President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, &c., From William Lyon, Esq., Lecturer on Surgery, Portland-Street Medical School, Ac. From Robert Macgregor, Esq., M.D., Lecturer on Chemistry in the Portland-Street Medical School, Ac., From John G. Fleming, Esq., M.D., Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, Ac. . From James Jeffray, Jun., Esq., M.D., Interim Lecturer on Anatomy in the Uni- versity of Glasgow, Ac., From Joseph Bell, Esq., Lecturer on Botany, Portland-Street Medical School, Ac., . From Alexander Maxwell Adams, Esq., M.D., late Lecturer on Midwifery, Port- land-Street Medical School, &c., From A. King, Esq., M.D., Lecturer on Anatomy, Mechanics’ Institution, &c., . From J. A. Lawrie, Esq., M.D., Professor of Surgery in Anderson’s University, and Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, &c., List of Monographs, Lectures, Ac., Published by Dr, M. S. Buchanan, . Puge 21 22 23 24 24 26 26 27 27 28 28 29 30 30 32TO THE RIGHT HON. THE LORD PROVOST, THE MAGISTRATES, AND COUNCILLORS OF THE CITY OF EDINBURGH, PATRONS OF THE UNIVERSITY. Anderson’s University, Glasgow, 10th February, 1840". My Lord Provost and Gentlemen, I beg most respectfully to refer you to my note of the 3d instant, informing you of my intention to offer myself as a Candidate for the Chair of Anatomy about to become vacant by the resignation of Dr. Monro. At present I submit for your perusal a few Testimonials from gentlemen well qualified to give an opinion of my professional character, and ability to fulfil the duties of the above situation, and I shall add a few more previous to the day of election. I am a Graduate of your University—a Member of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of this city—have acted for ten years as one of the Surgeons to the Royal Infirmary —and delivered five courses of Lectures on Clinical Surgery in that Institution. Since 1830, I have been a Lecturer on Anatomy; first in the Portland-Street Medical School, and afterwards in this University; having been unanimously elected by the Trustees on the unsolicited recommendation of the Medical Professors.6 My Museum of Anatomy, which contains upwards of two thousand preparations, chiefly for class illustration, has been in whole collected and prepared by myself. I may also state that there is not an Hospital, Medical School, or Museum of celebrity, either at home or on the continent of Europe, which I have not carefully examined. As to my success in teaching, the accompanying Testimonials, I trust, will be satisfactory; but, in corroboration, I think it right to state that, the number of students attending my Lectures and Demonstrations has progressively increased, while the number of medical students throughout the kingdom has considerably diminished.* My first courses in 1836 were attended by forty-four students, in this session there are in both classes two hundred and thirty-four. I have added a list of my publications, some of which I shall present for your perusal, as early as possible. I have the honour to be, My Lord Provost and Gentlemen, Your very obedient Servant, M. S. BUCHANAN. * Subjoined are the numbers that have attended my two classses during the winter sessions, from 1836 to 1846 :— Years. Students 1836, ... 44 1837, .... 83 1838, ... 108 1839, . . . .121 1840, . . .114 Years. Students. 1841, . . 162 1842, . . . . 151 1843, . . 146 1844, . , . 173 h—1 CO . . 234TESTIMONIALS. FROM THE PRESIDENT AND MANAGERS OF ANDERSON'S UNIVERSITY. Anderson’s University, 12th February, 184G. The President and Managers of Anderson’s University, have to certify, that Dr. Moses S. Buchanan has been five years Professor of Anatomy in the University. They have to express the very high opinion which they entertain of Dr. Buchanan’s abilities as a Teacher of Anatomy, and of the very successful manner in which he has conducted the classes under his charge. Dr. Buchanan’s success has been publicly attested by the yearly increase in the number of his students; and his eminent talents as a Teacher have contributed very materially to the high position which this University holds as a Medical School. The President and Managers have much pleasure in bearing testimony to Dr. Buchanan’s correct and gentlemanly conduct on all occasions during the period he has been connected with this University. Dr. Buchanan’s removal from his present Chair would be felt as a great loss by this University, but as his attainment of the Chair of Anatomy in Edinburgh would be an advancement in his profession, the President and Managers wish him all manner of success in his present application; and they are satisfied that his appointment would be very beneficial to that or any other University with which he may be con- nected. WM. MURRAY, President. WALTER CRUM. ANDREW LIDDELL, Treasurer. WILLIAM BALFOUR. WILLIAM MfLEAN. JAMES MCCLELLAND. ANDW. BxVNNATYNE. JOHN HART. JNO. WILSON. WM. AMBROSE, Secretary.8 COPY OF LETTER ADDRESSED TO THE TRUSTEES OF ANDERSON'S UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW. Glasgow, August 2, 1841. Sir,—Dr. Hunter, having intimated to us his acceptance of the Chair of Anatomy in the Westminster Medical School, we feel that the filling the vacancy thus caused in the Professorship of Anatomy in the Andersonian University, so long and so ably held by him, is of the greatest importance to the Medical School of that University, and to us as members of that School. We understand that Dr. M. S. Buchanan, Lecturer on Anatomy in the Portland-Street Medical School, is desirous of succeeding Dr. Hunter. After mature deliberation, we are unanimously of opinion, that Dr. M. S. Buchanan, by his great success as a teacher of this important branch of medical education, has proved his peculiar fitness to fill the vacancy, and that his appointment would greatly contribute to the success of the Andersonian Medical School. Without presuming to interfere in your choice, we beg to express to you our desire to have Dr. M. S. Buchanan as our colleague, and most respectfully to recommend his claims to your consideration. Mr. Penny, Professor of Chemistry, is in London; but we have reason to know that he fully concurs in the sentiments expressed in this letter. We are, Sir, Your most obedient Servants, A. J. HANNAY, M.D., Professor of the Practice of Medicine. J. A. LAWRIE, M.D., Professor of Surgery. JAMES BROWN, M.D., Professor1 of Obstetrics. J. A. EASTON, M.D., Professor of Materia Medica. ANDW. ANDERSON, M.D., Professor of Theory of Medicine. [Note.—The Trustees of Anderson’s University are eighty-one in number, and are elected from the Clergy, Physicians, Surgeons, Lawyers, Merchants, Engineers, &c. &c., residing in and around Glasgow. Dr. Buchanan was proposed as a candidate for the above Chair by Dr. James Watson, President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, and unanimously elected.]9 ADDRESS DELIVERED ON SATURDAY, 14TH FEBRUARY, 1846, BY ROBERT FIDLER, ESQ., ON PRESENTING DR. BUCHANAN WITH THE FOLLOWING TESTIMONIAL. Silt,—It having come to our knowledge that you intend to become a Candidate for the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, which is about to be vacated by the present Professor, Dr. Munro, we cannot allow this opportunity to pass by, without presenting you with an unequivocal proof of our admiration of you as a Lecturer, and our esteem of you as a friend. It is with a feeling of no ordinary pleasure that I come forward as the representative of so large a body of students, and I regret. Sir, that it had not devolved on one whose command of language was more adequate to the discharge of so distinguished an office. Your assiduity and zeal in the pursuit of knowledge—your extensive researches both at home and abroad, and your readiness—nay, anxiety to communicate valuable information to those who may be fortunate enough to attend your class, are too well known to need any comment from me, but I feel bound to acknowledge how deeply we are indebted for your attention and impartiality to us, and, in presenting this testimonial, am confident that I do but utter what are the unanimous sentiments of this large assemblage of my fellow pupils, when I state that your distinguished talents qualify you for the Chair of any School or University where Anatomy is taught. TESTIMONIAL FROM THE STUDENTS OF ANDERSON’S UNIVERSITY, TO M. S. BUCHANAN, ESQ., M.D., PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY, MEMBER OF THE FACULTY OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS OF GLASGOW, LATE SENIOR SURGEON TO TIIE ROYAL INFIRMARY, ETC. Anderson’s University, 12th February, 1846. Most respected Sir, We, the Students attending your class, having heard that it is your intention to become a Candidate for the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, beg to assure you that we have10 unfeigned pleasure in expressing our most earnest hopes that you may be successful in obtaining the honourable appointment. In your system of Demonstration,—your attentiveness and urbanity, —and your happy facility in imparting to others a share of your own rich fund of knowledge, we recognize those eminent talents,—that comprehensive capacity which so admirably qualify you for a post of the highest distinction; and, since an opportunity now offers for your embarking into a larger sphere of action, by obtaining a Professorship of a more elevated rank, we cannot suffer our personal interests to prevent us from coming forward to address you on the present important occasion, though we entertain the most serious apprehensions for the loss we should sustain in being deprived of your valuable assistance. We have the honour to remain, Your humble Servants, ROBERT FIDLER. JOHN M'CARRON. CHARLES M'CARTHY. JAMES MARCH CRAIG-. JOHN M'KINNON. GEORGE S. HOLMES. ROBT. B. M. WILSON. JOHN CRAIG. BENJAMIN W. RICHARDSON. ANDREW HAMILTON. ALEX. M. F. SMITH. WILLIAM WILSON. JOHN URIE HAMILTON. WILLIAM GRIFFITHS. PETER RAE MENZIES. GEORGE M‘DOWALL. FRANCIS TROUP. JOHN HARRISON. JOHN I-IISLOP. CHARLES ADAM. JAMES SCOTT. ROBERT MACLEAN. FRANCIS SIBERY. JAMES ROY TAYLOR. CHRISTOPHER N. SPINKS. JOHN F. CULLEN. JAMES P. P. LESTER. JAS. HOLT. W. J. PETTIGREW. OWEN M'QUAIDE. RICHD. OASTLER JOHNSTON. ROBERT MACGREGOR. WILLIAM MURRAY. J. C. REID. JOHN C. BLACKFORD. JOHN WILSON. ISAAC WALLACE. GEORGE RENDAL. JAMES MORRIS. ARCHIBALD FRASER. WM. HUTCHISON. GEORGE MARSHALL. DONALD CLARK. JOHN BARR. CHAS. HUNTER. THOS. CHRISTIE. R. KINNIER. GEORGE HOWIE. JAMES DUNN. WILLIAM HUNTER. GABRIEL SMITH. WILLIAM LOGAN. JOHN STODDART. JOHN ROBINSON. DEWAR DUNLOP. ROBT. MEGGINSON. JOHN ROBT. MILLER. JAMES HYSLOP. DRAPER MACKINDER. ROBT. LAYCOCK. JOHN WILSON. CHRISTOPHER IRVING. G. A. RHODES. WALTER GARSTANG.11 JOHN M‘DOUGALL. JOHN FRIAR. WILLIAM BLACK. ROBERT RENFREW. ARCHD. M'DONNELL. ROBT. ELLIOTT. JOHN ANDERSON. FREDERICK JEWEL. JOHN DICKSON. ANDREW NAISMITH. ROBERT CONNELL. JOHN D. PIGOU. G. ALEXANDER. JOSEPH WHITE. WILLIAM FARRAGE. ALEXANDER GRIER. ROBERT JONES. ROBERT DAVIES. W. WADDLE. A. M. HOLMES. ROBERT COWAN. ARCHD. MONTGOMERIE. ROBT. FERERS. HENRY BOYD. WILLIAM JOHNSTON. WILLIAM JEFFREY EDWARDS. R. PATON. JAMES STEWART. G. K. CAMPBELL. JAMES THOMSON. J. AUGUSTUS SOMMERS. THOMAS DREWET. JOHN DAVIDSON. It. W. M'DONNELL. R. HUNTER. J. D. M'LANE. JOHN MACLATCIIY. DAVID FAIRLEY. IT. MACMONEAGLE. JOHN M‘IL WRATH. JOHN O'NEILL. JAMES MACMONEAGLE. LOUIS FOUCART. GEORGE MACLEOD. HUGH ALEXANDER. JOHN MOORE. ANDREW SMYTH. DAVID WAUGH. JAMES MILLER SHAIN. THOMAS A. ANDERSON. JOHN ROBERTSON. PATRICK GRIFFIN. RODERICK M'LEAN. BERNARD CONWAY. JAMES COWPER. WILLIAM EWING, M.R.C.S.F.. JOHN LIGHTON. JAS. D. SMITH. JOHN PRIESTLEY. JOHN BURNS. ARTHUR CONNOR. ROBERT H. GAIRDNER. DAVID GEO. GOYDEIt. ROBT. BROWN. ANTHONY DOHERTY. FREDRICK ORRIS. W. J. HAMILTON. WM. GILLIBRAND. WM. C. UTI LE. JAMES SINCLAIR LITTLE. JOHN ARTHUR. HENRY MAGEE. J. DOUGLAS ROSE. FROM GEORGE WATSON, ESQ. President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, a Trustee of Anderson s University, and one of the Managers of the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, &c. Glasgow, 7th February, 184G. I have known Dr. M. S. Buchanan for many years, and have had ample opportunities of appreciating both his professional and private character. As a Surgeon, he stands high in the profession; having repeatedly served in the Royal Infirmary with credit to himself, and much benefit12 to his patients; and as an Anatomist, he lias few equals in this country. He commenced his career as a Lecturer on Anatomy in the Portland- Street School of Medicine, and on Dr. Hunter’s removal to London, five or six years ago, he was unanimously elected Professor of Anatomy, in Anderson’s University, where he has ever since continued to lecture with the most flattering success. As a Trustee of Anderson’s University, and in frequent com- munication with the students, I can speak with the greatest confidence of his talents, as well as his zeal and perseverance in the discharge of his arduous duties. His style of lecturing is popular, and commands attention; his demonstrations are, at the same time, minute and lucid, and his attendance in the dissecting room is laborious and unwearied. Having relinquished private practice, his whole energies are devoted to the study and practice of Anatomy, and a large proportion of his time is spent in the dissecting room, where he superintends the studies of his pupils, answering their questions with the utmost urbanity, and communicating instruction by every means in his power. He has also established a regular course of examinations in Anatomy, thereby testing the progress of his students, and stimulating them to renewed exertions. His private character is unimpeachable, and his manners are gentlemanly and courteous. I have, therefore, great pleasure in stating that, in my opinion, he is eminently qualified to fill the Chair of Anatomy to which he aspires; and in the event of his appointment to it, my only regret will be, that Glasgow would be deprived of a Professor whose talents and success have done honour to himself, and conferred lasting benefits on the medical profession. GEORGE WATSON. FROM ROBERT HUNTER, ESQ., M.D. Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology, Westminster Hospital; and Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, <£'c. 6 Great Queen-Street, Westminster, London, 6th February, 1846. I have known Dr. Moses Buchanan for many years, and can with confidence state that he is well qualified to superintend the department of Anatomy in any School or University in the kingdom.13 Dr. Buchanan is well known as an experienced, able, and successful Teacher of Anatomy in Glasgow. Indeed, I do not know any Teacher of Anatomy in Great Britain or Ireland, whose success in teaching has been at all equal to his. This astonishing success is attributable, I conceive, to three causes,—First, To his superior abilities;—Second, To his mode of teaching, which is peculiar and excellent;—and. Third, To his enthusiasm, which infuses into all his prelections and demon- strations an ardour calculated in an eminent degree to encourage and excite the youthful mind. The appointment of Dr. Buchanan to the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, would be conducive to the interests of science, and would impart new freshness and life to the Anatomical department of the Edinburgh school. ROBERT HUNTER, M.D. FROM JAMES WATSON, ESQ. M.D. Late President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, and Physician to the Royal Infirmary, d'c. 152 St. Vincent-Street, \lth February, 1B4(>. It gives me much pleasure to state the very high estimation in which 1 hold my friend Dr. M. S. Buchanan, who, I understand, is a Candidate for the Anatomical Chair in the Edinburgh University. 1 have had full opportunity, both in public and private, of forming an opinion of his talents, acquirements, and practical skill as a Physician and Surgeon, during the long period, nearly twenty years, of my personal acquaintanceship with him, and that opinion is highly favour- able. I have not had the same opportunity of judging of him as a Teacher; but his excellent early literary and scientific education, his unwearied industry and enthusiastic energy in investigation, so essential to an Anatomist, his crowded classes in both Institutions in which he has taught, and the several Monographs on matters connected with his profession, which he has from time to time published, entitle me to infer that his teaching must be both interesting and improving. Under the impression that Dr. Buchanan’s accession to the School of Medicine in Anderson’s University would contribute much to its prosperity, 1 did myself the honour of proposing him to the favourable consideration of the Trustees of that Institution, of which I am one,14 about six years ago, when he was unanimously elected, and since which, he has filled the situation of Anatomical Professor to the perfect satisfaction of the Trustees, and with much acceptance to the students. I have no hesitation in giving my opinion, that Du. Buchanan will be an important acquisition to any School of Medicine of which he may become a member; and he carries with him my best wishes for his success in regard to the present object of his honourable ambition. JAMES WATSON, M.D. FROM WILLIAM WEIR, ESQ., M.D. Physician to the Royal Infirmary, late Lecturer on Practice of Medicine, Portland- Street Medical School, &c. Buchanan-Street, Glasgow, 6th February, 1846. I have had the pleasure of being acquainted with Dr. Moses Steven Buchanan for a great many years, during the whole of which our intercourse and friendship have been uninterrupted. We have been intimately associated together, as students, as fellow practitioners, as colleagues in the Royal Infirmary, and as lecturers in the same Medical School. I have therefore had the fullest opportunities of knowing and judging of his talents and acquirements, and of his abilities and success as a Medical Practitioner, and a Lecturer on Anatomy. In the latter capacity, I consider Dr. Buchanan superior, in many respects, to most teachers. He possesses, in a high degree, the talent of communicating knowledge to others. His manner of lecturing is clear and forcible; his illustrations always plain and to the point; and his style of demonstrating is attractive and interesting. His great desire while lecturing, always appears to be to present the subject in a form the most easily understood, and so to fix the attention of the student as to make him comprehend it thoroughly; and in this, I have had occasion to know, he has been very successful. By these means, joined to his untiring industry, zeal, and persever- ance, and his uniform kindness of manner, Dr. Buchanan has reared a class in Anderson’s University, equal in point of numbers, probably superior, to any private Anatomical Class in the kingdom. This success is sufficient of itself to give him a high status as a Lecturer on15 Anatomy, and should render him a desirable acquisition to any Univer- sity or Anatomical School with which he may wish to become connected. I must also add, that as a highly honourable gentleman, and a kind private friend, those who have the good fortune to associate with Dr. Buchanan, will find him equalled by few, and surpassed by no one. WILLIAM WEIR, M.D. FROM HARRY RAINY, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Medical Jurisprudence in the University of Glasgow, <Vc. University of Glasgow, 10th February, 104(>. Dr. Moses Buchanan has, for many years, been eminently distinguished as a Teacher of Anatomy in this city. He has devoted himself to this department of medicine with great ardour, and has been most successful in communicating a similar spirit to his pupils. His classes have, from an early period, been well attended, and have increased progressively and steadily, notwithstanding the general falling off in the Medical Schools. On these grounds, I consider Dr. Moses Buchanan as qualified, in noordinary degree, for the important Chair for which he is now a Candidate. HARRY RAINY, M.D. FROM JAMES WILSON, ESQ., M.D. Vice-President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, &c. Hope-Street, llt/i February, 184(5. 1 have much pleasure in stating the very high opinion entertained by me, of the moral worth, and distinguished qualifications of Dr. M. S. Buchanan, as a Teacher of Anatomy. For several years I had the happiness to be associated with him when he conducted the Anatomical Class in the Portland-Street School of Medicine. The improvements introduced by him, in the management of that Class, met with my warmest approval, and also that of my colleagues. He had the means, and no expense was spared by him, in furnishing every thing necessary for the improvement of those students who attended him; the Class rapidly increased.10 and Dr. Buchanan soon became a very popular and useful teacher. Since he became Professor of Anatomy in the Andersonian University, his success has still been more marked; and at present, his Class numbers more than any Anatomical Class in the kingdom. Dr. Buchanan possesses great zeal and activity;—in his dissecting rooms there is the most perfect order—both there and in the lecture room strict discipline is maintained by the authority of kindness; and I am sure, from what I know of Dr. Buchanan, that if he is appointed to the Chair of Anatomy, in the University of Edinburgh, for which he is at present a candidate, he will not lessen the reputation of that distinguished School of Medicine. JAMES WILSON, M.D. FROM JOHN COUPEE, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Materia Medica in the University of Glasgow, <Sac. University or Glasgow, 11#A February, 1846. I have been very long and intimately acquainted with Dr. M. S. Buchanan. After receiving a very complete medical education in the most eminent British and continental schools, he commenced his professional career in Glasgow in 1817. Besides uniformly sustaining a very high character in private medical practice, he has officiated for some years as Surgeon to the Glasgow Eoyal Infirmary, and in that capacity has successfully delivered several courses of Clinical Lectures. He is the author, likewise, of a number of useful professional papers and detached publications; but he has chiefly distinguished himself in teaching Anatomy, to which he has devoted himself almost exclusively, with indefatigable energy, and eminent success, during the last ten years. Ardent and enthusiastic himself, he possesses the happy talent of inspiring his pupils with feelings similar to his own, and sparing neither time nor labour to place the means of instruction of every kind within theu reach: he has always enjoyed a very high degree of popularity as a Lecturer, and attracted very numerous classes. Pos- sessed of such talents, acquirements, and experience, he lias, as was to be expected, proved an important acquisition to the Medical School with which he is at present connected. JOHN COUPEE, M.D.17 FROM JOHN MACFARLANE, ESQ., M.D. Late Senior Surgeon to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, &c. Glasgow, 5th February, 1846. I have been intimately acquainted with Hr. M. S. Euciianan for the last twenty-five years; and having been associated with him, at various times, as a Surgical Colleague in some of the chief medical charities of this city, I have very great pleasure in bearing my testimony to his talents and acquirements, and to his untiring energy and zeal in professional pursuits. He has enjoyed ample opportunities, of which he has faithfully availed himself, during his successive appointments in the Royal Infirmary, of establishing his reputation as an excellent practical Surgeon, and an expert and successful operator; and I have, also, reason to know, that his Lectures on Clinical Surgery were highly appreciated by large classes of students. For several years past, while a Lecturer on Anatomy in the Portland- Street School of Medicine, and more especially since lie was appointed to the Professorship of the same branch of Medical Science in the Andersonian University, he has, by his zeal, enthusiasm, and knowledge, attracted yearly increasing classes, and obtained great and deserved popularity. If, therefore, success in piddic lecturing affords any proof of a Candidate’s abilities, knowledge, and power of communicating scientific and practical information in an effective and popular manner, 1 feel assured that Dr. Buchanan’s claims to the Chair of Anatomy which is about to become vacant in the University of Edinburgh, will not be JOHN MACFARLANE, M.D. disregarded. FROM THOMAS THOMSON, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Chemistry in the University of Glasgoiv, <l'c. Glasgow, IK/i February, 1846. I nave been acquainted with Dr. Moses Buchanan for many years. He has been for a considerable time Lecturer on Anatomy in the Andersonian Institution here. I believe him to be an excellent and enthusiastic Teacher of Anatomy. He is deservedly a favourite with his students, who are good judges, and his class is much more numerous than that of any other Anatomical Teacher in Glasgow. THOMAS THOMSON, M.D. B18 FROM A. DUNLOP ANDERSON, ESQ., M.D. Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, and late Physician to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, dec. 159 St. Vincent-Street, Glasgow, 9th February, 1840. Dr. M. S. Buchanan lias, for many years, been a most zealous and successful Teacher of Anatomy in Glasgow. With many other qualifications, I consider his entire devotedness to the object of communicating a thorough and complete knowledge of his subject to the students to be his peculiar recommendation; and the very numerous classes he has had as the Professor of Anatomy in Anderson’s University, are the best proofs that his efforts are duly appreciated. It seems scarcely necessary to add, that an acquaintance of above twenty years’ duration with Dr. Buchanan has enabled me to form a very favourable estimate of his character. A. DUNLOP ANDERSON, M.D. FROM J. M. PAGAN, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Midwifery in the University of Glasgoiv, dec. Glasgow, 11th February, 1816. I take great pleasure in bearing testimony to the high reputation Dr. M. S. Buchanan has long enjoyed in this city, as a most enthusiastic and successful Teacher of Anatomy, and can most truly affirm that I have heard but one opinion expressed, by the students who have attended his lectures, that his zeal in superintending their studies is indefatigable and unremitting. In addition to his deservedly high reputation as a Teacher of Anatomy, Dr. Buchanan enjoys that of a Surgeon of sound views and large experience, having been for a number of years one of the Surgeons to the Royal Infirmary of this city, which affords a field for observation, probably unequalled, certainly unsurpassed by any hospital in the kingdom. I regard Dr. Buchanan’s qualifications as a practical Surgeon as one of the highest recommendations for the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, the duties of which I am fully persuaded he would discharge with much credit to himself and benefit to the students. J. M. PAGAN, M.D.19 FROM WILLIAM DAVIDSON, ESQ., M.D. Late Lecturer on Materia Mcdica in the Portland-Street Medical School, Author of the Treatise on Fever which obtained the ThacJcrah Prize, Sj'c. Largs, Oth February, 181G. I HAVE much pleasure in stating that I have been long and intimately acquainted with Dr. M. Buchanan, and that he was a colleague of mine in the Medical School, Portland-Street, Glasgow. Along vuth his other eminent acquirements in the profession, he has long cultivated Anatomy with rare perseverance and assiduity, and has justly attained the highest distinction in that department of science. For several years I had the most perfect opportunities of judging of his method and success as a Teacher. With a most accurate and thorough knowledge of all the modern divisions of human Anatomy, he combines great fluency and clearness of language, a most assiduous interest in the instruction of his pupils, and much discrimination and judgment in conducting his demonstrations, which are illustrated by numerous and valuable preparations. His success as a Teacher, under the circumstances, has been greater than that of any other person with whom l am acquainted; and I have much confidence in stating it as my opinion, that if appointed to the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, his distinguished talents as a Teacher of this branch of science arc highly calculated to support the celebrity of that ancient Institution. WILLIAM DAVIDSON, M.D. FROM J. A. EASTON, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Materia Mcdica in Anderson’s University, it'c. George-Street, Glasgow, 11 th February, 184G. Though the removal of Dr. M. S. Buchanan from Anderson’s University would prove a serious drawback to the usefulness of that Institution as a School of Medicine, yet a sense of what is due to the interests of science, a sense of what is due to the well-earned reputation of a famous University, and to the qualifications of a meritorious individual, compel me to offer an opinion which selfishness would willingly avoid, and even friendship almost suppress.20 But having been intimately acquainted with Dr. Buchanan for nearly fifteen years, having been guided by his instructions as a teacher, and benefited by his counsels as a colleague, having observed his zeal and efficiency as an Hospital Surgeon and Clinical Lecturer, hut above all, having witnessed the pre-eminence of his success as a Teacher of Anatomy, I am hound to say, that, in my humble opinion, the Town Council of Edinburgh could not adopt a more effectual plan of elevating still higher the character of their renowned University, as a School of Medicine, than by appointing so eminent a person as Dr. Buchanan to the Chair of Anatomy. The extent of Dr. Buchanan's success as a Teacher, can be estimated by the fact, that during the present session there are one hundred and forty students attending his prelections; a number, considerably greater, I believe, than is to be found in any other Anatomical Class in the kingdom, either endowed or unendowed. And never was distinction more honourably conferred or success more worthily attained. But Dr. Buchanan is something more than merely a popular Teacher of Anatomy, and his claims to the proud distinction which he seeks, rest on other yet equally favourable grounds. In his contributions to the medical literature of the day in the various metropolitan and provincial journals, and particularly in his interesting reports of cases of ligature of the subclavian and external iliac arteries, and still further in his graphic History of the Royal Infirmary of this city, he has evinced a knowledge of, and a taste for literature, that cannot fail to be of the highest value towards the proper superintendence of medical education. On these, and many other grounds, I respectfully recommend Dr. Buchanan as a fitting successor to Dr. Mimro in the University of Edinburgh. J. A. EASTON, M.D. FROM ANDREW ANDERSON, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Institutes of Medicine in Anderson's University, Ac. Anderson’s University, 7th February, 184G. Dr. M. S. Buchanan, My Dear Sir,—You ask me for a testimonial of your qualifications to teach Anatomy. I have had the pleasure of being your colleague in the Medical21 School of this University for several years, and can truly say that I believe the present prosperous state of the School to be in great part owing to your unremitting and successful efforts in the Anatomical Chair. You have devoted yourself to your work with untiring perseverance, and spared neither time, nor trouble, nor expense, which could conduce to the advancement of the students or facilitate their studies. In con- sequence of this, there has been a very great increase in their number, and a most marked improvement in their attention and habits of study: the Museum and Dissecting Room, once large enough, are this session quite incompetent to accommodate them. Although I cannot help wishing you success in your canvass, I yet feel that your leaving Glasgow would be the severest blow that could be inflicted on the Medical School of Anderson’s University. Believe me, My Dear Sir, Very truly yours, ANDW. ANDERSON, M.D. FROM JAMES PATERSON, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Obstetric Medicine, Andcrsonian University, (be. Glasgow, 6th February, 1846. Understanding that the Professorship of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh is vacant by the resignation of Dr. Munro, and that my respected friend and colleague, 1)r. Moses Steven Buchanan, is a Candidate for the important situation, I beg to offer my opinion in reference to his qualifications for discharging the duties of the office. As a demonstrator of Anatomy, I believe he stands unrivalled; and for zeal, industry, and attention to his students, he is second to none in this department of the profession. His unwearied and persevering exertions in the dissecting room have uniformly been the theme of admiration; and his success as a Teacher of General, Comparative, and Surgical Anatomy, is sufficiently evidenced by the fact, that, as an extra-academical Lecturer, he has, I believe, the most numerously attended Class in the united kingdom. I have had the pleasure of being associated with him as a colleague in the Andcrsonian University for the last five years, and during that period, I have had many opportunities of knowing, that, as one of the22 Surgeons to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, as a General Practitioner, and above all, as a Lecturer and Demonstrator, he is, in every sense of the term, fully qualified to fill the Chair, after which he has the honour to aspire. I may be allowed to mention, that since his accession to our Institution, the number of students attending the Medical Classes has very materially increased; and at the present day, the Andersonian University will bear to be compared with any unendowed School in Great Britain. Should Dr. Buchanan be successful in his application, I shall certainly regard his removal as a great and serious loss to the Medical School of the Andersonian University; still I am not so selfish as not to wish, for his own sake, that he may be elevated to the rank which he so well deserves; and to a situation which, in my opinion, he is well calculated to fill, with the highest credit to himself, with the greatest benefit to the students, and with much honour to the University of Edinburgh. JAMES PATERSON, M.D. FROM JOHN CRAWFORD, ESQ., M.D., M.R.C.S.L. Professor of Medical Jurisprudence and Police, Anderson's University, Ac. Glasgow, 12th February, 184G. I have had the pleasure of being acquainted with Dr. M. S. Buchanan during the whole of his career as a public Teacher of Anatomy; first, as his pupil, and subsequently, as his colleague in Anderson's University. I have, consequently, had ample opportunities of admiring his talents and witnessing his success as a Teacher. The latter has been worthy of the former; and the steady increase, year after year, in the number of students attending his lectures—until his classes have become, I believe, the most numerous which the study of Anatomy brings together in Scotland, if not in the United Kingdom— is a stronger and more honourable testimony to his merits, than any that can be borne by private friendship. I may, however, be permitted to say, as I can do most sincerely, and as the result of a pretty extensive personal experience and observation of Schools of Anatomy, both in this country and on the continent, that I have never met an individual so well qualified to conduct the business of a large Anatomical Class, as Dr. Buchanan. I do not allude23 only to his thorough and intimate knowledge of his subject, and to his powers of clear and perspicuous demonstration and exposition, although with these essentials to a Teacher of Anatomy he is eminently gifted; I refer especially to his unwearied zeal, unceasing perseverance, and ardent enthusiasm in the communication of knowledge. He never tires of teaching; he superintends with as much enthusiasm the first dissection of the beginner as the most intricate investigations of the advanced student, and labours with as much zest and alacrity to impress the first details of the science on the novice, as lie displays in the exposition of its higher and more interesting departments. It is, in my opinion, to this untiring and unvarying zeal as a Teacher, leading him to adapt himself so admirably to all the capacities and all the circumstances of the taught, and enabling him to communicate to them a portion of his enthusiasm, that Dr. Buchanan’s signal success is to be mainly ascribed. Should he be appointed to the vacant Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, I feel convinced that the usefulness of that venerable seat of learning, so far as Anatomical teaching is concerned, will be materially extended. JOHN CRAWFORD, M.D. FROM ANDREW BUCHANAN, ESQ., M.D. Professor of the Institutes of Medicine in the University of Glasgow, and Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, d’c. Glasgow, 13 Moore Trace, 12th February, 1046*. Dr. M. S. Buchanan has lectured on Anatomy in Glasgow for the last ten years with distinguished success. He is thoroughly acquainted with the structure of the human body, and the applications of Anatomy to the purposes of Practical Surgery. I have been assured by many of his pupils, that he is an excellent Teacher—clear in his demonstrations, ingenious in devising means of illustration, and most liberal in providing them, lie possesses, besides, the important art ot infusing into his pupils the zeal with which he is himself animated tor the study of Anatomical Science. ANDREW BUCHANAN, M.D.FROM CHARLES RITCHIE, ESQ., M.D. Physician to the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, Ac. 7 West Regent-Street, Glasgow, 9th February, 1846. I have been acquainted with Dr. M. Buchanan as an Anatomical Teacher, and as one of the Surgeons of the Royal Infirmary, for the last ten or twelve years; and it affords me pleasure to bear testimony on the present occasion to his peculiar qualifications and eminent success in the former capacity, aided as he has been by the relations of Anatomy with actual practice, and by the nature of his opportunities in the Infirmary. Dr. Buchanan’s knowledge of minute Anatomy, and intelligent and interesting applications of this to Practical Surgery, are exceeded only by his unquenchable zeal as a Teacher, his remarkable urbanity, and the hearty interest he manifests in his students; and it supplies conclusive proof that these qualities are well appreciated, as his classes have risen from the most moderate beginnings, and in despite of the claims of other Lecturers, to a much larger attendance of students than those of any other who has ever lectured on the same subject beyond the walls of the University. CHARLES RITCHIE, M.D. FROM FREDERICK PENNY, ESQ., Ph.D. Professor of Chemistry in the Andersonian University, Ac. Andersonian University, Glasgow, 12th February, 1846. I have much pleasure in availing myself of the present opportunity of giving a formal expression to the very high opinion which I entertain of the character and merits of my esteemed colleague, Dr. M. S. Buchanan, who offers himself as a Candidate for the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh. Of Dr. Buchanan’s reputation as a Physician and Surgeon, I need not speak, inasmuch as the responsible office which he has occupied hi25 the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, the testimonials of eminent medical men, and his long experience as a Practitioner, are a sufficient guarantee. As a Teacher of Anatomy, I can confidently testify that Dr. Buchanan has few rivals; an opinion founded on the unprecedented success which has attended his labours in the Andersonian University, and previously in the Portland-Street Medical School. For several years he has, undoubtedly, had the most numerously attended classes for Practical and Descriptive Anatomy in Scotland, and I have reason to know that the Chair of Anatomy, in this Institution, never stood in a higher position than at the present moment; a circumstance entirely owing to the unwearied activity and zeal, and peculiar aptitude for teaching, which distinguish the present Professor. I am fully sensible of the combination of qualities which arc necessary to render any one an efficient Public Instructor, but I can, with all truth, state, that while I am aware that among the Candidates who will offer themselves for the vacant Chair, some will be eminent for their scientific publications, and others for long medical practice, some for enthusiasm and scholarship, and others for skill in particular departments of Medical Science, 1 cannot bring myself to believe that any one will combine the necessary qualifications for securing numerous classes to the extent to which these are possessed by Dr. Buchanan, and I feel assured that no one will be more likely to maintain the reputation and extend the usefulness of the University of Edinburgh. I shall sincerely regret any circumstance that will occasion the removal of a colleague, who has, by his efficiency as a Teacher, and his popularity with the students, contributed so materially to raise the Medical School of Anderson’s University to its present flourishing condition, but still, for the sake of Dr. Buchanan himself, I shall rejoice to find him successful in his present application for the Edinburgh Chair. FREDERICK PENNY, Ph.D.26 FROM ROBERT PERRY, ESQ., M.D. Physician to the Fever Hospital, late President of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, <kc. Glasgow, 11 th February, 1040. I have personally known Dr. M. S. Buchanan for the last twenty years, and have, as his colleague in the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, had the best opportunity of witnessing his talents, zeal, and success as an Operating Surgeon. As a Trustee of the Andersonian University, I can with confidence certify, that by his talents and industry as a Teacher of Anatomy, he has been most successful in communicating information to his pupils, gaining their esteem, and inspiring them with enthusiasm and zeal akin to his own. Should he be appointed to the Chair of Anatomy in Edinburgh, as his friend, I shall rejoice, but regret his leaving Glasgow, as a serious loss to Anderson’s University. ROBERT PERRY. M.D. FROM WILLIAM LYON, ESQ. Lecturer on Surgery, Portland- Street Medical School, doc. Glasgow, Fyfe Place, February, 1846. Dr. Moses Buchanan' has been known to me for many years; first as a Practitioner in the city—next as a colleague while I served as Surgeon to the Hospital—afterwards as a fellow-lecturer in the Portland-Street School of Medicine—and latterly since his translation to the Anatomical Chair in the Andersonian Institution. In all those capacities I can speak in the highest laudatory terms of the attention, zeal, energy, skill, and success of Dr. Buchanan. His abilities and general and professional acquirements are unquestioned; but if proof were requisite, his immediate, remarkable, and still extending success as an Anatomical Teacher might be adduced. It is, however, needless to go into details; Dr. Buchanan’s acts render eulogy from me unnecessary,—as a Practitioner, Surgical Operator, and Anatomical Teacher, he is not excelled. In the latter27 capacity, especially, his intimate knowledge of the subject, felicitous style of lecturing, tact of interesting his students, ability to give a practical bearing to the knowledge communicated, and his unwearied assiduity, have won the affection, confidence, and esteem of his hearers; and as he was the originator, and still sustains the popularity of the Andersonian Institution, so I doubt not he will advance the status and reputation of any teaching establishment with which he may become connected. W. LYON. FROM ROBERT MACGREGOR, ESQ., M.D. Lecturer on Chemistry in the Portland Street Medical School, <0c. Glasgow, 40 West Nile-Street, 0th January, 104G. Du. Moses S. Buchanan was a colleague of mine in the Portland- Strcct School of Medicine for five years. During that period he taught Anatomy with attention, ardour, and success, and attained a high degree of popularity.—Ample practical experience in Surgery lie has had, by virtue of having been so often Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary of this city.—I do think that a more efficient Teacher is seldom to be met with; and 1 have great pleasure in strongly recommending him to the vacant Professorship of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh. ROBERT MACGREGOR, M.D. FROM JOHN G. FLEMING, ESQ., M.D. Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, <L’c. 121 West Regent-Street, Glasgow, 12fA February, 184G. My dear Sir,—I have much pleasure in stating that, in my opinion, yon possess in an eminent degree the mental and physical capabilities necessary for a Teacher of Anatomy. For many years I have remarked your enthusiastic devotion to the science, and the perseverance with which you have cultivated it; your unwearied toil and liberality in accumulating preparations of all kinds for illustration;28 your facility and perspicuity in imparting knowledge; your great ingenuity in devising methods for simplifying and conveying informa- tion to the student on the more minute and intricate structures;—but it is needless for me to enter into a detail of your merits, the success with which you have been crowned as a teacher amply testifies your high qualifications for performing most ably and efficiently the important duties which devolve on a Professor of Anatomy. I remain, My dear Sir, Yours very faithfully, Dr. Buchanan. J. G. FLEMING. M.D. FROM JAMES JEFFRAY, JUN., ESQ., M.D. Interim Lecturer on Anatomy in the University of Glasgow, <bc. College, Glasgow, 7th February, 1846. Dr. Moses Buchanan, now a Candidate for the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh, having requested from me a testimonial as to his fitness for the office, I have much pleasure in stating, that I consider him well qualified to discharge its duties in an efficient and satisfactory manner. He has already lectured on Anatomy in Glasgow for several years with much success; and from his extensive professional knowledge, gained from many years of private and of hospital practice, he is well able, not only to explain the structure and the functions of the animal system, but at the same time, to direct the attention of the student to the practical points of most interest to the Surgeon and to the Physician. JAMES JEFFRAY, JUN., M.D. FROM JOSEPH BELL, ESQ. Lecturer on Botany, Portland- Street Medical School, &c. Glasgow, 82 West Nile-Street, 13th February, 1846. It affords me much pleasure in giving my testimony to the qualifications of Dr. M. S. Buchanan as a Teacher and Lecturer on29 Anatomy. Of late I have hacl many opportunities of observing the practical and philosophical mode of tuition which he adopts, (and which is peculiar to himself,) and I have no hesitation in stating that it is by far superior to any system I have ever witnessed. His devoted zeal, assiduous attention, and indefatigable perseverance in the Dissecting Rooms among his students, I think can scarcely be equalled by any. The great success which has attended the labours of Dr. Buchanan is itself a strong proof of his talents and attainments as an Anatomist. Ilis Classes at the Andersonian University are most numerously attended. Though by no means wishing to draw comparisons, yet, in justice to Dr. B., I must say, that he is the Teacher of Anatomy in this City, and that if he should leave us, the Medical Schools of Glasgow will experience a sad loss, more particularly the Institution with which he is immediately connected, and to the present success and high position of which, it is notorious lie has so eminently contributed. JOSEPH BELL. FROM ALEXANDER MAXWELL ADAMS, ESQ., M.D. Late Lecturer on Midwifery in the Portland-Street Medical School, <L’c. 50 Rose-Street, G arnet Hill, February Oth, I84G. Having lectured in the Portland-Street School of Medicine when Dr. Moses Buchanan held the Chair of Anatomy there, I was afforded every opportunity of judging of his abilities as a Lecturer—of his attention to the duties of his office—and of the estimation in which lie was held by his students. I have therefore much pleasure in certifying that his power of rendering the driest Anatomical details interesting— of keeping alive the attention of his pupils—and of infusing into them a zeal for Anatomical pursuits was such, as I have seldom seen equalled. I have farther pleasure in certifying that his labours in the Dissecting Room were unremitting, and that his students had the highest appre- ciation of his character, both as a Teacher and as a gentleman. The almost unprecedcntly numerous classes which he has drawn together sufficiently prove the latter fact, without any testimony of mine. ALEXANDER MAXWELL ADAMS, M.D.30 FROM A. KING, ESQ., M.D. Lecturer on Anatomy in the Mechanics’ Institution, Ac. 37 Bath-Street, Glasgow, Oth February, 184G. I have much pleasure in having an opportunity of expressing the high opinion I entertain of Dr. M. S. Buchanan, both as an Anatomist and as a Teacher of that Science. Having been in the habit, for some years, of frequenting his class- rooms, I can state, from personal observation, that he possesses in an eminent degree, the power of imparting knowledge, and of exciting the zeal and emulation of his pupils. The very large classes he has always had, and the extent to which Practical Dissection is prosecuted in his rooms, are good proofs of the above statements. A. KING, M.D. FROM J. A. LAWRIE, ESQ., M.D. Professor of Surgery in Anderson’s University, Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, Ac. Moore Place, Glasgow, February 17th, 184G. My dear Sir,—Having been for years your colleague in Anderson’s University, and in the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, I have had the best opportunities of judging of your powers and qualifications as a Teacher of Anatomy and Clinical Surgery. And I say, that the opinion which I have formed of you is very high, when I add, that for zeal, perseverance, enthusiasm, the power of communicating knowledge, and of attracting and keeping alive the attention of your numerous pupils, I have never known you surpassed, perhaps never equalled. Anatomy may be viewed in two lights,—as a science connected with physiology, and the various departments of natural history, and as a practical study forming the groundwork of Medicine and Surgery. It is in the latter of these relations that it is all-important to the Medical Student, and demands his undivided attention in the very commencement of his career; and it is happily in this department that your powers and qualifications as a Teacher are pre-eminent. The attention which you bestowed on Surgery before you commenced your Lectures on31 Anatomy, and the great experience which you acquired in the Surgical Wards of the Infirmary, enabled you to know practically what the student of Anatomy requires to be taught; and I have reason to know that while your expositions of Descriptive Anatomy arc most complete, you never lose an opportunity of showing its connection with Surgery, and its true practical importance as the groundwork of all Medical Science. Having been a Lecturer on Surgery for many years, I may perhaps be excused when I say, that such arc the qualifications which are requisite in the Professor of Anatomy at the head of a great Medical School; and such, I repeat, are exactly the qualifications which you pre-eminently possess. I do not know, therefore, where the Patrons of the Chair of Anatomy in the University of Edinburgh could find a man who knows better what the students ought to be taught, or who, by natural endowments, is better able to communicate that knowledge than you. As a colleague, I entertain for you great personal friendship—we have been associated for years in the wards of the Glasgow' lloyal Infirmary, and as Teachers in Anderson’s University—and I gladly embrace this opportunity of expressing my deep sense of your uniform good humour, kindness, and unceasing desire to oblige—on no single occasion has the slightest approach to unkindly feeling existed between us. Should you succeed in your present laudable object of ambition, the Medical School of Glasgow will sustain a great loss—that of Anderson’s University one which, I fear, will be irreparable; and one to which I can only be reconciled, by feeling assured that the change will not only benefit you, but will advance the interests of practical Anatomy and practical Surgery in Scotland. Sincerely wishing you success, I am, My Dear Sir, Most truly yours, J. A. LAWRIE, M.D. Du. M. S. Buchanan.LIST OF MONOGRAPHS, LECTURES, AND PAPERS, PUBLISHED BY DE. M. S. BTJCHMAN. 1. History of tlie Glasgow Royal Infirmary, from its commencement in 1787 to the present time, with an Appendix, &c., and 20 Statistical Tables, 4to, 1832. 2. Lecture Introductory to a Course of Clinical Surgery, delivered to the Students of the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, 8vo, 1832. 3. On Ligature of the Subclavian Artery. 4. On Lithoplatomy. 5. Report of Cases treated in the Glasgow Royal Infirmary. 6. On Ligature of the External Iliac, Inguinal, and Femoral Arteries. 7. Lecture Introductory to a Course of Anatomy, delivered to the Students of Anderson’s University, 8vo, November, 1841. 8. Lecture Introductory to a Course of Clinical Surgery, delivered to the Students of the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, 8vo, November, 1843. 9. On the advantages of Classification as a means of imparting Information on the Anatomy of various parts of the Human Body.— Edinburgh and London Journal of Medical Science for November, 1843. 10. Remarks on Medical Reform, being the substance of an Intro- ductory Lecture delivered to the Students of Anderson’s University, in November, 1845; with four Statistical Tables, showing the state of Medical Education throughout the British Empire, 8vo. BEIL AND BAIN, PRINTERS, GLASGOW.* .