163 RUPTURE, MALFORMATION OF HEART, ETC. "Sur 1'Angina de Poitriue," 'Arch. Gen.,' xsii, 671. Allan, "Case of Functional Cardiac Disorder cured by administration of Digitalis" (girl, a)t. 12), 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1S74, i, 174. Boulton, " Case of Cardiac Depression from Shock " (woman, a-t. 69), ib. ib., 611. Miller, "Angina relieved by inhalation of Nitrite of Amy]," ib., ii, 682. Moore, "Case of Cardiac Hyperassthesia" (woman, a)t, 34), ib. ib., 708. (And see under "Exophthalmic Goitre.") Malformation of the Heart, Sfc. T. B. Peacock describes (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiv, 49) the case of a woman, aet. 35, who had suffered from several attacks of rheumatic fever, and who died after paralysis of the left side. In addition to disease of the aortic and mitral valves and embolism of the middle cerebral artery, there was found a congenital malformation of the former valve. There were only two segments, of which one was very large, and displayed on its upper surface two raphes or cross bars, so as par- tially to divide it into three imperfectly separated sacculi. The larger segment represented the right and posterior valves, and the right coronary artery arose from one of the sacculi. The other segment was greatly thickened and shallow. The edges of the valves, as also those of the mitral, were studded with small recent vegetations. Prom recent observations the writer is inclined to give up his earlier view, according to which the blending of two or more segments was probably produced by intra-uterine disease, and to regard them as dependent on arrest of development. A plate and measurements of the heart are given. H. C. Rose publishes (ib., 68) the case of a girl, set. 13, who from early childhood had exhibited symptoms of obstructed circulation, with dyspnoea and tumultuous action of the heart, these symptoms decreas- ing during her stay in Switzerland, in a more or less rarified atmo- sphere. She was found dead in her bed. The left ventricle was con- siderably hypertrophied; in place of the aortic valves was a cone-like, firm, and inelastic semi-cartilaginous ring projecting into the aorta, having in its centre a small oval opening which had no power of closing, and through which blood must have regurgitated at every beat. The other valves and the rest of the viscera were normal. (Cf. with this P. King's case of aortic stenosis, abstracted under "Endocarditis," p. 161 of this Pep.) Schumacher (' Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1873, No. 37) gives the follow- ing description of congenital deficiency in a female, set. 20. The pericardium was strongly adherent to the sternum and lungs, and tensely stretched, but contained little serum. The heart was un- usually large, its base pushed to the left, its general position showing a great development of the right as compared with the left side. The endocardium was healthy; the openings of the vena? cava? were distinctly dilated; the lumen of the pulmonary artery was twice as large as that of the aorta. The right ventricular wall was five lines in thickness, its cavity largely increased; the columnar carnese and papil- lary- muscles were only slightly developed, and the inner flap of the tricuspid valve altogether wanting. The chordae tendinea? from the anterior and posterior flaps were long and ill-developed. Both the arterial and the venous openings were dilated; the semilunar valves