299 ACTION OF BULLETS. nerve and artery that supply them come into the thigh at the upper and outer corner of this opening ; hence hy a judicious selection of the spot for puncturing with the tenotomy knife, and of the place and direction of the incision, it is quite possible to divide all this mass (except the outer portion of the pectineus, which is crossed by the femoral vessels) without injuring any nerve or artery. Bleeding may be prevented by keeping the knife close to the bone. Tile surgeon stands on the side, an assistant abducts, making the adductor lengus prominent. The tenotome is entered at the outer side of the tendon close to the bone and made to cut from without inwards. Then the gracilis with bands of fascia become tense and are divided in the same direction, taking care (in the male) of the crus penis. The finger of the left hand being now placed on the tuber ischii as a guide to the direction, the tenotome is passed downwards till it is felt beneath the skin with the guiding finger, and then the adductor magnus and brevis are separated from the bone, still cutting from without inwards. If the pectineus resist, as is usual, the inner half may be cautiously divided, the rest will yield. He performed this operation on both sides in the case of a lady who after marriage found she could separate her knees but very slightly. ('Lancet,' June 28, 1873.) Rickety deformities of the leys treated hy operation.—Mr. Howard Marsh contributes a paper on this subject. In three cases the tibia was so far divided with a fine saw that it fractured on bending it. In a fourth, a wedge of bone was removed from the tibia, and the fibula was cut in the right leg and broken in the left. Figures are given of the condition of the latter patient before and after operation. (' Med. Chir. Trans.,' lvii, 145.) Blood-cyst of the hand.—Mr. "W. Haward records the case of a woman, set. 43, who had noticed a swelling of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the right thumb for two years. Latterly it had increased rapidly. The tumour had been punctured and only blood escaped. The swelling was laid open (Esmarch's bandage having been applied) and a cyst found containing altered blood-clot. The contents were turned out, but the wall left. The cyst-wall and contents showed spindle-shaped cells with oval nuclei. Rifle-shot wound of the ankle; lodyment of the bullet in the tibia ; re- moval.—Mr. Thomas Annandale records the case of a man, set. 30, who was wounded in the ankle by a rifle-shot. There was only one wound. A portion of a bullet was extracted from the cancellous texture of the lower end of the tibia and another portion had previously been found. The bullet had been split by coming in contact with some hard substance. The case proves that a conical ball or a portion of it may penetrate and lodge in a bone without fracturing its entire thickness or causing Assuring of it. ('Lancet,' Dec. 26, 1874.) Action of rifle-bullets on the body.—Prof. W. Busch (' Archiv fur Klin. Chirurg.,' xvii) has made experiments on the action on certain parts of the body, especially the skull and extremities, of projectiles of various metals discharged from the Chassepot and needle guns, and other weapons. A Chassepot bullet, discharged from a short distance against a skull, tore it asunder like an explosion, so that the brain sub-