REPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. EOBEET BEUDENELL CAETEE, 0PHT1IALMIC STJEGEON TO ST. GEOKGE'S HOSPITAL. The treatment of lacrymal obstructions.—Dr. Savary1 calls attention to the limits of usefulness of probes in the treatment of affections of the lacrymal passages. They will overcome obstacles, but this is all, and they can neither re-establish a healthy condition of the mucous mem- brane nor cause contraction of a dilated, sac. He advises that the probes should be used more sparingly than is the custom; and that, when ob- struction has been overcome, the remaining morbid conditions should be treated by astringent injections. He prefers a weak solution of crystallized nitrate of silver (gr. jss ad §j), and injects it by the blunt conical nozzle of an Anel's syringe—not using the fine nozzles, for fear of inflicting injury. Extraction of adherent cataract.—De Wecker2 describes a new method of dealing with the cases of adherent cataract with closed pupil, which are left after the subsidence of certain forms of irido-choroiditis or of sympathetic ophthalmia; and this method differs from those already in use chiefly because he removes the lens, and establishes a pupillary aperture, by the same operation. He makes an incision with a Graefe's knife as if for cataract extraction, with a puncture and a counter-punc- ture on a line two millimetres below the superior horizontal tangent of the cornea, but carries the knife through and immediately behind the iris, so as to divide it almost to the extent of the external section. By pressure with the fixation forceps he causes the section to gape, and the lens to advance towards it; and he then divides the capsule in a line parallel to that of the wound, and nearly coincident with the equator of the lens, which is next pressed out in the ordinary way. He then introduces a pair of iridotomy scissors, with one blade in front of the iris and one behind it; and, by two cuts converging from the angles of the wound to a point below the position of the natural pupil, he excises a large triangular piece of iris, with the capsule and exudation matter adherent to it. This piece is then withdrawn from the eye by forceps, and the operation is terminated. If there is no important escape of vitreous, he is careful to remove, as far as possible, any remains of cor- 1 'Annales d'Oculistique,' vol. lxix. 3 ' Wiener Med. Wochenschr.,' 1873. 23