THE ELASTIC LIQATUHE. 349 care, in which a girl died of meningitis in consequence of her skull Laving hoen cut through by an elastic string which fastened her hair- net. He was then led to apply the elastic thread in the removal of tumours, &c. The following is his description of the process: The proceeding is easy, but it requires a certain amount of care and precision, which may be soon acquired by patience. The part to be operated on should be supported or held up by an assistant, so that the operator may not drag on it and thus cause unnecessary pain. The ligature must be drawn tight and tied with two knots. The pain is not great, and generally lasts not more than a quarter of an hour. . The division of the tissues is effected by the continuous pressure of the I cord, which compresses the vessels until they are plugged. As the I tissues are gradually cut through,. a granulated furrow is left, and, when the part falls off, the ligature springs away from the granulations in the form of a ring with a very small aperture. The process lasts : from three to fifteen days, according to the density of the tissues. In a subsequent paper (ibid., July 22 and 29, August 5, 1873), he i describes briefly a number of cases in which he had applied the ligature : viz., suppuration of the inguinal glands, with sinuses; fistula 3 ani; prolapsus ani; hydrocele; phymosis; epithelioma; cystic tumour .of breast; papilloma; polypus recti; castration; elephantiasis of labium : majus; amputations of leg. Of the three cases of amputation of the I leg, one died of pyaemia, and in another the patient was presenting [pysemic symptoms after date of the report. The modifications of the proceeding are described by Dr. Dittel in I the papers referred to, a full translation of which was given in the ■ 'London Medical Record' for December 3, 10, and 17, 1873. The publication of Dr. Dittel's first paper was followed by a note in the ' G-azzetta Medica Italiana Provincie Yenete,' No. 23, 1873, by IProf. Vanzetti of Padua, in which he pointed out that the elastic ligature had already been inuse for several years in Italy. In 1862, Dr. 1 Grandesso-Silvestri published in the above-mentioned journal an article in which he put forth a theory of the action of the elastic ligature I closely agreeing with that of Dr. Dittel, and described cases in which :he had carried the plan into effect with success. In 1863, Richard, of : Paris, at the suggestion of Trousseau (' Gazette des Hopitaux,' June ;3o, 1863) operated, by the elastic ligature, in 17 cases, the results : being satisfactory. In 1864, Ciniselli used the elastic ligature for •dividing abscesses (' Annali Universali di Medicina,' May, 1864). The process, however, seems to have attracted little notice till 1871, when - Dr. Grandesso-Silvestri published a second paper, in which he described the elastic ligature as possessing the following advantages:—(1) 'Applied to arteries and veins, it produces obliteration of the vessels, 'without extension of inflammation beyond the point of ligature. (2) ;The ligature may be applied with impunity to tissues en masse; there ia no risk of tetanus, while, if a nerve be included in the ligature, it is thoroughly compressed and ultimately cut through. (3) The method il applicable in the radical cure of varix, in which the application of an elastic ligature by means of a porte-aiguille produces better results than the ecraseur. (4) No tissue, not even bone, resists the action of