ItKPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. hematie." The two cases which he gives as examples occurred in new-born children, male and female, which were attacked, a few days alter birth, with epileptiform (uremic) convulsions, strabismus, dyspnoea, &c, and presented a bronze colouration of the skin and brown "tinge of tbe urine. The autopsy of both cases is given in full. The kidneys, in addition to small points of suppuration in the cortical substance, showed brown stripes radiating through the pyramids and running into the cortex; under the microscope these were found to be the tubules crammed more or less with casts formed by the red blood-cells. The tube epithelium was generally intact, though in some places fatty ; the glomeruli and blood-vessels generally were unaffected. In the second case, in addition to these changes, which were less advanced, there was a thrombosis in the veins. After stating that this last occurrence is common in the kidneys of children affected with atrophy, the writer compares with the two cases described three of thrombosis of the renal veins and one recorded by Vulpian resembling these of " tubular haemorrhage," and sums up his paper with the conclusion, among others, that this " tubul-hematie renale " is due to a primary dyscrasia of the blood, while the thrombosis of atrophy (athrepsie) has its cause in dis- order of the digestive organs. Both lesions, as in the text, may occur in the same subject. A plate of the microscopical appearances found is given. P. E. Andant (' Bull. Gen. de Thtrap.,' lxxxv, 226), after remarking that the position of the kidneys protects them almost completely from direct blows, gives a case which he considers to be one of contusion of the left kidney, so far as he is aware the second reported case, the first having been published in the ' Gaz. des Hopitaux ' (1869, No. 102). A girl four years old was thrown out of a cart drawn by oxen, though how she fell remains a matter of doubt. For some moments she was senseless, and on returning to consciousness complained of severe pain in the left lumbar region, felt desire to make water, but could not do so easily. Next night she passed bloody Urine twice ; later there was fever and pain in the side, which disappeared after the employment of belladonna liniment and poultices. M. Socoloff records ('Berl. Klin. "Woch.,' 1874, 233) the case of a man, est. 36, who had been affected fifteen years previously with syphilis, and had suffered an injury to the head eight years before he came under notice. He had had pain in the left lumbar region, and whenever he was exposed to cold his urine was found to contain blood- cells and casts of various kinds. He had also some paralysis of the left side, and Botkin, under whose care the patient was, refers the hematuria to a local affection of the brain, and a secondary disturb- ance in the vaso-motor centres of the kidney, causing haemorrhage through the vessel-walls of the latter by means of the increased blood- pressure brought about by cold. Dmitt, "Two cases of Intermittent Hematuria," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1873, i, 461. Engelsberg," Augcnfallige Wirksamkeit des pliosporsauren Kalkes in einem Fulle hartuackigerNiereiiblutung" (lasting six weeks, and rapidly cured by the drug given in doses of a quarter of a teaspoonful four times a day), ' Wien. Med. Wocb.,' 1873,