485 METALS. as possible similar to those of the living stomach. All these numerous and well-designed experiments appear to have been made with scien- tific caution and a due appreciation of possible disturbing causos. The changes undergone by calomel applied externally were investigated with equal care, and the results brought into connection with what has been observed of its effects when used either epidermically or hypodermically. From all this laborious investigation Prof. Bellini deduces twenty- four several conclusions, into which he sums up what he proposes as results established by clinical experience and experiments in the chemical laboratory. Of these we subjoin what appear to be the most practically important: That calomel introduced by the mouth into the fasting subject is, in a very small portion of the stomach and a greater of the small intestine, changed into a soluble mercurial compound. That in the stomach this change is effected by the lactic acid and the alkaline chlorides, and in the small intestine by the alkaline carbonates of the enteric fluids. That calomel introduced into a stomach which is digesting protein aliments is either wholly or almost decomposed within that viscus, and that the results of such decomposition are metallic mercury and a soluble mercurial compound. That acid drinks and fruit should be withheld during the use of calomel; but that magnesia, whether calcined or carbonated, adminis- tered during a course of calomel, promotes the local action of that mercurial. That the use of calomel may be injurious when contemporaneous with that of ammoniacal salts, and also in certain diseased conditions, e.g., in those suffering from ammoniema, uro-ammoniema, cholera, typhus, &c. That the use of calomel might cause poisoning when administered contemporaneously with the hydrochloride of ammonium, with the aqua lauro-cerasi, with the alkaline or the metallic iodides and bromides, the alkaline sulphides, and the alkaline hydrobromates and hydriodates. That opium and its preparations exercise no decomposing power on calomel, but render its effects less perceptible, not by any chemical action, but by their control of the sensibility. That calomel applied externally, whether to a whole or an ulcerated surface, or introduced hypodermically, may be rendered soluble by the alkaline chlorides of the organic fluids with which it is brought into contact. That such external application may produce severe local lesions if there be contemporaneous internal use of the alkaline iodides, bromides, or sulphides, or even of sulphur itself in small and frequent doses. And that, lastly, clinical observation is in complete harmony with the results of chemical and physiological research. Treatment of cholera by the black sulphide of mercury.—Socrate Cadet,1 Professor of Physiology in the University of Kome, from a comparison of the statistics of mortality from cholera during the 1 ' Ncravelles Etudes sur le Cholera Asiatique.' Rome, 1872. 8vo, pp. 49,