REPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. sight, in many cases, has no connection with the retinal haze. In his opinion it is due to " transitory, irregular astigmatism." He discusses the whole question at great length. The blow may easily influence the lens, and may lead to haemorrhage in its neighbourhood, which may also influence its form. He disbelieves in " commotio retina;" altogether. The blow directly influences the part struck in front (lens, iris, &c.) and drives the eyeball against the wall of the orbit. The back of the eye is therefore affected as if by a direct blow from the wall of the orbit; that is, a blunt object. The blow in front would not produce any changes in the fundus, unless the back of the eye struck some object. (' Klin. Monatsbl.,' Feb., Marz, 1873, pp. 42—78.) Sympathetic ophthalmia.—Prof. Arlt discusses the anatomical changes mot with in sympathetic ophthalmia, the causes which give rise to it, and its treatment. He also gives an historical summary of the literature of the subject. He mentions the case of a lad who was stabbed in the left eye. The wound involved the cornea, iris, and lens, and the latter swelled up, and the pupil became closed. Subsequently sympathetic irido-cyclitis attacked the right eye. Iridectomy was performed on the left eye, and then on the right, and subsequently on the left again, with success. The lad was under care for four years. The author remarks that, had he enucleated the left eyeball, he would not only have done what was useless, but even what was unjustifiable. In any case in which the onBet of sympathetic ophthalmia is likely to occur, or in which it has already set in, he insists strongly on abstinence from any employment of the eyes and the avoidance of exposure to strong light. ('Wien. Med. Woch.,' Feb. 1, 8, and 15, 1873.) Temporary blindness in connection with disease of the kidney after scarlet fever ; recovery. By E. Forster.1—A child, two years old, who was recovering from scarlet fever, again became feverish, and had albu- men in the urine twenty-five days after the commencement of the ill- ness. Eight days later the child became blind, and continued so for sixteen days, when, in the course of a few days, the sight became com- pletely restored. The author remarks :—1. On the date at which the blindness came on, quite after the expiration of the exanthematic period ; 2. It came on eight days after the appearance of albumen in the urine, and when this was already disappearing ; 3. It only disappeared after the albumen, &c, had vanished for some days; 4. (Edema and uramiic convulsions did not occur at all. Three analogous cases have been recorded in typhus, and four in scarlet fever. The former, during the fever ; the latter, 15, 20, 25, 26, and 32 days respectively after the appearance of the eruption, coexist- ing with Bright's disease, and except the last case, with uramiic con- vulsions. The duration of the blindness was, in Ebert's case, from 20—60 hours; in Henoch's, 24—48 hours; Tolmantschew's, 7 days; Forster's 16 days. In all, except the last, the kidney disease persisted after the restoration of sight. Ebert recorded one case in typhus aud three with scarlet fever (' Klin. Monat. f. Augen.,' vi, p. 91); Henoch, one case with typhus and one with scarlet fever. (' Berlin Klin. 1 ' Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk. und phys. Erzielning,' Jhrg. v, p. 325, June, 1872.