DISEASES Oh' PREGNANCY. 415 within the area of spontaneous premature detachment, when the placenta is inserted, not centrally or covering the internal os, but with a margin at or near the iuternal os. 3. By a partial separation of the placenta from accidental causes, such as a jerk or the like. 4. By partial separation of the placenta, the consequence of uterine pains, producing a small amount of dilatation of the internal os. If the haemorrhage always resulted from tho partial separation of the placenta, there ought to be found pathological appearances which would declare this; ac- cording to the age at which the haemorrhage occurred; this must be so unless healing reunion and a return to the previous healthy condition can take place after partial separation. He rejects as untenable the theories that the lower portion of the uterus becomes, during the latter half of pregnancy, greatly and specially developed, and that thus an incompatibility between the placenta and this part is produced, so leading to the separation, because the placenta ceased to grow about the sixth month; and the converse one that the haemorrhage depends upon the disproportionate growth of the placenta, separation being produced by the placenta shooting beyond its site. He therefore looks upon these haemorrhages as accidental, not necessary, and their occurrence is favoured by the extraordinary anatomical condition existing in placenta praevia, as well as other circumstances, some of which are known, as the increased pressure of the blood above what it would be were the placenta inserted high on the uterine walls. (' Edinburgh Med. Journ.,' Nov. 1873.) Dr. Eobert P. Harris read a paper before the Philadelphia Obstetrical Society, May, 1873, on early pregnancy. He relates two cases: 1. A white girl began to menstruate when 11 years and 4 or 5 months old; gave birth to a male child rather over size when 12 years and 9 months old. The mother was stout and well developed, and weighed 100 pounds. The labour was natural, lasting 18 hours: the vertex presented in the second position; she nursed her child and had an abundance of milk. 2. A mulatto girl began to menstruate at the age of 11 years and 9 months. She gave birth to a well-developed female child when 10 days under 13 years old ; and was a second time delivered, the child being a full-sized male, when 14 years and 7 months old. The father of the first child was a white boy, 17 years old. Diseases of Pregnancy, Fischel relates two cases showing the effect of chronic disease of the heart upon pregnancy. In the first case, the woman had mitral insuffi- ciency, and was seized at the seventh month with palpitation of the heart, a violent cough day and night, and fits of dyspnoea going on to orthopncea. Her delivery was good and quite a severe menorrhagia followed. For the first five days after delivery she was slightly better, but on the sixth the dyspnoea returned more violently than before. She died at the end of the eighth week. In the second case the patient had aortic insufficiency; at the second month of pregnancy she suffered from palpitation and dyspnoea; at the eighth month oedema of the lower extremities and enlargement of the liver and spleen, and albuminuria. During the last five weeks the attacks of dyspnoea became very severe ;