361 OPHTHALMIA IN PAUPER SCHOOLS. moderate, and the danger of severe corneal damage slight. The cases remaining in the body of the schools (and which of course make no show in the medical relief books) were as a rule very mild indeed as regards actual symptoms. Almost all, however, both in and out of the infirmaries, had well-marked granular lids and would be subject to relapses often of a tedious character. There were great variations between different schools in the quantity and character of the discharge ; and, as these differences could seldom be recorded in detail, the mere number of children with discharge in each school is not a fair test of the severity of the disease therein. The chief differences will be noticed as they occur. Still greater differences were found, between the schools, as to the minimum degree of ophthalmic affection for which isolation and treat- ment were thought necessary. A number of children with an amount of discharge which most doctors, and among them the author, would con- sider to involve a serious risk of contagion, were found at large in some schools, while at others almost every child with even a trace of discharge was in the infirmary. Deficient infirmary accommodation sometimes accounted for this, but not always; it sometimes was the result of deliberate purpose, because cases of the degree here indicated are not by all medical officers believed to be contagious, or because it is supposed that by concentrating a number of mild cases together into the infirmary the intensity of the disease would thereby be in- creased. The number of children with healthy eyelids throughout the schools was equal to 15 per cent, of the whole number. Lastly, there were 40 per cent, of the children whose eyelids were in a condition of slight disease, or who were in general terms predisposed to obstinate and relapsing ophthalmia. Many of this group had already had one or more attacks, generally mild ones. The two last per-centages, however, require some correction for prac- tical purposes. A child whose eyelids are in the slightly granular state ceases after several years to have any special liability to ophthalmia if during that time he happens to escape a first attack, and this notwith- standing that some remains of the granular condition still exist. For this reason 40 per cent, is rather too high a figure; probably 35 per cent, would be about correct, the other 5 per cent, being reckoned as healthy. This correction will be made throughout unless otherwise specified. We thus arrive at the following result: Table I.—Condition of the Eyelids in all Schools (neglecting fractions). Per cent. 1. Healthy ........ 20 2. Predisposed to ophthalmia; many having already suffered from one or more attacks, but no serious changes yet produced . . 35 3. Active ophthalmia . . . . . . .15 [Consisting of cases with discharge 12 p. c. >, „ other symptoms, 3 p. c] 4. Bad granular lids without present symptoms; many of them extremely subject to relapses and to corneal damage . . . .30 100