ANEURISM—LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 213 It recurred iu another fortnight, and the carotid was then ligatured. The patieut recovered well. A hempen ligature was used, and the dressing not changed for some days. The ligature separated on the eighteenth day. ('Lancet,' Oct. n, 1873.) Aneurism of common carotid; ligature of lower part of artery; cure'.—Dr. Christopher Fleming records the case. (' Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,'Aug. 1873.) Ligature of left carotid for aneurism of arch of aorta.—In the last 'Eetrospect,' there is a note of a man who was the subject of an aneu- rism of the arch of the aorta, for which ligature of the common carotid was resorted to by Mr. Heath, who records the case in vol. v of the ' Clin. Soc. Trans.' A note in the sixth volume states that the man has derived permanent benefit from the operation. Tumour of the neck ; removal by elastic ligature ; hemorrhage ; liga- ture of the common carotid ; unhealed sinus ; haemorrhage in afew months ; ligature again lower down ; abscesses in cerebral hemisphere and in liver.—The patient was a man, aged 31. Pyaemic symptoms appeared before the second ligature. (' Medical Times and Gazette,' Nov. 29, l8730 • Traumatic aneurism of neck; ligature of the common carotid with per- manent silver ivire ligature.—Dr. R. W. Gibbes records the case. The wire was double and tied in a reef knot and the ends cut off short with- out having constricted the vessel sufficiently to divide either coat. "When seen a year later the double constricting wire could not be felt, but the patient said he felt it when pressure was made. (' Charleston Med. Journ. and Review,' Jan. 1874, and ' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' July, 1874.) Incised throat; wound of internal jugular vein ; ligature ; recovery.— Mr. John Woodman records the case of a woman whose throat was cut with a razor. A longitudinal wound was found in the left internal jugu- lar vein, therefore at right angles to the wound in the skin. Great trouble was experienced in ligaturing the vein, owing to the haemorrhage necessitating constant compression, but it was finally tied above and below the wound. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 18, 1873.) Telangiectasis of gum.—Mr. James E. Adams records a case in which severe haemorrhage occurred at intervals during six months from a tumour of the gum. The right upper molar had been removed two or three years previously. No special haemorrhage occurred at the time. The patient was a young man (aged 20). A small plexiform naevus was found on examination on the surface of the gum between the second molar and the bicuspid tooth. A free application of the galvanic cautery arrested the haemorrhage and destroyed the growth. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' June 27, 1874.) Aneurism on the dorsum of the tongue.—Mr. Gay records the case of a lady, aged 45, who came under his care for a pulsating swelling on the dorsum of the tongue near the tip. A small artery led to it, the tumour was cut out, and a portion of the tongue around it. (' Lancet,' Aug. 22, 1874.) liestraint of hemorrhage during operations on the mouth.—Prof. E. Andrews directs ether spray on the roof of the mouth, and thus checks