518 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. It was ascertained that salicylic acid prevented the formation of prussic acid from amygdalin by the action of emulsin, of essential oil of mustard by the action of water on mustard, and of alcohol from grape sugar by means of yeast. One thousandth part of salicylic acid added to beer sufficed to preserve it from fungus growths when freely exposed to the air in a warm place. The acid was also found to retard the coagulation of milk ( 4 per cent, added), and to preserve urine from putrefactive decomposition. Fresh meat rubbed with the acid kept sweet for weeks in the air. Nearly all the salicylic acid can be washed off, and only a scarcely perceptible sweet taste is left. Professor Thiersch found salicylic acid very effective in surgery for dressing wounds. It is used in the same manner as carbolic acid. Salicylic acid, C7H603, differs from carbolic acid, C6HfiO, by the elements of one molecule of carbonic acid; and on heating salicylic acid to a temperature of 2200 to 230° Fahr. it is resolved into these two latter substances. Salicylic acid may be artificially prepared (synthesized) by acting upon carbolic acid with sodium and carbonic acid. Cellar-dwellings.—At the annual meeting of the German Public Health Association in 1874 a paper was read by Dr. Scwabe1 of Berlin, in which it is asserted that the death-rate is greater and that epidemic diseases prevail more severely in cellar-dwellings than in any others, and that among epidemic diseases diarrhoeal affections occur with greatest intensity on the ground-floor. State medicine in England.—Dr. Fodor,2 who paid a visit to this country in 1873, at the expense of the Austrian Government, with the object of studying state medicine in England, and has since been appointed by the Hungarian Government first professor of state medicine in the new University of Klausenbourg (Kolosvar), has published an elaborate octavo, in the Hungarian language, on our medical institutions and practice. Such a work, if translated into our own language, would well repay perusal by our countrymen, as a criticism upon our institutions by a highly intelligent and educated foreigner. Alimentary substances. — The siege of Paris gave rise to many attempts to reproduce artificially several well-known articles of daily dietary, the want of which was severely felt, and several special treatises and memoirs were published relative to this subject. M. Gubler3 proposed as a substitute for artificial milk an emulsion of an egg in 90 grains of sugar and three and a half ounces of tepid water. M. Dubrunfaut4 proceeds by a more elaborate method. He takes, by weight, 500 parts of water; sugar 40-50 parts; dried albumen (an article of commerce) 20-30 parts; crystallized sodium carbonate 1-2 parts; olive oil 50-60 parts. These are emulsified by shaking them together. Two or three parts of gelatine may be substitued for the dried albumen, but with less advantage. 1 ' Allgem. Med. Central. Zeit.,' 1874, Sept. 2 ' Kozegeszsegiigy Angolorszagban, &c., irta Fodor Jdzsef.' Budapest, 1873. 3 ' Bull, de l'Acad! de Med.,' xxxv. 4 ' Comp. Rend.,' lxxii, p. 57.