275 PERIOSTEAL FLAPS IN AMPUTATION. niarrow, both because they favour the ossification of the marrow and because the contact of marrow with periosteum is less heterogeneous and irritating than that of marrow with muscles and other tissues. 10. Suppuration does not destroy the periosteal flaps, for, when this sets in, union has already taken place between the medulla and the periosteum. ii. The tissue which becomes ossified, whether directly from the periosteum or by the previous formation of cartilage, always first imdergoes a change into osteoid tissue. 12, 13. The cartilaginous callus is already apparent on the fifth day, and its ossification always proceeds from the periphery towards the centre, in the course of the vessels. 14. The newly formed bone has the structure of true bone. 1 ^. The new bone has a rounded form, and does not irritate the adja- cent parts. 16. The observations above made are applicable both to compact and to spongy bones. The methods of amputation best adapted for the formation of periosteal flaps are the flap and the circular; the oval and elliptical incisions are less so. The periosteal flaps must be at least twice as long as the greatest diameter of the bone, and not less broad than half its circumference. In the forearm, two periosteal flaps should be formed ; in the leg, one, from the tibia. If the soft parts over the bone be not too thick (as on the tibia) they may be raised with the perios- teum. If, on the other hand, they be very thick, as in the thigh, the flap may be made either of periosteum alone, or with a layer of muscular tissue. Great care is required in sawing the bone, so that it may be divided close to the base of the flap, and that the latter may not be injured by the saw. Conical stumps.—In volume xv of the ' Archiv fur Klinische Chirur- gie,' P. Giiterbock describes the form of conical stump which arises from hypertrophy of the bone, often notwithstanding that the flaps are sufficiently large and the operation has been correctly performed. These osseous proliferations occur in the early months after the opera- ; tion. The acute forms follow osteomyelitis, or, rather, acute ostitis or peri- 1 ostitis, the result of separation of the periosteum, the bone being at ! the same time hyperamiic and at certain points distinctly osteoporotic; or they occur as broad and pointed spongy hyperostoses, at first having a : rather firm connection with the bone. They may be present at the end l of three weeks. Chronic hyperostosis may occur as the immediate result of an excess in the normal formation of bone in the course of healing, or in the course of, or after, traumatic diseases. The secondary formation of a medullary cavity, which occurs in many .•cases, is a process of melting down of the newly formed bone; the two nmedullary cavities may become united. The newly formed cavity con- tains red marrow. The cortical substance frequently also becomes ? spongy. The periosteal proliferation sometimes produces only a layer of cartilage; often,however, there is much thickening of the sawn end by ■the excessive formation of callus. Haversian canals and lamellae are formed in the new bone. The hyperostosis is sometimes merely spongy, usually also carious. Not unfrequently, though the ends of the bone remain normal, ossification of the interosseous ligament takes