15 ftESHRATiOX. lation of carbonic acid in. the blood, and also when the sensibility of the vaso-motor centre is diminished. S. Setschenow1 has written a paper on absorptiometry in its application to the state of car- bonic acid in the blood, and finds that the haemoglobin is the con- stituent of the blood with which the carbonic acid of tbe blood-cells is combined. He has satisfied himself further that serum contains two kinds of material capable of uniting with carbonic acid gas, of which one is not altered by carbonic acid, whilst the other is separated as haemoglobin, new chemical affinities then coming into play. One of these products of disintegration, endowed with chemical affinities, may be paraglobulin. Ewald 2 produced apnoea by making animals breathe oxygen, and found that the oxygen of arterial blood becomes increased to saturation, that of venous blood diminished, whilst the carbonic acid of both kinds of blood is decidedly diminished. By naturally forced respiration almost complete saturation of the blood may be effected. "W. Filehne,3 Eohrig,4 Lang, 5 Socoloff, 6 Pick, 7 Nussbaum, 8 Badoud.9 Dr. Barlow,10 in a paper " On the Pneumatic Aetion which accom- panies the Articulation of Sounds by the Human Voice," which is illus- trated by a large number of tracings, shows that the articulation of the human voice is accompanied by definite pneumatic actions, and that those actions, many of which are insensible to ordinary observation, are capable of being recorded. The principle of registration is similar to the cardiograph of Marey, consisting in recording the vibrations of a thin membrane placed over the extremity of a trumpet into which the person experimented on speaks. A series of experiments showed that reading 359 syllables pronounced in 86 seconds required the use of 523 cubic inches of air, or about 1^ cubic inch of air for each syllable, and rather more than four syllables per second, including stops. Distinct articulation becomes difficult against a pressure of 2 inches of water, and Dr. Barlow could not pronounce any words against a pressure of 4 inches without considerable exertion. The tracings show an elevation, i. e. increased pressure, after each syllable, especially when this contains an explosive vowel. The words " Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper " shows this remarkably well. The difference in the action be- tween whispered sounds and those spoken loud is not so great as might have been expected. 1 ' Pfliiger's Archiv,' B. viii, 1874, p. 1-39. 2 Idem, B. vii, p. 575. 3 " Ueber Apnoe und die Wirkung eincs cnergischen Kohlcnsaurcstromcs auf die Schleimhaute," ' Reichert und Da Bois Raymond's Archiv,' 1873, p. 361. 4 'On Cutaneous Respiration and Absorption,' abstract in 'Humphry and Tur- ner's Journal,' by Brunton and Ferrier, vol. vii, p. 188. 1 "On Effects of Varnishing the Skin," 'Archiv. d. Heilk.,' B. xiii, pp. 277, 1872, abstract in ' Journ. of Anat. and Phys.,' 1873, p. 188. 1 " On Effects of Suppression of Perspiration," ' Centralblatt,' 1872, No. 44, abstract in ' Journ. of Anat. and Phys.,' vol. vii, p. 188. 7 " Ein Pneumograph," * Verh. d. Wurzburg phys. Mud. Ges.,' N.F. iii, p. 211. * 'Pfliiger's Archiv,' 1873, B. vii, p. 296-300, " Fortgcsetzte Untcrsuchungen iiber die Athmung der Lunge." 9 Inaug. Dissert., 1874, abst. in * Centralb. f. d. Med. Wiss.,' 1874, p. 824, " Ueber den Einfluss des ilirns auf den Druck in der Lungenarteric." 10 ' Proceedings of the Roy. Society,' April 16, 1874, vol. xxii, No. 152.