rickets—addison's disease—alcoholism. 99 combinations of these three sets of symptoms he recognises various types of the affection—(i) cases in which all three occur together; (2) a less numerous series of cases in which a and c occur ; (3) an even less numerous series in which b and c occur ; (4) cases in which a occurs without the other two, but in combination with other diseases ; (5) cases in which b occurs alone; (6) a and b never occur without c ; nor (7) does the last occur alone. The cases grouped under the first division are the typical cases of Addison's disease, with which those under the second stand in very close relation. Heschel is very sceptical as to the occurrence of bronzed skin accompanied by cachexia, but without disease of the supra-renal bodies ; he holds that the latter are fre- quently affected without either cachexia or bronzing, and concludes with Bossbach that bronzing alone may be noticed in the course of other affections, such as phthisis or uterine disturbances. The common cause of the three chief symptoms he would look for in something outside them all, and finds it in a tuberculosis due to certain local changes, especially in the supra-renal bodies, accompanied by com- plicated symptoms and very well-marked constitutional signs. A. Laveran gives (' Graz. Hebd.,' 1873, 606) two cases of Addison's disease without bronzing; the appearances found in the supra-renal bodies agree with the usual descriptions. He concludes that pigmen- tation of the skin is not a constant symptom of Addison's disease, and that in its absence the diagnosis rests on the cachectic condition into which the patients sink, and the obstinate vomiting ; for this reason he would retain the original name of the affection in preference to " Bronze-disease." Aerts, " Degenerescence tuberculeuse des Capsules sur-renales" (woman, set. 33, bronzed skin, pigmentary patches on buccal mucous membrane, usual symptoms, chronic peritonitis, " grey tubercles" in lower lobes of lungs, cheesy phthisis), ' Presse Med. Beige,' 1874, 34. S. Wilis, "Supra-renal Capsules from a case of Addison's Disease" (woman, set. 28), ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiv, 221. E. H. Greenhow, "Cases of Addison's Disease" (four, in men, aat. 25, 20, 32, 40, with autopsies), ib. ib., 224. Id., " Cancer of the Supra-renal Capsules" (man, ast. 56, pancreas and pylorus involved, remarks on this and four preceding cases), ib. ib., 238. J. S. Ferris, " Case of Addison's Disease, with post-mortem examination" (woman, a?t. 47), 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1874, ii, 553. Alcoholism. W. II. Dickinson (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' lvi, 27) contrasts two series of post-mortem examinations, each numbering 149 persons, the first comprising those whose trade it had been to make, sell, store, or convey alcoholic liquor ; the second those of the same sex, of similar age, and belonging to the same stratum of society, but not employed about liquor, nor known to have had delirium tremens, or to have been of in- temperate habits. "Workers in lead were excluded. He is led to the following conclusions. Alcohol shortens life ; " to trade in liquor costs 3! years." It causes fatty infiltration and fibroid encroachment; it en genders tubercle, encourages suppuration, and retards healing; it produces untimely atheroma, invites hajinorrhage, and anticipates age. The most constant fatty change is most noticeable in the liver, in the heart, and the kidney, the first organ suffering more than any other,