360 REPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. granular eyelids whose irritability has been heightened by the first attack. It will be evident, from the importance attached to the granular state in its various degrees, that some distinction is necessary between children whose eyelids are healthy and those in whom they are ren- dered liable to inflammatory action by this condition. Although no very sharp line can be drawn between eyelids which are absolutely healthy and others which are in the earliest stage of the granular disease, a separation of considerable practical value can be made with- out any great difficulty between children whose eyelids are healthy and those who are predisposed to ophthalmia, both these groups being again distinguished from children with badly granular lids or with active ophthalmia. The " ophthalmic state" (including evidences of present and past disease) consists of the following factors:—a. discharge differing much in quantity and quality, the latter not being susceptible of precise measurement; b. certain opacities and irregularities of the cornea; c. the proportion of badly granular eyelids, predisposed eyelids, and healthy eyelids respectively ; to these will be added in estimating the past state of a school, d. the proportion of children who have previously had ophthalmia. The ophthalmic state of the school.—The number of children in the schools at the time of the inspection was 8798. This total includes 119 who were then at the Margate Infirmary for metropolitan children ; and who were counted as belonging to the schools of which they would have been inmates at the time of the inspection if they had not been at Margate. Of the total 8798, 12 per cent, had more or less conjunctival discharge. A few others had intolerance of light and active corneal ulceration. The per-centage of children with discharge, as weil as the quantity and character of the discharge itself, varied greatly in different schools. In the great majority its quantity was small and its quality mild. Another group of the children, amounting to about 30 per cent, of the whole number, had granular lids of considerable severity, although without any discharge or other discomfort. A large proportion of these, it is impossible without seeing them repeatedly to say how many, will again require treatment sooner or later, and some of them will have several relapses. If we say that 15 per cent, of all the children (or about 1300) (12 per cent, with discharge and 3 per cent, for other symptoms) are suf- fering from active ophthalmia requiring isolation and more or less treatment, we shall certainly not over-estimate the number. The actual number of children who were in the infirmaries for oph- thalmia at the time of the visits was 579, or about 6-5 per cent, of the whole number; so it appears that 8 or 9 per cent, more were still at large in the body of the schools. Of course the infirmaries always contained the worst cases. With a few exceptions which will be mentioned as they occur, the cases, even those in the infirmaries, were mild in degree ; the inflam- matory symptoms not being severe, the amount of discharge small or