SPINAL PARALYSIS, TETANUS, ETC. l->3 with a similar but less extensive change for about 10 mm. on the left. The process, which he looks upon as au interstitial myelitis, had thus its seat essentially in the anterior grey columns, attacking here and there the posterior horns and the white substance of the anterior and lateral columns. In the affected regions nucleated cells were present both in the tissue and in the adventitia of the large vessels, at some points so accumulated as to give the appearance of circumscribed softening. Between these nucleated cells was a network of fine, shining, mostly connective-tissue, fibres. The nerve-fibres were few in number, and the large multipolar-ganglion-cells almost entirely absent. As a con- sequence of this atrophy of the anterior horns there was atrophy of the corresponding nerve-roots. E. Barwell, " On Infantile Paralysis and its resulting Deformities," ' Lancet,' 1S73, i, 125. Bohn, "Ein ferneres Beitrag zu den Nervenkraukeiteu der Kinder," ' Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,' vii, 194. Tetanus. Eiegel ('Deut. Arch.,' xii, 399) publishes the case of a man, set. 40, who in addition to the fatigues of war in Africa and Italy had been in the habit of eating bad and raw meat. He had " tetanic" attacks, which gradually became more frequent, showing themselves in the muscles of the extremities and trunk, the diaphragm or the bladder. These at- tacks could be brought on at once by compressing the large arteries and nerve trunks. The treatment consisted at first of warm baths and bromide of potassium; but microscopic examination of the faeces showed the presence of numerous eggs of Tcenia tneclioeanellata with some of Trichoceplialus dispar, and under remedies directed against the entozoa the attacks became less severe, and then entirely ceased. The paper contains a resume of published cases of tetanus. A. Muron publishes (' Gaz. Med.,' 1873, 350) the results of his experi- ments relating to the cause of the elevation of temperature in tetanus. The experiments were made on dogs, in whose rectum, muscles, carotid artery, and external jugular vein, thermometers were placed. A solution of chlorohydrate of strychnine was then injected into their muscles, with the result, as was to be expected, of a rise of one or two degrees cen- tigrade. The experiments were carried further to prove whether this rise was due to the influence of the poison on the nervous centres or to the asphyxia, both of which factors the experimenter excludes; finally, he brings himself to what he considers to be the logical con- clusion to be drawn from established physiological facts, viz. that the essential cause of the heat produced in tetanus is due to the contrac- tion of the muscles. Ore (" De l'Anesthesie produite chez l'homme par les injections de chloral dans les veines," ' Compt. Rend.,' lxxviii, 575) injected a solution of 9 grammes of chloral in 10 grammes of water into one of the radial veins on the right side of a man, a>t. 52, suffering from traumatic tetanus. The operation was followed by a deep sleep of eleven hours, during which time there was absolute cutaneous anaesthesia, and irritation of the conjunctiva excited no reflex movement. The injection was repeated