EFFECTS OF OPERATIONS, ETC. 2G5 ing ulcers, but has not met with better results than by other methods. He had the ulcers dressed thrice daily with a mixture composed of port wine, yoke of eggs, and a small quantity of prepared chalk. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,' ix, 19.) Bate of wound repair.—Mr. Callender has had several wounds care- fully measured from week to week for the purpose of registering the rate at which repair progresses. It may be concluded that half an iuch per week is the average rate of progres-; that wounds heal most rapidly in a line corresponding with the long axis of the body; that a transverse wound of an extremity is slowly repaired by comparison with one made longitudinally, and that repair is much more rapid when grafting is employed. ('St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,' ix, 22.) Effects of operations, Sfc, in producing shock.—Mr. Callender says it is remarkable how little impression is produced by even the most severe operations. He has had a number of observations taken of the state of the pulse, temperature, and respiration, before and after all operations. On the day after operation the pulse usually rose towards the evening, but in a few cases there was a remarkable fall, owing to the relief which the patient obtained from the removal of some local source of irritation. The temperature either rose slightly or fell slightly ; as a rule, it was not materially affected. When it rose the highest it did so from a previously high temperature. The frequency of respiration increased slightly. The first day after, the condition of pulse was very various, although in most cases it rose slightly. The temperature became a little higher. The second day the pulse rose ; the temperature also rose, the highest being to 1040 from ioo°. In three cases the pulse, temperature, and respiration, became natural on the first day ; in five on the second ; in four on the third ; in six on the fourth; in six on the fifth; in six on the sixth; in four on the seventh; in two on the eighth; in one on the ninth; in two on the tenth, and in three on the eleventh. In a few cases there was a stage of " sub-action," the pulse, &c, being lowered for about the same period as in the others there had been " over-action." " Taking all the cases of operation which have been under my care, I never saw anything like a condition of shock which could be measured by any register of pulse, temperature, and respiration, and I say the same respecting injuries ; for, except in patients admitted moribund, we never found anything in pulse or temperature or respiration which could collectively be said to indicate shock, so that, whatever is meant by the expression, the con- dition was so transient that it usually passed off before the cases came under our notice, so far as to leave no trace in these three great signs." He carefully observed three patients suffering from severe injuries, immediately after their being brought to the hospital, and in each instance having the outward signs of well-marked shock. He was sur- prised at the results. A case of injury to chest and shoulder (a man, aet. 32) had a pulse of 84, temp. gS'6°, and resp. 24. A robust young man, set. 28, with severe injury to an arm, had a pulse of 76, temp. 98'70, and resp. 24. Another young man, aet. 21, suffering from con- cussion, had a pulse of 72, temp. 98* 1° and resp. 26. In a child he found that mere fright and worry raised the temperature, pulse, and respiration,