482 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. Condurango.—Condurango is the bark of a tree belonging to the order AsclepiadcB, genus Perioploca. It is much vaunted in South America as a specific for cancer. Its use has not hitherto met with much favour in this country. Dr. Schroff, juur.,1 contributes an article on its properties and uses. It yields a milky juice, which sets into a yellow resin. It is recommended for cancer, syphilis, rheumatism, scrofula, all chronic blood diseases, and neuralgia. Investigations have been carried out in this country and on the Continent which have demonstrated that the drug is worthless as a cure for cancer. Eucalyptus globulus.—This medicament has of late come into exten- sive use, and at one time promised to form an important agent in our materia medica. Dr. H. Kohler,2 of Halle, reviews at length the various statements which have been made as to the efficacy of the various parts of the plant. The active properties of eucalyptus have been ascribed to various substances met with in the plant; they may be due to eucalyptol, a fixed oil. Eucalyptus is said to have been success- fully administered in ague and other malarious diseases, puerperal fever, intermittent neuralgia, as a stimulant (when smoked) to the cerebral circulation, in inflammatory pulmonary affections, tubercular diseases, hectic, inflammation of the genito-urinary passages, diabetes, as a haemostatic and astringent, and, finally, as a disinfectant. Its efficacy in many of these diseases is, however, open to much doubt. Dr. Oeffinger3 has reinvestigated the actions of eucalyptus, and finds that (i) it is a febrifuge ; (2) its action is as certain as that of quinine, but is quicker; (3) it is sometimes useful where quinine has failed; (4) where the tincture of eucalyptus, has failed of its intended effect, quinine also as a rule fails also; (5) eucalyptus produces no un- pleasant after-effects. Croton-cldoral hydrate.—This substance has been extensively used in place of chloral hydrate, and is said to possess certain advantages over the latter. "We need not do more than give references1 to the special monographs upon the action of croton-chloral hydrate. New preparations of bromine.—Dr. E. Steinauer5 has investigated the physiological actions of some new bromine preparations, with a view to the elucidation of the actions of the alkaline bromides. He has in this way experimented with hydrobromic acid, monobromacetic acid, monobromobenzoic, and sodium monobromobenzoic acid. He finds that where the bromine is loosely combined, as in monobromacetic acid and in bromal, the paralysing action is decided upon the respiratory and excitomotor (cardiac) centres, the ganglia of the spinal cord, peri- pheral nerves, and muscles ; and as proof that the bromine is separated from its compound, he states that it may be detected in the urine. On the other hand, where the bromine atom is strongly combined (as in 1 'Wien. Med. Pres.,' xiii, p. 18. 2 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,' clvii, p. 231. 3 Ibid., clxi, p. 228. ^ « Ibid., clxiv, p. 238; 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1874, i, p. 304; 'Bull, de Ther., lxxxvi, p. 447. 5 ' Virchow's Archiv,' lix, p. 65.