405 DISEASES OP THE OVAKY. neighbouring parts. The galvano-cautery should be used for carcino- matous cases: the knife for the elongated or hypertrophied cervix. The best position for the pationt is the lithotomy position : the best time for operating is ten to fourteen days before the expected catamenia. Dr. E. Martin writes on the etiology and treatment of uterine cancer ('Berliner Klinisch. Wochenschr.,' No. xxviii, &c, 1873). He says that numerous observations confirm the opinion that the first commencement of the new growth shows itself in the folds of the pos- terior vaginal cul-de-sac near the cervical portion as small knots and granulations which spread to the cervix. Dr. Marten does not agree with what has been said as to heredity; in 500 cases, in only 65 was it well pronounced. He does not agree with the statements that the un- usually early appearance of the catamenia disposes to cancer, nor that those who have borne many children are especially liable to it. From the history of cases there is evidently some connection between infec- tious sexual diseases and cancroid affections. The treatment is radical and palliative; the first only avails in cases seen early where the part affected can be wholly removed ; he then speaks of the several ways in which this may be done. Under the heading of palliative treatment the chief symptoms are spoken of, and the remedies which are serviceable for them are mentioned. Diseases of the Ovary. Dr. Tilt in a paper on the diagnosis of subacute ovaritis (' Obst. Soc. Trans.,' 1873) says that the most frequent sexual diseases between 15 and 25 are subacute ovaritis and inflammation of the neck of the womb. W"hen the disorders of menstruation resisted good hygienic and medical treatment, he believed they were generally due to subacute ovaritis and cervicitis. The symptoms of cervicitis were the habitual painless passing of a moderate amount of muco-purulent vaginal dis- charge, with habitual pain in the back: those of subacute ovaritis were constant dull pain deep in the ovarian region, much increased by firm pressure, and extending to the thigh and leg, mammary symptoms, dis- turbed menstruation and hysterical symptoms. The positive sign of subacute ovaritis was the finding of an ovoid, smooth, and slightly indented lump beside the womb, or in Douglas' pouch pressure on which caused an overpowering and sickening sensation of pain and debility. He then sketched the treatment most likely to cure the disease. Dr. T. G-. Thomas reported to the New York Obstetrical Society (* Amer. Journ.,' Feb. 1874) a case in which he had removed both ovaries : as a cure for the intense and incessant nervous suffering attributable ■ only to them : the patient did well. Dr. Leopold writes on solid tumours of the ovary (' Archiv f. Gynak.,' vi, 2, 1874). He has arranged 56 cases in a tabular form; 13 of these are published for the first time, of these a short ; account is given. Solid tumours of the ovary are rare; they are met with in the proportion of about 1 "5 per cent, of all tumours of the ovary. Externally they retain somewhat the natural shape of the ■ ovary, and thus are to be distinguished from fluid tumours, which have