REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 502 accepted the decision of the conference at Constantinople, in 1866, that it is a law to which hitherto no exception is known, that cholera never advances more vapidly than can be accounted for by the communication between one place and another. Hitherto there has been a want of evidence in favour of the conveyance of cholera poison by the atmo- sphere. 9. Has the access of fresh air to the agent producing or spread- ing cholera any influence on its infectious property, or not ? This question was unanimously answered in the affirmative, in the sense of the conclusion arrived at by the Constantinople Conference of 1866, that the choleraic principle very rapidly loses its deleterious action in fresh air; but that, on the other hand, its power is maintained in activity for an unlimited time under special conditions of seclusion. 10. What is the length of the period of incubation in a case of cholera infection ? On this a long discussion took place, which was begun by Dr. von Pettenkofer. He regarded it as not yet ripe for a positive, and said that therefore only an approximate determination of the period could be given. He had found an average period of fourteen days, but the experience already attained was not sufficient to determine the maximum period of incubation. Dr. Drasche had noted the average duration of" the incubation as from eight to ten days. The period, however, approached; that named by Pettenkofer, if the calculations were made from the day of death. Dr. Zehender was in favour of a much shorter period of incubation, as a general rule, though there were cases where the incubation was of longer duration. Dr. Dickson considered that the subject was not yet ripe for discussion. Dr Kjerulf (Christiania) thought that the incubative period was only from two to five days. Dr. Orphanides (Athens) had experienced the incubative period to be from five to seven days, and Dr. Schleisner (Copen- hagen) three or four days. Dr. Schmidt (Luxemburg) had known a case where the incubative period was so long as eighteen days. Dr. Berlin (Sweden) maintained that the period was four days; whilst Drs. Semmola (Naples) and Souza-Martin (Lisbon) believed that it was very short, and that it was dependent upon the influence of climate. The majority of the members adopted the opinion of the conference at Constantinople, that the period of incubation is very short, rarely exceeding a few days. 11. Is a disinfecting agent or method known by which the cholera spreading agent can be rendered inert or weakened ? If there be such an agent, what is it ? The conclusion was arrived at that as yet we know neither any agent nor means of disinfection which destroys with certainty the cholera germ adhering to man as object. The possibility, however, of discovering such an agent or method was not denied. The utility of disinfection in combination with other sanitary measures was, however, unanimously recognised. II. Quarantine against cholera.—12. Ought land quarantine establish- ments to be instituted against cholera? 13. If so, (a) where ? (b) at what time, and in what circumstances? (c) with what building and administrative arrangements ? (d) by what means is cholera to be pre- vented from entering the country by other ways than through the quarantine establishments? 14. Should river quarantine establish- ments be instituted against cholera? 15. If bo (as in No. 13). 16.