OVARIOTOMY. 385 On the teuth day, the sutures were removed, and on the eighteenth, the patient moved about the room. At the end of four months she remained quite well. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' July, 1873.) Dr. Murnick records the case of a patient, set. 40, from whom he removed an ovarian tumour by enucleation. He then passed several threads of silk from the vagina through Douglas' pouch and out through the abdominal wound. There was excessive gastric irritability after- wards, and this was relieved by subcutaneous injections of quinine, four grains, with an eighth of a grain of morphia each time. (' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1874.) Ovariotomy.—Mr. Spencer Wells records a fifth series of 100 cases, and makes remarks on the lessons to be learnt from the whole 500 cases. 2 40 of them were in hospital and 260 in private practice. The mortality has been 26*66 and 24*23 per cent, respectively. In the different series the relative mortality varied greatly. The varying mortality in hospital manifestly corresponded with varying sanitary conditions or with the presence of infecting cases in the same ward. After cleansing the hospital an almost uninterrupted period of success has followed. As regards the influence of season, he finds the mortality nearly equally distributed over the whole year. The influence of age appears to be remarkable. Thus twelve patients below the age of 20 and seven out of eight above that of 60 all recovered. Between 20 and 25 and between 40 and 45 the mortality was about the same, i.e., 16 and 17 per cent. The highest, 33 per cent., was at the age of 50 to 55. The conjugal con- dition has little influence. Adhesions to the abdominal wall or to the omentum exercise but little influence, whereas adhesions within the pelvis or around its brim and attachments to the bladder or rectum are likely to considerably increase mortality. In 296, where adhesions were slight or absent, the mortality was 19*93 per cent. In 204, where they were extensive, the mortality was 33'33 per cent. As to size and solidity it must be remembered that a solid tumour will require a longer incision than a large one where the contents can be evacuated. The smallest mortality has been in cases where the incision was five inches long. A longer or shorter incision was attended by greater fatality. The former would indicate adhesions or a solid tumour, but the peculiar dangers of a small incision are not mentioned. Treatment of pedicle.—In two thirds of the cases the pedicle was secured by a clamp ; of these the mortality was 1977 per cent. In 49 cases some substitute for the clamp was used, but the pedicle was still kept outside ; of these the mortality was 32-65 per cent.—a difference of 13 per cent, in favour of the complete over the imperfect method of carrying out the extra-peri- toneal principle. " But. even these imperfect attempts have given far better results than the old method of tying the pedicle, and allowing it to sink in the peritoneal cavity with the ligature, and keeping the lower part of the wound open by the ends of the ligature until it separates and comes away." Of 14 cases so treated 8 died and 6 recovered—a mortality of 57*14 per cent. The Mzfr'ff-peritoneal method was prac- tised in 88 cases with 54 recoveries, or a mortality of 38*63 per cent., just double that of the ex^ra-peritoneal (clamp) method. In 57 cases the tied pedicle was returned with the ligature, the ends being cut off short