201 NEW GROWTH?. case, the deutero-plasma. 3. The new epithelial cells thus produced remain for some time in continuity, or at least in contiguity, with their vessels, so that their position ia at first tangential, then more vertical to the latter. 4. If the further conditions for development and activity do not occur, the masses of newly formed cells undergo retrograde metamor- phosis. Thelastsign of a past activity isthe presence of serrated andridged cells (epithelioma of the tongue and penis). The retrograde metamor- phosis shows itself as " mucoid " degeneration (cancer of the mucous membranes) ; fatty degeneration (cancer of the lips, vulva, &c.) ; or horny change iu the new elements (cancer of the limbs, &c). After fatty*change there may be seen a network of denuded vessels without wall-nuclei, with the debris of the newly formed cells. 5. Clinical observations show that in parts affected with cancerous changes numer- ous white cells occur, endowed with lively movement, and revealing, on the warm stage, processes, though not changing place to any large extent. 6. These epithelial changes have a tendency to spread in places when the vessel which is the starting-point of the affection is seated in loose connective tissue, or when the surrounding areolar tissues have been relaxed by previous inflammation. The writer concludes the paper with a comparative survey of the physiological relation between blood-vessels and epithelium; remarking that there are physio- logical epithelial cells which are analogous to endothelium (lung- alveoli, Malpighian bodies) ; that epithelial cells possess activity only when they are in direct communication with a vessel; and that a certain analogy exists between epithelium and lymph-cells. C. AV"eil ('Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1873, 285), in opposition to the view that the development of cancer and its elements begins in the epi- thelium of glands, attempts to show that in cases of cancer of striated muscle the cancer-cells are produced from the real muscular substance within the sarcolemma. He holds that the process consists in a proliferation of the nuclei of the muscle and an increase in the masses of protoplasm; the contractile substance is altered in structure, looses its striae, and becomes like young protoplasm, which is developed at last into various large epithelial-like cell-growths containing one or several nuclei. Bodies resembling red blood-cells also occur within the muscle-substance. A. A. Sokolow ('Virch. Arch.,'lvii, 331) writes on the development of sarcoma in muscle ; he gives (p. 3 29) three cases of spindle-celled sarcoma in women, set. 30, 17, and 62 years, and concludes from his investigations that the cells of the muscular tissue are directly developed into those cf sarcomatous tissue; that only a few of the muscle-cells undergo this change, the larger number becoming simply atrophied ; and that the active changes in the muscles found in cases of sarcoma are secondary, not primary. Drawings of the microsopical appearances found are given. H. Tillmanns (" Histologische Beitrage zur Lehre von den Sarcomen und den metastatischen Tumoren," 1 Arch. d. Heilk.,' xiv, 530) gives a minute description of two sarcomatous tumours originating in the walls of blood-vessels. In the first case the tumour had grown to the Bize of a man's head in the calf of one leg, which had consequently been ampu-