506 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. be bound under penalty to give true information), and it shall then subject the crew and passengers to a careful medical examination with regard to the state of their health ; such examination to comprise not only the individuals, but also their effects, the ship's cargo, and the ship itself. If no cases of illness have occurred on board, the ship is to be at once admitted to free pratique; if the contrary be the case, the bodies of those who have died from cholera are imme- diately to be taken on shore and buried, the patients taken to an hospital, and the remainder of the crew and passengers, under the supervision of the board, subjected to cleaning by means of baths containing freshly dissolved lime. At the same time all the clothes which healthy persona have used during the voyage, and their other effects, are to be sub- jected to the disinfecting action of sulphurous acid; and the ship also after the removal of all on board shall be subjected in all its compart- ments to a similar disinfection. The goods diseinUftrked from the ship are to be admitted at once to free pratique. If there be no accommodation for the sick on land, the ship, with the patients, the cargo, and the necessary complement of crew, must remain in an appointed place under observation, until the cases of cholera have ended either in recovery or in death. Cholera on board ship.—Dr. Otto Kupfer1 relates an interesting out- break of cholera on board the emigrant ship Francisca. He fails, how- ever, to prove what he asserts, that the cholera arose spontaneously on board the vessel without direct importation of the disease. Cholera and water supply.—Dr. von Pettenkofer is never wearied in attacking what he believes to be the prevalent and erroneous views held with regard to the spread of cholera, and in reiterating and enforcing hi8 own views upon the question. His opinions, though now no longer novel, have in this country, perhaps, not received the attentive considera- tion which they merit. In a recent and more popular form than in the works 2 we have formerly noticed in these pages, Pettenkofer laid down in a lucid and vigorous manner these views which are peculiarly his own ; views which have attracted no little attention, and provoked much dis- cussion. Commencing with the mode in which cholera is propagated, Petten- kofer points out that something more than a specific cholera-germ, originating in India, and connected in some way with human intercourse, is required in order to account for the spread of the disease; some element external to the human body, not present at all times nor in all places, and in some way connected with geographical site. The specific germ, the local predisposition, and the seasonal or temporal momentum or disposition, must all be combined in a favorable manner in order to propagate cholera. There must also be the individual predisposition. Under the head of traffic he points out how impossible it is so effectually to limit this so far as to stop the spread of cholera. Nevertheless, although the stoppage of traffic is an impossibility, it should be regarded as a practical matter to keep as free as possible 1 « Vrtljhrsschrift f. Gerichtl. Med.,' n. f. xviii, p. 85. 2 'Ztschr. f. Biologie,' Bd. i, ii, iv; 'Boden u. Grundwnsser,' &c, Munich, 1869; ' Ftinf Fragen iibcr Cholera,' Munich, 1869, &c.