DISEASES OF THE UTERUS PROPER. 395 Diseases of the Uterus Proper. Dr. Blanchard ('These,' Paris, 1873), on cauterization of the uterine cavity, considers that diseased conditions of the mucous membrane of the cavity of tho uterus play an important part in the affections of that orgau, and that this state must be met by astringents, caustic injections, &c. He lays down the indications and contra-indications of the method of treatment, and relates 6 cases of chronic metritis so cured ; he concludes with the following:—1. That a pencil of nitrate of silver and potash introduced into the uterine cavity is completely inoffensive. 2. It may be left there, if needful to profoundly modify the mucous membrane. 3. Such treatment should not be employed in any inflam- matory condition of the uterine appendages, &c. 4. From its appli- cation a cure has been obtained in cases of abundant leucorrhsea, chronic metritis of a hemorrhagic kind, and occlusion of the internal os with retention of secretion. It relieves in cases of metritis depending upon fibroma or deviations of the uterus. Dr. Lombe Atthill (' Obst. Journ.,' June, 1873) writes on the use of nitric acid in the treatment of uterine disease. He gives the details of a number of cases in which he has found permanent benefit from the application of the fumic nitric acid to the mucous membrane of the cavity of the uterus. In some of these cases the mucous membrane was extremely vascular and had a rough granular feel to the fingers; in others it was applied for the stopping of haemorrhage after the removal of intra-uterine tumours; in a third set of cases intramural fibroid growths, he has found the application bothSprevented the profuse haemor- rhage, and also lessened or removed the pain. In applying the nitric acid, it is well that the cervix be first dilated, then Dr. Atthill passes his intra-uterine speculum, which keeps the canal open, swabs out the uterus, and then applies a ball of cotton wool steeped in the fumic nitric acid If the cervix has not been previously dilated, Dr. Atthill uses a canula of platinum the size of No. 8 catheter, which is passed into the cervix and through this a plug of cotton wool with the acid is passed, thus protecting the cervix from injury. Dr. Barnes writes upon the various methods of applying remedies to the internal surface of the uterus. After referring to the many cases of death from intra-uterine injection and the probable causation, he says that it is well to restrict their use within the narrowest limits ; for himself he rarely uses them, except in cases of urgent danger from menorrhagia. Instead of injections, the same substance should be applied by swabbing, solid, or in the form of ointment. Referring to the intra- uterine injection of the solution of perchloride of iron in post-partum haemorrhage, Dr. Barnes only recommends it in extreme cases and as a last resource; it both seals up the mouths of the vessels by the coagula formed, and aids to close the vessels by its constringing power upon the inner surface of the uterus. The patient should be laid on the back, and the uterus firmly grasped by an assistant during the injection. The right strength is 1 in 10 water. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' January, 1873). Dr. Braxton Hicks writes on abrasion of the os and cervix uteri