132. REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the apex of the left ventricle. The second case was that of a boy of eight, who during convalescence from diphtheria was seized with pro- stration, vomiting, and ultimately collapse. Here again the heart was found dilated and degenerated. He insists that the treatment of the disease as one of infection, not of inflammation, should be a tonic, not an antiphlogistic one. Henoch ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1873, 213) also contributes a paper on sudden death after diphtheria. A girl, a3t. 9, had high fever with ex- tensive deposit of diphtheritic membrane on the fauces, but recovered rapidly under the use of ice and chlorate of potash, and by gargling alternately with tannic acid and lime-water. A week after the com- mencement of the affection she had epistaxis, and the urine contained albumen, -which disappeared later. On the sixteenth day the pulse rose in frequency without any apparent reason, and in the evening there was sudden vomiting and coldness of the extremities, followed by death. No autopsy was made. He refers to Guerlier's views on throm- bosis in these cases, and to Mosler's paper as above. In the discussion which followed Henoch's paper Senator stated his belief that the ex- planation of the sudden death in these is to be found in some affection of the vagus, as shown in the loss of appetite and increased pulse fre- quency which precedes death. P. Guttmann holds a somewhat similar view to Senator's. He records (' Virch. Arch.,' lix, 51) a case of diphtheria in which paralysis of other nerves was accompanied, he thinks, by paralysis of the pulmonary and cardiac branches of the pneumogastric. In addition to the nervine symptoms usually observed after diphtheria there was great dyspnoea, with slow respiration and increased pulse-rate, phenomena observed in animals after section of the nerve. He thinks that in this case the paralysis was central. L. Letzerich, after criticising (' Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1873, 139) the various methods of treatment in diphtheria, holds that the one cardinal point of the whole is the mechanical removal of the exudation either with sponges or with pieces of linen dipped in alum solution and rolled I round the index finger. The ulcerated surface is afterwards to be pen- cilled with a solution of nitrate of silver. Flowers of sulphur are use- less as a drug. The exact reverse of the last sentence is stated by E. Seligson (' Deut. Klin.,' 1873, 433). He gives an account of his treatment of 103 cases of t diphtheria in eleven years, which he divides into two periods, one be- fore and the other after 1869. In the former he cauterized his patients j with lunar caustic, and employed chlorate of potash in gargles, and 3 lime-water as inhalations or local applications. In the latter period he used solutions of perchloride of iron and flowers of sulphur, and finds that the mortality of his cases has fallen from 19 to 5 per cent. Johannet ('Gaz. Hebd.,' 1873, 431) holds that as long as gargling is properly and diligently done it does not matter what fluid is used. He lets his diphtheritic patients get up and makes them continually, dav and night, gargle with cold water, raspberry water, milk, or solution of "alum. The fever and sore throat are lessened in a few hours. If j the patient can only swallow he is to eat whatever he likes, and to 1