020 REPORT ON SURGERY. New method for the detection and removal of vesical calculi.—Mr. W. D. Napier advocates the use of a sound coated with black pigment produced by its momentary immersion in a weak solution of nitrate of silver. Contact with a calculus produces scratches on the surface. The instrument is called " the Calculus Detector." In the removal of calculus fragments, he uses an instrument consisting of a soft india- rubber tube, terminating at one extremity in a funnel-shaped orifice greatly resembling in form the ordinary convolvulus flower, and capable of containing a calculus or portions of calculus of considerable dimensions. It is introduced closed up by a cocoa-butter point, through a silver canula. When pushed on into the bladder it expands, the cocoa-butter point dissolves, and any fragment, &c, gravitates into its cavity and it is then withdrawn, closing as it is removed and grasping its contents firmly. It may also be used as a self-retaining catheter. ('Med. Times and Gazette,' June 14, 1873.) Foreign body in the bladder.—Mr. Lund records the case of a man, set. 33, who passed a No. 3 flexible bougie into his bladder, the ivory knob remaining in his hand. Mr. Lund in a little while split the stricture with Holt's dilator, and then after some trouble seized the bougie with a lithotrite and drew it out. For three days the patient did well, but then severe urethral fever set in and went on to the for- mation of pyamiic abscesses. After a serious illness, prolonged through five months, the patient recovered with the stricture cured. Mr. Lund remarks at leugth on the nature of the illness. (' Liverpool and Man- chester Med. and Surg. Eep., Oct. 1873, 193.) Mr. Cadge records a case in which he removed portions of a stearine candle from the male bladder some seven months alter being passed along the urethra. After many trials he succeeded in catching the wick, &c, with a lithotrite and removing it. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,'Nov. 15, 1873.) Mr. Stokes records a case of removal of a gum-elastic catheter from the bladder by median lithotomy. Eecovery. ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Oct. 1873.) A case of removal of a flexible catheter from the bladder by litho- tomy was under the care of Mr. Folker, in the North Staffordshire Infirmary. The catheter, No. 3, had slipped into the bladder a year previously. The urine became offensive, &c. A large mass was found in the bladder. The ivory part of the catheter had slipped off. There was much phosphatic matter. The patient, a man, set. 23, recovered well. ('Lancet,' Jan. 18, 1873.) Impacted vesical calculus; lithotomy; reopening of wound; recovery.— Surgeon-Major J. H. Porter relates the case of a man, a3t. 24, on whom he operated for calculus. It was found to be impacted, and no effort would dislodge it. A large portion was removed. Thirteen days later, the wound was reopened and more removed, and in another forty- eight hours the remainder was removed. He suffered little from these repeated operations. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 31, i874.)_ Median lithotomy.—Mr. Cadge considers that median lithotomy ia not applicable to very young subjects; it is objectionable in all cases in which the stone is of considerable size \ it has its proper sphere,