REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 460 f/arus Callophis, and the Hydropliidas j and the viperine snakes, repre- sented by Daboia Bussellii, Ecliis carinata, and the Trimcresuri. The ^ general symptoms of poisoning by the cobra are depres- sion, faintness, hurried respiration and exhaustion, lethargy, un- consciousness, nausea, and vomiting. As the poisoning proceeds, paralysis appears sometimes affecting the hind legs first and seeming to creep up the body, and sometimes affecting the whole animal nearly at the same time. There is loss of co-ordinating power of the mus- cles of locomotion. Hemorrhage, relaxation of the sphincters, and in- voluntary evacuations, not unfrequently of a sanguineous or muco- sanguineous character, often precede death, and are generally accom- panied by convulsions. These symptoms clearly point to paralysis either of the nervous centres or of the peripheral nerves. The symptoms produced by the poison of the Daboia, a viperine snake, are similar. The authors think that the peripheral terminations of the motor nerves are actually para- lysed by the cobra poison. In many respects cobra poison agrees very closely with conia. This alkaloid, as Crum Brown and Fraser have shown, often contains a mixture of true conia and methyl-conia. Conia alone paralyses the motor nerves without affecting the spinal cord; but when mixed with methyl-conia, sometimes the one is affected first and sometimes the other. "When the dose is small the motor nerves are usually paralysed before the reflex function of the cord; but when the dose is large, the cord is paralysed before the nerves. Methyl-conia also affects both; but a small dose of it paralyses the cord before the nerves, while a large one paralyses them first. The paralysis of the hind legs, often observed in snake-poisoning, is pro- bably partly due to the local action of the poison in the nerves and muscles of the bitten member, and partly to its action on the cord. In this point, cobra venom, when dried, appears to resemble methyl- conia rather than its admixture with conia; but it exercises numerous other actions upon the blood, muscles, &c, which neither of these sub- stances has been shown to do. It is doubtful whether the cerebrum is directly affected by the cobra poison. Drs. Brunton and Fayrer think that the cobra poison is excreted by the kidneys and mammary glands, and probably also by the salivary glands and mucous membrane of the stomach. They also think it possible that the immunity which poisonous snakes enjoy from the effects of their own poison or that of another species may be due to their powers of excreting the inoculated venom through their own poisonous glands, which are modified salivary (parotid) glands. Most interesting is the part of the memoir devoted to the means of preventing death from the bites of venomous snakes. In the case of all poisons, snake poison included, there is a dose which is insufficient to kill; and animals may recover from it even after the characteristic symptoms have been distinctly manifested. The real dose of any poison, or the quantity which is actually circulating in the fluids and operating on the tissues of the body, depends on two factors, viz., the rapidity with which it is absorbed, and the rapidity with which it is excreted. If absorption goes on more rapidly than excretion, the