25 GLANDS. kidneys or urine are those of Baumstark,1 Heidenhain,2 Peltz and Bitter,3 Knierim,1 and Biedel.5 Milk.—Brunner6 gives the average composition of the milk of women to be casein and albumen, 0-63 ; fat, 173 ; sugar, 6-23 ; water, 90-0; soluble salts and extractives, ivjj. The percentage of fat is low. Schukowsky,7 in women in Moscow, finds the average amount of fat to be 3 per cent. Dr. de Sinety,8 from the examination of the milk in the human female and in animals, arrives at the following conclusions:— 1. That in the living organism the globules of milk have no investing membrane. 2. That all the productions described as such or con- sidered as globules of casein are secondary productions, due either to spontaneous modification of this liquid outside the body or to the action of the tests employed by different observers. See also Lowit.9 Messrs. Key and Betzius10 begin their account with a careful description of the microscopical characters of the spinal cord, dura mater, subdural space, arachnoid,subarachnoid space, ligamentum denticu- latum, and septum posticum. Minute details are in particular given of the subarachnoid trabecular, which have an important bearing on the connective tissue question. These trabecular, which were exa r.ined after maceration in osmie acid and staining with anilin, consist of fine fibrils, and are all, without exception, more or less closely surrounded by a thin investing membrane. This sheath is homogeneous, except that nuclei are distributed through it at certain points, causing both of its surfaces to project at these places. Around the nuclei the membrane is granular. It is clearly composed of a layer of extremely delicate cells (endothelial cells), the outlines of which are well brought into view by nitrate of silver. In new-born animals the sheaths are more pro- toplasmatic than in younger ones. When treated with acetic acid the more delicate trabecular spring back, and their granular remains produce the appearance known as " spiral fibres." The authors distinguish two layers in the pia mater, of which the internal is nearly the same in all animals, whilst the external presents great variations. The external i3 composed of longitudinal fibres running parallel to one another and their fibrillated membranes. The ligamentum denticu- latum is intimately connected with this outer layer. The internal layer is divisible into three laminar—an external limiting cell-membrane with 1 Baumstark, ' Ber. d. deutsch. chem. Gesell.,' B. vi, p. 883. 2 Heidenhain, " Versuche iiber den Vorgang der Harnabsonderung," ' Pfliiger's Archiv,' 1874, B. ix, p. 1. 3 Feltz and Ritter, " Etude experimentale sur l'alcalinite des Urines et sur l'ammo- niemie," ' Journal de l'Anatomie et dc la Physiol.,' 1874, p. 311. 4 " Beitrage znr Kenntniss der Bildung des Harnstofl's im thierischen Organis- nras," ' Zeitsehrift fur Biologic,' 1874, p. 263. * Riedel, " Entwickelung der Saugethierniere," in ' Mortal's Untcrsuchungen nus der Anatomischen Institut zu Kostock.' 0 ' Pfliiger's Archiv,' B. vii, 1873, p. 421 7 ' Zeits. fur Biologic,' Band ix, 1873, p. 432—434. 9 Dr. de Sinety, " Itecherches sur les Globules du Lait," ' Archives de Physiologic,' 1874, p. 479. 9 "Ueber die quantitative Ecstimmung dea Milchfettes," 'Pfliiger's Archiv,' 1874, B. ix, p. 65. 10 " On the Structure of the Nervous System," in ' Max Schultzc's Archiv f., Midoscop. Anatomie,' 1873, B. ix, p. 308, and ' Cbl.,' No. 3, 1874,