17 GLANDS. by palsy or irritation of the vaso-motor nerves. Dr. A. Mum1 gives the following, amongst others, as the conclusions at which he has arrived in regard to the existence of a regulating power influencing the animal temperature, after careful experimental investigation and study of Liebermeister, Senator, and others, i. The increase in the amount of carbonic acid observed to occur during immersion in a cold bath is probably only a simple augmentation of exhalation ; there is no evidence of an increased calorification. 2. The increase of temperature observed to occur in the axilla in the cold bath is compatible with a diminution in the amount of caloric previously present in the body, and does not involve the necessity of admitting an increase. 3. Liebermeister's and Konig's means of calometric measurement are inexact, and no more heat is produced in the cold bath than under ordi- narv conditions. 4. The hypothesis of the existence of a nerve centre which determines the temperature of the body is wholly destitute of foundation. 5. The neuro-pathological doctrine of fever is conse- quently hypothetical, insufficient, and superfluous ; the chemical theory perfectly explains all the facts. See also J". Schreiber 2 and M. Morren.3 Glands. The structure of the salivary glands and pancreas has been in- vestigated by V. v. Ebner.4 He finds that the alveoli of the pancreas in the frog form branched tubes provided with lateral pouches that have no distinct lumen, and are bounded by a closed membrana propria. The excretory ducts proceed from fusiform and stellate cells in the interior of the alveoli, forming the so-called centro-acinar cells. Fibrous or membranous processes are given off from the membrana propria and penetrate into the interior of the alveoli, forming by their anastomoses a reticulum that is continuous with the processes of the centro-acinar cells. The gland cells lie in the meshes of this reticulum, one cell, as a rule, occupying each mesh. The gland- cells have no processes. The parotid and submaxillary glands of the guinea-pig, rabbit, cat, and dog, differ in many particulars from the pancreas, and especially in regard to the connection of the excretory ducts with the alveoli. In the dog and rabbit the centro-acinar cells are entirely absent, though they are present in the parotid in a state of development inferior to that in which they are found in the pancreas. On tracing the ducts inwards the larger ones, lined with columnar epithelium ("salivary tubes" of Pfliiger) suddenly give off ducts lined with cubical epithelium (intermediate portion, Schaltstiicke of v. Ebner), which after a short course, in which they undergo frequent subdivision, terminate in the alveoli. Butler Stoney5 observed in a woman with a parotid fistula that the 1 ' Del Potere regolatore della temperatura animalc/ pamphlet, in 1 Lo Spcrimen- tale,' 1873. 2 ' Ueber den Einflass lies Gchirns auf der Korpcrtcmperatur," ' Ffluger's Archiv,' B. viii, p. 576. * ' La Physiologie des Plnntes at la theorie mdcanique de la Clialeur. * ' Max. Schnltze's Archiv f. Mic. Anat.,' viii, p. 481. ° 'Journal of Anat. and Phys.,' vol. vii, p. 161. 2