389 ANOMALIES OK STKUCTUItE. horn. The ease must be looked upon as one of pregnancy in an uterus unicornis with arrested development of the other horn with external wandering of the ovum and rupture of tho uterine wall in the second half of pregnancy. A case of complete uterus bicornis, the septum extending into the one common cervix, is reported by Dr. Sell. Pregnancy occurred in the right horn. ('Trans. Obst. Soc.,' 1873.) M. Perrault reports an extraordinary case of double uterus in a woman, set. 20, who was in the eighth month of pregnancy. After a foetus was delivered, the abdomen remained large and the placenta not coming away, the hand was passed in, when another cervix was found dilated to about 2^ inches ; passing in the hand a foetus was felt and. delivered, after this the neck was still felt as before, and it appeared there were two uteri, one superimposed upon the other. The woman died of puerperal fever; there was no autopsy permitted. (' Lyon Medical,' 1873.) Dr. Matthews Duncan communicates the following cases of malfor- mation of the uterus ('Edinb. Obst. Soc.,' Jan. 1874). 1. Uterus unicornis dexter found at the post-mortem examination of a woman, at. 60 ; the left kidney, left ureter, and left renal artery were absent as well as the left half of the uterus; the uterus was lying in the pelvis strongiy inclined towards the right side. No trace of left broad ligagment, left Fallopian tube, left ovary, or left angle of the uterus. 2. tJterus subseptus unicorporeus; this condition was found on removing the organs from a woman aged 48, who died of cancer of the ovary. She had had three children. Dr. Hauff gives (' "Wurtemb. Corr. Bl.,' xliii, 5,1873) an account of the autopsy of a woman aged 51 ; there was no trace even of a rudimentary uterus or of the ovaries; the vagina ended in a cul-de-sac. The patient had consulted the author thirty years before because she had never menstru- ated. She was then a well-made handsome woman, with a well-shaped pelvis; the external genitals were undeveloped and without hair, the labia as small as in a girl of 10 ; the clitoris was of normal size and was capable of erection, a hymen was present, the patient had sexual desires ; by rectal and vesical examination the uterus was found absent. Two sisters of the patient had each a daughter aged 25 and 23, in whom the same malformation was found, absence of the uterus ; these two had never had any sexual desire. The following interesting and rare case of congenital absence of the bladder occurred in the practice of Mons. Fleury, of Clermont. A young girl, who had menstruated regularly for two years, applied for incontinence of urine, which had become almost insupportable during the last year. The external genitals and the upper parts of the thighs were the seat of a severe erythema. A catheter only entered i£ inch, and no urine came away ; this gave great pain. The next day she was feverish and had pains in the hypogastrium, peritonitis came on, and she died within eight days. At the autopsy, the coils of intestine were found covered with pus. There was no trace of a bladder. The ureters were normal and terminated in the cul-de-sac of the urethra ; the urethra was i£ inch long. The patient had had incontinence from birth (' Gaz. Hebd,,' No. 6, 1874),