300 REPORT ON SURGERY. Btance flew out in all directions, even against the course of the ball. This observation showed that, in addition to the dispersion of melted portions of metal and the centifugal force imparted to them by the rotatory action of the ball, another factor must act. Experiments on metallic vessels filled with water or with cerebral substance, and those made with smooth-bored weapons, Bhowed that the explosive action is a result of the equal propagation of the blow in all directions in the fluid or in the brain. In the long bones, the medulla played a similar part to that of the brain in the skull. A macerated long bone, in which a hole had been made by a small projectile, was filled with soft fat, and the opening, as well as the transverse section of the medullary cavity, cemented. A Bhot was discharged against the middle of the bone, when it burst into splinters in all directions. The greater the propulsive force of the ball the greater is the amount of destruction. In some experiments on the effect of sudden arrest of motion in bullets, Busch found that they were partly split into fragments with sharp angles and rough surfaces, and partly melted into small globules, some being of microscopic smalluess. Begarding the Chassepot gun, Busch found that its action from a short distance might be confounded with that of explosive bullets ; the action of the needle gun is similar, though less, in consequence of the smaller projectile force. He found also that the Prussian cuirass pro- tected against shots coming from a distance ; but that at closer rauges, through the splintering of the ball and the flying off of fragments, the cuirass, instead of protecting the body, increased the action of the balls. Tooth-edged cutting scissors.—Dr. Richardson figures a pair of saw- like scissors which make perforations in any structure like the holes between postage stamps. A lateral or half rotating movement separates the tissue. They pierce, crush, twist, and control bleeding remarkably. ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' Dec. 20, 1873.) Exploring and tapping.—Dr. Boberts figures and describes a syringe and tubular needle resembling those for subcutaneous injection, elastic tube, &c, and trocar and canula for exploring and tapping doubtful tumours, &c. They have been in use for some years. (' Liverpool and Manchester Med. and Surg. Bep.,' 1873, p. 66.) Multiple loose cartilages in the elbow-joint.—A man, aet. 31, came under the care of Mr. Lister for inability to use his right elbow. He had had more or less pain in moving the joint for two years and a half. Anteriorly, on careful manipulation, there was felt a distinct abnormal projection from the humerus on a level with the external condyle, and therefore in the region of the joint. This was suspected to be a pedunculated exostosis, and it was determined to make an attempt at removing it, though from its position the joint would necessarily be opened. Mr. Lister trusted to antiseptic dressing. An incision, however, opening the joint revealed a great number (200) of loose cartilages, most of them an eighth of an inch in diameter ; six of them, however, varying from one fourth of an inch to an inch and a half in