CHOROIDITIS. by Kossbacli aud Prohlich, which were iu opposition to former authorities ou the action of atropine and Calabar boan, but which are denied in every particular by Dr. Krenchel. (Grade's ' Arch. f. Ophth.,' Ed. xx, Abth. i, p. 135O Choroiditis and its influence on vision.—Dr. Otto Bergmeister, in a paper in Graefe's ' Archiv,' Bd. xx, Abth. ii, p. 95—122, passes in review the different methods of grouping cases of choroiditis adopted by different authors, and their views as to prognosis. It is the general opinion that the ophthalmoscopic appearances afford very little guide as to prognosis. The author, from his extensive experience in Prof. Arlt's Clinic, has arrived, he believes, at certain conclusions, which may be of some value in reference to prognosis. He quotes Schweigger to the effect that the ophthalmoscopic appearances and the diagnosis depend in great measure on the condition of the pigment layer. He describes the changes met with in recent choroiditis without exudation under the term choroiditis disseminata simplex. In these cases we commonly meet with local defects of the held of vision, but great general defect of vision may rapidly set in owing to the changes affect- ing the neighbourhood of the disc, or their spreading forwards to the ciliary region. Good vision exists only when the changes are limited to a zone between the equator and the posterior pole of the eye. If changes make their appearance near the disc we find one of two series of ophthalmoscopic changes; first, congestion of the disc either in the form of a deeper colouring shown through a lightish grey cloudiness of the tissue of the well-defined disc, or in the form of a greyish-red streaking of the disc with haze of its margins. This participation of the disc is produced by the share taken by the perineural wreath of vessels in the circulation in it. The quicker the hyperemia disappears, the more rapidly will the vision improve ; the longer it lasts, the more doubtful is the prognosis, because atrophy will gradually result, entail- ing permanent loss of vision. Secondly, we find opacities in the pos- terior part of the vitreous, perhaps coming into view in front of the disc. In many cases the vitreous remains perfectly clear, and the author thinks one chief reason for its becoming affected, at any rate in the posterior part, depends on the locality of the disc being affected with coexistent disturbance in the circulation in the region of the peri- neural wreath of vessels. In another series of cases, fresh patches of choroiditis make their appearance more peripherally, and thus encroach on the ciliary region. As results, we have opacity of the anterior part of the vitreous, chiefly in the form of very small points, best seen by feeble illumination. Dots are also found at the posterior part of the lens. The disease may extend to the iris, leading to deposits on Descemet's membrane, syneehiae and exudation into the pupil. This occurs more especially in connection with syphilis. In contradistinction to the simple disseminate choroiditis we have choroiditis circumscripta exsudativa with scotomata, chromatopsia, metamorphopsia, sensation of pressure on the eye, and pain felt on pressure. Choroiditis disse- minata exsudativa occurs in the form of one (or more) extensively diffused patch (diffuse exudative syphilitic choroido-retinitis). Such a patch may appear in the course of another form of choroiditis,