359 OPHTHALMIA m PAUPER SCHOOLS. eyelids, that the inflammation is apt to bocomo moro severe, is much more difficult to cure, is far moro likely to occur again and again, and crenerally leaves behind it an increase of the granular condition. Acute inflammation of a previously healthy conjunctiva is generally, except when of the severest type, a comparatively trivial matter; in- flammation relatively [mild in degree often leads to serious consequences when it happens in an eyelid which was already more or less granular. The word " ophthalmia," in the Report, is used to mean such com- binations of the above states (granular lids, acute inflammation of the conjunctiva, and corneal damages due directly or indirectly to these conditions) as require medical treatment for their own sake, or isola- tion for the sake of others. The symptoms by which the author has been guided were—xst, the presence of discharge from the conjunctiva, its quantity, and more or less purulent character; 2nd, ulceration, when still active, of the cornea; 3rd, inability to bear the light; 4th, constant winking due to the roughened conjunctiva irritating the cornea; 5th, many cases of bad granular lids, without present sym- ptoms, have been counted for administrative purposes as cases of oph- thalmia. Granular disease of the eyelids, when uncomplicated, gives rise to no discharge from the eye, or at most to only a little, and it is not caused by contagion or infection. Any discharge that does occur will transmit inflammation, but will not transmit the granular state, to the eyelids of another person. On the other hand, the forms of disease included under the title of acute inflammation of the conjunctiva, or acute conjunctivitis, are always accompanied by the formation of yellowish opaque discharge or " matter," varying much both in quantity and quality. Conjunctivitis may be set up, by a great many causes, but in whatever way produced it can always propagate itself if the discharge is transplanted to another eyelid, either of the same or another person, and. either of man or a lower animal. The discharge need not even be derived from an eyelid at all; matter from the urethra and vagina will cause conjunctivitis ; indeed, the most violent form of purulent ophthalmia is that due to inoculation with gonorrhceal discharge; probably it may also be pro- duced by matter from discharging sores on the skin. Discharge is most contagious when fresh and moist; when dried or freely diluted with water it is less powerful. "When produced in very large quantities it may be transferred for a short distance through the air, but as this probably seldom occurs except when facilities for other modes of in- oculation are very abundant, no great importance need be attached to it. Contagion is by far the commonest cause of severe acute ophthal- mia ; it is also a very common cause of the milder cases, but a con- siderable number of the latter are due to other causes acting on already granular eyelids. Amongst the commonest of these are strong winds, dust, particles of coal, soap, &c, draughts of cold air, blows on or near the eye, and lastly certain constitutional febrile diseases, especially measles and influenza. It is nearly certain that a large proportion of first attacks are, under ordinary circumstances, due to contagion, while most of the relapses are caused by some of the other causes acting on