MUSCLE. 1 "Znr Physiologic rter in ' Centrullilntt f. <L Med. Wiss.,' 1874, p. 721. rial length. In one experiment the semitendinosus of the rabbit (a red muscle) was exposed for one seventh of a second to an induction current, which was interrupted 357 times in a second. The muscle at once passed into tetanus, and the apex of a myographic curve retained a uniform height throughout the period of contraction. When the same current was transmitted for the same length of time through the adductor longus (a pale muscle) the myographic curve showed as many crests as there were interruptions to the current. In another experi- ment, in which there were fifty-five interruptions of the current in a second, the semitendinosus was thrown into a tetanic state, whilst the adductor marked the several interruptions. This peculiarity distin- guishing the two kinds of muscle is as perceptible when the muscles are excited through the nerves as when they are excited directly, and is therefore dependent on some deep-seated physiological difference. The duration of the period of latent excitation was also found by M. Eanvier to differ in the two instances. In the case of the pale muscle it amounted to one eighty-third of a second, but for the red muscle it was as long as the one eighteenth of a second, or four times longer. After death the red muscles lose their excitability much sooner than the white. In regard to the histology of the two kinds of muscle, the fibres have the same diameter in both (0*040—o-o6o mm.). The trans- verse striaB of the pale fibres are very distinct, whilst the longitudinal striation is scarcely perceptible. In the red fibre exactly the opposite obtains. The transverse stria? do not run straight across the whole fibre, but appear as broken lines. The red fibres have many more nuclei in their interior than the white. Each pale fibre possesses from one to four flattened nuclei lying immediately beneath the sarcolemma. The red fibres have from four to nine in the same position, besides others in their interior. In the Eay the red fibres are much finer than the white. Danilewsky,1 in his essay on the respiratory processes taking place in muscles, or, in other words, the changes in the amount of oxygen absorbed and of carbonic acid eliminated, states that his experiments lead to the conclusion that a tetanised muscle, when compared with a mechanically moved muscle, excretes more carbonic acid, but absorbs less oxygen. The quantity of carbonic acid excreted by the tetanised in comparison with that of the passively moved muscle is smaller the higher the temperature, and this may be explained on the following theory :—C02 is produced continuously in an excised muscle because it accompanies the stiffening (rigor mortis) of the muscle, and it is augmented during muscular activity. The quantity of C02, however, which can be excreted by a given muscle is definite, and if a muscle produces more C02 in consequence of activity the quantity of the gas excreted during stiffening is diminished, and vice versa. It is known, further, that rigor mortis sets in quicker at a high than at a low tem- perature. If, now, during the experiment both muscles become quite rigid, the quantity of carbonic acid secreted by both must be equal, quite independent of the circumstance that one of them has been