SMALLPOX. 495 of contamination of drinking waters—in ono case by refuse from a sugar factory, grape sugar aud unusual quantities of common salt being formed with water, whicb bad an offensive odour ; in anotber instance by coal-gas. In a third by sulpho-glyceric acid from tbe manufacture of stearin candles ; in a fourth by salts of manganese ; and in a fifth by tbe urine of cows, urea being actually extracted in quantity from tbe water. Disinfection of the Morgue in Paris.—This establisbment for the reception of the dead bodies taken from the Seine is now found1 to he more effectually disinfected by the use of a solution of carbolic acid in water (i-2oootb) than formerly by tbe abundant use of charcoal; and at three fourths the expense previously incurred. Influence of violet light upon growth.—M. Poey 2 details striking facts relative to the favorable influence exercised upon the growth of animals and vegetables by violet light. It baviug been observed that the growtb of vines was greatly promoted, and tbe crop of grapes largely increased, by growing tbe plants beneath violet glass, animals—pigs and calves— were reared beneatb similarly coloured glass ; and comparative trials were made witb coloured and uncoloured glass. It was found that tbe animals kept beneatb tbe violet glass increased mucb more rapidly in size and weight than those beneatb uncoloured glass. Smallpox. Smallpox propagated by vaccination.—An interesting outbreak of variola propagated by vaccination bas been brought under notice by Dr. Alex. Collie.3 There is little doubt tbat variolous virus was in tbe first instance inoculated along witb vaccine virus, altbougb the cbild tbat serve to vaccinate the first vaccinifer was said to be free from smallpox eruption. The following outline of a vaccination bill bas been published at Konigsberg, and bas been drawn up by Prof. Bohn, and Drs. J. Moller and Pincus. It is valuable as embodying the principles of measures which German sanitarians recommend, guided by continental ex- perience. 1. Every cbild that bas attained tbe age of three months shall be vaccinated before it shall have reached the age of one year. Voluntary vaccination of children under three months of age shall be permitted. On the outbreak of an epidemic of smallpox § 12 shall be put in force. 2. Parents, foster-parents, and guardians of children liable to vac- cination shall have them vaccinated within the proper legal period, or shall furnish to the police the certificate of a duly qualified medical practitioner, stating on what medical grounds the child is not in a fit state for the performance of vaccination. A definite release from vaccination shall be granted (1) when the child has been efficiently 1 ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' t. xxiv, p. 320. 4 " Jonrn. des Connais. Med.," quoted in 'Ann. d'Hyg.,' t. xxxLx, p. 429. 3 'Lond. Med. Kec./ p. 637, quoted from 'Gaz. Med. de Strasbourg,' July, 18741 4 ' Strieker's Jahrb./ f. 1871, p. 336.