500 ItEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. especially that of the camp at Peshawur, from which the troops were rapidly removed to Bara on the appearance of cholera, and furnished with drinking water from a rapid stream; but notwithstanding this precaution the disease did not abate. Again, at Peshawur, before the troops were removed to Bara, the artillery whose lines were at the extreme end of the stream, where it was to be expected that pollution would be greatest, escaped almost entirely. He also asks, how is it that in these days of rapid railway travelling the march of cholera is no quicker than it was before railways were introduced into Iudia ? Why, too, is it more prevalent in the North-Western Provinces and in Oude, where there are no railways, and where communication is difficult, than in almost any other point of India ? He states that there is no evidence to show that there is any risk in attending on the Bick when removed from the locality in which they were attacked ; and he argues against the theory of importation. The localisation of the disease was very remarkable. At Agra, in St. Peter's College, an outbreak of great virulence suddenly broke out on July 5th, and the boys had to be sent off to their respective homes ; yet the disease hardly showed itself among the girls in the convent immediately adjacent to the College. We have already referred to the immunity of the artillery, though hemmed in on one side by a regiment, and on the other by a bazaar, in both of which the disease raged. In nearly all cases of infection movement from the infected locality has proved of the greatest service. The system of quarantine is emphatically condemned by Dr. Cun- ningham as worse than useless. Much may be done, however, he says, by sanitary improvements to prevent the spread of cholera as an epide- mic. Reform, and especially reform in the matter of drainage and water supply, is the lesson which the history of this epidemic and of all other epidemics has taught us. In answer to those who point to the prevalence of cholera among Europeans, who are well-fed, housed, and cared for, while the native, living in circumstances of filth, overcrowding, and every sanitary defect, escapes almost free, Dr. Cunningham argues that it is not so much the distribution as the incidence of the disease which can be prevented by these reforms ; and he appeals in support of this to the experience derived from the gaols in India. Cholera in Europe in 1873.—In the year 1873 there was a wide dis- tribution of cholera in Europe; but the disease became actively diffusive in but few localities. The extension of the disease is believed to have been a continuation of the outbreak which commenced in South Russia in 1869. During the winter of 1872-3 cholera prevailed through some of the Austrian Provinces, notably in Galicia and in parts of Poland. In the spring of 1873 it had become disseminated over Hungary, and was active in some parts of Galicia and Bohemia. In May cholera began to spread from the above-named centres into the neighbouring districts, and appeared on the Lower Danube. The disease passed over the Italian frontier into Venetia, notwithstanding the enforcement of quarantine. It was carried down the Elbe by raftsmen, and appeared at Dresden ; and the disease also descended the Vistula, In June cholera continued