455 POISONS. Dangers attend the use of phenyl colours chiefly composed of rosalic acid, coralline, and azuline. Rosalie acid, when pure, is innocuous. Accidents have, however, attended its application internally and ex- ternally, and it has then been found to be contaminated with phenol (carbolic acid), from which it is prepared. Commercial rosalic acid is seldom free from phenol. It is chiefly used for the preparation of coralline. (The term rosalic acid was first given to a red body existing in coal-tar, and was subsequently employed to designate all the red com- pounds obtained from phenol by various reagents.—Ed.) Considerable discrepancies exist as to the effects of pure aniline or coralline. Tardieu regards it as poisonous, whilst Eulenburg and Vohl regard it as in- nocuous. Its alleged poisonous effects may be accounted for thus :— During the manufacture of coralline from phenol by the action of ammonia, vapours of aniline are disengaged, and these may affect the workmen engaged in its manufacture. Phenol is also left in the commercial coralline as an impurity, and this irritates the skin when kept long in contact with it, pi'oduces papules, pustules, and boils, but not vesicles. For fixing the dye upon woollens and mixed tissues sodium arsenite is employed, and this, when retained by the stuff, may produce vesicles and desquamation of the cuticle. The use of arsenical preparation in the manufacture of aniline and phenol dyes is very frequent. Azidine is a blue dye obtained by heating aniline with rosilic acid or coralline. When pure it is innocuous, but it may be contaminated with phenol or with aniline. Alum is used as a mordant. Coralline yelloiv is similar to coralline, and is obtained by the same means. Another yellow dye, obtained by heating phenol with arsenic acid, is itself poisonous, and still more so if the arsenic acid be not thoroughly removed in the manufacture. It is used for dyeing yellows, reds, and browns. Picric acid is of course poisonous, but is used without a mordant. Picramic acid is obtained by reducing picric acid, or from aloes by the action of nitric acid. Its internal use produces diarrhoea when given in sufficient dose, but its prolonged ingestion induces symptoms of poisoning by picric acid, and then this latter substance can be detected in the stomach and liver. Professor Marchi1 has drawn the attention of the Florentine Academy of Medicine to the dangers attending the coloration of wines, liqueurs, &c, with fuchsin (magenta) in lieu of cochineal. Magenta,, as is well known, is often largely contaminated with arsenic derived from the sodium arseniate used in the manufacture of the pigment. Marchi has found as much as 20 per cent, of arsenic (? the metal) in specimens of commercial magenta. Since so much as three fourths of a grain of magenta may be used for colouring a bottle of wine, and this quantity of colouring matter may contain from one seventh to one sixth of a grain of arsenic, the danger attending the use of magenta is very real. The editor of this portion of the Tear Book has himself detected arsenic in common sweetmeats coloured with a trace only ©f magenta. Aniline Eydrochlorale.—M. Lallier 2 draws attention to the danger- ous properties of this substance, even when used only as an external application in skin diseases. The substance is readily absorbed and 1 ' Vrtljhrsschr f. Gerichtl. Med./ xviii, p. 162. 2 ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1873, i, p. 660.