151 PHTHISIS. cases where limited consolidations exist and the pyrexia cannot bo reduced in other ways. Their employment does not seem to be attended with much risk, except, possibly, in " largo cavity cases," where there is danger of death by collapse or haemorrhage. The good results obtained are for the most part merely temporary. Souplet ("De l'emploi des Bains tildes dans les Maladies de Poitrine, et en particulier dans la Phthisie Pulmonaire," ' Arch. Gen.,' xxii, 549) finds that tepid baths in which the patient is allowed to stay from twenty to forty-five minutes lower the pulse and temperature, prevent night sweats, increase the appetite, and generally improve the condition. No inconvenience was attributed to them in nine cases of phthisis, two of pneumonia, and two of pleurisy. Globig (' TJeber den Einfluss der Luftdichtigkeit auf Lungen- schwindsucht,' Beidin, 1873) holds that the rarer atmosphere of elevated regions acts through the increased flow of blood to the vessels of the lungs, thus hindering the process of cooling (? Rep.) ; while com- pressed air, causing decreased flow of blood, causes also decrease of the catarrh. After some very lengthy introductory remarks on the value of rest in the treatment of Consumption ('Lancet,' 1873, ii, 552) J. B. Ber- kart states that in cases of this affection he has bandaged the chest with strips of adhesive plaster, so as to produce immobility of the lungs. He has never seen any inconvenience arise from it; the patients seem to derive immediate relief; the cough, expectoration, and frequency of respiration, decrease. The Pathological Society of London indulged in a long discussion on " The Anatomical Eelations of Pulmonary Phthisis to Tubercle of the Lung," which is reported at length in its ' Transactions' (xxiv, 284), and, with various remarks, in the journals of the day (March. Aprd, 1873J). Heitzmann, "TJeber Tuberkelbildung," ' Wien. Med, Jahrb.,' 1874, 217. Bollin. ger, " Zur Kenntniss der desquamativen und kiisigen Pneumonie," 'Arch, f. Exp, Path.,'i,376. Sommerbrodt, "TJeber die Abhangigkeit phthisischer Lungenerkran- kung von primaren Kehlkopfaffectionen," ib„ 264. Springiniihl, *Die Ursache der chronischen Lungenschwindsucht,' Bale, 1873, pp. 43. Wucherer, "TJeber die zuhnehmende Haufigkeit der Phthisis in Brasilien, besonders in der Stadt Bahia," 'Deut. Arch./ xi, 471. Nothnagel, "TJeber Diagnose und Aetiologie der Einseitigen Lungenschrumpfung," «Volkmann's Vortr.,' ser. iii, No. 66. Grancher,'De l'TJnite' de la Phthisie,' Paris, 1873, pp. 49. Pollock, "Lectures on certain Clinical Varieties of Consumption," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1874, i, 609, &c. Green, "Notes on the Pathology of Pulmonary Phthisis," ib., ii, 600. Marcet, " On Consumption, a form of Septicemia," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1874, ii, 520. Jenner, "Acute Pulmonary Tuberculosis with almost complete absence of pyrexia," ib., 1873, i, 370. Ringer, 'On the Temperature of the Body as a means for the Diagnosis and Prognosis in Phthisis/ London, 1873, 2nd edit. Handfield Jones, " Clinical Lecture on two cases of Phthisis," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1873, ii, 85. Dobell, "A Contribution to the Natural History of Pulmonary Consumption, consisting of an analysis of 100 male cases of Hamoptysis," ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' lvii, 261. Teissier, "Des Hemorrhagies bronchiques envisagees dans leur rapport avec la Phthisie pulmonaire: observation d'hemoptysie par cause traumatique ayant occasions la phthisie," 'Lyon Med.,' xii, 1 It would be utterly useless to attempt to give any abstract of this discussion, which, in one form or another, will be continued ad nauseam till speakers and, writers arrive at some common deBnition of " tubercle,"—A. B. S,