30 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. The regeneration of the nerves has been studied by A. Vulpian,1 Zuppinger,2 aud Carville and Eochefontaine,3 for other papers on the nervous system see A. Pansch,1 J. Luys,5 L. Stieda,6 S. Mayer,7 L. Eauvier,8 and Arndt.9 MM. Arloing and Tripier10 continue their ob- servations on the physiology of the pneumogastrie nerves. The general conclusions to which they have arrived are—I. That the section of the spinal cord behind the medulla oblongata causes considerable diminu- tion in the excitability of the vagi. 2. That there exists a well-marked difference between the two vagi in regard to their functional activity ; the right acting more energetically than the left upon the heart, whilst the left acts more energetically than the right in regard to the mecha- nical phenomena of respiration. 3. The excitation of the cut surface of the vagi is more effective in arresting the action of the heart than galvanization of the intact nerves. 4. Galvanization of the peripheric cut surface stops the heart in diastole, whilst galvanization of the central cut surface tends to arrest it in systole; whence it results that the action of the vagi on the heart is of a peculiar regulating kind. 5. The movements of the heart during galvanization of the vagi are more feeble than before excitation, but the pulse is larger, because the tension of the arterial system is reduced. 6. Galvanization of the peripheric extremity produces an effect upon the respiratory movements, probably because the vagi send recurrent fibres towards the periphery. 7. Section of one vagus is followed by diminution of the movements of the corresponding thoracic wall. 8. Lastly, no evidence can be obtained showing that one vagus rather than the other affects the function of digestion. J. L. Prevost,11 in a paper on the gustatory function of the lingual, gives the following as the results of his inquiries:—i. The ablation of the two spheno-palatine ganglia in the dog and cat does not produce any noticeable alteration in regard to the gustatory functions of those parts of the tongue that are supplied by the lingual nerve. 2. After section of both chorda? tympani in dogs and cats deprived of the glosso- pharyngeal nerves the taste has been in some cases scarcely altered, in others considerably diminished, and in one case apparently abolished. M. Prevost's results do not enable him to specify the exact r61e that 1 Brown-Sequard's 'Archives de Physiologic,' 1874, p. 704-714. 2 «M. Schultze's Archiv f. Mik. Auat.,' B. x, p. 255. " Eine Mcthodc Axeneyliuder- fortsiitze der Ganglien-zellen des Riiekenniarks zu demonstriren." » 'Gaz. Med. de Paris,' 1874, No. 19. "De 1'Ablation du Ganglion premier thoracique du Grand Syrnpathique chez le Chien." * Abstract in ' Ccntralblatt,' 1874, p. 24.3. "Ueber die Purcbung am Grossbirn des Menschen und der Siiugethiere." * ' Physiologic de Cervcau.' Pamphlet. fi Stieda, " Ueber den Bau des Ruckenmarks der Ha'ie und der Rocheu," in the ' Zeit- schrift f. Wiss. Zool.,' B. xxiii, p. 435. 7 « Wien. Akad. Anzeiger,' 1873, p. 52. " Zur Lehre von der Structur der Spinal- ganglicn und der Peripherischen Ncrven." 8 'Comptes rendus,' 1873, t. lxxvii, p. 1299. "Sur ks Elements Conjonctifs de la Moelle Epiniere." 9 'Max Schultze's Archiv f. Mic. Anat.,' B. x, p. 208. " Untersuchungen uber die Ganglienkorper des Nervus Sympatbicus." 10 Brown-Sequard's ' Archives de Physiologic,' 1S73, t. v, p. 157-175. 11 Brown-Sequard's 'Archives de Physiologic' 1873, p. 253-280 and 375-388.