380 ttEPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. (2) A concealed hook for use in iridodialysis. The hook is pushed out, when required, by the same mechanism as in the former instru- ment. (3) A needle-hoolcfor leariny false membranes, Sfc., in the pupil. Tliis was suggested in connection with a plan advocated by Mr. Streatfeild at the London Ophth. Congress, for tearing through membrane, &c, without exercising traction on other parts. He introduces two needle- hooks from opposite sides of the cornea through the same opening in the membrane and then separates them. Dr. Wecker introduces a stop-needle on one side, and then his needle-hook on the other. The hollow of the hook-part of the needle, when introduced, is filled by another sharp point which is pushed down inside it. When about to cut, this latter is drawn back a little by a lever-handle, and the hook is available for use. An improved lid-forceps, especially for the operation of entropion. Dr. H. Knapp has devised a modification of the clamp-forceps in general use. He makes the ring surround the margin of the plate, instead of resting on it. When the ring is screwed down it is larger than the plate, and there is a narrow interval between the ring and the plate, so that the eyelid is bent and compressed between them. The same clamp is made available for both eyes. It gives a larger space in which to operate ('Arch, of Ophth. and Otol.,' vol. iii, No. 1, p. 25). At p. 220 of No. 2, vol. iii, Dr. Knapp notes a further improvement, and at p. 221 Dr. Argyll Robertson describes forceps which he has been using for some time, which are essentially similar to those of Dr. Knapp. Dr. Martin reports from Dr. Wecker's clinique on— 1. Trephining the cornea in partial staphyloma of the cornea.—The object of this operation is to allow of the slow formation of a cicatri- cial tissue which will tend to diminish the curvature of the cornea. Dr. Wecker's trephine is figured. 2. In complete cicatricial leucoma of the cornea trephining is restored to in order to create a corneal fistula. Two cases are noted in which some benefit resulted. 3. Neurotomy.—The cases in which the sheath of the optic nerve had been incised in neuritis were too far advanced to allow of any ameliora- tion. No harm resulted. A neurotome cache for the purpose is figured. 4. Tattooing the cornea.—Lately Dr. Wecker had adopted a plan re- sembling those recommended in England (Bader and Taylor). After having spread a thick layer of Chinese ink over the opacity, a number of punctures are made in it by means of an instrument consisting of four or five needles fastened together. (Figures are given.) The ink is washed off to see the result, and the process repeated till it is satis- factory. The ink is finally left in contact for a quarter of an hour, the speculum being retained. The conjunctiva should not be pricked, or else black spots will result there also. A good black colour ought to result after two tattooings. q. On the treatment of ectropion by Snellen's sutures,