REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. logical facts are few. Only one autopsy by Danyau (quoted by Ducheune) is known. Fritsch discusses a case where a paralysis of the arm disappeared at the same time that ahannatoma situated at the lower border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. From this we may infer that the paralysis was due exclusively to the pressure exercised by the effusion of blood. These obstetrical paralyses are either temporary or perma- nent. They most commonly occur iu the face and upper limbs or on one side or on both. Paralyses of the arm, which are much more frequent than the others, are especially observed after difficult breech cases. They are either simple or complicated. The principal compli- cations met with, which may at times be unnoticed, are the separation of the epiphysis of the scapula, and of the humerus, fractures of the clavicle, of the humerus, of the scapula, dislocations of the head of the humerus, of the sternal end of the clavicle or of one of the bones of the fore-arm. In simple paralysis of the upper extremity, the following is nearly always the position of the paralysed limb. The arm hangs immovable by the side of the body, the head of the humerus is strongly rotated inwards, the triceps projects in front, and the hand is greatly pronated, turned outwards. In the most commonly found position of the limb (moderate flexion at the elbow), instead of the radial border and the thumb being in front and uppermost, the ulnar side and the little finger are so turned. Also, provided the fingers retain their mobility, the functions of the hand are considerably impaired. This extreme rotation of the head of the humerus and the abnormal position resulting from it may persist through life. This is due to the paralysis of the external rotators, the infra-spinatus muscle chiefly, which is supplied by the subscapular nerve, as may be shown by faradisation. The very superficial situation of this muscle and its nerve exposes them to pres- sure against the subjacent bone. Other muscles may be paralysed: the deltoid and the flexors of the fore-arm, the biceps and coraco-brachialis. As a rule the cutaneous sensibility is intact. These paralyses may be complicated, and this is not perceived if the complication is slight. A severe complication considerably modifies the typical form of the paralysed extremity. Thus fractures cause a shortening and an arrest of development of the clavicle or of the humerus, and so alter the position of these bones that a permanent deformity results. The rotation inwards of the humerus may be exaggerated by a fracture of the clavicle, or a luxation inwards of the head of the radius increases the deformity of the fore-arm and the functional incapacity of the hand. In such cases as these there is most often anaesthesia. The prognosis is bad in pro- portion to the age of the child, on account of the atrophy of the muscle. Recourse should be had early to the methodical use of fara- disation. In facial paralyses we should not wait for nature to cure more than a month, nor should we wait longer for paralysis of the arm : if there is also in these cases rotation inwards, besides the faradisation of the infra-spinatus muscle, we should practise passive rotation of the humerus outwards. The paper terminates with the relation of six cases he has observed. Dr. Lavirotte writing on the viability of infants born before term (' Lyon Med.,' April, 1873) says it is not on the external signs alone