REPORT ON SURGERY. 304 with secondary affection of internal organs. On post-mortem examination in all instances there was a considerable and rapid loss of substance in the articular end of one of the long bones entering into the joint aflected. In some cases this proceeded from the joint Burface towards the deeper parts. In others the destruction of tissue had commenced in abscess within the articular end of the bone, which, after excavating and destroying more or less of the interior of the bone, had burst into the joint by a small opening near the margin of the articular car- tilage. In one case an abscess cavity was found on section of the bone beneath the articular cartilage. The name subarticular abscess is applied to abscess cavities formed beneath the articular cartilage, either in the cartilaginous or osseous structure of the end of the bone. It seems that in many cases the formation of a subarticular abscess in the bone must have been the first step in the joint affection, since, while the articular end of the bone was extensively excavated, the aperture through which the abscess had burst into the joint was a mere pin-hole, and though the joint contained pus the articular cartilage was apparently healthy. Illustrations of the conditions mentioned are given. Notwithstanding the destructive nature of acute arthritis in infants to the parts affected and its danger to life, as illustrated by the foregoing cases, there can be no doubt that many children not only survive the attack, but re- cover with useful joints ; and experience proves that this result may be obtained even where more than one joint is the seat of suppuration. Mr. Smith has seen instances, both in the elbow and knee, where a perfect recovery, with good movement, has taken place, even after the articular ends of the bones have been freely exposed to view by abscess within the joint and ulceration of the integuments. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.' x, 189.) Anchylosis of hip resulting from disease in early life.—Dr. Bennett describes a specimen and gives the history of the case (' Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' August, 1874). Complete bony anchylosis of the hip.—Dr. E. H. Bennett describes and figures specimens. One showed anchylosis after a gunshot injury. Another showed anchylosis with a false joint in the neck ; two others were specimens of old morbus coxa?; and a third probably belonged to the same category. In two others the head had sunk into the acetabulum. Mr. W. Adams' operation would have been applicable in almost all. Eight other specimens are alluded to. (' Dub. Jour. Med. Sci., June,' 1874.) Treatment of Hydrarthrosis.—Bergeret ('Lyon Med.,' iv, 12, 1874) recommends the following treatment in rheumatic, traumatic, gouty, and other forms of hydrarthrosis. The diseased part is wrapped in wadding or wool, and then a bag containing two or three pounds of hot sand is to be laid on it, so as to surround the joint and a thick towel is applied over the whole. This treatment is to be commenced after the febrile stage has ceased. "When inflammation is commencing, lukewarm compresses are to be constantly applied. Dr. Yanzetti has also employed hot sand in the hospital at Padua, with much success, in