323 AFFECTIONS OF THE BLADDER. healthy uriue is iujected by means of a warmed syringe. The injections are made twice, and in bad cases three times daily j and the patient retains the urine as long as possible. In one case recovery took place in three weeks, after about thirty injections. Clemens attributes the result to the urine being of blood-warmth, and to the healthy irritation which it produces in the diseased wall of the bladder. Extroversion of a complete bladder.—In ordinary cases of ectopia vesica) the anterior wall of the bladder is deficient. Lichtheim, how- ever, records in the ' Archiv fur Klinische Chirurgie,' xv, the case of a robust boy, sat. 8, whose parents, and brothers, and sisters were healthy and well formed, who on superficial inspection appeared to be the sub- ject of ectopia of the bladder, with a high degree of epispadias; but there was no incontinence of urine, which was voided in a stream. A closer examination showed that the ends of the horizontal rami of the os pubis were only united by ligamentous bands : in a depression of the abdominal wall above, the bladder lay ; it was covered externally with mucous membrane, was closed, and could be pushed back. On the dorsal surface of the penis was a strip of mucous membrane, J-ths of an inch broad and af inches long, separated by a bridge of normal skin from the bladder. • The mucous membrane covering the bladder had several layers of flattened epithelium resting on a soft basis of con- nective tissue with shallow papillas ; the strip on the penis had a more scanty epithelial layer resting on a firmer connective tissue. The urethra, which was very narrow, ran immediately behind the urinary strip on the penis and behind the ligamentous masses forming the symphysis pubis, and terminated in a narrow slit-shaped opening at the end of the glans of a very short penis. The umbilicus was absent ; the testes lay in two sacs dependenttfrom the anterior ends of the pubic bones; the prepuce was cleft at the upper part. The boy could retain his urine perfectly, and voided from six to seven ounces at a time. The conditions described had existed from birth. In an analogous case described by Vrolik, the urine was voided shortly after birth through two small openings in the anterior abdominal wall, which afterwards cicatrised (oval depressions were also found in the present case). The projecting tumour consisted of a diverticulum of the bladder. In another case, described by Stokes, there was a high degree of epispadias. Itupture of the urinary bladder.—Sigallas describes the case of a man, tut. 28, suffering for the second time from gonorrhoea (for which he was not treated), who was suddenly seized with retention of urine. He had no stricture. The retention lasted three days, during which he did not apply for medical advice, when, on his making a violent attempt to urinate, he suddenly felt something tear in his belly. At first this gave relief; but soon severe pain set in and obliged him to go to hospital. A catheter was introduced without difficulty, but removed very little urine. The percussion-sound over the abdomen was tym- panic. He died in four days of peritonitis. The cause of retention was found to be a large abscess of the prostate. The mucous membrane of the bladder was easily torn off; the muscular coat was somewhat hypertrophied, and in the anterior wall was an oval hole with some-