165 MALFORMATION OP HEART—ANEURISM. Times aud Gaz.,' 1873, i, no. Sansoni, "Case of Disease of Pulmonary Valves and Right Ventricle, with communication between the ventricles " (girl, set. 8£), ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1873, i, 611. Gelau, ' Ein Fall von Offenbleiben des Septum ventricu- lornui sowie des Foramen ovale bei Frhaltuug des Lebuns bis zum 20 Jabre, ohno Cyauose,' Berlin, 1S73, pp. 31. Peacock, "Malformation of the Heart, atresia of the pulmonary artery, aorta arising from the right ventricle, pulmonary circulation maintained through the ductus arteriosus " (boy lived nearly 11 months),' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxv, 62. Balfour, "Case of Congenital Malformation of the Heart" (girl, at. 19, still living),'Lancet, 1874, ii, 409. Lusk, "Case of Acardia," 'New York Med. Journ.,' xix, 176. Aneurism, Sfc. K. J. Lee calls attention ('Lancet,' 1873, i, 129) to the changes produced in the recurrent laryngeal nerves in cases of thoracic aneurism. In a case of paralysis of the right vocal cord produced by an aneurism of the innominate the right pneumogastric nerve, where it was in contact with the sac, presented great increase in vascularity, a dark venous colour, and an cedematous and easily lacerable con- dition. A nervous filament, little thicker than a thread, was all that remained of the right recurrent, after separating the fibro-cellular tissue which surrounded it. In two other cases, in which the symptoms were less severe, the nerve was reduced to half its ordinary size. In other cases the nervous cords may be found stretched and re- duced to a fine thread of fibrous tissue, the nerve tissues being entirely wanting. L. Shapter, after describing ('Med. Times and Gtaz.,' 1874, ii, 169) a case of aortic aneurism in a man, aged 60, makes the following re- marks :—1. Murmur is of little or no diagnostic value in this affection, but must be regarded as a purely accidental phenomenon. 2. Accen- tuation of the aortic second sound, as the result of the specially altered condition of the vessel, and as present in any region but over the immediate neighbourhood of the heart and aorta, is characteristic of aneurism. 3. The treatment, whether curative or symptomatic, upon which most reliance must be placed, consists in the administration of large and frequently repeated doses of iodide of potassium, accompanied with rest. 4. The iodide acts by consolidating and thickening the aneurismal sac-wall, and not by any process of clot-formation. Krauspe ('Beri. Klin. Woch.,' 1873, 120) gives the case of a man, aged 64, the subject of acute bronchitis, in whom diffuse aneurismal dilatations were noticed in the carotids and their branches, especially on the left side, and in the abdominal aorta. 0. Bollinger has found ('Virch. Arch.,' lix, 341) degenerative changes in the vascular system of the horse, analogous to those oc- curring in the human subject. Tillaux, " Du danger qu'il y a de reduire les Anevrismes de la crosse de l'Aorte," 'Bull. Gen. de Therap.,' t. 85, p. 231. Soulier, "Anevrysme de l'Aorte" (man, set. 63, small aneurism of the ascending aorta inside the pericardium, bursting into latter), 'Lyon Med.,' xiii, 378. Chaboud, "Observation d'un Anevrysme artlrioso- Teinenx de la crosse de l'Aorte, dont la poche communique avec le tronc brachio- cephalic veineux gauche," ib., xiv, 478. Hanot, " Anevrysme de la crosse de l'Aorte, avec compression de la bronche, de l'artere pulmonaire, et du pneumogastriquo gaudies, atrophie du cceur, pneumonie fibro-caseeuse et granulations du poumon