ERGOT. 489 castor oil was found to contain any resinous substances, as had previously been asserted. Piorotoxin.—Povergo1 draws attention by his experimental researches to the similarity between the actions of strychnine aud pircotoxin upon the inhibitory centre of the cord. Ergot.—Dr. P. Ebertz2 concludes from his own researches that (i) the diminution in the frequency of the pulse observed as a result of the adminstration of ergot is due to the direct action of the constituents of the drug in the blood upon the terminals of the vagus in the heart, (z) The origin of the vagus is unaffected, and the vagus itself is not paralysed by ergotine even up to the time of death. (3) The above- mentioned action has for result an increase in the fulness of the pulse. (4) Rhythmic cardiac pulsat ions are also simultaneously produced. (5) The increased blood-pressure resulting from the administration of ergotin is not of peripheric origin, but iB the result of direct irritation of the vaso-motor centre by the ergotin dissolved in the blood. (6) This excitation of the vaso-motor centre does not lead to paralysis of the animal, even when death is the final result; as is proved by the fact that excitation of a superficial nerve of sensation (saphenus) leads to a reflex increase of blood-pressure. Dr. Handelin3 has also investigated this drug, under the direc- tion of Prof. Schmiedeberg. He states that an aqueous is more active than an alcoholic extract. Small doses of the aqueous extract, neu- tralised with sodium carbonate, when injected into the veins caused anaesthesia, and loss of the power of co-ordination, whilst larger doses produced paralysis of both voluntary and reflex motions. The peri- pheral nerves were not affected, the paralysis being due to affection of the nervous centres. Convulsions and myosis were observed. The pulse was at first quickened, then gradually slowed till death occurred. Water extracts the active principle, and since ergot extracted with alcohol has lost but little of its activity, it would appear that the active principle is but little soluble in alcohol. Handelin failed to extract it from the aqueous extract; and it seems impossible that Wenzell's ecbolin and ergotin can be the active ingredients of ergot. S. Kersch,4 A. "Wernich,5 and J. Lauber,6 have also investi- gated the actions of ergot. The last found the extract of ergot very effectual, when injected, in restraining epistaxis. The most striking effect noted by Kersch in his experiments upon dogs was the remark- able contraction of the calibre of the arteries. It effected the expul- sion of the young from pregnant cats. It produced the best results when administered in puerperal fever, slowing the pulse, and speedily lowering the temperature of the body. Wernich has determined the action of the drug upon the uterus and also its haemostatic effects. He injected the officinal aqueous 1 Quoted in 'Schmidt's Jahrb.,'clviii, p. 130. 2 ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' c. Iviii, p. 126. 3 'Fur Kentniss d. Mutterkoms,' Dorpat, 1871; * Lond. Med. Recc-rd,' i, p. 13. * ' Memorabilien,' xviii, p. 202. * 'Virchow's Archiv,' lvi, p. 505. s 'Bayr. Artzl. Int.,' Bd. xx, p. 22; ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' clx, p. 122,