507 WATER-SUPPLY. from the contamination of cholera-poison. In the rare, and, as he says, exceptional cases, in which the disease seems to arise from pure contagion, as when a person goes from an infected locality to a place free from cholera, and falls sick there, and subsequently other persons connected with him contract the disease, all the facts can, as Pettenkofer states, he explained by assuming that the patient had carried so much of the poison with him from the cholera district that there was enough to infect the other persons attacked. Such cases have usually been cited as proofs of the contagiousness of cholera; but they have been most usually noticed in places which are not susceptible to cholera in an epidemic form; so that the disease has not spread beyond a small group of cases. Dirty linen, and damp, watery, slimy articles of food are referred to as articles specially liable to act as carriers of the specific cholera poison. As regards human excrements as carriers of the poison, Pettenkofer is of opinion that the latest investigations, especially in the home of cholera, India, have considerably diminished the common belief that the poison is localised in the bowel excretions. It does not follow, nevertheless, that we are justified in neglecting the bowel secretions, as of no importance with regard to cholera epidemics. It is, however, laid down that nothing can be expected from mere dis- infection of cholera dejecta. Attention must also be given to local and temporal conditions, for these are all important. The influence of the season of the year upon the epidemic extension of cholera is well drawn out and illustrated. Prominent among the local causes of the propagation of cholera is ground-water, sock-water, or soil-water—a term which has been accurately defined by Pettenkofer, but which is much misunderstood. By ground-water Pettenkofer means that water which entirely fills the interstices of the subsoil, so as to render it quite impervious to air. The moisture in the pervious soil overlying this water-logged stratum is not ground-water. The rise and fall of the ground-water with varia- tions of rainfall, season of the year, &c, may be taken as a measure of the dampness of the soil above it, and Pettenkofer has observed its variations for this purpose and no other. The soil above the level of the ground-water is permeated by ground-air, which is found to vary considerably in its percentage of carbonic acid1 at different periods of the year, the highest percentage being in the summer and autumn months, when cholera is most prevalent. It is obvious that a relatively large proportion of carbonic acid in the ground-air indicates rapid changes in the organic matters impregnating the soil. That portion of the soil overlying the ground-water, and permeated by ground-air, forms the nidus in which the cholera poison vegetates and produces the specific and fully developed cholera germ. Cholera is perhaps as dependent upon ground-water as is enteric fever, which in Munich, for sixteen years, has been observed to rise and fall inversely as the ground-water in the soil beneath the city rises and falls. The fluctua- tions in the level of the ground-water are important only as showing the variations in the moisture of the superincumbent layers, and the » Fleck,' Ztscbr. f. Biologic'