340 REPORT ON SURGERY. formed as to the precise part of the bowel involved." u Having com* pleted the reduction, I put the bowel back into the abdomen and closed the wound with harelip pins and interrupted sutures. The operation had been a very simple one and had not occupied more than two or three minutes." The patient recovered without a single bad symptom, and left the hospital in about three weeks. Nothing but fluid food was allowed during the greater part of the time. Mr. Hutchinson narrates several fatal cases in which, had an operation been performed, no diffi- culty would have been met with in effecting reduction, and the patients would have had another chance of life afforded them. He alludes to other cases which have been operated on and to the symptoms of intus- susception. He thinks it important to distinguish between mere irreducibility and strangulation. In the latter, there is greater urgency, but, at the same time, more chance of termination by gangrene of the gut. He discusses cases recorded of recovery by surgical or natural reposition, recovery after gangrene, &c. Early age seems very markedly to accelerate a fatal result. If operative interference is to avail in infants it must be resorted to very early. In most fatal cases, replace- ment could easily be effected after death. Peritonitis is almost uniformly absent. " In conclusion, I may briefly record my conviction that any one who will carefully examine the evidence for and against, will come to the conclusion that operations for the relief of intussus- ception are not only warrantable, but that in a large number of cases they are urgently demanded. The most hopeful cases are those in which the symptoms denote incarceration rather than strangulation, and in them the surgeon may take the knife in hand with a good prospect that he will encounter no serious obstacle, and that he will not find either very tight constriction, adhesions, or gangrene. Of the other cases, there are many in which, if the patient be seen early, there is sufficient hope, notwithstanding the severity of the symptoms, to justify the operation, though the surgeon must expect in such to find occasionally that the conditions preclude its completion. Lastly, in a small minority, seen late, or in which the symptoms have from the first been extremely severe, it is probably wisest to decline an operation, and to trust the chance of gangrene." The author adds a table of recorded cases of *' Intussusception of, or into, the lower bowel," and appends the following conclusions :—i. That it is by no means very uncommon for intussusception to begin at the ileo-csecal valve and to progress to such a length that the invaginated part is within reach from the anal orifice or even extruded. 2. That it is of great importance in all cases of suspected intussusception to examine carefully by the anus. 3. That in almost all cases of intussusception in children, aud probably most in adults, the diagnosis may be made certain by handling the invaginated part through the abdominal wall. 4. That the prognosis of cases of intussusception varies much ; first in ratio with the age of the patient; and, secondly, with the tightness of the constriction. 5. That in a large proportion of the cases in which children under one year are the patients, death must be expected within from one to six days from the commencement. 6. That in fatal cases, death is usually caused by shock or by collapse from irritation, and not by peritonitis. 7. That in