1U& REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the symptoms being habitually those of diminished function, followed by increased or altered function ; chronicity, or marked tendency to recurrence. 5. This group depends on nutrition-changes in the vascular system generally, in that of the nervous system especially, and in the immediately surrounding tissues. It includes inflammation (whether of nerve, cerebral substance, neurilemma, or meninges), haemorrhage from disease of a vessel, thrombosis, and embolism. 6. Primary trophic changes in the nerve-centres constitute the next group ; these are marked by diminution of proper functional activity—loss of power of voluntary movement, will, "mental aptitude, &c.—conditions in the main secondary, and the result of attempts, voluntary, emotional, sensational, or simply physical, to overcome or counteract the dis- comfort which the loss of power has caused. The writer divides these into two categories, one in which the morbid anatomical condition is known, and the other in which it is as yet but a matter of inference. The first includes wasting and degeneration of the spinal cord and nerves; the second, various forms of palsy, spasms, convulsions, neu- ralgia, and tetanus (?) 7. The seventh group consists of tumours in different parts of the nervous system, and infiltrations. 8. The last group is made up of affections which have none of the preceding con- ditions, have no definite names, and, though obviously severe and distressing, rarely cause real anxiety as to their ultimate issue. In a paper on " Central Galvanization " (' New York Med. Journ.,' xvii, 475) A. D. Rockwell gives cases of melancholia, spasmodic cough, spinal irritation and congestion (? Rep.), chorea, &c, cured by this I means, the most thorough form of which is said (p. 479) to be placing one pole on the vertex of the skull and the other on the epigastrium. W. Detmold (ib.,491) publishes two cases of facial paralysis treated by dividing the paralysed muscles, in which contraction was the pro- minent feature; and a third case in which there was complete inaction of the zygomatic muscles and the levator anguli oris, and in which a mechanical support, described in the text, was followed by good results. H. C. Major contributes (' "West Riding Asyl. Rep.,' iv, 223) observa- tions on the histology of the morbid brain, in which he comes to the following conclusions. In senile atrophy of the brain the large nerve- cells undergo granulur degeneration, while the smaller ones generally become atrophied, the nuclei of the cells invariably participating in the diseased process. The condition of so-called hypertrophy of the cells (Rutherford, Tuke) depends on a peculiar transformation of some of the larger pyramidal bodies, and is not confined to senile atrophy, being also observed in general paralysis. In both it is of exceptional occurrence. A state of dilatation of the small vessels and capillaries is most commonly observed, with enlargement of the vascular canals and in- duration of the surrounding cerebral substance. There is no great proli- feration of the nuclei of the vessels, the morbid deposits consisting of yellowish granules and hamiatin crystals. The nerve-fibres are in general abnormally coarse and tortuous, and in some instances seem to be broken down at various parts. The most prominent change in the