TREATMENT OP JOINT AFFECTIONS. soi greatest diameter. The larger ones, in the interior, consisted of true bono and medullary tissue, with a cartilaginous external layer and synovial investment, to which small cartilaginous bodies were attached by narrow peduncles. The patient recovered well. Two drainage tubes were inserted, one being removed in two and the other in eight days. The case is noted by Mr. Sampson Gamgee. (' Lancet,' Jan. 10, 1874.) Removal of a loose cartilage from the hnee-joint under the antiseptic treatment.—Dr. Lichtenberg records a case (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 10, 1874). Loose bodies in joints.—Axel Iversen writes on the operative treat- ment of loose bodies in joints. He speaks strongly in favour of re- moval by direct incision under antiseptic precautions. Nineteen cases are cited by the author. One case proved fatal. (' Northern Medical Archives,' 1873. " Eeport on Scandinavian Medicine," 'Med. Chir. Eeview,' July, 1874.) Progressive caseous disease of the lymphatic glands after disease of the knee-joint.—Dr. Goodhart details a case, and remarks it is one of the very few instances on record in which, precisely as in the lower animals, a tuberculosis has extended from a local cause in a manner so direct that it cannot be questioned. Treatment of inflammation of the knee-joint by permanent extension. —Dr. C. Eeyher, in an article in the ' Deutsche Zeitschrift fur Chirurgie,' iv, 1, gives an account of forty experiments made on the human sub- ject with the view of ascertaining the changes which the capacity of the knee-joint undergoes in various positions, the relations of the intra- articular pressure in different degrees of filling of the joints, in different positions, and under the influence of distraction of the joint by weights. The capacity of the knee-joint is greatest when the limb is bent at an angle of 300, the soft parts being uninjured, and at an angle of 60° in preparations, as Bonnet has already observed. In applying distraction, the state of the muscles (the quadriceps extensor, gastro° cnemius, and popliteus) must be observed; if they be rigid, the intra- articular pressure is increased ; if relaxed, it is diminished. "When a weight of forty pounds is used, diastasis takes place to the extent of a millimetre, and may reach 3-^ millimetres when a weight of 100 pounds is applied. In diastasis of the joint, two conditions are to be observed; viz., the removal of the interarticular pressure by the separation of the articular surfaces, and the stretching of the capsule by removal of its points of insertion one from another, and the conse- quent increase of the interarticular pressure. In healthy joints, the latter condition does not come into account, for the synovia is in so small quantity that there is room for it between the articular surfaces, and it is not subjected to pressure by the capsule or the muscles. When a joint is artificially distended, if the muscles be in a state of rigor mortis, the intra-articular pressure is increased when the weights are increased; if they be flaccid, the pressure decreases until the weights applied amount to 100 pounds, and beyond this it is increased. In the practical application of these results to surgery, Beyher finds just the same conditions as he showed in the artificially prepared joints of the dead subject. A parallel may be drawn between serous and