471 BLOOll-STAINS. frog, "0009. a. If fresh the blood should be preserved for examination, sealed up with a half per cent, solution of common salt. 3. Should the expert fail to find red blood-corpuscles he may still be able to detect both fibrin aud white blood-corpuscles by the microscope. 4. If red corpuscles, fibrin, and white blood-corpuscles are detected by the micro- scope, it is superfluous to push the examination further. 5. Should microscopic examination yield negative or doubtful results, recourse must never be had to the spectroscope and the production of crystals of hsematin hydrochlorate. 6. The guaiacum test, as modified by Dr. A. S. Taylor, is useful in this respect, that if it yields negative results, we may be sure that no blood is present. 7. The substances to be tested should invariably be divided into four parts, one portion for histo- logical examination, another for spectral analysis, a third for the pro- duction of crystals of haematin hydrochlorate, and the fourth for the guaiacum reaction. Dr. Joseph Gr. Richardson,1 of Pennsylvania, has continued his researches on the blood-corpuscles,2 and advocates the use of higher powers than have hitherto been employed for discriminating the red corpuscles of different animals. The a priori arguments against the value of the microscopic test for distinguishing human blood from that of the ox, pig, horse, sheep, and goat are grouped under three heads, viz. (r) That the difference between the red blood - corpuscles of man and of these domestic animals is too minute to render their positive discrimination possible, and too insignificant to admit of its being used as the means of condemning a fellow creature to death, (a) That even if the average diameters of these various corpuscles were shown to be so different that we might sometimes by this means distinguish them, yet the variations above and below the mean diameter are so frequent and irregular that they must render the determination of any such averages by mere micrometric measurement unreliable. (3) It may be held that no microscopist can hold himself justified in putting in question a man's life on the uncertain calculation of a blood-corpuscle's ratio of contraction by drying.—To these objections Dr. Richardson replies that the blood-corpuscles are just as much characteristics of the different kinds of living beings in which they occur as are the coverings of the body, &c.; and that a human red blood-corpuscle is as readily distinguished from that of, e.g. the sheep, as a No. 1 from a No. 5 shot. A human red blood-corpuscle, when seen under a ^ inch objective, is apparently g inch across; whilst a sheep's red blood- corpuscle, when viewed under similar conditions, is apparently only ■§ inch in diameter. Moreover, ordinarily in criminal cases a microscopist is called upon to determine, not whether a particular specimen is human, as distinguished from all other kinds of blood, but to discrimi- nate simply between the blood-corpuscles of a man and an ox, a man and a horse, or a man and a sheep, and so establish or disprove the defendant's story as to how his clothing or other articles became 1 ' Month. Microscop. Journ.,' xii, p. 130. 3 Vide ' Ketrospcct,' 1871-2, p. 6; 1869-70, p. 470.