INJURIES OF THE HEAD. 25 to the causation of fracture.—Dr. Allen writes a suggestive paper on this subject. He especially calls attention to parts of the skull (diploe, &c.) which exercise a shock-distributing effect. (' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1874.) Pycemia and abscess of diploe after a scalp wound; trephining ; cure.— Mr. Joseph Eell records the case of a farmer who had been thrown from his gig and sustained a severe scalp wound near the vertex, expos- ing the bone. The wound healed in six days. Seven days later he had high fever, intense dyspnoea, recurring rigors, a pulse of 92, and a tem- perature varying from 1020 to io4,4°. A probe led through a small opening to bare bone. Suppuration of the diploe was diagnosed and a portion of bone removed with the trephine. Pus oozed out from the centre of the bone. The dura mater was sound and healthy. The patient recovered well. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 1873.) Abscess of right hem isphere of brain superficial to ventricle, following a blow on the skull without fracture ; dilatation of right pupil.—The patient, a man, set. 26, was admitted into the Lambeth Workhouse under the care of Mr. R. H. Lloyd, suffering from hemiplegia on the left side. There was a cicatrix of a wound in the centre of the mesial line of the skull. The left pupil was contracted, the right one dilated. One month previously he had received a blow from a poker, which made him insensible. He subsequently had " fits." At the end of seventeen days loss of sensation and motion in the left hand and arm was noticed and gradually spread to the leg. Sixteen days later he had a convulsive seizure and soon became insensible, the right pupil becoming dilated. The latter symptom remained, and paralysis of the right levator palpebral was noticed. He recovered conscious- ness to some extent. He died thirty-days after the accident and three weeks after the first symptoms of hemiplegia. At the post-mortem the dura mater was found firmly adherent to the part corresponding to the cicatrix and no fracture could be detected, but there was a small patch of lymph (organized) on the highest part of the middle lobe of the right hemisphere. A large abscess was found in the right hemi- sphere occupying the roof of the lateral ventricle. It did not involve the latter. ('Lancet,' May 17, 1873.) Abscess in the brain; pus let out by the trephine; recovery.—Mr. Holden narrates the case of a lad, set. 18, who was struck on the side of the bead by a piece of iron. He was admitted into St. Bartholo- mew's Hospital, and a laceration of the scalp in the left parietal region was found, leading to a line of fracture with slight depression. Small portions of brain substance were escaping through the wound. He had no cerebral symptoms. In three weeks he was made an out-patient. Subsequently some pieces of bone worked out. At the end of five months he went to work. Some months later he had a fall, which was followed by fits. About eighteen months after the accident he had giddiness, pain in the head, was stupid, and felt ill. He was quite deaf in the left ear. Then he had a shivering fit. During the next two months he became more and more unconscious. His pulse was about 60° and his temp. 104° It was determined to trephine. A small hole was found through the frontal bone. The dura mater was divided 17