SANITARY CONFERENCE. 503 Should sea quarantine establishments be instituted or maintained against cholera? 17. If so (as in No. 13). 18. What dispositions in regard to pei'sons should be made with freo intercourse and con- tinuancy ? 19. How long (in case observations or quarantine should have been determined on) ought healthy persons to be subjected to observation or special quarantine ? and how long ought the sick to be detained in hospital ? 20. Under what conditions, and according to what calculations, is the entrance of ships into quarantine to be reckoned? 21. What regulations with respect to («) personal effects, (b) living animals, (c) merchandise, (d) food, (e) means of conveyance {e.g., ships, waggons, &c.) ought to be permitted with regard to permis- sions of intercourse without previous disinfection or after disinfection has taken place ? 22. "What would be the means of disinfection in re- gard to "(a) persons, (b) personal effects, (c) living animals, (d) merchan- dise, (<?) means .of transport ? On these questions the conference arrived at the following conclusions : " Considering that, since inter- course in the present day has made various advances, and is steadily making progress, land quarantine is impracticable, useless, and injurious to the interests of commerce and intercourse; the question whether land qarantine institutions ought to be established is answered in the negative." Hence the secondary questions (13) fall to the ground. On the subject of sea quarantine, a report was presented by a commit- tee that had. been appointed to examine the subject, consisting of Prof. Hirsch, Dr. von Alber Glanstatten, Dr. H. von Kapelle (Holland), Prof. Semmola, and Dr. E. Seaton (London). The following propositions with regard to sea quarantine were finally adopted. 1. In seaports in which there are no quarantine institutions, as in those of the Eed and Caspian Seas, a sanitary board shall be constituted, consisting of medical men and government officials, with a staff of assistants. The number of members of the board belonging to each class is to be regulated according to the amount of shipping intercourse in each port; but, under all circumstances, it must be sufficient to ensure a speedy dealing with the ship and crew, as well as with the passengers. The chief of the sanitary board must keep himself in official communication with cholera-infected ports, which may come into contact through intercourse by ships with that to which he belongs. 2. Every ship arriving from an unsuspected port, which the captain shall have declared on oath neither to have touched at an infected port, nor to have had direct communication with an infected vessel, and on board which no suspected or distinct cases of or deaths from cholera shall have occurred during the voyage is to have free pratique. 3 . All ships coming from infected or suspected ports, as well as ships which come from uninfected ports, but which during the voyage have touched at an infected place, or held communication with an infected ship, or on which, during the voyage, cases of illness or death suspected to be from cholera have occurred, shall, on arrival, be subjected as soon as possible to a strict medical examination as to the state of health of their crew and passengers. The captain, ships' officers, and medical officers (when there is one), shall be bound to report to the examining