249 FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS. Henry Moon describes and figures apparatus for the treatment of fractures of the jaws, especially the lower jaw. He strongly advocates the application of splints within the mouth. He mentions cases in which fractures treated in the usual way have failed to unite, whereas when properly cared for these united well. The best material with which to take impressions of the jaws is " Stent." Interdental splints may be of vulcanite or metal. "Dental alloy " answers very well. Mr. G-.E. Hammond's plan is described and spoken of with favour. It consists in adapting a frame of strong iron wire to the jaw; it is bent round so as to encircle in one loop all or any desired number of the teeth at the level of their necks. The ends of the wire are soldered together, and the finer adjustments are given to the frame with a pair of small curved pliers. This collar is slipped over the teeth and is tied in place bv short pieces of thin binding wire passed round each tooth and inter- laced with the frame (as shown in a figure). The two ends of each of the binding wires are twisted together in front until nearly tight, and are afterwards twisted quite tight, a loop on each side alternately being tightened up, so that even pressure may be excited. The ends of the wire are then cut off, and the remaining twisted ends are tucked in between the teeth. A spirit wash is used for rinsing the mouth. The frame should be worn for six weeks. (' G-uy's Hospital Reports,' xix, Luxation of the superior maxillary tones — Dr. Wilbur records a case in which, after a severe blow on the head, both superior maxillary bones were found to have been loosened from their connections and to have dropped down. No bandage could be kept applied, and the case was left to nature. The result was very good, no perceptible deformity resulting. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' April, 1873.) Fracture of the loioerjaic.—M. Montet describes two cases of fracture of the lower jaw in the ' Montpellier Medical' for April, 1874. In the first case there was a double fracture of the body of the bone, and the middle portion was much displaced. About a fortnight after the injury, seeing that there was no tendency to union, and that the fragments could not be kept in a sufficiently immovable condition, 31. Montet applied some bands of india rubber nearly as in the case of an ordinary bandage, holding them in place by other bands, by which the head was fixed. The result of this was to render the fractured part completely immovable, and at the same time to allow some movement of the jaw. Consolidation took place; but the sensibility of the lip, which was entire at the time of the accident, was gradually lost during the formation of the callus. The second case was one of comminuted fracture of the jaw from the kick of a horse, complicated nearly from the first with intense 1 delirium. After having in vain tried all the ordinary bandages as well ; as that above described, M. Montet determined on practising suture of the fragments by means of a silver wire passed round the bone. This wa3 easily performed, and there was no need to perforate the fragments. ' Good coaptation was obtained; and, when the wire was removed at the end of a month, consolidation was nearly complete, and all trace of displacement had disappeared.