192 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. bility of the pustules of ecthyma. A few hours after inoculation the point of infection becomes red and slightly hard, and itches intensely. On the second day the redness extends to a centimetre in circumference, and a small papule is felt above the level of the skin. Next day the zone of redness is still larger, and the papule is developed in a vesicle filled with cloudy serum, forming the characteristic pustule of ecthyma on the fourth day. Between the ninth and tenth the latter dries up, and the scab falls oft" between the sixteenth and twentieth days. The pus from this artificially produced eruption is also inoculable, setting up a second pustule, the secretion of which last loses very much of the infecting power. Furunculosis, tyc. Kochmann (" Beitrag zur Lehre von der furuuculosen Eutziindung," ' Arch. f. Derm.,' v, 325) gives a pretty exhaustive summary of the litera- ture of furuncular and carbuncular affections. He suggests as a more correct and practical division than the ordinary one, into follicular and areola tissue boils, a classification according to their development in sebaceous glands or in sweat-glands. He would put on one side all epithets attached to carbuncle except those of gravis and levis. He dis- cusses the occurrence of these furuncular and carbuncular affections as complications of other diseases. He is inclined to hold that the boils met with in diabetic patients are boils originating in the sweat- glands, which, as the special secreting glands of the skin, furnished with the largest and most independent system of capillary blood-vessels, are most exposed to the irritation of the sugar, &c, contained in the blood. The excretion of sugar by the kidneys is accompanied by increased loss of water, which leads to thickening of the blood; the result of this shows itself in the sweat-glands, later in the sebaceous glands, never in the corium. In this way the absence of sweating in diabetics may be accounted for. He thinks that the occurrence of boils or carbuncle preceding any other signs of diabetes is not to be considered the starting- point of that affection, but as one of the earliest symptoms of the disease in its latent stage; and that their occurrence during the course of a diabetes is due either to a decrease in the amount of sugar got rid of by the kidneys or to an intenser stage of the disease itself. On the same principle of the vicarious action of the skin and kidneys he accounts for the boils which originate in the sweat-glands, in uraemia, septicaemia, , rheumatism, &c. In the acute exanthemata boils, especially those of sebaceous glands, are due either to hemorrhagic exudations ac- companying the eruption, to the commencement of desquamation and decrustation, by which the pores are stopped up, or to the scratching of the patient. Boils may also be noticed in pneumonia, typhus, purpura, leuchsemia, and scrofulosis. Those that occur in marasmus senilis are due to plugging of the sebaceous glands from pityriasis senilis; other local causes are dust, uncleanliness, &c. The writer argues on ana- tomical grounds against the possibility of boils originating in areolar tissue. He does not think it necessary to classify carbuncles into those of sweat-glands and sebaceous glands, because, though remains of both may