MUSCLE. 37 either ends in a simple point or in a brush of fibrils. A nucleus almost always lies just beneath the sarcolemma at the point of pene- tration of the nerve. MUSCLE. Engelmann1 undertook the careful microscopical investigation of the phenomena of muscular contraction. He selected the muscles of insects because the transverse striae stand in them at wide distances apart. He adopted Hensen's method of fixing the waves of contrac- tion by dipping the living muscle into a solution of perosmic acid con- taining o-5—2 per cent, or into alcohol. He satisfied himself that the seat of the contractility is in the doubly refracting layers. In normal conditions, and when the contraction is not too violent, the surface of the sarcolemma remains perfectly smooth. In violent contraction the sarcolemma presents transverse striae or wrinkles. The inflections of these wrinkles correspond to the singly refracting substance, the bulg- ings to the doubly refracting substance. The contents, especially the anisotropous substance, everywhere remain in contact with the sarco- lemma and the increase in thickness is obviously the greatest in the case of the anisotropal disks. The doubly refractile substance is con- sequently the only contractile substance. During contraction the volume of the doubly refracting substance increases, that of the singly refracting diminishes, whilst during rest the thickness of the two disks is equal in contraction. The thickness of the anisotropal disk is three or four times greater than that of the isotropal. This is only expli- cable on the assumption that the anisotropal disk imbibes fluid fur- nished to it by the isotropal disk, which again re-enters the former during relaxation. This absorption of fluid explains the small diminu- tion of volume which muscle undergoes during contraction. During contraction the isotropal layer becomes darker, the anisotropal brighter, so that the singly refracting substance, which in muscle at rest trans- mits more light than the doubly refracting, gradually becomes towards the maximum of contraction less transparent than it. In the transi- tion stage with an intermediate amount of contraction both are equally bright. That layer which is doubly refracting in quiescent muscle remains doubly refracting during contraction, so that the change of place suggested by Merkel does not occur. From the change of form and volume of the two layers resulting from the action of indifferent desiccating agents during rest and action Engelmann concludes that the isotropal material becomes more solid during contraction, the aniso- tropal, with the exception of the median disk, less firm. Engelmann thinks that elongated molecules are present in the anisotropal layer, which must not be confounded either with disdiaclasts or with sarcous elements ; that these must have considerable length in comparison with their breadth (25 : 1), and that they have a strong disposition to assume the spherical form by imbibition. The process of contraction he therefore regards as essentially an imbibition phenomenon, and compares it with various phenomena of a similar character in plants. 1 " Mikroskopischc onder/ockingen, &c." Abstracted from the Dutch in Ilofinunn nnd Schwnlbe's * Jahresberichtc der Anatomic und Physiologic,' Bund i, 1873, P« S00-