Instruments—tattooing the cornea. 381 6. Operation for entropion of the upper eyelid by Snellen's method (with figures). 7. On grafting in the treatment of ectropion. 8. Forceps-scissors. ('Annales d'Oculistique,' Mars, Avril, 1873, pp. 101 —15.) Tattooing of the cornea.—In an examination as to the most useful colours with which to tattoo the cornea, made by means of experiments on rabbits and frogs, Mr. Archer came to the conclusion that ultra- marine, sienna, and Chinese ink are good ; indigo and Berlin blue fairly good ; but that gamboge is not in any case to be used, as it causes great irritation and a speedy desquamation of the tattooed part of the cornea. Further experiments were made by means of ultramarine as to what befell the pigment-particles in the tattooed cornea. When the pigment had been introduced some time, and after the needle punctures were closed, and the continuity of the tissues had been again restored, the ultramarine particles were found removed from the original punctures, lying singly or in groups, distributed amongst the epithelium or the fibrous tissue. The pigment-granules were found within the proto- plasm of the epithelial cells, but never within the epithelial nucleus. The " wandering cells " of the cornea gradually accumulated round the tattooed spot, and carried off particles of the ultramarine. On the twenty-fifth day from tattooing the blue could be seen lying amongst the fibrous tissue at the spot where the punctures were made in " sharply bounded small spaces, whose dimensions not seldom con- siderably surpassed those of corneal corpuscles." The total amount of pigment was lessened to the half, and solitary " wandering cells " were only found, none of which contained pigment. After this time the mass of pigment in the cornea was not noticeably diminished. (Grraefe'a ' Arch. f. Ophth.,' xx, Abth. i.) JSrotes on Ophthalmological and Otological Subjects made during a Journey through Europe. By H. Knapp ('Archives of Ophth. and Otol.,' ii, 2, p. 153).—These notes are very interesting and embrace a variety of subjects. Report on the Transactions of the German Ophthalmological Congress held at Heidelberg, 1871.—An interesting report by Dr. Knapp will be found, in English, in the 'Archives of Ophth. and Otol.,' ii, 2, pp. 194—218. The posterior lymph-passages of the eye. —Dr. Julius Michel gives an account of the results of injections which he has made, accompanied by illustrations of the microscopic appearances, &c. He sums up to the effect that the sub-vaginal space communicates with the supra-vaginal space by means of slit-like gaps in the outer nerve-sheath and with the perichoroidal space by means of similar gaps in the sclerotic. The latter communicates by means of the perivascular spaces around the venas vorticosae with Tenon's space; so that portions of injection which have passed, on the one hand, through the openings in the optic sheath, and, on the other hand, through those in the sclerotic, meet together in Tenon's space, or in the supra-vaginal space immediately connected with it. These spaces are all, since the researches of Schwalbe, to be regarded as lymph-spaces. The demonstration of the fact that the