REPORT ON SURGERY. 244- the lower fragment of the radius, and to its becoming locked there by the fibrous and muscular tissues around. Too much stress has been laid on the action of the supinator longus and the extensors of the thumb. All the muscles which pass from the fore-arm to the carpus and hand to the radial side of the ulnar attachment of the triangular ligament assist in causing the deformity. Two splints are recommended, anterior and pos- terior ; the former only passing down to the lower end of the upper frag- ment, the latter only to the bases of the fingers. The fingers should be free, from the commencement of the treatment, and should be moved. Dislocation forwards of the styloid end of the ulna.—Dr. Purdon re- cords the case of a man who got bis hand pushed in between the rollers of a planing machine, his fore-arm being drawn in likewise in a slanting direction. The rollers yielded a little. The hand and wrist were much twisted. On examination the limb had a curious appearance, there being a hollow on the ulnar side posteriorly, while in front, just above the wrist, a hard swelling was felt and diagnosed to be the styloid end of the ulna, displaced forwards. Reduction was easily effected. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 1874.) Dislocation of the carpus backwards from the radius and ulna.—A recent case is reported from University College Hospital. The patient was a man set. 42. The radius and ulna were of the same length as on the other side, but measurements to metacarpus showed distinct shortening. The deformity was removed by extension, and no crepitus was felt. The impaired movements as regards flexion and from side to side were completely restored. The symptoms are carefully described. (' Lancet,' May 17, 1873.) Unreduced dislocation of the hip-joint.—Mr. Samuel Lee records the case of a man whose hip was dislocated in a buffer accident, and who died soon afterwards, the dislocation not having been reduced. Two of the main signs of dislocation on the dorsum were absent,—namely, the advanced position of the knee, with the foot resting upon the opposite one, and marked shortening. The head of the femur, after death, was found below the pyriformis muscle and immediately behind the aceta- bulum, the capsule being freely lacerated except in front and behind. The ligamentum teres was torn off close to its attachment to the femur. No laceration of any muscle was found. The muscles were the main obstacles to reduction. Cases are alluded to which have been already reported, especially Mr. Quain's ; Mr. Lee corroborates Mr. Quain's remarks, and approves of his plan of reduction. (' St. George's Hos- pital Reports,' vii, 169 ; see preceding Retrospects.) Dislocation of the femur directly upwards.—A case is narrated in the 'St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.' (x, 316), under the care of Mr. Savoryi A man, 33t. 20, fell on the left great trochanter. He got up and walked and continued to do so for some days. There was shortening and eversion, but the thighs were parallel. The hip was quite fixed. The trochanter was more prominent and displaced upwards aud back- wards. The distance from the anterior superior spine to the top of the great trochanter was the same on both sides, as the displacement back- wards compensated for that upwards. The distance from the pubes to