ENTERIC (TYPHOID) FEVER. 75 water had received the true specific poison of that fever from an affected individual. The account given by "Weisflog (' Deut. Arch.,' xii, 320) of a typhoid epidemic in the village of Elterlein (on the Saxon side of the Erzgebirge) is extremely similar. The lower portion of the place, to which the epidemic was limited, seems to have had the same conditions as to soil, ftc., as the upper portion, except in the one matter of water-supply, and the outbreak ceased on a proper repair of the channels by which that part of the village had evidently been contaminated. H. "Werner had ('Allg. "Wien. Med. Ztng.,' 1873,156) under his care in hospital during 1871 90 cases of fever, of which 68 were typhoid and 22 typhus. Of this number 22 died, i.e. 24*4 per cent., according to the writer, a very good proportion. The treatment consisted in depressing the bodily heat by means of linen cloths dipped in fresh spring water, the administration of ice, careful regulation of the intes- tinal functions, and the employment of ipecacuanha or narcotics in cases of severe bronchial catarrh. The use of quinine was not observed to have any markedly good results. E. KHein describes ('Centralbl.,' 1874, 692) the minute changes he finds in and about the Peyer's patches in cases of typhoid fever, con- sisting mainly in a rapid absorption of certain organisms which are carried off by the lymphatic system and the veins of the intestine. In the earliest case he examined, in which death occurred on the seventh day after the premonitory headache, Lieberkiihn's crypts contained cer- tain greenish-brown corpuscles, varying from a quarter to three times the size of a human red blood-corpuscle. Some of them presented transitional forms, due to incomplete division. Corpuscles of the same kind were seen in the mucous membrane, the lymphatics, and the small veins, broken up in the last, and forming groups of micrococci. The author leaves for further researches the decision of the question whether the alterations found are due to the presence of the organisms described or to secondary changes in the blood-vascular system. Birch-Hirschfeld (" TJntersuchungen zur Pathologie des Typhus abdo- minali3,'' ' Zeitsch. f. Epidem.,' 1874, i, 31) fed rabbits on the stools of typhoid patients and portions of the scabs of typhoid ulcers taken from the body, As a consequence, the animals presented pyrexia and swelling of the follicles of the ileo-caecal valves and the vermiform appendix. In one case, in which the typhoid scab had been given, there was found, five weeks later, an ulcer about the size of a lentil, with a reticulated border. The spleen was more or less swollen. Other experiments made with putrid infusions set up simple diarrhoea, with febrile gastro-enteritis, and only slight swelling of the glands. His experiments were made especially on rabbits, because these animals are subject sometimes to an idiopathic typhoid disease, which occurs epidemically, with swelling of the follicles. Though the latter occur- rence is a secondary localisation of the general infection, the writer looks upon the follicles also as centres from which a specific irritating poison may be introduced again into the general system. T. Jurgensen ('Vol km ami's Vortriige,' ser. Hi, No. 61), writing on the slighter forms of enteric fever, agrees with Grriesinger in holding