8 10 REPORT ON SURGERY. with incisions and application of chloride of zinc successfully. The tumour was about the size of an egg. Repeated applications were made,and a cure resulted. In two years a local recurrence took place, but this was soon checked by the same plan. Six years later the patient remained quite well. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vi, 147.) Excision of cancer of the breast by scissor-cutting under ether spray.— Dr. B. W. Richardson records a case of scirrhus of the breast of the size of a small hen's egg, in which he removed the tumour with scissors under ether spray. A large spray of common ether was first used, and then the light fluid called anaesthetic ether was applied for a few minutes till the whole of the breast was frozen hard. A pair of small, strong, sharp, slightly curved scissors were used to cut through the skin, to form upper and lower flaps. The deeper cutting was performed with a pair of his strong, slightly curved, tooth-edged scissors, which cut without causing bleeding. The edges of the wound were closed with sutures, a pledget of cotton wool charged with styptic colloid was placed over the wound, and a lint-pad and bandage over that. The dressing was not removed till the sixth day. The wound was then healed. In a second case very similar proceedings were adopted, and with success. Dr. Richardson remarks on the efficacy of the local anaesthesia and the method of cutting with scissors. In both cases there was such disturbance of the heart's action that the inhalation of an anaesthetic would have been dangerous. After the operations both patients experienced marked relief in this respect. (' Lancet,' Aug. 29, 18/4.) Solidgalactocele.—Di\ W. P. Atlee presented a specimen to the Coll. Phys. of Philadelphia of solid galactocele. It consisted of a single large sac filled with a curd-like mass of a greyish-white colour ; there was no true cyst-wall. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' April, 1874.) Large adenocele complicated with milk-cyst.—Mr. Le Grros Clark records a case (with an illustration). The tumour was removed success- fully. It weighed eleven pounds, and was found to consist of an enormous milk-cyst, surrounded by succulent solid walls, on which were milk- tubes and at least one extra cyst. It had been growing about eight years, and commenced in a virgin breast at or before the age of sixteen. The patient never remembered seeing any milk or fluid of any kind exuding from the nipple until after her confinement, and then it did not flow freely, but only now and then. (' Med. Chir. Trans.,' lvii, 950 Recurrent tumour of the breast.—Mr. "W. Ha ward records a case. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vii, 106.) New growths in the breast associated with cysts.—Mr. Birkett writes on this subject, and mentions cases in which carcinoma developed in a cicatrix eleven and a half years after the removal of an adenoid tumour, attended by escape of serum from the nipple ; one of serous cyst which underwent spontaneous cure after existing twelve or fourteen years ; another iu which the breast was removed after some years ; another in which there was no recurrence for five years; a case in which a cyst was removed, and fourteen years later another formed and was suc- cessfully removed, but was followed by another six years later, which