451 POISONS. case of chromic arsenical poisoning in which nervous symptoms were prominent. The case has been placed before tho British profession by Dr. Henry.1 A labourer, ret. 26, had suffered three years ago from pneumonia, which confined him to bed for a long time. When he was able to get up his feet would not support him. Sensation was diminished in the feet and legs. He had trembling of the fingers, and occasional creeping sensations in the hands and feet. He could not support or lift any rather heavy object without letting it fall. After eighteen weeks, sen- sation was entirely lost in the soles of the feet, and greatly diminished in the hands. The organs of sense were normal. He recovered under treatment. In January, 1873, after exposure to cold, he had an attack of vomiting for three or four days ; he recovered from this, but three weeks after had a similar attack which lasted sis days. After his recovery he had numbness in the hands, especially in the tips^ of the fingers, and also in the feet, where cutting pains were sometimes felt. There was stifihess of the ankles and knee-joints. He never had syphilis, and lived under good hygienic influences. On March 14th he was admitted in hospital. His muscular structure was then lax, his gait unsteady ; his hands, feet, fingers, and toes could be moved freely. Sensation was somewhat diminished in the soles of the feet and in the palms of the hands, and electro-muscular contractility remarkably so ; in the legs and forearms to a less degree. The strength of the hands was diminished. The intellect was unimpaired, and the sense-organs were normal. His condition improved under the use of potassium, iodide, and galvanism, and on May 10th he was discharged cured. Arsenical poisoning was suspected, and he at length admitted that he had taken arsenic (? arsenious acid) when he felt himself indisposed, after which his illness appeared.2 Arsenical icall-papers.—H. Fleck3 has found that paper-hangings coloured with copper arsenite evolves arsenetted hydrogen, so that they may be dangerous not only from the dust mechanically detached from them, but also from the formation of a highly dangerous volatile compound. The author is also of opinion that the arsenical symptoms observed when paper-hangings coloured by means of aniline pigments are used, may be due to the decomposition by means of organic matters of the small quantities of arsenical compounds with which aniline colours are often contaminated, and the consequential evolution of arsenetted hydrogen. Arsenetted hydrogen.—The sad history is given,4 and the post-mortem details described, of poisoning by means • of arsenetted hydrogen, generated by the action of impure hydrochloric acid upon an impure 1 ' Lond. Med. Rec.,' ii, p. 441. - I have myself observed progressive paralysis of motion and sensation beginning at the feet and extending upwards till the lower respiratory muscles were affected, as a consequence of the use of arsenious acid. The patient recovered.—T. S. 3,Zeitschr. f. Biologie/ viii, p. 424; ' Vrtljhrsschr. f. Gerichtl. Med.,' xviii, p- 39*- 4 ' Vrtljhrsschr. f. Gerichtl. Med.,' xviii, p. 267.