ItEf'ORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 416 bo that the patient could not lie in the horizontal position. Her labour lasted 23 hours; no help required. The lochial discharge ceased on the third day. The patient was better for a time, but the attacks of dyspnoea returned and she died in one of them. (' Allgem. Weiner Med. Zeitune ' 187.3). Dr. A. Wernich writes (' Beitriige zur Geburtsh. und Gynak.,' ii, 3, 1873) on the course of severe lung diseases during pregnancy.' Phthisis runs a milder course during pregnancy, but the reverse in the puerperal state. Acute pneumonia is more severe from the move- ments of the diaphragm in respiration being impeded by the enlarged uterus, so that increased strain is thrown upon the right side of the heart. In two cases he extracted blood : one by cupping, in the other by venesection. He thinks in all cases where the symptoms are severe bleeding should be performed. Dr. Auguste Ollivier, writing on the chronic diseases of puerperal origin (' Arch. Generates de Med.,' Jan. 187.3), says that pregnancy produces certain modifications, organic and functional, affecting not only the uterus, but also the greater part of the organs of the body. Besides the generative organs and the breasts, all the other organs of the body undergo nutritional changes during pregnancy. These, overpassing their ordinary limits, may become pathological. Dr. Ollivier illustrates his views by taking certain organs as the thyroid body, the heart, the liver, and the kidneys. He then refers to puerperal goitre: this usually appears about the third or fourth month of pregnancy, and may take on several distinct forms ; it may be slight, painless, and passing away after delivery. It may develope very rapidly, and give rise to suffocation (and may terminate in suppuration). It may be chronic, increasing with each successive pregnancy, and may cause death from the compression of the trachea. Dr. H. Lebert writes on tubercular disease of the female genital organs and on the influence of the female generative period on the development and progress of the tuberculosis (' Archiv f. Gyniik.,' iv, ,3.) Tubercular disease of the internal genital organs of the female may be the chief localisation of the affection or exist only secondarily. The disease described as tuberculosis of the cervix uteri does not in reality exist or at least very rarely, diseased glands with caseous epithelial contents about the os uteri having been taken for it. The influence of pregnancy and the puerperal state on tubercular disease is exerted mostly between the ages of 20 and 30, especially 25 to ,30, and then from .30 to 40. If in young girls the process is arrested it will still be re-awakened by subsequent marriage, when pregnancy takes place, both during this and the puerperal state. Advanced phthisis generally prevents conception; early phases of tuberculosis do not do so, and usually allow the pregnancy to reach term. Abortion, pregnancy, and the puerperal state, on an average of at least three fourths of the cases, promote the development and rapid progress of pulmonary phthisis. The puerperal state may not only confirm an existing predisposition, but relatively act even worse than pregnancy. A case of phthisis which proceeded rapidly during pregnancy exceptionally may take a slower and more favorable course after delivery. Neither pregnancy nor the puer-