400 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. London, Oct. 1874, on the relation between congestion of the uterus and flexion of the organ. Different and opposite views are held upon the subject. The one—that cougestion is the primary morbid condition of the uterus, and that flexion follows as its consequence; the other—that flexion is the primary morbid state, and that congestion is brought about by it. He thought a third view might be adopted— that the two conditions bear no relation of cause and effect to one another, though they frequently coexist in the same organ. He arrives at the following conclusions s—There is no evidence to show that a physiologically increased flow of blood through the uterus occurring periodically, or that erections of the uterus, favour or cause chronic congestion of the organ. Exposure to cold during a menstrual period is not a common cause of congestion of the uterus. Simple congestion is a rare affection of the virgin uterus. Flexion or flexion accompanied by congestion is not an uncommon affection of the organ in its virgin state. The effects of congestion are at first slight enlargement through distension of its vessels, then slight softening from exudation into its tissue, and, lastly, enlargement of the organ and induration of its tissue. The increase in weight in the body of the virgin uterus arising directly from congestion is probably equal to about the weight of two drachms of blood; the effect of this small weight cannot produce flexion of the organ. The condition of the uterus from the time of impregnation to the fourth month of gestation militates against the view that congestion is the cause of flexion. The effects of flexion are occlusion of its canal, leading to dilatation of its cavity, and congestion and thickening of its walls. The increased flow of blood through the flexed uterus just before menstruation does not diminish but increases the flexion. Simple flexion causes congestion and hypertrophy of the cervix by compressing the venous plexus around the insertion of the vagina into the uterus. In retroflexion, the body of the uterus and the veins of the broad ligament may be grasped by the sacro-uterine ligaments, and thus become greatly congested. Uterine Tumours. Dr. A. Meadows, in three lectures on fibroid tumours of the uterus ('Lancet,' i, 1873), says that of all the organic diseases of the uterus this is the most common. He first points out the nature and character of these growths and their varieties, and then speaks of the Bymptoms, which may be classified under three chief heads, viz. dis- ordered menstruation; irregular discharges, either haemorrhage or mucus ; and pain. He then points out how the symptoms vary accord- ing to the variety of the growth. The various affections with which fibroid tumour may be confounded are then passed in review, and the differential diagnosis pointed out. In the second lecture the treatment —medical and surgical—is dealt with. Reference is made to various forms of degeneration—the calcareous, suppurative, and the fatty, also to fibro-cystic disease. The uselessness of drugs for the removal of the growth is dwelt upon ; then the drugs and treatment for the arrest of hemorrhage are spoken of; the value of subcutaneous injection of ergotine is alluded to ; and then the division of the cervix, which Dr Meadows has not found of much advantage. Remedies for the relief of