llEPOUT ON SimGERY. bach. ('Lancet,' June 20, 1874.) the projecting piece of bone, entering a gouge of small size and scoopiug out the body of the milk incisor tooth, &c. In this way the hard projection is removed and the tissues that remain offer no obstruc- tion to the union of the soft parts. In reference to operations on the hard palate, Sir William introduces the following most important modi- fication into English practice. Instead of making a separation between the soft tissue and bony palate for a quarter of inch or so, he divides the palate, soft tissue, and bone, about a quarter of an inch from the margin of the gap on each side, cutting the soft tissue in the roof of the mouth with a scalpel and the bone (with the mucous membrane above in the nos- trils), with a chisel, by means of which he presses the margins towards the mesial line ; so that having been made raw previously by removing the mucous membrane, they may be brought into apposition and retained there by stitches. His first patient was a lad, aged eighteen. Figures are given showing the position of the lines of incision. The edges having been carefully pared, an incision was made by means of a small scalpel on each side the cleft about a quarter of an inch from the margin. The back part of these wounds penetrated the soft palate and in front they were close to the bone. Then the point of a small rounded chisel was forcibly, but carefully, pushed upwards through the bone into the nostril, through each wound, and by slight lateral movements of the blades, each lateral portion could be readily made to meet the other in the mesial line, whereby the raw edges made at first could be placed in apposition. The parts were then held in position by a single stitch introduced in the usual way, passing on each side through the soft tissue, so that it might remain steadily in one place. Granulations subsequently filled in the lateral gaps. "When the stitch was removed the union in the centre seemed firm. Five cases are detailed. Sir William Fer- gusson thinks that difficulty may be experienced in carrying out this operation in all cases. In a few cases the vomer may remain attached to one half of the hard palate and thus prevent the introduction of stitches from one side to the other. (' Brit. Med. Jour.,' March 28 and April 4, 1874.) In the number for June 20 Mr. MacCormack points out that Dieffenbach proposed a very similar operation in certain cases. Sir William Fergusson's cases were reported to be all doing well in the 'Lancet,' Feb. 28, 1874. Sir William Fergusson has further modified his operations to avoid a tilting of the fragments, which was liable to occur. After paring the edges of the mucous membrane, he pierces the hard palate with an ordinary shoemaker's awl in two places on each side of the cleft, close to the margin in such a manner that the holes on one side of the fissure are directly opposite those on the other. A separate silk suture is then passed through each hole on one side, carried into the nasal cavity and brought into the mouth again through the holes on the opposite side of the "left. When the sutures are thus secured the hard palate ia divided on each side outside the apertures by means of a chisel, as before described. The silk sutures are then drawn together and the two fragments of bone brought gently into apposition. Sir William mentions that he believes his operation had been proposed by Dieffen-