294 REPORT ON SURGERY. Necrosis of the jaw, fyc., from phosphorus ; removal of the lower jaw and reproduction of bone.—Mr. Savory records the case of a lad, a:t. 18, who had necrosis of the lower jaw from the fumes of phosphorus. The whole of the lower jaw was removed. At that time there was no evidence of the production of bone, but in the course of a week or two there was per- ceptible firmness about the angle on each side. The disease attacked the upper jaw, &c, and the lad died six months later. A new lower jaw was found to have been formed. A drawing of it is given. In size, shape, and development it is very remarkable. The bone is solid and dense, and in two pieces only. The greater portion constitutes the whole of the bone, with the exception of the right ramus. This was united to the body by fibrous tissue and separated during maceration. In size and form and especially in the absence of the alveolar portion, the jaw very nearly resembles the edentulous maxilla of a very old person. Fragments from the surface of the left angle removed for examination differed in structure from adult bone chiefly in the want of well-marked canaliculi and of well-defined lamina?. No doubt in deeper portions the bone is yet more perfect in structure. ('Med. Chir. Trans.,' lvii, 177.) Bemoval of nearly the whole of the lower jaw for necrosis in a child, followed by the formation of new bone replacing the old jaw and admit- ting of free motion.—A case is recorded by the present compiler in which the whole of the lower jaw, with the exception of the condyle and coronoid process of the right side, was removed through the mouth. The subsequent growth of the bone was remarkably complete. No cause could be assigned for the necrosis. ('Path. Trans.,' xxv, 2°4-) , Necrosis of the body of the sphenoid bone; removal of the ivhule body through the mouth; recovery.—The patient was a man, a?t. 43, under the care of Mr. Erichsen. (' Medical Times and Q-azette,' Jan. 4, l873-) Epitheliomatous tumour of the superior maxilla ; excision of the disease and application of escharotics.—Mr. Lawson in a case of epithelioma- tous tumour involving the cheek and antrum removed the disease as far as possible without excising the superior maxilla, then applied the actual cautery freely, and finally chloride of zinc paste spread on piecea of lint. Twice during the progress towards convalescence the growth began to recur, and on each occasion the patient was put under the in- fluence of chloroform and the hot iron and chloride of zinc paste applied. The patient was ultimately thoroughly cured. The case exemplifies an efficient mode of dealing with a large epitheliomatous growth from the antrum without the danger to life which a complete removal of the superior maxilla with the knife, together with all the integument which was involved, would have engendered. The deformity also was less. Patients advanced in life bear large cutting operations badly, whilst they bear with but little shock the destruction of large growths by escharotics. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vi, 20.) Bony anchylosis of the hip successfully treated by subcutaneous divi- sion of the neck of the femur.—Dr. H. B. Sands (' New York Med. Journ.,' Dec. 1873) records the case of a man whose hip anchylosed at an awkward angle after rheumatism. A long, straight knife having