REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 40 tetanised ; the quicker, therefore, the rigor mortis can occur the nearer unity will be the quotient obtained by the division of the amount of carbonic acid the passively moved muscle produces by the amount the tetanised muscle produces. Since, now, the elevation of temperature favours the production of rigor mortis, it comes to pass that whilst at zero the quotient above mentioned is 10-5, at 150 C. it is 2*4, and at 25° C. 17. The absorption of oxygen by the active muscle is always less than that of the passively moved. It may be concluded, therefore, that this stands in no direct relation with the process of muscular contraction. The reason of the greater absorption of oxygen in the case of the passively moved muscle as compared with the tetanised is due to the fact that the air around the former is constantly renewed. Increased consumption of oxygen causes no proportional increase in the excretion of carbonic acid. The process which is the source of the formation of C02 (and of muscular force) in muscle is not apparently dependent upon coincident absorption of oxygen. It must be admitted, therefore, that the two factors of the respiration of muscle are within certain bounds independent of one another ; that the muscle takes up a large store of 0 into its substance, where it may long remain concealed without being excreted in the form of carbonic acid. The absorption of oxygen rises with the temperature. Onimus1 found that in a decapitated criminal the diaphragm and tongue first ceased to respond to electrical excitation; then the muscles of the face, the masseter being longest excitable (2 to 3 hours) ; then the extensors; then, an hour after, the flexors; and finally (5 or 6 hours), the muscles of the trunk. Adamkiewicz,2 shows that muscle is a very bad conductor of heat, worse, indeed, than water; that its low diathermancy is associated with great power of absorbing heat, and that its specific heat is greater than that of any known substance. A valuable addition to our knowledge of the action and powers of muscle is contained in the work published by the Eev. Dr. Samuel Haughton, entitled ' Principles of Animal Mechanics ' (1873). Only a few of the conclusions at which he has arrived from experiments carried on for many years past can here be given, and those who are interested in the subject must refer to the book itself for the details of the experi- ments and for the calculation on which his conclusions are founded. The course of this rSstme will be in the order of the work. Dr. Haughton enters into a description of the muscular susurrus, and collects evidence from various sources showing that it corresponds to about 32 to 36 vibrations in a second ; in over-fatigue the pitch of the susurrus is lowered, and temporary paralysis agitans is established. He gives a series of experiments undertaken with the object of deter- mining the statical work capable of being done by muscles, such as the resistance of pressure. In these experiments the length of time the unloaded and the loaded (with 2 lb.) hand could be held out horizon- tally was noted, the length of the arm was measured, and the weight of 1 • Jourual de 1'Anatomic,' 1873, p. 442. f ' Centralblntt f, d. Med. Wiss.,' 1874, p- 34*