l0[J REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the lungs of animals. He finds that repeated acupunctures of these organs with Carlsbad needles through the intercostal spaces have no further effect than an increased growth of connective tissue ; that weak injections of iodine solution have the same result; and that stronger solutions of the Latter set up a circumscribed inflammation in the neighbourhood of the puncture. C. T. Williams writes ('Lancet,' 1873, i, 298) on " The various Modes of Contraction of Cavities in Phthisis Pulmonalis." lie thinks contraction of a cavity is by no means a very common incident. He states it to have occurred in 20 out of a 1000 cases—i. e. 6 per cent. He holds that this contraction is accomplished by—(1) expansion of the lung tissue round the cicatrix ; (2) expansion and drawing over to the affected side of the opposite lung; (3) displacement of tho neighbouring organs (heart, liver, stomach, and spleen) ; (4) collapse of the chest-wall. He gives what he conceives to be the changes which the physical signs undergo during the process, and adds some cases in illustration of his views. Wilson Fox gives (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' lvi, 396) an analysis of the morning and evening temperatures, pulse and respiration, of eighty cases of phthisis. He divides them into five classes :—a. Fatal cases:— 1, Acute tuberculosis; 2, acute tubercular phthisis ; 3, chronic phthisis. B. Non-fatal cases:—4, With high temperatures; 5, with comparatively low temperatures. The highest temperatures were most frequently attained in acute tuberculosis, but temperatures ex. ceeding 1040 were found in all classes except the fifth. As a rule, the highest temperatures were met with in the fatal cases. In chronic phthisis the temperatures were lower than the other classes (except class 5), and any rise exceeding 1020 is for the most part due to pneumonic complications. From an analysis of the remissions and exacerbations observed he thinks that Niemeyer's assertion that acute tuberculosis is distinguished by continued high tempei'ature is disproved, for a greater proportion of large remissions and exacerba- tions is observed in this affection than in any other class, though the 1 difference is not very considerable. The cause of the variations of j temperature described at length in the paper is by no means distinct; j the larger oscillations may be in part due to the peculiar type of the I fever, which resembles suppurative fever. The analysis of the pulse I leads to the conclusion that the circulation is accelerated, and usually I in proportion to the intensity of the disease, and Dr. E. Smith's observa- I tion that the pulse falls in phthisis after 9 p.m. and rises in the morning \ is confirmed by the fact that of the quickest pulses observed the larger number occur in the morning. The absence of correspondence between the degree of pyrexia and tho respiration is remarkable. Bilhaut ('Etude sur la Temperature dans la Phthisic Pulmonaire,' Paris, 1874) concludes that the temperature is above the normal, and gradually ascends up to the death-agony ; lowering of the temperature is seldom seen, and is always temporary. The conclusions, generally, of this treatise are not new. C. T. Williams (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vi, 54) records three cases of pyrexia in phthisis treated by cool baths. He urges their use only in