419 ABORTION AND PREMATURE LABOUR. weeks after conception. Its etiology is not satisfactorily established. ^Retroflexion or anteflexion of the gravid uterus was only a very rare and concurrent cause. A distinction must be made between the sick- ness of pregnancy and the sickness in pregnancy, such as is induced by phthisis, gastritis, constipation, &c. Artificial abortion was justi- fiable in extreme cases. Dr. McClintock has tabulated 36 cases where abortion had been practised; in 27 the sickness was arrested and the patients perfectly recovered; in 9, though the vomiting ceased after the expulsion of the ovum, the patients did not recover. In the un- favorable cases, other circumstances apart from the operation led to the unfavorable result, in some the operation had been too long post- poned. Extreme caution was necessary in determining in which cases artificial aid was likely to do good. Abortion and Premature Labour. Mr. M. A. Boyd relates a case (' Dublin Obst. Soc.,' May, 1874) of tetanus following abortion at the third month. "When called to see the patient, he found part of the ovum projecting from the os, which he removed, and as haemorrhage set in the vagina was plugged and astringent medicine given. The next day he was told all had come away; on vaginal examination the uterus was collapsed and appeared to be empty. On the sixth day he was called to find she had passed a restless night, and symptoms of trismus were present; these increased, opisthotonos set in, and the patient died six days after the beginning of the attack ; large doses of chloral were given, at first by the mouth, afterwards by the rectum. Dr. Kronid Slavjansky read a paper before the Obst. Soc. of Edinburgh, July, 1873, on endometritis decidualis chronica as a cause of abortion in some cases of displacement of the pregnant uterus. Kunne has induced premature labour 15 times, with the following results: all the mothers recovered; only two were ill during their lying-in. Twelve of the children are living, two have died, and one cannot be reckoned. He employed Cohen's method. (' Arch, f. Gynak.,' vi, 2.) Berthold has induced premature labour 10 times in three years. All the mothers recovered, one had parametritis, another had acute pleurisy. Eive of the children are now in good health. He employed Krause's method. (' Arch. f. Grynak.,' vi, 2.) Dr. Eaeis, of Phalsbourg, relates (' Graz. Med. de Strasbourg,' Jan. 1873) a case of abortion due to adhesions around the uterus, which resulted from a severe attack of perimetritis and parametritis followin a previous labour. The patient was aged 28, and has had one child 3f years ago ; she kept her bed for 17 weeks, and had abdominal and pelvic pains for two years. "When about 5 months pregnant she lost one day about three pints of clear watery fluid from the vagina. She continued her ordinary occupation for ten days, when she had a san- guineous discharge, abdominal pain, sickness, and rigors. On vaginal examination the uterus was found anteverted, the cervix high up posteriorly, and the uterus fixed in this'position by adhesions. Two days after a copious discharge of pus and several small foetal parts