179 AFFECTIONS OF LIVER, SPLEEN, AND PANCREAS. incur was supposed to be the kidney enlarged by malignant disease; but on post-mortem examination it turned out to be the greatly enlarged spleen, firm and dense, and of a deep purple-red colour. Microscopical examination showed enlargement of the Malpighian corpuscles, irregular swelling of the trabecular, and increase of the cellular elements, which were densely packed. The liver was also large, with increase of its fibrous tissue; the other organs were healthy. In proof of the rachitic origin of the splenic tumour, the writer refers to the researches of Dickinson (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' lii, 359). ~W. Alexander gives (ib. ib., 264) a case of acute inflammation of the spleen in an intemperate man, set. 25. He had complained a week before death of slight pain and tenderness over the left hypochondriac region, slight ha?moptysis, and general malaise, with a temperature of j 00-5° F. Symptoms of acute peritonitis set in, to which the patient succumbed. Post-mortem, in addition to general peritonitis, the spleen was found to be adherent to the diaphragm, covered by false membranes and bathed in pus. On attempting to lift it out, the cap- sule was ruptured; the splenic substance was softened, studded with minute abscesses, and its bulk slightly increased. Part of the capsule was adherent to the diaphragm, and at this spot a tolerably large ab- scess had formed. "With the exception of commencing pneumonia of the left lung, the other organs were healthy. Eosenstein and Sanger ('Berl. Klin. "Woch.,' 1873, 229) give the case of a woman, aet. 37, on whom, after repeated puncture of an in- creasing tumour in the neighbourhood of the spleen, an operation for its removal, in the absence of any certain diagnosis as to its nature, was performed. Numerous echinococcus-cysts were found after removal, and the case is interesting so far as regards the painfulness of the tumour and the presence of pus, without booklets, &c, in the fluid evacuated by preceding punctures. Koeberle contributes a case exactly similar (f Graz. Med. de Strass- bourg,' 1873, No. 12) in a woman, set. 27, who had had a gradually growing tumour for four years. Martineau ('Union Med.,' xv, 181) also records a case of suppurating hydatid cyst of the spleen in a woman, art. 23, which was punctured. Friedreich, " Der acute Milztumor und seine Beziehungen zu den acuten Infections- kraukheiten," 'Volkinann's Yortriige,' No. 75. Botkin, 'Die Contractilitat der Milz and die Beziehung der Infectionsprocesse zur Milz, Leber, den Nieren und dem Herzen,' Berlin, 1874, pp. 79. Fayrer, " On the Malarial Splenic Cachexia of Tropical Climates," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1874, i, 2. Eamskill, "Hypertrophied Spleen and Kidneys, Peritonitis, Death, Necropsy " (boy, set. 16), 'Brit. Med. Journ./ 1874, i, 682. Id., " Hypertrophied Spleen, Leucocytosis, Tubercular Disease of the Peri- toneum and Pleura" (man, aet. 55, with remarks on another case—malarious?), ib. ib., 514. Fagge, "Case of Progressive Caseous and probably Tubercular Disease of the Lymphatic Glands and Spleen" (woman, ast. 35, autopsy), 'Path. Soc. Trans.,3 xxv, 235. O'Connor, " Primary (?) Cancer of the Spleen," ib., xxiv, 222. Pirotais, "Luxation dela Iiate" (woman, set. 35), 'Gaz. des H6p.,' 1874, 666. Affections of the Pancreas. A. Silver showed ('Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiv, 121) a portion of pan- creas which had undergone fatty degeneration, from a man, art. 32, the