24 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. not accustomed to the use of coffee the ingestion of this fluid augments all the solids of the urine.—7. The increase is specially marked in the case of the urea and of the chlorine. The average pro- portion of chlorine to the urea undergoes no alteration.—8. If coffee Be commonly consumed the system becomes habituated to its use, and its effects are less marked; the excretion of the urea and of the chlorine falling to their normal amount.—9. The same conclusions are applicable in regard to tea, only that the effects are less marked with tea and more transient, probably because the dose is weaker. Miiller1 investigated the effect of excitation of the Bkin on the secretion of urine in Bernard's laboratory, using large dogs. The hair was shaved off and the urine collected from both ureters and registered by a special instrument. Six experiments were made with ice; cold cloths were placed round the animal. In the course of from ten to twenty minutes an increase of from 23 to 50 per cent, occurred. Then experiments were made with warm cloths; and a diminution of from 50 to 73 per cent, noted. In three other cases water at a temperature of 1040 Fahr. was poured over the animal and a diminu- tion of 83 per cent, was observed. Friction applied to the skin gave varying results, mustard poultices and blistering paper caused no noticeable change in thirty minutes. Varnishing of the skin caused slight diminution of the quantity of urine secreted in five out of seven cases. - Eeoch2 finds two pigments in the urine, one red, connected with the uric acid, and one yellow, probably belonging to the indigo family. The difference in the reaction of the urine in carnivora and herbivora suggested to Morriggia3 to undertake some investigations to ascertain whether a corresponding difference existed in regard to the sweat, an excretion that offers so many points of analogy to the urine. Experiments on himself and on animals satisfied him that the sweat of herbivora is usually alkaline, that of carnivora usually acid. In both man and animals the urine becomes slightly acid during fasting or when confined to flesh diet, whilst it is alkaline on vegetable diet. The sweat, however, retains the reaction peculiar to the individual, whatever may be the nature of the food. Morriggia finds that it takes a much longer time to change the reaction of the urine from acid to alkaline, or vice versa, by alteration of the diet, than is usually supposed. F. Schenk,4 in experiments on the effects of muscular work on the metamorphosis of the albuminous compounds, found severe walking exercise increased the amount of urea about from 75 to 150 grains per diem. In a second set of experiments no effect was noticed in the amount of urea discharged with and without work. No sugges- tion is made as to the cause of the difference. Other papers on the 1 'Archiv f. Experiment. Path.,' 1873, 429. 2 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' 1874, No. xv, November, p. 176. 3 A. Morriggia, "On the Urine and Sweat," in ' Molcscbott's' Untcrsuehungen,' 1873, No. ix. •' 'Archiv f. Experiment. Path.,' &c, 1874, B. ii, p. 31.