11EPORT ON SUHGEHY. 308 tion was completed without any further loss of blood. The patient recovered well. Iu another case, a median incision having exposed the tumour and the fascia over the interval between the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles being opened, while the fascial sheath of the gland was carefully avoided, the forefinger and thumb were carried over the margin of the tumour in its upper right-hand corner. The vascular connections of the tumour could now be felt, the right superior thyroid artery was in the grasp of the thumb and finger. An aneurism needle was introduced through the fascial sheath in the middle line, being brought out again at the right side of the level of the equator of the tumour. The needle was threaded, drawn out, and then the ligature was confided to an assistant. The needle was again passed in the situa- tion of its former emergence, guided by the finger and then passed beneath the right inferior thyroidal connections. The same manoeuvres were practised on the other side. The four ligatures were then separately tied. The further separation of the tumour was effected by curved scissors. The wound was closed except at the lowest part, where a drainage tube was inserted. The patient did well. In a third case catgut ligatures were used with excellent results. In a fourth and fifth case a good result followed. In the latter case, after the wound had healed, a tumour developed, having all the characters of an aneurism, with venous communication in connection with the right superior thyroidal vessels. After continuing about three weeks it subsided spontaneously. The author remarks that, to obtain the best results—I. The external incision should be free, extending from the larynx to the notch of the sternum, if the tumour is large and spreads widely in a lateral direction. 2. The vessels, arterial and venous, in the superficial incision should be secured as they are divided, to avoid any obstruction of the parts owing to oozing going on. 3. The fascia should be as freely opened as the skin. 4. The investing delicate fascial sheath of the thyroid should be left undivided until the mediate ligature has been effected of the vessels included in their fine cellular sheath. The sheathing, fascial, or cellular capsule of the thyroid gland is only a prolongation of the sheath of these thyroidal vessels. If the capsule is opened, then, in pushing aside the soft parts to disclose the outline of the tumour, this delicate sheath is apt to glide off the surface of the thyroid gland, and should this occur the gland may readily be detached from the vessels by comparatively gentle handling and thus copious haemorrhage, difficult of restraint, may be occasioned. 5. After the mediate ligature of the thyroidal vessels in their sheathing cellular envelope, the cellular capsule of the thyroid gland should now be opened, and the attachments which still retain the goitre in its position carefully divided by means of scissors curved and blunt-pointed. There should be no tearing away of the gland—no pushing aside parts with any roughness of manipulation. 6. Should bleeding occur it must be recollected that it must take place within the cellular sheath of the vessel, and its prolongation upon the gland in the fashion of an investing capsule, and that if the vessels are to be tied they should be secured along with the cellular sheath. Without this sheath, these enlarged trunks will be found so fragile as to risk