164 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. were normal. The left ventricular wall was %\ lines thick, the cavity dilated; the mitral valve had only one flap, and in other respects the inner surfaces of the two ventricles were alike, the aortic valves, like the pulmonary, heing normal. There was amyloid degeneration of the kidneys. S. M. Bradley gives ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1873,1, 33) the history and autopsy of a case of triccelian human heart. The child's hreathing was noticed soon after birth to he hurried; on the afternoon of the second day of life the skin was cyanotic, and next day he died. The heart alone was examined. It was normal in size, weight, and situation, but consisted of two auricles and one ventricle, from which a single artery arose, giving off, first of all, two pulmonary arteries, and then pursuing its course in the ordinary direction of the aorta, it gave origin to the usual number, of aortic branches. The single emergent vessel was larger than either the pulmonary artery and aorta in normal cases, and arose from the right and anterior border of the ventricle. It had three well formed semilunar valves, and, half an inch from the heart, gave origin to the two pulmonary arteries, which were situated close together, the left being at a higher level than the right. The right auricle was larger than usual, the left extremely small; the foramen ovale was large and patent; the entrance of the veins into each auricle was normal. There was no trace of a ventricular septum, but the left wall of the single ventricle was double the thickness of the right. The auriculo-ventricular valve communicated with the right auricle above, and in character approached the mitral rather than the tri- cuspid. The notice is accompanied by two woodcuts, and concludes with certain facts of development which point to the case being one of arrested growth in the ninth week of intra-uterine life. C. H. Fagge describes (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' xviii, 23) a case of patent ductus arteriosus attended with a peculiar diastolic murmur. The patient was a woman, set. 42, who had been under the writer's care in 1869. At that time two views had suggested themselves—one that it was due to a communication between the aorta and pulmonary artery ; the other that it was a modification of an auricular systolic murmur. The autopsy of the patient, about three years later, showed that the ductus arteriosus formed a short canal, communicating with the aorta by a somewhat oblique opening, and allowing a No. 6 or No. 7 catheter to pass through it. The kidneys were granular and cystic; the left ventricle dilated and hypertrophied, as also the right in equal proportion. The enlargement of the right auricle was extreme, and its endocardium opaque. The tricuspid and mitral orifices were both dilated. The writer remarks shortly on the rare occurrence of a murmur with persistent ductus arteriosus, and gives a plate of the heart and arteries. II A. Cumpbell, " Perforate Foramen Ovale iu a fatal case of Enteric Fever " (girl, set. 14, twin, with engraving of cribriform valve), ' Glas. Med. Journ.,' N. S., yi, 99. Fredct, " Persistauce du trou du Botal cbez uu Enfant de cinq aus" (boy, still alive ?), < Gaz. des Hop./ 1874, 2 U- c- H- Carter, " Supernumerary Pulmonary Valve" (boy, »t. 13), 'Path. Soc. Trans.,'xxiv, 48. W. H. Broadbent, "A Study of a case of Heart Disease, probably malformation " (opening iu septum veutriculornm F), ' Med. i