180 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. subject of diabetes. He bad led an irregular life, and for Borne time before his death, from phthisis, had been passing oily matter in his stools. The pancreas was greatly diminished in size, and no gland- tissue was present. J. Curnow (ib., 136) removed the pancreas from a man, set. 34, who had died from aortic disease. It was greatly atrophied, and its ducts were much dilated and studded with calculi, even in the smaller radi- cles. It would seem as if the duodenal orifices of the ducts had been closed by catarrhal inflammation, and the retained pancreatic secretion had then inspissated and its less soluble salts crystallized out. In addition, the cystic duct was impervious, and some small gall-stones were present in the smaller branches of the hepatic ducts. Affections of the Peritoneum, Sfc. N. Friedreich writes (' Virch. Arch.,' lviii, 35) on a peculiar form of chronic hsemorrhagic peritonitis and hsematoma of the diaphragm. He gives two cases, occurring in a woman, set. 35, and a man, aet. 28. In both there was beart disease (stenosis of the mitral, &c), and the chronic inflammation of the peritoneum was apparently due to the ascites caused by this. Paracentesis was performed in both cases, in the first sixteen times, in the second twice. Both died in a state of coma. The peritoneum was found covered internally by a false membrane of several layers, in the most superficial of whicb, less firm than the older ones, were recent blood-clots. The writer thinks that the re- moval of the fluid, and by this of pressure from the abdominal walls, caused a capillary fluxion in the peritoneum, setting up a chronic inflammation. He holds that in all essential conditions the appear- ances described by him resemble those found in that form of chronic inflammation of the dura mater which Virchow (' Die Krank. Greschw.,' i, 140, and elsewhere) has termed chronic hsemorrhagic pachymenin- gitis. In one of his own cases he found a similar condition of the dura mater. C. Biiumler gives (ib., lix, 156) a very similar case. A man who died at last of chronic Bright's disease had undergone paracentesis abdominis four times in three months. At the second operation the fluid removed was sanguineous, at the third sanguino-purulent, and at the fourth simply purulent. On opening the abdomen a closed sac, pigmented on its posterior surface, and filled with fibrin and pus, was found altogether concealing the intestines. The false membrane was made up of several layers, the innermost consisting to a large extent of fibrin and fat-granules. Henoch also gives ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1874, 109) a case of chronic peritonitis in a child whose abdomen was punctured four times, and in whom towards the close of life a tumour of unusual kind was noticed in the neighbourhood of the navel. Post mortem, it was seen to be made up of callous thickenings of the serous coat of the in- testine. In addition there was recent peritonitis and hamiorrhagic perihepatitis, contraction of the mesentery, and tight adhesions be- tween the coils of the small intestine. No symptoms of any damage to the digestive system had been presented during life.