ABDOMINAL SECTION FOR INTUSSUSCEPTION. 339 testine was so damaged that it gave way at ono part and was stitched up and returned into the abdomen. The patient died soon afterwards. No other strangulation was found at the post-mortem. The band was a portion of mesentery. The other patient was a man, aet. 33. He had had a hernia. Symptoms of obstruction had existed about four days. There was a dull resisting patch above Poupart's ligament on the right side. The inguinal canal was explored. Finally, a baud was found constricting intestine externally to the internal ring. The band was divided without seeing it or disturbing the bowel. The patient recovered quickly and completely. Possibly the latter case was one of reductio en bloc. For these cases, where there is a sac between the trans- versalis fascia and the peritoneum, Mr. Howse proposes the term ante- peritoneal hernia. The nature of these cases is discussed at length. The question of operative treatment in cases of intestinal obstruction is dealt with, the author being in favour of an early median abdominal incision where there are symptoms leading to the suspicion of the presence of a band. (' Guy's Hosp. Pep,,' xix, 489— A successful case of abdominal section for intussusception.—Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson records the case of a girl two years of age who was admitted under his care into the London Hospital. From her anus, there protruded a portion of bowel about two inches long, deeply con- gested and much swollen. By the side of this, the finger could be passed its full length into the rectum without reaching the point at which the intussusception began. On carefully examining the extremity of the protruded part, it was noticed that it did not present merely a rounded opening as is usual in such cases. The pouch and valve of the caecum with the opening into the ileum could easily be identified. It was, of course, the mucous membrane which was visible and the appen- dix caeci was wholly concealed between the folds of the intussusception. It was evident the involution was of considerable length. The tract of bowel could be felt in the abdominal wall like a long, firm sausage passing down the left side. The mother said the child had begun to suffer from pains in the abdomen rather suddenly about a month previously. Her fir3t attack of pain was such as to cause screaming. It was quickly followed by a motion which contained blood and by frequent vomiting. A fortnight after this, the child having been ailing the whole time, a protrusion was noticed at the anus. This was reduced by a surgeon and a cork pad fitted over it. The protrusion recurred, the child con- tinued sick and passed blood-stained mucus. Three days before admission the prolapse increased. There had been no real obstruction of the bowels, but occasional constipation. The child was constantly straining and seemed very ill. Various attempts at reposition having been unsuccessful it was determined to open the abdomen. An incision was made in the median line below the umbilicus, admitting of the easy introduction of two or three fingers. " I now very readily drew out at the wound the intussuscepted mass, which was about six inches long. I found that the serous surfaces did not adhere, and that there was no difficulty whatever in drawing the intussuscepted part out of that into which it had passed. Just as the reduction was finished, the appendix casci made its appearance, confirming the opinion which had been