827 HYPOSPADIAS. internal surface of the urethra. The skin at the sides is then dissected up, and is drawn towards the middle line, so as to cover in the surface denuded by the removal of the two flaps. All that now remains'to be done is to unite the two layers of skin in the middle line, and the upper margin of each flap to the lower margin of the glans, after paring. Union may fail at one or more points, and defects must be afterwards repaired. Third stage; connection of the two portions of the urethra.—The scrotal fistula must be pared and united to the newly formed canal. In children, however, who do not know how to control the desire to pass urine, and who cannot understand the object of necessity of concurrence on their part with the endeavours of the surgeon, the contact of the urine is liable to prevent union. M. Duplay has obtained it in two cases. He believes that, while it may be desirable to practise the first two series of operations at an early age, when they are more easily performed, and the restored penis is better capable of develop- ment, it is better to defer any attempt to connect the two portions of the urethra until the surgeon can reckon on the intelligent concurrence of the patient. Hypospadias with cleft scrotum. — Dr. Graham records a case in which a male passed as a female till sixteen years old, and another case is recorded by Dr. Handy side, in which a male passed for a female until thirty-three years of age. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 1873, p. 612.) Hcematocele.—Mr. Annandale records a case in which a hsematocele of the right tunica vaginalis was found, together with a secondary cyst of larger size. The walls of the tunica vaginalis contained calcareous plates. Representations of the tumours are given. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Eeb. 1873, p. 714.) Gleet, treatment of by insufflation.—Mr. John St. S. Wilders recom- mends the insufflation of astringent remedies by means of an instru- ment he has devised. It can be made of any length, and the powder can be forced out to act on any parts of the urethra required. ('Lancet,' June 7, 1873.) Gonorrhoea ; chordee ; gangrene of penis ; death from pycemia.—In the ' Lancet' for May 3, 1873, is a note of a case under the care of Dr. Tillneuve, of Marseilles. The patient was 23 years of age. The gonorrhoea was very intense and accompanied by chordee. Six leeches were applied to the root of the penis. An eschar formed on the most culminating portion of the penis, and on its separation uncovered the corpora cavernosa and urethra. A rigor followed five days later, and five dayB later still, purulent effusion in one elbow-joint. Death followed, after arterial haemorrhage, from the ulcer on the penis. At the post-mortem, they found denudation of the corpora, phebitis of the prostatic plexus, abscesses in the liver and one lung, and in both elbows. Priapism lasting more than four weehs.—Mr. Johnson Smith relates a case in which an injury was followed by extravasation of blood into the penis and priapism. (' Lancet,' June 7, 1873.) Priapism lasting six weeks.—The patient was fifty-five years of age.