127 LEAD-POISONING, ETC. master-potter, aged 43. For years she bad suffered from unilateral headache; she had aborted five times, had lost five children in infancy, and had had lead-colic four times. Her family, all engaged in pottery, were exposed to tho vapours of lead, and almost all had at one time or other bad symptoms of lead-poisoning, accompanied by cerebral disturbance of some kind or otber (apoplexy, hemiplegia, &c). The patient berself had hemiplegia, due, probably, to rupture of some cerebral vessel; and the writer thinks that a congenital tendency to brain mischief was combined here with a special affection of the brain arteries set up by the lead, to produce this rupture. Some papers are included in the bibliography below with reference to the manner in which lead finds its way into drinking-water. Elgnowski, ' Zur Casuistik der Bleilakinungen,' Berlin, 1873, pp. 32. Gonibault, " Contribution a l'histoire anatomique de l'Atrophie musculaire saturnine," ' Arch, de Phys.,' v, 590. Bouchut, "Intoxication saturnine suivie de mort chez un Enfant de 8 jours, produite par l'Eau de Mme. Delacour, niise sur les gercures du sein de la nourrice," 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1873, 5. "Intoxication saturnine locale" (revue), ib., 1874, 290. Crevanx, " Douze cas d'Empoisonment par le Plomb," ib. ib., 930. Malassez, " Recherches snr l'Aneniie saturnine," ' Presse Med. Beige,' 1874, 69. Manouvrier, ' Recherches clmiques sur l'lntoxication saturnine locale et directe, &c.,' Paris, 1874, pp. 86. Browne, " Notes on an extensive series of cases of Lead-Poisoning occurring at H.M. Dockyard at Devonport," 'Lancet,' 1S73, ii, 147. Smith, "Functional Aphasia of six and a half years' duration, intercurrent Lead-Poisoning affecting the Arytenoideus, recovery under the use of Electricity and Iodide of Potassium," 'New York Med. Journ.,' xvii, 412. Siew, ' Ueber die Wirkung der Schwefelpraparate bei der chronischen Bleiver- giftung,' Erlangen, 1873, pp. 21. Mayencon et Bergeret, "Recherches du Plomb dans les Secretions," ' Lyon Med.,' xii, 434. Bellgrand, " De Taction de l'Eau snr les conduites en plomb," ' Compt. Rend.,' lxxvii, 1055. Fordos, " Action de l'Eau aeree sur le Plomb, considered au point de vue de Phygiene et de la medecine legale," ib., 1099. Laval, "Sur l'emploi des tuyaux de Plomb pour la conduite des eaux potables," ib., 1271. Bobierrc, " Sur les diverses conditions dans lesquelles le Plomb est attaque par l'Eau," ib., 1272. Champouillon, "Sur l'emploi des tuyaux de Plomb pour la conduite et la distribution des Eaux destinees aux usages alimentaires," ib., 1270. v. Tunzelmann, "Cases of Poisoning by Lead in Drinking-water," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1873, ii, 352. Affections of the Sympathetic System. A. Otto gives ("Beitrag zur Pathologie des Sympathicus," 'Deut. Arch.,' xi, 609) the following:—A woman, previously healthy, was at- tacked with vomiting, headache, and vertigo. A fortnight later she presented marked redness of the left half of the face, neck, and chest, accompanied with dimness of vision, loss of memory, difficulty of speech, &c. All the symptoms, which the writer refers to an affection of the left sympathetic, disappeared under the employment of elec- tricity. A. Eulenburg ('Berlin. Ellin. "Woch.,' 1873, 169) records two cases in which he traces the symptoms to an affection of the same nerves. The first is that of a young man, set. 26, who suffered from mydriasis and imperfect accommodation of the left eye, with periodic pains in the left forehead, accompanied by coldness and decreased temperature of the left ear as compared with the right. The glands on the inner border of the left sterno-cleido-mastoid were swollen, and probably pressed on the first cervical ganglion. The second case, that