ItEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 8 in experiments made to show the dependency of the secretion of lymph upon the blood current, corroborates Paschutin's statement that the rapidity of the lymph current is, on the whole, but little altered by frequently emptying the vessels artificially. He finds that the secretion of lymph is arrested when the roots and trunks of the lymphatics are filled to a certain degree. The active congestion caused by section of the vaso- motor nerves does not cause any increase in the secretion of lymph. Ligature of the main vein of a part causes the formation of from four to six times the previous volume of lymph, and the composition of the lymph is altered. A certain number of white corpuscles appear in it, and its soluble constituents are diminished. Under normal conditions but little lymph is secreted in the skin and subcutaneous fat. It is only when the vital relations of the tissues to each other are altered, or any obstacle to the return of venous blood occurs, that lymph is produced in quantity. III.—BLOOD.—CIRCULATION. MM. Paquelin and Jolly,1 in a paper recently published, state that, in a memoir already presented to the Academy of Sciences (ioth March, 1873), they demonstrated—1, that iron exists in the red blood-cor- puscles in the form of tribasic phosphate of the peroxide ; 2, that the colouring matter of the blood (hematosine) does not contain iron. They now give the details of the extraction and purification of hemato- sine, and propose two methods for its extraction; and, in order to remove the iron, they dissolve the impure hematosine in ten times its weight of acetic acid, adding to the liquid a quantity of citric acid amounting to one fourth of the acetic acid employed. The whole being slightly warmed, some water is then added, and the whole brought to and kept at the boiling-point for fifteen minutes. On cooling, the liquor becomes cloudy by precipitation of the hematosine, and ammonia is added drop by drop to neutralise the acid. After a few days the hematosine is found at the bottom of the vessel, forming a soft resinous layer. The superjacent liquid, on the addition of ammonium hydro- sulphate, deposits a black precipitate of iron sulphide. The hematosine dissolved in ether, when evaporation is allowed to take place, appears in the pure state as a black, shiny, and friable substance. It burns without leaving any ash, and is insoluble in pure water ; it is soluble to a small extent in a dilute solution of ammonia, to which it gives a pale-yellow tint. It is altered by solution of caustic potash and soda, to which it gives a brown tint. It is slightly soluble in alcohol, the solution having an amber colour. It dissolves readily in ether, chloroform, benzine, and carbon disulphide. See also Quiuquand,2 H. Struve,3 Bechamp,* and Schmidt.5 M. Malassez6 has carefully investigated the number of 1 C. Paquelin and L. Jolly. "Sur la Matiere colorante du Sang (hematosinr)." Seance de l'Acad. des Sci. de Paris, Oct. 19, 1874. (Reported in ' La France Medi- calc,' October 28.) 2 "Variations of Haemoglobin iu the Zoological Series," ' Comptes rend.,' 1873, p. 487, and 'Lond. Med. Rev.,' No. 30, 1873. 3 "Uebcr zwei verchiedenen Blut-farbstoffe," ' Virchow's Arcliiv,' 1872, p. 423. * 'Comptesrendns,'t.lxxviii, 1874, P- 850, "Sur la Matiere Colorante rouge du Sang." 6 ' Centralblatt fur die Med. Wiss.,' 1874, p. 725, "Ueber die Dissociation des Sauerstoft'sbiimoglobius." c Pamphlet, 18C4.