REPORT ON stRGKRY. 224 regards the compression treatment, the author thinks that if no im- pression is produced after a few days' careful trial, it is better to give it up and try the ligature. He thinks that after a prolonged and unsuccessful trial the patient is in a worse position for ligature than if compression had not been tried at all. He finds ligature of the femoral for popliteal aneurism to have been much more successful of late years than formerly ; out of 77 (hospital) cases in which the femoral was tied without any preliminary treatment failure resulted in only 14 or 15, including 11 deaths. The results of compression treatment, so far as can be ascertained (hospital), are that in 66 cases success followed and in 58 failure resulted; of these latter, the artery was tied in 44, amputation was practised in 8; death occurred in one case. The number of failures seems large, but is accounted for in various ways; in eight cases amputation became necessary owing to gangrene, &c.; in five of these death ensued. The effect of compression on further treatment, and the best methods of compression remain for discussion. Ligature of the deep femoral artery.—Caselli of Bologna has per- formed this operation (' Bullatina delle Scienze Mediche,' Nov. and Dec, 1873) in the case of a man, aet. 55, suffering from an enormous tumour of the left thigh extending from the tuberosity of the ischium to the lower third of the thigh. It presented pulsations which disappeared on compression of the deep femoral artery, but were not modified by compression of the common femoral. Nothing was discoverable by auscultation. The diagnosis was subaponeurotic carcinoma, lying between the sartorius, the ilio-psoas, the adductors, the internal rectus, and the biceps. As a haemostatic bandage could not be applied, Dr. Caselli tied the deep femoral. An incision nearly 4^ inches long and I'a inch deep was made from the fold of the groin in the direction of the femoral artery. A lymphatic gland was removed. The internal saphena vein being drawn aside and the fascia lata incised, the bundle of vessels and nerves was held aside, and the profunda artery tied about four fifths of an inch below the bifurcation. The tumour was then re- moved. The patient died. Ligature of femoral artery; ligature of femoral artery and vein.— The ligature in both cases (Birmingham General Hospital) was ap- plied for punctured wound. Both patients recovered. (' Lancet,' Nov. 22, 1873.) Aneurism of the femoral artery in Hunter's canal; the sac laid open ; both ends of the artery tied; recovery.—The patient, a man, ajt. 31, was under the care of Mr. John Wood. Compression failed and the tumour increased, and the leg, &c, became oedematous, so it was determined to operate. Five ligatures were applied altogether—one just above the sac, one below, one to a vessel at the upper part, one to the middle of the sac where a vessel bled, and one to the femoral away from the sac. The patient recovered well. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,'Feb. 14, 1874.) Elephantiasis of leg; catgut ligature to femoral; improvement.— The patient, a woman, aet. 49, was under the care of Mr. Bryant, ('Lancet,' Oct. 24, 1874.)