GLANDS. 31 the chorda tympani plays in the function of taste, but he is inclined to think that it is only a subordinate one. 3. Contrary to the old observations of Vulpian, and conformably to his own more recent ones, Prevost has found that the chorda tympaui sends filaments to the ter- minal branches of the lingual as well as to the submaxillary gland. Prevost, after section of the chorda tympani in the cat, dog, rat, rabbit, and guinea-pig, found degenerated nervous filaments in the terminal branches of the lingual, both in the mucous membrane of the tongue and in the nerves of the submaxillary gland. In the last' Biennial Report' the experimentsjof Hitzig on the locali- sation of cerebral centres in the brain were referred to. He has since repeated and extended his researches, and has collected his observa- tions in a small volume. His experiments have been repeated by H. jNothnagel,1 by Braun,2 by Burdon-Sanderson,3 and by Ferrier.4 Nbthnagel found that pricking the posterior part of the posterior lobes of the cerebrum in the rabbit caused sudden and violent springing movements forwards, lasting for several minutes. No disturbance of sensibility could be demonstrated. Slight wounds of the optic thalamus were without effect, but deeper pricks brought the adductors of the opposite leg into play. "Wounds of the posterior half, especially towards the base, caused the head to be turned to the opposite side, and the forelegs to move, the one on the same side outwards, on the opposite inwards. Braun denies that the dura mater is as sensitive as Hitzig conceives it to be. He finds that there are sometimes two centres, the irritation of which produces similar effects on the same side of the hemisphere. He thinks the view that the effects observed when the surface of the hemisphere is stimulated are due to conduction to deep or distant parts is negatived by the fact he has observed, that when such a centre has been discovered, if an oblique cut be made dividing the descending fibres, all manifestations of irritation cease; and again, if the grey substance of a centre be shaved off, the application of the electrodes to the cut white surface (fibres) produces the same effects. Burdon- Sanderson has shown that there are points in the corpus striatum which correspond to those of the same hemisphere, though Dr. Ferrier thinks that in the cases where Dr. Sanderson believes he has proved this only a medullary cone, corresponding to the cortical centre, has been removed. Hitzig5 is also opposed to Dr. Sanderson's statements as matters of fact. Ferrier, from experiments on various animals, con- cludes that the anterior portions of the cerebral hemispheres are the chief centres of voluntary motion and the active outward manifestation of intelligence. The individual convolutions are separate and distinct, and the centres for the various movements of the eyelids, the face, the mouth and tongue, the ear, the neck, the hand, foot, and tail, are localised in certain definite groups of convolutions. Striking differences corre- 1 * VirchoVs Archiv,' 1X7.3, Iviii, p. 420, and lx, p. 129. 3 ' Bollard's Beitrage,' Band vii. 11 ' Ccntralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,' 1874, p. 514. * 'West Hiding Lunatic Asylum Report*/ 1873, vol. Hi, p. 30-9G. See also paper read before Roy. Soc, 1874, March 5. 1 «Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,' 1874, p. 548.