BLOODLESS SUltGEkV. As au example, he describes its application in a case of removal by the chisel of a sequestrum from the tibia. The patient having been chloro- formed, a linen bandage, or still better one of caoutchouc, three or four inches wide, is applied to the limb from the toes as far as the middle of the thi^h, firmly enough to press out the greatest part of the blood from the capillaries and veins in the direction of the heart. Above the upper end of the bandage a piece of strong india-rubber tubing is tightly bound round the limb, so as to prevent blood from being brought in by the arteries. Esmarch generally uses a strong piece of tubing three feet long, such as is used as a perineal band for counter-extension in the treatment of coxitis by weights. In applying it sufficient force is used to double the length of the tubing, and the ends are fastened together by hooks. In thin individuals the application of the tubing is sufficient to prevent the influx of blood; in fat and muscular persons a firmly rolled bandage is laid over the course of the main artery, under the tubing. The bandage that was first applied being now removed, the skin of the limb below the constricted part is found to be quite pale, and no pulsation can be felt. On beginning the opera- tion the first incisions are followed by the escape of a few drops of dark blood from the deep veins; this, however, soon ceases ; the surgeon operates as if on a dead body, without being interrupted by the pouring out of blood and by the assistant's sponge. This is espe- cially exemplified in operating in cases of necrosis with much thick- ening of the parts, of which Dr. Esmarch relates an example. In the operation which he describes scarcely a drop of blood was lost. As soon as the sequestrum is removed, he plugs the wound with amadou or charpie soaked in a solution of chloride of iron, and then loosens the india-rubber ring. The whole limb at once becomes red and blood flows from the whole surface of the wound; a few arteries require to be tied, but the haemorrhage is for the most part readily arrested by pressure with cold sponges. The process is of special service in the scraping of bones and joints which have undergone fungous degeneration, an operation which has been substituted with great advantage for methodical resection. Dr. Esmarch has frequently laid open knee-joints thus diseased by forming an anterior flap, and has been able to carefully remove all the diseased parts by the gouge, without being impeded by the bleeding in distinguish- ing the healthy from the diseased tissue. In amputation, e. g. of the thigh, the apparatus is applied as already described, and the operation is performed. Before loosening the india- rubber ring, all the vessels that can be seen, or of which the situation is known, are tied. The ring is then loosened, and the blood oozes from the whole surface of the wound as from a sponge ; the small arteries spout, and are then readily seized and tied. In Esmarch's cases secondary haemorrhage did not occur, and the wounds generally healed per primam mtentionem. Esmarch also recommends his method in operations on the male genital organs, such as extirpation of the scrotum and amputation of the penis, but here, of course, a smaller ring is necessary. He believes also that by means of the india-rubber ring reservoirs of blood may be stored up in