404 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. piece of oil-silk or gutta-percha, and the two are kept in position by a plug of cotton wool; the dressing should be changed twice a day jj a red healthy granulating surface soon appears. Dr. ltouth does not say this cures in all cases of cancer, but he has seen many much im- proved and some perfectly healed. He gives two cases in detail as illustrations. Spiegelberg communicates ('Archiv f. Gyniik.,' vi, i,) a case of primary and isolated carcinoma of the body of the uterus, occurring in a woman aged 49. She had suffered from haemorrhage for 12 months, and had had severe pains. The hody of the uterus was en- larged and retroflexed, the cervix elongated and poured out a copious puriform discharge. The cervical canal was dilated by sponge tents, and the finger passed in, which came upon a mass infiltrating the posterior wall; a quantity of enceplaloid debris was scraped off by the scoop ; this was repeated a short time after. Shortly after the operation the woman became collapsed and died of peritonitis. At the autopsy the greater part of the posterior wall was destroyed ; and on the an- terior a funnel-shaped opening into the abdominal cavity. Dr. T. Chambers in a paper read before the Brit. Med. Ass., 1873, gave the detailed account of a case of epithelioma of the body of the uterus. The cervix was dilated and the cavity was scraped out with Sims' curette, and then swabbed out with the compound tincture of iodine; the patient did well, and was in good health six months after. Spiegelberg writes on amputation of the vaginal portion of the cervix uteri ('Archiv f. Gyniik.,' v, 111, 1873). He has arranged 60 cases in a tabular form; of these 53 have been under his care. He has employed different methods of operating—Simon's, Marion Sims', and Kuchenmeister's. The operation was performed for the following diseases:—For carcinoma, 22 times; for simple inflammatory hyper- trophy, 7 times; for conical and elongated cervix (sterility) 5 times ; for beaklike and alar-shaped cervix, 10 times. The knife or scissors were used 8 times ; Sims' method, 6 times ; the knife or scissors and sutures through each labia, 3 times; the ecraseur, 4 times; the galvano- cautery, 39 times. Two of the cases ended fatally; one, a case of carcinoma, from opening up the abdominal cavity and secondary haemorrhage, another from pelvic peritonitis and secondary haemorrhage after the removal of a carcinomatous cervix by the galvano-cautery; in both these cases the uterus was forcibly drawn down. One died from shock, another from repeated haemorrhages, and a third from septic- aemia. The operation should always be performed in the natural position of the parts ; 4 times the peritoneum was injured through the uterus being drawn down too much ; this caution must be carefully observed in cases of carcinoma, or when the uterus is at all fixed. The operation is not a severe one when performed under favorable cir- cumstances. If the knife or scissors is used, some form of suture should be used so as not to leave the wound uncovered. Sims' method should only be used when the cervix is close to the vulva, or can be drawn there without any risk. The galvano-cautery is to be preferred to the ecraseur, as much care is required with the latter not to injure