POISONS. 459 were as follows: (i.) Rapid putrefaction commencing at the upper part of the body. Putrefaction commences earlier, and proceeds more rapidly, tbau eveu in a dead body simply and freely exposed to air. The author enlarges upon this point. (2.) A peculiar condition of the blood. This is fluid, and of various tints, varying from a dusky or even dark cherry-red hue to an inky-black colour ; and the corpuscles speedily disappear. The fluidity and the dark colour of the blood are attributed to the decomposition of bsomoglobin by the sulphuretted hydrogen present in sewer gases, and the formation of ferrous sulphide which colours the blood black. It is pointed out that the shrivelling up and disappearance of the blood-corpuscles observed by the author and by others in poisoning by sewer gases has not been seen by De- marquay, Ackermann, and Schauenstein, in poisoning by sulphuretted hydrogen gas. (3.) The heart was invariably collapsed and empty; and so also were the coronary veins. (4.) Hypersemia of certain organs—as of the spleen, lungs, and kidneys—was observed. Scorpion Venom.—In a recent memoir Dr. Jousset de Bellestne1 records researches on the venom of the scorpion, and a full abstract of his experiments has been laid before the medical profession of this country by Mr. J. C. Gralton.3 The research was carried out with the venom of the only two kinds of scorpion found in Prance, the small Scorpio JEuropceus, which is never dangerous; and the S. occitamis, which produces dangerous punctures. The three following points were established : 1. The poison of Scorpio occitanus acts directly upon the red corpuscles of the blood in vertebrated animals. 2. The immediate result of its action is to cause the corpuscles which have been in contact with it to lose the property which they possess, under ordinary condi- tions, of readily gliding one over the other. 3. In losing this property they become agglutinated together, and adherent to corpuscles as yet unaffected, in such wise as to form small masses, which plug the fine capillaries, and thus become a complete obstruction to the circulation. If the quantity of the poison be sufficient to cause a speedy death, this will be brought about through embolism and arrest of the circulation, but if the amount be insufficient, those phenomena will take place which always supervene when some obstacle is introduced into the cir- culation, e. g., oedema and cellular infiltration. Unfortunately, from the researches of Dr. Bellesme no therapeutical conclusions can be deduced. In Prance the sting of S. JEuropwus is usually treated with the Huile de scorpion, which consists simply of the scorpion itself pickled in olive oil. As the sting is never dangerous, the remedy is always apparently effective. It is, however, like all other known reme- dies, entirely ineffective as an antidote to the sting of the larger and dangerous S. occitanus. Indian Snake Poison.—Drs. Lauder Brunton and Payrer3 describe in two admirable papers the effects produced by the venom of the Indian snake poisons. The Indian snakes are divided into the colubrino snakes, represented by Naja tripudians, Ophiopliagus elaps, Ban- 1 'Ann. des Sc. Nat./ xix. 2 ' Lond. Med. Rec.,' ii, p. 657. 3 «Pr. Roy. Soc.,' xxi, p. 358; xxi, p. 68.