ftEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 2 the (Esophagus are due to the direct excitation of the succesive muscular fibres by the coutraction of those preceding them, since a ligature may- be applied to the oesophagus, or it may be cut across with a knife, or a moderate-sized piece may be absolutely removed, yet the peristaltic movement will still be propagated. Section of the spinal cord, just below the medulla, has no effect, nor is any effect produced by irritating the coeliac ganglion or the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, or the hypoglossal, facial, glosso-pharyngeal, or accessory nerves. On the other hand, movements can be immediately called forth by irritating the pneumogastric, whilst section of the pneumogastric paralyses the oesophagus. Hence Mosso maintains that the peristaltic movements of the oesophagus originate in some excitation of the fauces, which is carried by sensory nerves to the medulla oblongata. In this there is a reflex centre, which sends forth a series of impulses that cause a succession of co-ordinated movements in the oesophagus, following one another from above downwards. Mosso finds that, if the pneumogastrics be divided the peripherical stump retains for several days its power of exciting contractions in the oesophagus—an unusually long period for a nerve to retain its vitality after section—and in like manner the oeso- phagus long remains excitable after death if preserved in a moist chamber (4^ hours in dogs and 3 hours in cats). Toussaint1 read a paper on the mechanism of rumination at the meeting of the French Academy for the Advancement of Science. He has taken tracings of it, and regards it as an effect of atmospheric pressure. Stomach.—It is generally held that there are two kinds of glands in the stomach, one chiefly found in the pyloric region, lined throughout by columnar cells, which secrete mucus; the other, occupying the cardiac extremity, and presenting in their deeper parts large gland-cells, by which the pepsin is secreted. The microscopical investigations of Klein,2 however, seem to show that between the two extreme forms every intermediate variety may be met with. The observations of Griitzner and Ebstein 3 seem to demonstrate the same thing from a physiological point of view. These experimenters placed the stomach of a dog in a current of water for twenty-four hours, and then prepared infusions of different parts with a o'2 per cent, solution of hydrochloric acid. They found that similar infusions of the pyloric and cardiac portions, when made to act upon a gramme of boiled, white of eggs, dissolved the fol- lowing proportions: _ .. , f fresh dissolved 0618 gramme of albumen. Pept.c mucous membrane | washed for 24 hrs. „ 0.sos „ t» , • if fresh . . . ,, C240 „ „ Pyloric mucous membrane I washedfor24hrs> • ^ ( Hydrochloric acid alone ...... o'188 „ „ The infusion was most active when to one drachm of it from five to twenty drachms of hydrochloric acid, containing o-t per cent, of acid, were added. By spreading out and drying the membrane, and then shaving oft" the 1 Aug. 24,1874. 2 'Strieker's Manual of Human Histology,' Syd. Soc. Trans., vol. i. a Tflugcr's Archiv,' B. vi, p. i, and li. viii, p. 617.