255 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. are quoted in detail. Extravasation into the arachnoid sac is scarcely to be distinguished from that between the dura mater and the bone. Possibly the pulse is rapid, small, or feeble ; rather than slow, full, or laboured, while the breathing is at most noisy and unaccompanied by stertor. Mr. Hutchinson's observation is confirmed that the marked inequality in the size of the pupils is rarely present, and the hemplegia is not so decided. 2. Compression from effusion of pus. This is by far the most frequent form of compression. The question is entered into fully. As to the question of distinguishing where the pus is, the author says, that when pus is formed.between the dura mater and the bone, the symptoms never appear before the sixth day, rarely before the eleventh, and usually prior to the expiration of the second week, the average being the thirteenth day. There is some apparent reason for the local collection, as a contused or lacerated scalp, &c.; a puffy tumour; when there is an open wound this assumes an unhealthy appearance. The symptoms are not so well marked as when the matter is deeper; shortly they are the state of the wound, fixed head- ache, partial stupor,and incomplete paralysis—symptoms of suppurative meningitis. The most reliable symptom, as recognised by Dr. "Wilks and Mr. Hutchinson, of unilateral arachnitis, is opposite hemiplegia succeeding rigors, intense headache, elevation of temperature, vomit- ing, delirium, stupor, convulsions and followed by coma. In abscess of the brain the symptoms never appear before the thirteenth day, and are most frequent between the fifteenth and twenty-seventh days, the average being the twenty-fifth. The cephalalgia is sudden, of a dull, heavy nature, the special senses are suddenly perverted, the delirium is of a quiet character; sopor, one-sided convulsions, incom- plete hemiplegia, and coma succeed each other more rapidly and more constantly than in other forms of pus effusion. The stupor is complete, the patient does not lie with limbs outstretched, but curled up ; general sensibility is utterly abolished. Profound coma and total destruction of special and general sensation are characteristic of this condition. When an abscess bursts into a lateral venticle, it is usually rapidly fatal. Surgical interference alone offers any hope of life, but that is but small. The operation should be undertaken early. Notes of cases compiled from published records are given. Effusion of pus into the " arachnoid sac " is indicated by the immediate rising of the dura mater, which has lost its pinkish, silvery hue, into the hole made by the trephine, where it forms a tense swelling devoid of pulsa- tion. No case is recorded of recovery from effusion of pus into the arachnoid cavity without its having been let out; it is never absorbed in this situation; on the other hand, if a free incision be made into the dura mater so as to admit of its ready escape, one half of the patients fight their way through. If symptoms indicate abscess of the cerebral substance this should be incised. Of the individual symptoms of cerebral abscess, the best are defined and intense pain, correspond- ing with the local lesion, and the occurrence of limited hemiplegia and convulsions some time between the fifteenth and twenty-seventh days. Headache ordinarily corresponds to the seat of abscess, and this is the most important sign of its position ; while the more the pus encroaches