371 HEREDITARY AFFECTIONS OF OPTIC NERVES. his cases from the thirteenth to the twenty-eighth year. The Bamo variation occurred in the sanio family. In the family of which tho history is given by Graefe, and also in the fourth of the present series, the individuals were attacked at nearly the same age (19—20). Travers notes the time of puberty, Sanson the age of 21, and Brown 16 to 17. Lucas mentions a notable instance of amaurosis attacking members of three generations at a successively earlier age in each (the grandmother at 35, the mother at 19, the children at 13 and 11). Other authors have noted cases as early as six and nine years of age, and others at later periods, the climacteric, or later still. In most of the author's cases other symptoms of slight nervous affections were present. Eesult— prognosis and treatment.—Notwithstanding the hereditary origin of the disease, the result is not always unfortunate. In some cases a cure practically results, only a slight amblyopia remaining. Even in the worst cases complete blindness does not result. If absolute blindness exists in the centre of the retina, a cure ban only follow in recent cases. The prospect of restoration of vision in the affected parts is greater in proportion to the early stage of the disease, the slight degree of diminution of vision in the central scotoma, and the normal appearance of the optic disc. Complete pallor of the latter does not, however, exclude a restoration of vision. The prognosis seems more favorable in acute cases than in those which are slowly progressive. Moreover, there is undoubtedly a difference in the degree of the malignancy of the affection in different families. There is what may be termed a genius morbi familiaris. As regards treatment, the employment of mercurial inunctions is advocated. Graefe notes sweat- ing as a curative means. Local bloodletting is discussed. The use ol the constant current is spoken of favorably. Tonics and injections of strychnia were not found of any use. In conclusion, the author advo- cates the further trial of the constant current, the materials at command at present being insufficient to allow of a true estimate of its value being arrived at. (G-raefe's ' Archiv f. Ophth.,' xvii, B. Abt. ii, PP- 259—291-) Congenital and hereditary disease of the eye in several members of the same family.—Optic atrophy in a father in one eye from childhood. Con- vergent strabismus and nystagmus, with good vision in the eldest daughter, with a peculiar condition of the optic nerves. Typical retinitis pigmentosa in two other children ; a girl of 21, and a lad of 17, and in the girl nystagmus, convergent strabismus, and high hyper- metropia. (Dr. Herm. Schmidt, 'Klin. Monatsbl.,' Jan., 1874, p. 29.) Affections of the optic nerves in three brothers.—Dr. Alexander, of Aix-la-Chapelle. The disease was of a similar character in each, and made its appearance in February, March, and July, respectively, in the same year. The ages of the patients were 29, 23, and 20. There was haziness of the margins of the disc, and of the surrounding portion of the retina. The vision was greatly impaired. No atrophy resulted while under observation. A brother of their mother had some defect of sight. Dr. Alexander regarded the malady as a retro-ocular neuritis. ('Klin. Monatsbl.,' Feb., Marz, 1874, p. 62.) Syphilitic choroiditis.—Professor Forster, in a paper in ' Graefe'e