PARALYSIS OF INFERIOR OBLIQUE. 355 double images increased in lookiug downwards and diminished in look- ing up, the author suggests that this phenomenon was due to the influence of the upper lids or the position of the eyeballs. They con- trol the positions of the globe, not only in a vertical, but also in a horizontal direction, and they tend to direct the axes to the same point. On the contrary, in looking down, the globes escape from the influence of the upper lids; and the distance of the images increases in consequence of this loss of control ; the lower lids having but little action of a similar kind. The author gives also an inter- esting account of the associated or concomitant strabismus; which sometimes adds to the difficulties of deciding on the paralysed muscle. To sum up : the symptoms of paralysis of the left inferior oblique were—i. The left cornea turned decidedly inwards and a little down- wards. 2. Incomplete mydriasis. 3. Homonymous diplopia. 4. The false image always lower than the other. 5. Double vision of objects on the left, 6. Single vision of objects on the right. 7. Single vision of objects above. 8. Wide separation of images of objects below. 9. Approximation of double images on the extreme left. 10. Vertigo, displacement of objects, tendency to stray from a straight line. 11. The phenomena of concomitance. In some remarks on the foregoing cases, Dr. Coppez1 quotes with approval the observations of the author on paralysis of" the sixth nerve (external rectus). He says that in this affection "all authors, and especially Soelberg "Wells, state that the double images remain at the same height in all positions. This is not correct. In typical (that is, complete and recent) paralysis of the external rectus the images are only at the same level when the object is in the horizontal plane. If the object is above, the image of the affected eye is always lower than the other ; and higher if the object is below. This is due to the cir- cumstance that the paralysis of the abduction gives full play to the superior or inferior rectus, which, no longer corrected by the external, directs the eye upwards or downwards. Coppez says that he has been able to verify the accuracy of this statement in four patients, three of whom had complete paralysis of an external rectus, the fourth paresis only. In all, as soon as the flame used as an object rose above the horizontal meridian, the double images became uneven, that of the affected eye being lower than the other. In all, when the flame was placed on the level of the ground, the two images were homonymous and level; and it was only when the flame was brought within a foot of the patient that the image of the affected eye rose above that of the other. When the lamp was on the ground at a few yards' distance the two images were on the same horizontal plane. When it rose above the level of the horizontal meridian the difference in the level of the images was observed in every case. This difference of level, which all previous authors have omitted to mention, is not met with in long-standing paralysis of the same muscle, especially if the paralysis is complete; because then the contraction of the internal rectus becomes such as to restrain the movements of the eye, so that it rises and falls less, and the false image, that of the affected eye, ia higher 1 ' Annales d'Oculistique,' vol. lxix.