REPORT ON SURGERY. 810 died ill a few hours with symptoms of impeded respiration. Dr. Watson has since operated on auother case successfully. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' July, 1874.) Results of thyrotomy for the removal of growths from the larynx.— Dr. Morell Mackenzie remarks on this subject, and quotes cases already reported. (' Brit. Med. Jour.,' April 26, &c, 187,3.) Mr. Holmes notes the final result in a case under his care in the number for May 10, 187.3. Mr. W. P. Thornton relates the case of a man, xt. 24, on whom he performed thyrotoiny for the removal of laryngeal growths. Tracheo- tomy bad been previously done. The disease was probably epithe- lomatous. In another case, that of a child, aet. z\ years, several warty excrescences were removed. The symptoms recurred, and it was decided not to perform a second operation till the growths could be removed through the mouth. These cases tend to show the difficulty of effecting complete extirpation by the operation of thyrotomy. The first case was undoubtedly one of cancer, and would not have been undertaken but that the aphonia present prevented the patient from following his occupation. In this case dysphagia was produced subse- quently, which led to inanition and shortened the patient's life. In a similar case the operation would not be recommended. The second case seemed well adapted for the treatment of thyrotomy. Recurrence, however, rapidly took place. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vi, 90.) Traumatic pneumothorax; aspiration.—Mr. Herbert Page notes a case in which a wound of the lung was caused by a broken rib, and was followed by pneumothorax. Urgent symptoms being present from the first, the chest was punctured four hours after the accident by Dieulafoy's canula, and on exhausting the air from the pleural cavity immediate improvement followed. Blood was drawn into the receiver, and examination the following day revealed dulness on percussion at the base, due to the presence of blood. The aspiration was used three times for the removal of this blood, and the further withdrawal of air from the cavity of the pleura. The patient made a good recovery, and the lung was restored to its normal state. Attention is called to a possible source of danger from haemorrhage into cavities exhausted of their contents by the aspirator. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Aug.30, 1873.) Paracentesis thoracis.—A clinical lecture on this subject by Mr. Wood is given in the'Lancet,' May 9, 1874. Cases in which aspi- ration revealed empyema, and in which it was subsequently necessary to pass a drainage tube through from front to back are narrated. Mr. Wood always incises the skin so as to admit his finger to feel the upper border of the rib below the space to be punctured, &c. In one case, the ribs were so pressed together behind that he could not get his finger between, and on pressing a long probe through an anterior opening he could not feel the point projecting behind. He then judged as well as possible where it should be, incised the skin, &c, and was then able to make the probe project. To allow room for the drainage tube he had to scoop out a piece from the margins of the ribs above and below. In a case in which he could not pass the probo from before backwards, owing to a tough diaphragm of adhesion, he managed to push the point through. He speaks highly of making