4 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. J3Y A. B. SHEPHERD, M.A., M.B., M.B.C.P., ASSISTANT-PHYSICIAN TO ST. MAKY'S HOSPITAL, ETC. a. Diseases oe the General System. Inflammation and Suppuration. Cohnheim publishes au important memoir ('Neue Untersuch- ungen fiber die Entziindung,' Berlin, 1873, 85) in continuation of kis former works on inflammation. He still maintains kis former opinion as to tke origin of pus, as opposed to tkat of Strieker and his sckool. In his first paper on the subject (' Virch. Arch.,' si, 1) he kad ex- plained tke migration of tke wkite corpuscles by tbeir spontaneous contractility, the exit of the red corpuscles by the increased blood- pressure forcing them through stomata which existed in the walls of the vessels, and had been enlarged by the dilatation of the latter during the process of inflammation. This explanation was op- posed by Hering and Schklarewsky, wko looked upon tke exit of tke corpuscles as a process of filtration of colloid substance tkrougk tke physical pores of the vessel wall, due to increased lateral blood- pressure. He shows by a simple experiment of pinching a frog's tongue that dilatation of the veins, slower blood current, marked adhesion of the colourless corpuscles, increased pressure in the capil- laries during the dilatation, may all take place witkout tke passage of a single blood-corpuscle of eitker kind tkrougk tke vessel wall. So far neitker kis own explanation nor tkat of kis opponents will kold, and ke attempts to find a more real cause in a change in tke vessel walls tkemselves. To solve tkis question ke made tke following ex- periments :—On cauterizing tke tongue of a frog witk nitrate of silver, changes are observed similar to, but more intense in ckaracter tkan, those obtained by pinching. But at a later period the capillaries in the immediate neighbourhood of the cauterized part are in a state of complete stagnation, and in from six to eight hours after beginning the experiment, there is extravasation of both white and red corpuscles. From the second to the fourth days there is round the scab a narrow Note.— Unless stated otherwise, all references in tlio following abstracts are to volumes and pages. A table of errata in the last Ileport will be found at the end of this.