34. llEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. mode of termination of those nerves in the cells of the salivary glands. Jullien finds that the finest terminal fibrils of the nerves of the peritoneum, which are always non-medullated, end in pyriform capsules, which stain strongly with reagents, and present a sheath and contents. The fibrils run into the capsules, sometimes exhibiting a slight con- striction. A process is given off from the distal end of the capsule, which again often exhibits a slight button at its extremity. Inzani describes a similar mode of termination as existing in the mucous mem- brane of the frontal and maxillary sinuses. Albrecht Budge examined the mesocolon of cats, both in the fresh and hardened state, and stained with carmine and picric acid and chloride of palladium. Sections of the Pacinian bodies exhibited, not one, but several points corresponding to transversely divided non-medullated fibres, and these again presented many dark points in their interior which were the sections of axis fibre-fibrils. In the Pacinian corpuscles he observed also cells around which the fibrils form a plexus. He describes the ultimate branches of nerves both in the muscles and in the ganglia of the sympathetic nerve as ending in plexuses. Palladino, from researches made on the lip of the horse, finds that the nerves traverse the lowermost layers of the basement epithelium, and then end by free extremities. Lowenberg1 gives the results of experiments on the effects of the division of the semicircular canals of the ear. Other papers on the ear are by Moss,2 A. Bottcher,3 E. Cyon,4 J. Breuer,5 and C. F. Yule.6 P. Schech 7 made some important experiments on the larynx. He conducted his experiments on young and middle-sized dogs, which were fastened down, narcotised by means of morphia, and their mouths widely opened by means of a dilator. The tongue was then drawn forward, and the movements of the larynx examined with a laryngoscope. The motor nerves of the larynx have been by some believed to be derived from the vagus; by others, and, indeed, by the majority of experimenters, from the spinal accessory. Schech gives an excellent historical account of the various opinions that have been held on this point, and on the evidence obtained from experiment and from patho- logy. His own experiments lead him to the conclusion arrived at by 1 ' Kaapp's Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology,' vol. iii, p. 26. 2 Abstract of pamphlet in ' Centralblatt,' 1874, p. 662. " Bcitriige zur normal, unci Path. Anat. und zur Phys. der Eustachischen BO lire." 3 'Archiv f. Ohrenkeilkunde,' B. ix, p. 1. "Ueber die Durchschneiduug der Bogengiinge des Gehorlabyrinths." 4 ' Pfliiger's Archiv,' B. viii, p. 306-327. "Ueber die Function der HalbzirkelfGr- lnigen Caniile." 8 « Wiener Med. Jahrb.,' 1874, pp. 72-124. " Ueber die Function der Bogengiinue des Ohrlabyrinths." 6 ' Studies from the Physiological Laboratory in the University of Cambridge,' part 1, p. 58, and ' Humphry and Turner's Journal of Anat. and Phys.,' vol. viii, pp. 127-400. "The mechanism of opening and closing the Eustachian tube." 7 " Experimentelle Untersuchungeu ueber die Funktioneu der Kervcn und Muskeln des Kchlkopfes," in ' Zeitschrift far Biologic,' Band ix, p. 258, 1873.