191 ZONA, PEMPHIGUS, HYDROA, &C. with vesicles, which were present also on the raucous membrane of the lips and raouth. The eruption followed nearly the same course in both; small yellowish vesicles appeared in the centre of blotches of erythema, van ingin extent. At first discrete, these vesicles gradually became en- larged to bulla), some of which remained isolated, while others became contluent and formed bladders the size of a hen's egg. The eruption was accompanied by a pyrexia lasting from five to six days. The autopsy of the first patient, who died on the tenth day, showed hyperplasia and fatty degeneration of the liver, unaccompanied, however, by any of the changes which Lailler has described as taking place in the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal. A very marked symptom in the second case was severe epistaxis. The writer looks upon the whole process as an exanthematic one, and would place it in Parrol's class of herpetic fevers. Guibout, "Le Pemphigus," 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1874, 665. Anderson, " Notes of a fatal case of Acute Pemphigus and Gangrene following a meal of putrid conger- eel" (man, a>t. 39, death on 25th day; post mortem, liver congested, lungs antemic, no secondary deposits anywhere), 'Lancet,' 1873, i, 875. Hydroa. C. Handfield Jones records (' Med. Times and Graz.,' 1873, ii, 248) the following case. A woman, set. 22, whose only illness had been jaundice some years previously, had been subject for the last two years to frequent vomiting of blood, pain in the left side, and a recurring erup- tion on the left side of the chest. This side presented, on admission, pretty copiously scattered red papules, a few of which had become scabbed and quasi-pustular. The same eruption showed itself later in the left axilla, passing, like that on the chest, through the following phases:—(1) Eed papular spots; (2) the same, with vesiculo-pustules developed at their apices; (3) the elevation and induration of the spot increasing, the central part becoming depressed and covered with a more or less dark scab, while the vesicle-forming process spread excentrically, producing a distinct whitish ring, enclosing the scabbed area, and itself surrounded by a zone of redness; (4) the vesicle-forming process ceased, the scab became detached, and the affected spot was left with only a whitish centre and a slightly raised red margin. These charac- ters closely correspond with those given in a " Eeport on Hydroa and . allied Diseases" (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1870, i, 490, and see " Eeport on Medicine " for 1869-70, 188). The writer thinks that herpes is the : form of skin eruption to which it has most affinity, and proposes to ; apply to it the term Herpes centrifugus, which is more descriptive of the I phenomena than hydroa, as the latter leads one necessarily to think of . a profuse watery discharge. In the case recorded he ascribes the 1 existence of the eruption to the " herpetic diathesis," i.e. a tendency to 1 various skin disorders and to various neuroses, the former due to vaso- : motor nerve paralysis ; and in the same way he considers the stomach ■ symptoms, the haemorrhage, &c, to be referable to neurotic disorder. Ecthyma. Yidal writes ('Ann. de Derm, et Syph.,'iv, 350) on the inocula-