THROMBOSIS DRESSING Of WOUNDS. 261 bandage may assist somewhat. (' Guy's Hospital Reports,' xix, 423—39- Ecehymosis of the eyeball as a sign of fractured skull.—Dr. Hodges, in the April number of the 'Boston Med. and Surg. Journal,' sums up as follows:—r. An effusion of blood beneath the integuments of the skull, if it does not gravitate backwards, often produces an ecehymosis in the cutaneous surface of the eyelids, but never of the conjunctiva of the lids or globe. 2. A blow directly upon the eyeball may give rise to an ecehymosis of the conjunctiva both of the globe and lids. 3. Where fracture of the base of the skull is indicated by ecehymosis, this ecehymosis appears first beneath the conjunctiva of the globe, then beneath the palpebral conjunctiva, and only subsequently in the integument of the lids, if at all. 4. "When the injury has been such as to make a fracture probable, external ecehymosis of the lower lid, and less frequently of the upper lid, is a significant symptom only when it accompanies ecehymosis of the globe or follows it after an interval. ('Lancet,' June 21, 1873.) Thrombosis of the cerebral veins and sinuses of the dura mater.—Dr. Lidell writes a detailed paper on this subject illustrated by the colla- tion of numerous cases, (i) There is a traumatic form from direct in- jury to the sinus. (2) There is an inflammatory form, the result of inflammatory processes, taking place in the neighbourhood—(a) otitis interna, (b) anthrax of the face. The latter, when attacking the central or upper portions of the face, is almost always attended with thrombosis and phlebitis of the ophthalmic vein and cavernous sinus. (3) Ulceration of the mucous membrane of the nose is occasionally attended by erysipe- las and gives rise to thrombosis and secondary phlebitis of the frontal and ophthalmic veins, &c. (4) Erysipelas of the same parts may cause insensibility and rapid death by inducing thrombosis and secondary phlebitis of the sinuses of the dura mater. (5) Injury of the skull fol- lowed by caries and inflammation of the surrounding parts not infre- quently induces thrombosis of the corresponding sinuses. (6) Injury of the skull, without any secondary caries, &c, may lead to thrombosis of the sinuses. (7) Suppurating wounds of the Bcalp. (8) Suppurating diseases of the scalp. (9) Abscesses in parts external to the skull. (10) Purulent meningitis. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,'Jan. 1874.) In the number for July, 1874, Dr. Lidell treats of the marasmic form, or thrombosis from debilitating influences, and discusses the etiology of the various varieties discussed in this and preceding papers, their symptoms and course and the treatment. Antiseptic surgery.—Mr. Grodlee gives an account of Mr. Lister's practice. He relies principally on three antiseptic agents, carbolic acid, boracic acid, and chloride of zinc, each of which is possessed of peculiar properties which render their employment advisable under different circumstances. The first differs from the other two in being volatile, and is therefore employed by preference in every case in which a cavity exists into which regurgitation of air is liable to occur, both during and after the changing of the dressing; any such air is deprived of its septic influence by the vapour of carbolic acid which exists