350 REPORT ON SURGERY. the clastic thread. In his paper, Grandesso-Silvestri describes cases of removal of tumours, &c, by means of the elastic ligature. Vanzetti i also says that the elastic ligature has been in use for several years in the hospital at Padua. After reading Dr. Vanzetti's note, Dr. Dittel openly acknowledged ■ the claim to priority of Dr. Grandesso-Silvestri; while at the same time i he claimed for himself the merit of independent discovery, and of having rescued a useful mode of treatment from undeserved oblivion. Dr. H. S. Schell describes in the 'Philadelphia Medical Times' for i February 28, 1874, a successful case of operation on anal fistula by the 1 elastic ligature. Sir Henry Thompson notes a case in which he removed the whole | breast by elastic ligature. He used fine tubing and tied the whole ! breast at once in two halves. This is unadvisable. The lower half I should be taken first. In his case, the other gave wray, so that, practically, | two stages resulted. Erysipelas, prevalent at the time, attacked the breast, &c, but the patient recovered well. There is no difficulty in tightening a ligature when it gets slack. In future, he would use solid i cord, strong and pulled tight. The smell of the sloughing mass is objec- i tionable,'and has to be obviated as far as possible by carbolic irrigation, &e. In the removal of the testicle, and for division of fistula in ano, he thinks the elastic ligature will answer well. ('Lancet,' Jan. 3, 1874.) Cases under the care of Mr. Lawson Tait, showing the advantages of the elastic ligature, are related in the ' Lancet' for June 27, 1874. Dr. Quinlan removed a large clitoris and prepuce by elastic cord. The ligature is painful on application and while cutting through the skin. (' Lancet,' March 7, 1874.) Mr. S. Gale records a casein which he removed an epithelioma of the lower lip by elastic ligature. The whole sloughed oft' in a fortnight and in three weeks the patient was quite well. ('Lancet,' Jan. 17, 1874.) Absorption of an exostosis.—Dr. Chiene narrates the following case. A lad a>t. 14 was brought to him (April 12, 1873) in consequence of a hard, movable tumour under the muscles of the thigh above the inner condyle of the right femur. He had received a blow twelve months previously on the inside of the right knee. Swelling, &c, followed, and when this had subsided, he noticed a hard lump which could be easily moved backwards and forwards. The diagnosis was that an exostosis had been broken off. Soon after this, the tumour began to diminish and a year later, two years after the accident, a careful examination revealed only a slight linear projection, an inch in length, on the osseous ridge, leading up from, and about two inches above, the internal condyle. In other respects no difference can be detected between the two limbs. Dr. Chiene asks—1. Should not an attempt be made in the first place to break off an exostosis in the neighbourhood of a joint, without expos- ing it, by laying hold of it with large forceps well padded so as to prevent injury to the skin, in the hope that absorption of the tumour will take place in consequence of its principal blood supply being cut off? 2. When the surgeon meets with an exostosis which has been broken off by accident, he should wait and not cut down hastily on the