107 —NERVOUS DISEASES. PARASITES pepo," « Bull. Gen. de Thorap.,' t. 85, p. 89. T. E. Clark, " Treatment of Round- worm." ' Urit. Moil. Journ.,' 1874, i, 707. " Guinea-worm," 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1874. i, 17. Bird, " On the Treatment of Hydatid Cysts in the Viscera," ib., 1873, ii, 164. Habershon, "Some cases of Hydatid Disease," ' Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' xviii, -73. L. Labbe, "Case of Hydatids of the Humerus," 'Lancet,' 1874, ii, 156. K. Farquharson, " On the Grouse Disease," ib. ib., 342. W. Cayley, " Specimens of the Grouse Disease," ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxv, 278. E. Crisp, " Grouse Disease," ib., 283. (And see under the various organs, "Brain," "Liver," &c.) Vegetable Parasites. Salisbury," Description of two new Algoid Vegetations, one of which appears to be the specific cause of Syphilis and the other of Gonorrhoea," ' Zeitsch. f. Parasitenk.,' iv, 33. Id., " Vegetations found in the blood of patients suffering with Erysipelas," ib. ib., 1. Hallier, "Die Parasiten der Infectionskrankheiten," ib. ib., 56. Conche, "Note pour servir a, l'etude du developpement du Favus et du Trichophyton chez les Cbats," 'Lyon Med.,' xiv, 289. T. Colan, "Parasitic Vegetable Fungi, and the Diseases induced by them," 'Lancet,' 1874, ii, 755. (And see under " Contagion," " Diphtheria," " Skin Diseases," &c). I b. Diseases oe the Nervous System. General. J. B. Eeynolds gives ('Lancet,'1873, ii, 405) a tentative classification of diseases and derangements of the nervous system. He thinks that for the present they may be placed in eight groups. 1. General or haemic; those in which the nervous affection is due to some general condition of the body, with frequent relations to the quantity and quality of blood supply, but without any primary alteration in the nutrition of nerve-tissue, and without any direct evidence of changes in the local distribution of blood, resulting from vaso-motor disease. This group includes Ansemia, Spanaeinia, Hyperemia, and Toxaemia, the last varying in its origin, due to pyrexia ; alcoholism ; mercurial, lead, or chronic arsenical poisoning; urseinia, eholaemia; diabetes ; chorea ; and syphilis. 2. The second group is referable to exhaustion or fatigue of the nervous system, the result of overwork, the phenomena of which are observed in the temporary paralysis of nerve, muscle, brain, and spinal cord. 3. The derangements included under the third group are due to simple physical impressions, such as may be inflicted by blows, electrical conditions, or exposure to the sun—concussion or physical shock being often accompained by mental and moral commo- tion, the one intensifying the other. 4. The fourth group contains those multitudinous disturbances of nerve-function which are directly due to localised changes in the blood supply, the result of vaso-motor irregularity, and to a certain extent resembling those of the first group; but they differ in that the arrest of blood-supply is central in the latter and peripheral in this. Into the production of diseases of this group two factors enter—the first is the state, original or acquired, of the vaso-motor centres of nerve-action; the second, the force or continuance of impressions which may be made upon those centres from outside. Sometimes the one element preponderates or exists alone, sometimes the other, but often the two concur. The general characters of these symptoms are suddenness of onset and comparatively short duration,