264 REPORT ON SURGERY. on the importance of attending to details in preparing patients, and on the isolation and dressing of wounds. He considers torsion the most satisfactory plan of arresting hemorrhage, as it is free from risk of secondary bleeding, and does not leave any foreign body in the wound. An operation wound should not be closed till all bleeding has ceased. It may then be washed with tepid carbolic acid lotion (i part to 20 of water) or with a solution of chloride of zinc (1 in 30 or 40), and the edges should be brought together, if at all, with silver sutures, either interrupted or continuous. Care should be taken to avoid all bruising. The wound is covered with lint soaked in carbolized oil (1 part in 5), and over this should be placed a thick layer of cotton wool. No pressure should be made on the flaps. Provision should be made for the escape of the fluid which exudes from the wound surfaces during the twenty-four hours which follow the operation. The drainage tube he uses is perforated at many points, and is fur- nished with a light spring which can be protruded from the end in the wound so as to prevent the tube from falling out. Silver tubes are preferred as convenient for introduction, and least irritating. The metal spring is galvanized. Retention of fluid is always unfavorable and may be serious. After the dressing the parts should be left at rest. The bandages should be applied so that the oiled lint can be removed and renewed after the first twenty-four hours without dis- turbance of the parts. No wound should be left long without seeing that there is a free channel for the escape of fluid. In all wounds with purulent discharge and for all cleansing purposes camel-hair brushes are used. Each patient has a brush which is kept in a test tube in a solution of one part of carbolic acid in four of rectified spirit. By this means the isolation of the wound, so far as its cleansing is concerned, is secured, and the use of the brush has this further advan- tage, that it expedites the removal of discharge, is very acceptable to the patient as a painless application, and ensures gentle handling on , the part of the operator. The plan is very readily carried out. Mr. Callender applies a splint to the stump in many cases for the first few days, taking care not to put any lint between the two, so that the dressing can be removed without lifting the limb. He often slings an upper or lower extremity. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Kep.,' ix, 14.) In the 'Brit. Med. Journ.' for Oct. 11, 1873, Mr. Callender writes on the " Isolation and treatment of wounds." In the same journal for Nov. 1st, &c, 1873, he discusses " operating without waste of blood;" " rest and ease—and shock ;" " warmth, dryness, and cleanliness." In ' St. Barth. Hosp. Reports,' x, 139, Mr. Callender insists on the advantage of applying splints to wounds which involve muscles or the fascia covering them. He adopts Dr. Lewis's plan of transplantation. It consists in raising fragments of epithelium with a needle and de- taching them with scissors. The fragments are best protected by a small cradle made from two transverse strips of gutta percha with other narrow strips of wire or thread passing between them. The cage should be fastened to the leg, &c, above and below, and should only project enough to protect the granulations. Feeding ulcers.—Mr. Callender has tried Dr. Cohen's plan of feed-