504 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. physician any suspicious symptoms of illness on board which may have come to their knowledge. If the medical investigation show that no case of illness in any way suspicious exists among the crew and passen- gers, the ship, with all that it carries, is to be immediately admitted to free pratique. 4. The bodies of those who have died of cholera, as well as all cholera- patients found in a ship newly arrived, aro to be taken on shore : the former must be immediately buriod, the latter placed in a hospital always kept in readiness for their reception, or, when there is not one, in some house or barrack or isolated place, or in as isolated a place as possible in the country. If any suspected cases of cholera or deaths have occurred during the voyage, or if suspected or decided cases of cholera or bodies whose death is traceable with probability or certainty to cholera be found on board a ship on its arrival in port, the crew and passengers, after the removal of the sick and dead, shall undergo a process of cleansing and disinfection under the supervision of the board. 5. At the same time all the clothes worn by healthy individuals, or used by them during the voyage, as well as all their other effects, are to undergo a thorough disinfection in a room arranged for the purpose, under the strict control of the board. After disinfection has been carried out the effects will be given back to their possessors, who, in the meantime, will have taken a cleansing bath, and they will then be perfectly free. 6. After the removal of all persons, except those absolutely necessary for the service of the ship, any vessel arriving under the conditions named in section 3 is to be subjected in all its compartments to a thorough disinfection. 7. The goods landed from the disinfected ship, even the rags and objects used by the cholera-patients, after being properly disinfected, are to be considered innocuous. A committee was appointed to discuss regulations for quarantine establishments in those countries which might erect them. The Dutch and Italian representatives declined to act on the committee, as it was not consistent with their views on the inutility of sea quarantine. The following rules were drawn up by the committee and accepted by the conference: 1. Vessels from infected ports must undergo observation, which, according to circumstances, may last from one to seven days. In the eastern ports of Europe and elsewhere, though only in certain excep- tional cases, the surveillance may be prolonged to ten days. 2. When the Board of Health have sufficient proof that during the voyage no case of cholera, or of any other suspected disease, has occurred on board, the observation is to last three to seven days, reckoned from the medical inspection. If under these circumstances the voyage have lasted at least seven days, the surveillance is to be limited to twenty-four hours, to give time for the examination and disinfection considered as necessary. In cases under this category the observation may be held on board as long as no case of cholera or suspicious circumstance occurs, and when the hygienic condi.