REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 62 recovery, seven still suffer from the sequela? of the disease; three are completely deaf, one hears only with the right ear, two have defective heariug power ; and the seventh, a man of 25, perfectly sound before his illness, had a maniacal attack. T. B. Upham gives a full report ('Fifth Ann. Eep. Board of Health of Massachusetts,' p. 517) of the epidemic of cerebro-spinal meniugitis in that state in 1873, founded on details more or less complete of 517 cases, the youngest 5 weeks, the oldest 70 years. In the ' Boston Med. and Surg. Journ.' (1874, vol. xci, 221) he prints some "additional reflections on the epidemic, giving three tables of the relative fre- quency of symptoms in 315 cases. He concludes that the indications for rational treatment are to husband the strength ; to combat the tendency to congestion of the brain and spinal cord; to mitigate the intense pain; to calm the nervous excitement; and to nourish and support the system till the exuded morbid products may be removed by nature. J. L. Smith (' Amer. Journ. Med. Sc.,' lxvi, 313) discusses the causes, contagiousness, and other circumstances regarding the affection. He discusses the three theories held in reference to its nature; that it is a local disease occurring epidemically ; that it is akin to typhus fever; and that it is a disease sui generis, concluding that it belongs to the latter category. He gives brief notes of the anatomical appearances found in 76 fatal cases, arranged in four series, according to their duration of three days, three to twenty-one days, over twenty-one days, and cases of unknown duration. As to treatment, he remarks that in New York the bromide of potassium is most in favour, as dimi- nishing the calibre of the arterioles, and consequently the hyperemia of the cerebro-spinal axis and its meningeal covering, and acting, at the same time, as a powerful sedative to the nervous system. A. Laveran believes (' Graz. Hebd.,' 1873, 314) that cerebro-spinal meningitis is an anomalous form of scarlet fever. He looks upon all treatment, except by opium, as useless. Among other facts in support of the former opinion he urges that almost all the eruptive fevers, especially scarlet fever, predominate at the same time with cerebro- spinal meningitis (! Hep.'). Chauflard writes (ib., 359) a long article in opposition to Laveran's views, giving his experience of the epidemics of 1848-49, and 1849-jo. B. D. Giffard, "Notes on some Cases of Cerebro-spinal Meniugitis," ' Boston Med. and Surg. Journ.lxxxix, 277. J. Little, "Cerebro-spinal Meniugitis treated by Hypodermic Injections of Morphia" (girl, rot. 12; recovery), ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1874, i, 586. A. Zimmerman, "Meningitis Cerebro-spinalis epidemica als terminale Complication eincr cbroniscben Encephalopathies 'Deut. Arch.,' Mi, 181. Intermittent Fever. L. Colin (' Sur l'lntoxication tellurique," ' Compt. Rend.,' lxxvii, 1035) publishes a second note on the effect of soil on malarial poison. He argues that heat, moisture, and decomposing vegetation are power- less in producing malaria without some change in the soil, which he