180 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. suffocating attacks, and died of exhaustion four days after admission. Post-mortem, a small abscess was found at the outer side of the right thyroid cartilage, laying bare the upper margin, and extending to the superior cornua. It had opened externally, and after that had taken place the suffocative attacks were less frequent. In the second case a small swelling was detected immediately below the^thyroid cartilage; this was opened and over four drachms of pus escaped. This patient died also of exhaustion, and the pus-containing sac was found to extend upwards on both sides to the upper margin of the alae of the cartilage, the pouch on the right side being somewhat larger than the left. There was no necrosis of the cartilages. In the third case, which recovered, an abscess was opened about the level of the isthmus of the thyroid and at the outer margin of the sterno-hyoid, extending downwards nearly three inches.1 In a postscript to this paper the writer quotes a paper on "Abscess of the Larynx in Young Children," by J. S. Parry (' Philadelph. Med. Trans.,' June 14, 1873), in which two cases of the jsame kind are recorded, in children aged 4I months and 9 weeks. In addition to laryngeal stridor and difficulty of swallowing, the larynx in both was thrust forward so as to form a decided prominence in the neck. The first case recovered after letting out the pus ; the second died, without any operation, and an abscess was found on both sides of the thyroid cartilage, meeting in front. In some remarks on the subject the author considers the most important diagnostic points to be the following:—1. The affection is more gradual in its onset and does not endanger life so rapidly as croup. 2. Difficulty in swallowing is in most cases present, and attempts to take food are followed by increased dyspnoea. 3. Change of posture, especially the horizontal position, aggravates the dyspnoea. 4. The cough is low and hoarse and has not the clanging brassy sound of the early stage of croup. Passot, " CEdeine <le la Glotte, imminence de mort, tracheotoraie, guerison," ' Lyon Med.,' xiii, 436. Bouchut, " Spasine de la Glotte precurseur de rougeole, I emploi du muse, morte subite" (boy, ret. 23 mouths), 'Gaz. des Hdp.,' 1874,218. Peuzoldt, " Ueber die Paralyse der Glottiserweiterer " (two cases), ' Deut. Arch.,' xiii, 107. Raymond and Longuet, " Sarcome d'une des Cordes vocales, mort rapide j avec sympt6mes de congestion cerebrale," 'Presse Med. Beige, 1874, 158. Watson, I "On some of the Nervous Affections of the Larynx," 'Glasg. Journ.,' n.s., vi, 19. I Navratil, " Zur Casuistik der Kehlkopfneubildungen," ' Wien. Med. Woch.,' 1874, I No. 8. Gerhardt, " Laryngologische Beitriige," ' Deut. Arch.,' xi, 575. Libermann, J "Note sur un cas d'Arthrite blennorhagicme, probable du larynx" (soldier, aet. 26), 'Union Med.,' xvi, 971. Id., " Note pour servir h l'histoire des Artbrites du Larynx," ib., 997. Frankel, " Laryngitis hamiorrhagica," ' Berl. Klin.Woch,,' 1874, 16. Deinarquay, " Deux Observations de Compression de la Trachee par les Tumeurs du Corps thyroide" (man, ait. 56, epithelioma, death; man, set. 58, suppuration of thyroid, death), ' Gaz. des Hdp.,' 1874, 108. Krishaber, "Mort subite chez un Enfant opere de la tracheo- toiuie, depuis trois mois, autopsie, vegetation de la trachee," ib., 667. Simon, "Ange- borene Adenome der Luftrohrsschleimhaut beim Tiger,"'Virch. Arch.,' lvii, 537. Cooke, " Case of primary Scirrhous Cancer of the Larynx, Tracheotomy," ' Lancet,' 1874, ii, 412. Thompson, "Clinical Lecture on a case of Perforation of the Trachea by an enlarged and caseous Gland" (boy, ajt. 4), 'Med. Times and Gaz,,' 1874, i, 91. Couplaud, similar case,' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxv, 29 (and see cases of tracheal and laryngeal affections in same vol.). 1 I have seen a case of this kind in a young child in which the autopsy showed the bronchial glands to be the starting-point of suppuration.—A. B. S.