436 REPORT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. a case of inversion of the uterus, in a woman, set. 33 j the placenta was adherent to the fundus, and it and the uterus were expelled by a violent paiu; after detaching the placenta, the uterus was easily reduced. Dr. Hope reports ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' September, 1873) two cases of inversion of the uterus. The first occurred in a woman, act. 41, who had had eight children; she was seen twelve months after the inversion and presented the usual symptoms 5 the inversion was reduced by taxis under chloroform ; the patient did well. In the second case the in- version had existed for three years; taxis was tried many times unsuccessfully, and continued pressure was kept up by air bags ; these means not succeeding, the uterus was amputated by the ecraseur j the patient did well. Dr. Barnes, in the ' Obstetrical Journal,' April, 1873, describes a new method for effecting reduction of the uterus in chronic inversion, and details two successful cases. Having failed to replace the uterus by taxis and continued pressure, he incised the os uteri at two or three points of its circumference, so as to relax the constriction formed by the circular fibres of the cervix; on again applying pressure the uterus went up into its place. He also recommends the following instrument for maintaining elastic pressure. It consists of a curved stem sur- mounted by a hollow cap of caoutchouc; this latter rests against the fundus uteri: to the lower end of the stem strong elastic bands are fixed, two in front and two behind, which are attached to an abdominal belt; by bracing up the posterior bands the cap is pressed up against the fundus. Spiegelberg relates (' Archiv f. Gynak.,' v, 1) a case of spontaneous reduction of an inverted uterus, occurring in a woman set. 40, in whom in her twelfth labour inversion took place through the midwife pulling on the cord to hasten delivery of the placenta. She attempted to replace it, but without success ; six weeks after copious haemorrhage occurred. On admission to hospital the uterus was found inverted and closely embraced by the cervix. Severe diarrhoea set in, and on examining the patient 14 days later the uterus was found reduced. Hcemorrhage.—Dr. Matthews Duncan writes (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 1873) on the causes of unavoidable haemorrhage during mis- carriage or labour, when the placenta is praevia; haemorrhage during miscarriage or labour is the only loss that can be truly called unavoid- able, and that because we have no means of preventing it, and because labour cannot go on without inducing it. "When the placenta is praevia haemorrhage is unavoidable, and this is caused by the separation of the 'placenta through the expansion of the lower uterine hemi- spheroid in order to form part of the genital passage, and the haemor- rhage continues till the limit of spontaneous premature detachment is reached. The quantity of blood lost is greater in proportion to the centrality of the placental attachment and the largeness of the body to be expelled, that is, the age and size of the child. Then as a source of haemorrhage the absence of the retentive power of the abdomen. Dr. G-ustavus Murray ('Obst. Journ.,' April, 1873) writes on varicose haemorrhage from the cervical zone of the uterus coinpli-