CHOLERA. 501 to follow the courses of the Lower Danube and of the Vistula, and shortly made its way into Southern Italy. At the end of June, if not earlier, cholera also appeared in Vienna. In July the epidemic was widely spread along the chief lines of rail- way and river traffic in the east, south, and west of Europe, and the disease appeared in Berlin on the 21st. It was also carried across the Sound to Helsingberg, a small port in Sweden. In August it attained its greatest activity, and this country was seriously threatened by the Baltic ports. Indeed England did not escape infection. Towards the end of July the disease was imported into London from Hamburg, and of the emigrants on board the infecting vessel 28 cases of sickness occurred, and 8 deaths, nearly if not all, from cholera or choleraic diarrhoea. In September, October, and November, single cases were also imported into London; Southampton had one case from a Erench port, and Liverpool had several isolated cases imported from Hamburg vid Hull. Later in the year cholera subsided, and during 1874 maybe said to have been dormant in Europe. The International Sanitary Conference of 1874 in Vienna.1—An International Sanitary Conference was held in Vienna in July, 1874. The following twenty countries were represented at the conference: Austro-Hungary, Belgium, Denmark, Egypt, England, Erance, Ger- many, Greece, Holland, Italy, Luxemburg, Norway, Persia, Portugal, Boumania, Bussia, Servia, Sweden, Switzerland, and Turkey ; and a programme of twenty-six questions was submitted to the Conference and discussed seriatim, as follows : I. Development and spread of cholera.— 1. Is contagious (epidemic) cholera only developed spontaneously in India, and introduced always into foreign countries from without; or does it also occur endemically in countries beyond India, and in which ? The congress agreed in the opinion that cholera has an autochthonous character in no part of the world beyond India; that it has not become endemic in Europe, but that the epidemics of the disease are to be regarded as having had their origin in India. 2. Is cholera spread by man? The congress arrived at the general conclusion that cholera is communicated by human intercourse. 3. Can cholera be communicated by articles of ordinary use coming from infected places, especially those which cholera patients have worn ? This question was answered in the affirmative. 4. Can cholera be communicated by articles of food, or (5) by living animals ? These two questions gave rise to a long debate. Drs. Pettenkofer (Munich), and Hirsch (Berlin), and Zehender (Zurich), gave affirma- tive answers; Drs. Dickson (Constantinople) and Drasche (Vienna) denied or limited the possibility of cholera being spread in this way. The congress finally concluded that these modes of commnnication were possible. 6. Can cholera be communicated by the transport of mer- chandise? No conclusion appears have been arrived at. 7. Can cholera be communicated by the dead bodies of cholera patients ? This question was unanimously answered in the affirmative. 8. Can cholera be carried to a distance by the atmospheric air alone ? The conference 1 Abstract in ' Lond. Med. Rcc.,' ii, p. 477, from ' Allgem. Wien, Med. Zeit.,' and 'Allgem. Med. Central. Zeit.,' 1874,