REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. G II.—LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. By far the most important paper on the lymphatic system that has been published since the appearance of Teichmann's beautiful plates are those of Klein1 on the minute anatomy of the serous membranes, and upon the lymphatics of the Jungs. In the former paper, which embodies the results of inquiries made in connection with certain pathological investigations at the Brown Institute, Dr. Klein gives—(r)a detailed description of the epithelium of the free surface; (2) an account of the cellular elements of the matrix; (3) the distribution and relations of the lymphatic vessels, as well as their development; and, lastly, the disposition of the blood- vessels. He shows, in regard to the epithelium, that it does not everywhere consist of flattened hyaline cell-plates, but that in many parts it presents the characters of what he terms germinating epithelium, the individual cells being polygonal, granular, and nu- cleated. Such epithelium exists abundantly in the omentum of rabbits, the pleura mediastini of dogs, and the mesogastrium of frogs. Such cells, with hour glass and with numerous nuclei, and evidently in process of growth, are found upon trabecule, containing blood- vessels surrounded by fat. In the frog the cells are sometimes ciliated. In regard to the cells of the ground substance, he recognises (in the omentum of the rabbit) two kinds of lymphaugial structures— (a) Patches of cells more or less flattened and brauched, multiplying by division and producing free lymphoid cells. The branched cells lie in the lymph-canalicular system, together with the lymphoid cells. In these patches blood-vessels, at first absent, gradually appear in large numbers. The branched cells may undergo conversion into fat-cells. (5) Patches and tracts, the matrix of which consists of a reticulum, the meshes of which contain a variable number of lymphoid corpuscles. These also contain blood-vessels. The relations of the veins to the lymphatics, in which they are shown to be invaginated, are minutely described. In regard to the origin of the lymphatics, he describes them as commencing in a lymph-canalicular system of irregular stellate cavities, in which cell-like masses of protoplasm are contained. He distinguishes two kinds of stomata, stomata vera and stomata spuria, and shows that by means of the former a communication is established between the in- terior of the serous sacs and the lymphatics. Upon the whole he appears to demonstrate satisfactorily that the serous membranes are Bimple or unravelled lymphatic glands, and are subservient, besides the other purposes they fulfil to the formation of lymph-corpuscles, and therefore probably of blood. G-. Leopold 2 describes separately the lymphatics of the mucous membrane of the muscular and serous coats of the non-pregnant uterus. He shows that there are very fine trabecular in the mucous membrane, covered with endothelium, the in- terspaces of which form the lymph-spaces. The blood-vessels are enclosed in delicate endothelial sheaths. The muscular tissue of the 1 ' The Anatomy of the Lymphatic System. I. The Serous Membranes.' Pp. 98, with 10 plates. ' Proceed. Roy. Soc.,' Jan. 29, 1874. 2 'Archiv f. Gynrccol.,' Bd. vi, p. 1; "Die Lymph-gefasse des uormalen nicht ■ohwaageren Uterus,"