HAIR. 479 further observations on cases of sexual malformation which load to erro- neous registration and which are often lato, sometimes never, cleared up, the individual following the habits of the opposite sex. As a general rule, with proper precautions such errors may be avoided, yet cases occur in which considerable difficulty may be encountered. Tardieu describes the characters of ordinary cases of so-called hermaphroditism and the means of diagnosis. He considers that the chief errors are committed in reference to cases really of the male sex, but the subject of such sexual malformations as cryptorchism or hypospadia, so that they more or less resemble women, and especially, as sometimes happens, have the female habit. Such cases are the most important in a medico-legal point of view. Tardieu relates several cases, among others an interesting case of an individual who lived for 2a years as a woman and at the end of that time assumed her proper sex, when the error was discovered. Injuries from negligence, $c.—In a series of four articles1 Tardieu investigates in their forensic aspects, both in civil and criminal law, the various kinds of injuries and their consequences Which may arise from negligence, accident, and violence. The papers will not bear abstraction, but will be found to contain much that is interesting and important, if not altogether new. Hair.—Dr. Otto Oesterlen,2 of Tubingen, has published an elaborate and exhaustive critical memoir on human hair in its medico-legal aspects. This memoir will well repay the perusal of the medical jurist. It is, however, not suited for abstraction, its chief value lying rather in its criticisms on what was previously known than in new ob- servations. The paper, nevertheless, contains some valuable measure- ments of human hair under varying conditions. Vegetable filaments.—Dr. C. Eoncher3 contributes a paper, illustrated by beautiful coloured plates, on the vegetable fibres used in various industrial manufactures, and on the means of distinguishing them. Its perusal will be found to be of interest to the medical jurist and to the food analyst. 1 Ibid., 1871. ' ' Schmidt's Jahrb.,' clvii, p. 281. 3 ' Ann. d'Hyg.,' t. xxx, p. 64.