POISONS. 4G3 the symptoms of poisoning appoar, artificial respiration is to be com- menced and steadily sustained. At tho same tiino the body is carefully to be kept up to blood heat. The uriue is to be drawn at intervals and inoculated into smaller animals, such as. pigeons, mice, &c, in order to ascertain it* elimination is going on by that channel. Dr. Fayrer believes that whatever tho result may be in those cases in which an overwhelming quantity of poison has been injected, there can be no doubt that those cases in which a smaller quantity of poison has been injected, and which, if left to themselves, would end fatally, may, by artificial respiration, &c, be successfully treated. At any rate, Dr. Fayrer's treatment is rational and scientific, and as such is deserving of earnest consideration. It is to be regretted that Dr. Fayrer and his able coadjutor Dr. Brunton are unable to carry on further investigations, owing to the difficulty experienced in obtaining sufficient poison. Dr. Fayrer suggests that, in addition to the recommendations he has already offered, and which have been promulgated in some parts of India, artificial respiration and the application of warmth should be had recourse to. Mr. Richards, Civil Medical Officer of Balasore, has just completed a second series of experiments on Dr. Fayrer's treatment of snake- poisoning, and has obtained remarkably encouraging results. In one case the heart's action was sustained for 10 hours, though convulsions had set in when he commenced artificial respiration. He was compelled to stop the artificial respiration in this instance for want of assistance. In another case he kept up the heart's action for 24 hours and 35 min. Of this case he says : " This is, perhaps, the most remarkable case of its kind on record. The dog was, to all appearances, dead when the artificial respiration was commenced. Two hours and a half later convulsive movements were excited by the application of the galvanic current, but at 7 o'clock there was no response, and the body of the dog was cold. At this time the eyes presented a glazed appearance, being perfectly dry. The pupils were dilated, and the heart was beating feebly. Had artificial respiration been now stopped the heart would have ceased to beat ; almost at once." At noon the next day the dog appeared as if it would recover. " The . eyes had lost the glazed appearance, lachrymation was restored, and • there was winking of the lids on dropping water into the eye, attempts : at deglutition when water was put into the mouth, and the heart was I beating vigorously." It is more than probable that artificial respiration 1 was not perfect, even in this instance, as the nozzle of the bellows was : found to be partly filled with some hard substance, which had somewhat iimpeded the passage of air into the lungs. Mr. Richards thinks, how- ever, that the application of a ligature on the proximal side of the •bitten part is of the greatest importance, in order to prevent the ab- 1sorption—when reaction occurs—of any superabundant poison which . may be lying in the tissues about the bitten part. The poison evidently :acts primarily on the spinal cord and medulla oblongata, and only secon- darily on the cerebrum and cerebral ganglia. It is, of course, a great question whether the paralysing effects of