EXTRA-UTEUINE PREGNANCY. 423 and by the bowels and bladder. The left Fallopian tube opened directly into the sac. (' Obst. Journ.,' 1874.) Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson in a clinical lecture (' Lancet,' July 19, 187,3) gives au account of a case of extra-uterine foetation simulating ovarian dropsy. A married woman, aged 34, had a large freely fluctuating tumour in the abdomen ; it was firmer on the right side, but its Bhape was like a pregnant uterus; the patient said it had begun on the left side. She had been regular for the last six months, but prior to that there had been a period of nine months suspension, and she had thought herself pregnant; the tumour was carefully examined to discover a foetus, but failed; a preliminary tapping was advised, as the diagnosis of ovarian cyst was most probable. On tapping a dark brown fluid like linseed tea came away, 4 to 5 pints ; this more confirmed the diagnosis of ovarian cyst. Peritonitis set in, and the patient died 72 hours after. At the autopsy a tumour adherent everywhere to the abdominal walls and the omentum was found ; cutting into it a foetus macerated was seen; it was a female; at full term. The case was one of gestation in the left Fallopian tube; the uterus was pushed to the right side, and was in close connection with the walls of the cyst. This case, Mr. Hutchin- son points out, differs from the usual events in extra-uterine foetation, inasmuch as the cyst increased in size, becoming more distended; instead of lessening after the death of the foetus. A very similar case under the care of Mr. F. Hutchinson is alluded to, where ovarian cyst was diagnosed, and for the same reason; there, owing to adhesions, the tapping did not prove fatal. Mr. Hutchinson then considers the treat- ment of extra-uterine foetation cysts, and refers to the conclusions in his paper on this subject published in i860 ; he still maintains the opinion there expressed (' Medical Times and Gazette,' Aug. i860) that extra- uterine foetation cysts ought not to be meddled with in any way, either by puncture or incision, until suppuration has occurred and an abscess fistula has formed. Lawson Tait reports ('Medical Times and Gazette,' Aug. 1873) a case of extra-uterine foetation, occurring in a woman aged 32. She had had one child nine years ago. A retro-uterine tumour was punctured by the aspirator, and a few ounces of fluid were drawn, which was found to be liq. amnii; the cyst was then opened by the knife passed in along the needle of the aspirator, and an eight-months' foetus delivered; the placenta was then removed; it was found that the cyst was ruptured above, and several coils of intestine had protruded into it. The patient died in a few hours from exhaustion. Dr. Tenderini gives a detailed account ('II Eaccoghitore Med.,' 3 ser. xxiii, 4, 1873) of an extra-uterine pregnancy in which the foetal bones were expelled through the rectum ; the woman did well. The patient, aged 31, became pregnant whilst suckling her third child ; at the seventh month, labour pains set in, and a great discharge of blood from the vagina, for which a tampon was necessary. In the left hypogastric region, a smooth, rounded, painful tumour was felt; no heart sounds or foetal parts could be recognised. A few months after she passed, by rectum, a considerable quantity of stinking, purulent fluid, and later