EXTRA-UTERINE PREGNANCY. Gscheidlen has made a chemical examination of the fluid contained in the cysts of two cases of hydatidiform degeneration of the ovum. The first of these moles examined weighed about 2^ lbs., had deve- loped for four months and consisted of a mass of clear cysts varying in size from a pin's head to a pigeon's egg. The fluid from these cysts varied in consistence. From the smaller cysts it was thicker, and con- tained about 29 parts per 1000 solid matter; from the larger the fluid was thinner, and contained 17 parts per 1000 of solid matter. This solid matter was albumen, mucin, inorganic salts and phosphates. No traces of fibrinogenous substance, paralbumen, or sugar was detected. The second mole, 5 months old, weighed over 3 lbs., and was made up of large cysts. The result of the chemical examination was the same. Leucin and tyrosin, but in a much less quantity, were found in the fluid from both moles. The quantity of mucin in the fluid diminished with the age of the mole, whilst the albumen was increased. In the fluid from the 4 months-old mole the solid matter was 19 per 1000, in the 5 months-old mole 26 per 1000 ; comparing this with the amniotic fluid we see that the quantity of solid matter per 1000 lessens at each month. Thus Vogt found at the 4th month about 20 parts per 1000, at the 6th about 97 per 1000. Scherer found at term 8*^ per 1000. No leucin or tyrosin was found in two specimens of amniotic fluid examined. (' Archiv f. Gynak.,' vi, 2, 1874.) Extra-uterine Pregnancy. Mr. "W. Ross Jordan communicates ('Obst. Trans.,' 1873) a case of extra-uterine fcetation in a woman aged 29, who had been married one year. About term she had great pain for three or four days, and fancied she was in labour. After examination it was determined to use the aspirator, and a quantity of chocolate-coloured fluid was drawn off mixed with white flakes. Five hours after this gastrotomy was performed ; the placenta was left undisturbed, and the openings of the cyst and the abdominal walls werebrought together by sutures of carbolized catgut, leaving an open wound about 2^ inches long. The patient did well, large fragments of the placenta coming away about three weeks after. Mr. John Scott also related a case in a woman aged 3 2, on whom he was obliged to operate, threatening symptoms having set in after the aspirator had been used ; the placenta was left untouched ; the upper part of the abdominal wound was closed, the lower left open. The patient died 31 hours after the operation. Dr. A. Meadows then related a case of supposed extra-uterine fceta- tion for which gastrotomy was performed. The patient was aged 58, and had ceased to be regular nine years ago. She had pain in the abdo- men, which was enlarged by a tumour, and this she thought was due to the presence of a child ; 16 years ago she fancied she was pregnant, and in due time had labour-pains, but no child came. A tumour the size of the uterus at term was found on examination. The uterus was high up, cervix small. The sound went 2-i- inches. After a consultation, to clenr up all doubts, an exploratory incision was made five inches long.