271 BLOODLESS SURGERY. wound. There appeared, he said, to be some transient paralysis of the vessels, produced by the application of the riug, as on its removal the limb became intensely red, as if attacked with erysipelas. Along with this the haemorrhage from the minute vessels is, perhaps, more abundant than under other circumstances, but beyond this there does not appear to be any disadvantage. Langenbeck repeats the caution which had already been given by Esmarch in his article in ' Volkmann's Sammlung,' that much care is required in applying the apparatus in cases of disease of the limbs attended with putrid discharges or in cases of soft and easily friable tumours, lest poisonous materials should be forced into the blood. Again, in applying the method in cases of amputation of the upper limb, there is danger of producing paralysis of the radial or of the uluar nerve, by pressing these nerves too closely against the bone. In two cases of operation for pseudarthrosis of the humerus, Lan- genbeck observed temporary paralysis of the branches of the median nerve. In a case of operation for necrosis of the humerus, in which the use of Esmarch's method greatly aided the surgeon, there was complete paralysis of the median nerve, which still continued when the patient left the hospital at the end of three weeks. To avoid these occurrences, Dr. Langenbeck has ceased from using the india-rubber tubing in operations on the upper extremity, but, after bandaging the limb, he applies a second india-rubber bandage firmly round the upper third of the arm, and fastens it with pins. In this way he has been able to perform operations without loss of blood and without injuring the nerves. In the course of the discussion which followed the reading of the paper Prof, von Langenbeck said that he had, up to that time, used Esmarch's method in thirty cases, and that it was successful in preventing loss of blood in all except three operations on the lower extremities. The projections of bone in the neighbourhood of the knee- joint often prevented efficient compression of the popliteal artery. Herr Bardeleben said that for ten years he had used vulcanized india- rubber bandages for the purpose of producing constriction, but that they did not succeed so well as wet bandages. Before applying Esmarch's apparatus the limb should be raised, and the artery com- pressed, till pulsation could no longer be felt in the posterior tibial. He had, under Esmarch's method, performed exarticulation of a metacarpal bone on account of disease following gunshot injury, without any loss of blood and without injuring the nerves. He had also performed a resection of the tarsus, an amputation through the ankle, and an amputation of the leg; the method succeeded in all the cases, but was followed in the last two by rather abundant haemor= rhage. Prof. Vanzetti states in the ( G-azzetta Medica Italiana Prov. Ven.,' No. 23, 1873, that he had been for several years accustomed, in per- forming amputations, to bandage the limb tightly from its extremity upwards as far as the part to be operated on ; and then, having held the limb in as elevated a position as possible for some minutes, to fasten an elastic bandage round it. The result in most cases was that not a drop of blood escaped from the stump.