370 REPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. from the same affection. The total number of persons amounts to fifteen, but only nine of these were examined. If the cases mentioned by Graefc are added, we find that eighteen persons were affected in five families. A comparison of the cases examined shows that heredi- tary amaurosis depends on a neuritis of the optic nerve-trunk, which commences either as retro-ocular neuritis, or as a neuro-retinitis, and results in partial, or in rare cases total, atrophy of the optic nerves. The author then considers the symptoms which the disease produces, and more particularly central scotoma; colour blindness; the assertion of the patients that they see better in the evening or in the shade than in clear daylight, this applying also to cases, generally, of Graefe's retro-ocular neuritis; subjective sensations of light and colours; un- usually marked variations in the amount of vision in two patients of the same family within a short time ; the fact that both eyes were affected; the amount of vision remaining to the patients ; and the applicability of the term retro-ocular neuritis to the cases. In some there was a decided affection of the optic disc and of the adjacent retina. As, however, these changes bore no relation to the gravity of the cases, and as, from other reasons, he concludes that the chief mischief was located . in the trunk of the nerve, even for these cases the name retro-ocular neuritis is justifiable. At the same time the term inflammation of the optic nerve-trunk would apply to all the cases, as it would not exclude an affection of the disc. The ophthalmoscope rarely showed a normal fundus. There frequently existed a slight haziness of the margins of the disc and hyperemia of the vessels, or even a distinct but slight neuro-retinitis, and often there were fine white streaks along the vessels or patches of exudation on the disc. A figure of such a case is given. Once a considerable injection of the small retinal vessels was noticed, especially in the neighbourhood of the yellow spot. He parti- cularly calls attention to the fact that the arteries in this stage were not smaller than natural, as is frequently the case in optic neuritis, but were either normal or dilated. In the later stages, atrophy of the disc and moderate diminution in the size of the retinal vessels result. Etiology.—In two of the families actual inheritance in a collateral line was noted. In the other two, and in Graefe's, there was only a con- genital predisposition. The latter is closely connected to the former, and is evidenced by several members of the same generation being j affected. Collateral inheritance is a connecting link between these two. Direct inheritance has not come under the author's notice, but instances are given amongst those cited. The parents were not related, before marriage, in any of the cases. As in two of the cases, the mother remained free whilst her brothers were affected, it would | appear that men are more liable than women. In the first family the only daughter alone remained unaffected. In the second, of three sons i and three daughters, two daughters and one son escaped. In the third, ; of one son and three daughters, two daughters escaped. Women are 1 not exempt. In each of the second and third families a daughter M as i affected, and in these instances it would appear that if women are attacked, the disease runs a more acute course or attains a higher degree of severity. The age at which the patients were affected varied in