263 DRESSING OF WOUNDS. or boracic acid for some days previously, and the part from which the grafts are taken is also purified. A small piece of epidermis is raised with a sharp scalpel passed only just sufficiently deep to draw blood, and divided on the thumb-nail (which has been washed with boracic lotion) into pieces not larger than a small pin's head ; these are placed on the granulating surface, which is covered with a dressing of pro- tective and boracic lint. Boracic spray is used during this process and any subsequent dressing. Various cases of amputation, removal of tumours, abscesses, compound fracture, excision of knee, &c, are detailed. ('Lancet,' May 17 and 24, 1873.) Mr. D. J. Hamilton writes on the more recent methods of treat- ing wounds on antiseptic principles, from an experience of over three thousand cases. (' Liverpool and Manchester Med. and Surg. Eep.,' 1873, 140.) Mr. Sampson Gamgee gives an account of a visit to Mr. Lister's wards, and makes some interesting remarks on the subject of the antiseptic treatment of wounds. (' Lancet,' Jan. 3 and 10, 1874.) Mr. Lund writes on the fallacies and failures of antiseptic surgery. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 18, 1873.) Resin cloth and carbolic acid in the treatment of wounds.-—Mr. Lund saturates very thin calico with a mixture of resin and carbolic acid. "When carbolic acid is mixed with resin, it is deprived of its irritating qualities, but its antiseptic properties are not diminished. The resin cloth, when properly made, is as efficient as the gauze, and much less expensive. ('Med. Times and Gazette,' July 19, 1873; 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 6, 1873.) A new form of apparatus for producing an antiseptic spray.—Mr. Lister describes a self-acting and self-directing apparatus on the plan of Siegle's steam spray inhaler, made larger and stronger and other- wise modified. The nozzle moves on a hinge, to allow it to be directed to any point. A safety valve is added, and a window constructed to allow of inspection of the quantity of fluid in the boiler. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' July, 1874.) Snow as a means of cleaning operation wounds and arresting haemor- rhage.—Hasse, of Nordhausen, in the ' Centralblatt fur Chirurg.,' No. 38, 1874, states that he has several times used snow while performing the operation of tracheotomy. If some loose snow be collected in the hand and pressed firmly on the wound for a few seconds, it passes into all the crevices, and, on removal, presents a complete cast of the wound, the part remaining for some time free from blood, and its sensibility is reduced. He says that the snow absorbs the effused blood better than a sponge; it acts also by the equal pressure which is produced, and by the constringent action of cold on the small vessels, and also as an anaesthetic on the nerves. By the repeated application of loose snow from time to time the field of operation is kept free from blood, and less chloroform is necessary than would otherwise be used. This treatment is, of course, only available where snow is to be had, and in collecting the snow care must be taken that it is clean and loose. Treatment of amputation and other wounds.—Mr. Callender insists