492 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. pressed air; and Dr. Macpherson1 has put the memoir into an English dress. Baths in typhus.—Dr. W. Bresslauer2 deduces the following conclu- sions from his observations on an epidemic of typhus fever in 1870-1871. (1.) A cold bath (64^°—71?° Fahr.) of fifteen to twenty minutes' duration reduced the temperature in the axilla about 3^° Fahr. (2.) Immediately after the bath the temperature in the axilla began to rise till, in two or three hours, it had attained its original height; and this was exceeded at the customary time of the daily exacerbation. (3.) The frequency of the pulse was lowered by 20 or 30 beats per minute. (4.) The number of respirations was also diminished. This was very manifest where there was extensive affection of the lungs. The difference in the number of respirations was often as much as 10—25. (5.) The condition of the patients was much improved by the use of the bath, so that they felt much less lassitude, had less thirst, the sensorium was clearer ; and where there was hypostasis of the lungs cough and expect- oration became freer. (6.) The supervention of pulmonary hypostasis from decubitus or from metastasis in any manner, was not prevented by the cold water treatment. (7.) On the other hand, patients with severe lung affections were not injured by cold bathing. (8.) When typhus supervenes on mercurial tremors, the bath is contra-indicated, but not when typhus occurs in drunkards. (9.) Rigors occured, and the patients were the more susceptible to cold the more they were ill- nourished before the attack of fever, and the farther the disease had advanced and the greater the exhaustion of the patients. The resist- ance to cold and the abundance of the rigors were in inverse ratio. (10.) After the subsidence of the fever convalescence was very rapid. It is evident that after cold water treatment the patients passed more readily into the stage of convalescence than with another kind of treat- ment. (11.) Of a hundred cases treated in this manner only 10 per cent. died. " Typhus " is taken as including true typhus and enteric fevers. Scholz3 in a report on the cold water treatment of enteric fever in the Bremen Hospital highly recommends the method of treatment from the good results in cases under his care. Of 125 cases occurring between the ages of 15 and 30, so treated, only five died, i.e. four per cent. The only contraindication to the use of the latter is intestinal haemor- rhage, on account of the changes incurred in moving the patient. In such cases iced water to the abdomen had beneficial effects. Cases of the disease occurring in drunkards do not seem to be fit subjects for this treatment, as the temperature never arises so high as in ordinary cases. Bauer,4 from a comparative statistical account of a great number of cases of typhus in the Munich Hospital, finds that—(1) The mortality in general is diminished by the cold water treatment. (2) The mor- 1 ' Lond. Med. Rec.,' ii, p. 472. 2 ' Strieker's Jahrb.,' f. 1871, p. 537. 3 ' Deutsch. Archiv f. Klin. Med.,' ix, 176. * ' Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,' 1872, 287.