475 PREGNANCY. sanioas during life. .3. These oases bavo been observed not only where death has been of a sudden and instantaneously destructive character, but also where death could have been foreseen, and where it has been met calmly. 4. This form of cadaveric rigidity is independent of the part wounded: it has been observed after wounds of the head, chest, and belly. It affects not only muscles tetanically contracted, but also those only moderately contracted. The rationale of this form of cada- veric rigidity has not been satisfactorily determined. Cadaveric rigidity.—Eossbach1 relates a number of cases observed on the battle-fields of Beaumont and Sedan, where the corpses had become rigid in the exact position they had assumed just before death, even when such position was opposed to the action of gravitation. Among these were cases not only of sudden death, but also where death had taken place slowly, the individual being fully conscious of his approaching end. The expression of the countenance, the position of the hands, &c, were all as retained in rigid sculpture. The explanation cannot be a more tetanic contraction of the muscle at the moment of death. The cadaveric rigidity must have come on between the last moment of life and the first moment of death and not later, otherwise the muscles must have become relaxed or the position of the limbs altered by the action of gravity. The cause of this condition is not yet explained. It has oiten been attributed to the mere suddenness of death, but from the cases related it cannot be so. Brinton's idea that the cardaveric spasm is due to injury of the central nervous system Eossbach thinks is not in harmony with what he himself saw, as the condition was observed in wounds of various kinds, not necessarily affecting the brain or spinal cord. On this point, however, further investigations are required. Rate of cooling of the body after death. — John C. Draper,2 in making some experiments on the heat produced in the body and the effects of exposure to cold, has ascertained a fact of considerable importance from a medico-legal point of view, especially in estimating the time a body has been immersed in water after recent drowing. It is this : that if the body be immersed in water at 730 F., the tempera- ture of the air being 8^°^go° F., enough heat is lost in the course of an hour to cool the body five degrees, at least during the first hour. This datum may also serve as a guide to the determination of the state of cooling of a body immersed in water at other common temperatures. Pregnancy.—M. Stoltz,8 of Nancy, gives a valuable resumt of the medico-legal aspects of pregnancy. The principal questions relative thereto are discussed, but the paper is not well fitted for useful abstraction. Imperforate hymen.—Dr. K. Braun4 relates two cases of pregnancy occurring with imperforate hymens, in which it is impossible that there could have been intromission of the penis. He is of opinion that during coitus the womb was pressed down so that the os uteri was 1 ' Virchow's Archiv,' li, p. 558. 2 ' Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.' [3], iii, p. 445. 3 'Ann. d'Hyg.,' t. xxx, p. 137. * ' Vrtljhrsschr. f. Gerichtl. Med.,' xix, p. 197.