GLANDS. 19 without coincident compression of the hepatic artery, caused sudden arrest of the flow of bile, which recommenced to be discharged if the arrest was brief, but not otherwise. Compression of the thoracic aorta immediately above the diaphragm caused considerable diminution, but not complete arrest of the flow of bile, the continuance of the secretion being perhaps due to the presence of anastomosing branches of the intercostal arteries. Other experiments on the vena cava and abdominal aorta showed that the formation of bile is not entirely governed by the degree of blood pressure in the capillaries of the liver. Venesection arrested the flow of bile; injection of water into the intestinal canal increased it. Irritation of the mucous membrane of the whole length of the intestinal canal, and of the peritoneal layer in its abdominal part, by various agents was without effect in increasing the amount of the secretion, yet it was augmented by various purgatives; as croton oil, colocynth and jalap, aloes and rhubarb, senna; more feebly by sulphate of magnesia, and still less strongly by castor oil. Section of the splanchnics caused slight increase; section of the spinal cord in the cervical region considerable increase. Keflex irritation of the cord, as by irritation of the crural vein, caused diminution of the flow; with suspension of respiration, the flow diminished. J. Munk,1 in a paper on the effects of irritation of the sensory nerves on the excretion of bile, states that Heidenhain and his pupils found that when the spinal cord was directly irritated by electrical currents in the cervical and upper dorsal region, there was first a stage of increase and then a stage in which less bile was secreted. Rbhrig, as above stated, irritating the cord in a reflex manner, only observed diminution of the flow, and no preliminary stage of increase, but Munk, repeating Rohrig's mode of experimentation, found that there was a primary stage of augmented secretion. Munk also found that excita- tion of the splanchnics is followed by the same effect as the direct or reflectorial excitation of the spinal cord. Plosz2 has investigated the albuminous substances of the hepatic cells. Fresh sections of liver, he remarks, have always an alkaline reaction, but they soon become acid. In order to investigate the changes that occur, he removes all the fluids naturally present by weak injections of 075 per cent, of chloride of sodium. He then minces the tissue and treats it with the same solution. After setting aside and removing the supernatant fluid, he finds that this contains : (1) an albuminous substance, resembling that found by Ktihne in muscular fibre, which coagulates at 450 C.; (2) an albuminous nuclein compound, which coagulates at 70° C, resembling that found by Miescher in the nuclei of pus-cells, and then, if the remains of the mince be treated with a 10 per cent, solution of common salt, a myosin-like substance, coagulating at 7 50 C, is obtained, whilst the remains still contain nuclein. Livee.—An important paper on the structure and function of the liver has been written by Dr. G-. Asp.3 The animal he selected for observa- 1 Munk, " TJeber den Einflusa sensiblen Ileizung auf die Gallenauschcidung," in 'Pfluger's Archiv,' Band viii, p. 151. s Pfluger's Archiv,' B. vii, p. 371, and abstract, and 'Lancet,' Oct. 18, 1873. 3 G. Asp,"ZurADat. u. Physiol, der Leber," 'Ludwig's Arbeiten,' B. vii, 1873, p. 124.