498 JlEPOltT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. missioners,1 the pollution arising from mining operations and metal manufactures is dealt with. The degree of pollution arising from these causes was found to vary greatly. The chief pollution arises from the suspended matters thrown into the streams; but in the case of metal manufactures considerable quantites of acid waste are allowed to flow into the water-courses. A system of subsidence is recom- mended, as in this way the greater portion of the suspended matter from mining operations is speedily removed; whilst the acid refuse ought to be saved aud made remunerative. It is advised that coal be treated as a mineral. The Commissioners advise that the following liquids be deemed polluting, and inadmissible into any stream :— (a) Any liquid which has not been subjected to perfect rest in sub- sidence ponds of sufficient size for a period of at least six hours, or which, having been subjected to subsidence, contains in suspension more than one part by weight of dry organic matter in 100,000 parts by weight of the liquid, or which, not having been so subjected to subsidence, contains in suspension more than three parts by weight of dry mineral matter, or one part by weight of dry organic matter in 100,000 parts by weight of the liquid. (b) Any liquid containing in solution more than two parts by weight of organic carbon, or three parts by weight of organic nitrogen in 100,000 parts by weight. (c) Any liquid which shall exhibit by daylight a distinct colour when a stratum of it one inch deep is placed in a white porcelain or earthen- ware vessel. (d) Any liquid which contains in solution in 100,000 parts by weight more than two parts by weight of any metal except calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium. (e) Any liquid which in 100,000 parts by weight contains, whether in solution or suspension, in chemical combination or otherwise, more than 0-5 part by weight of metallic arsenic. (/) Any liquid which, after acidification with sulphuric acid, con- tains in 100,000 parts by weight more than one part by weight of free chlorine. (g) Any liquid which contains in 100,000 parts by weight more than one part by weight of sulphur, in the condition either of sul- phuretted hydrogen or of a soluble sulphuret. (h) Any liquid possessing an acidity greater than that which is produced by adding two parts by weight of real muriatic acid to 1000 parts by weight of distilled water. (i) Any liquid possessing an alkalinity greater than that produced by adding" one part by weight of dry caustic soda to 1000 parts by weight of distilled water. (k) Any liquid exhibiting a film of petroleum or hydrocarbon oil upon its surface, or containing in suspension in 100,000 parts more than 0*5 part of such oil. The Commissioners are of opinion that inspectors should be appointed, and that a law to prevent the pollution of rivers and streams should— 1 ' Blue Book.'