510 ItEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. Distinct bacteria were observed in one or two instances only, and then in very small quantities; but all the preparations abounded more or less in minute monad-like molecules and globules of an undefined nature. Bodies which could be supposed to represent or belong to the higher infusoria hardly ever occurred." Pollen grains, especially of the grasses, were generally observed, and spores constantly, and generally in considerable numbers. No connection was traced between the floating particles and diseases but during the time of observation (February to September) there was scarcely any cholera in the gaols. The air of the Calcutta sewers was also examined. Oily matter was present in considerable quantity, and bacteria were found in half the specimens of air examined. The great prevalence of bacteria in sewer- air makes Cunningham think that Cohn's surmise may be true ■ that it is not that they are not present in atmospheric air, but that they are not recognisable, because it requires that a large quantity of aqueous vapour shall be present in order that they shall exhibit their character- istic appearance. Dr. Cunningham gives his conclusions thus: 1. The aeroscope affords a very convenient method for obtaining specimens really representing the nature of the true atmospheric dust. 2. Specimens of dust washed from exposed surfaces cannot be regarded as fair indices of the constituents of atmospheric dust, since they are liable to contain bodies which may have reached the surface otherwise than by means of the air, as well as others which are the result of local development. 3. Specimens collected by gravitation also fail to indicate the nature and amount of organic cells contained in the atmosphere, as the heavier amorphous and inorganic constituents of the dust are deposited in relative excess, due to the method of collection. 4. Dew also fails to afford a good means of investigating the subject, as it is impossible to secure that all the bodies really present in a speci- men of it should be collected in a sufficiently small space, and moreover because it is liable to accidental contaminations, and also affords a medium in which rapid growth and development are likely to take place. 5. Distinct infusorial animalcules, their germs or ova, are almost entirely absent from atmospheric dust, and even from many specimens of dust collected from exposed surfaces. 6. The circomonads and amoeba? appearing in certain specimens of pure rain water appear to be zoospores developed from the mycelial filaments arising from common atmospheric spores. 7. Distinct bacteria can hardly ever be detected among the constitu- ents of atmospheric dust, but fine molecules of uncertain nature are almost always present in abundance; they frequently appear in speci- mens of rain-water, collected with all precautions to secure purity, and appear in many cases to arise from the mycelium developed from atmospheric spores. 8. Distinct bacteria are frequently to be found amongst the particles