*M REPORT ON SURGERY. appears to be less than after secondary. Conservative treatment accomplishes little. Ankle-joint.—In regard to this joint, resection is not to be compared with conservative treatment, which may be carried out to a great ex- tent, but rather, in many cases, is to be regarded as a substitute for amputation. In conservative treatment and after resection the chief object is to obtain anchylosis in a good position. Wounds of the cap. sule and gunshot wounds perforating the astragalus are alone adapted for conservative treatment. In cases of shattering of the bones of the ankle-joint by shot of heavy calibre, primary resection should not be performed, but the surgeon should place the joint in an immovable apparatus and wait for a favorable time for secondary resection. Langenbeck has seen equally good results from both partial and entire resection of the ankle ; partial resection is, therefore, to be preferred, care being taken to allow a free exit to the discharges from the wound. In cases of gunshot fracture of the lower end of the fibula alone (with one exception) Langenbeck has removed the external malleolus and the upper articulating surface of the artragalus. In extensive fracture of the astragalus, with pieces of shot remaining in the bone, Langen- beck recommends excision of the bone alone. The reproduction of bone after this operation is usually abundant; this is probably attribut- able to the ligamentous apparatus, especially the interosseous ligament. Langenbeck has never seen healing follow total resection of the joint on account of caries, but Hiiter's experience is more favorable. (' Archiv fur Klinische Chirurgie,' xvi.) Osseous tumour or enostosis of frontal sinus and orbit; removal; recovery. —Mr. Bryant relates the case and remarks on this kind of tumour. The patient was a man, 24 years of age. The growth had been noticed about five years. Illustrations are given. ('Guy's Hosp. Eep.,'xix, 102.) Orbital sarcoma treated successfully by excision and cautery.—Mr, Carter records a case of orbital sarcoma treated by removal of the eye and eyelids and contents of orbit, application of a hot iron to check haemorrhage, and then chloride of zinc paste. In conjunction with other cases Mr. Carter thinks this one pleads powerfully for the early and complete removal of cancer wherever such removal is practicable and the danger of delay. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vii, 62.) 'Removal of an encysted tumour of the neck weighing over one and a half pounds.—Dr. Davis records the case. The patient, a man, set. 35, recovered well from the operation. The tumour was very deeply situated and the haemorrhage very considerable. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' April, 1873.) Sarcoma in scapular region; removal; death.—A girl, set. 16, came under the care of Mr. Henry Smith for tumours in the supra- and infra- spinous fossae of the scapula. They were removed without touching the bone. On the fifth day, the temperature and pulse rose and the patient died a week later. (' Lancet,' Jan. 24, 1874.) On the extirpation of enlarged lymphatic glands.—Mr. Eushton Parker details twenty-six operations for the removal of enlarged lymphatic glands. In twenty instances the removal was completely successful.