4 ItEPOItT ON PHYSIOLOGY. osmic acid as small black particles—1st, arranged in lines between or around the epithelial cells; 2ndly, in the basement membrane; 3rdly, in the connective-tissue stroma of the villus, whence it can be traced into the lymph-vessel. This indicates, he thinks, that the fat is absorbed by the processes of the connective tissue which exist between the epithelial cells and thence finds its way by the connective-tissue stroma to the lymph-vessel. The reticulum of the nucleated cells of the mucosa forms a special sheath to the vessels and unstriped muscular tissue. Mr. "Watney adds a few words on the state of the mucous glands of the tongue, when at rest and during secretion. V. Braam Houckgeest1 has investigated the question of the mode of action of the splanchnics in inhibiting the move- ments of the intestines, whether directly or indirectly,through their action on the vessels or not, and pronounces decidedly in favour of the former view, since when the intestines were placed in a warm weakly saline solution the movements could be arrested without the intestines becoming pale. S. v Basch2 believes he has been able to show that the restraining influence of the splanchnics upon the movements of the intestine is not due to any direct inhibitory action on the muscular tissue, but to their vaso-motor power, in consequence of which the vessels, being contracted, cease to convey or convey in but small proportion the agents exciting the intestines to contract. Ludwig v. Thanhoffer3 has given an elaborate account of the epithelium of the intestinal canal, which he has examined both in frogs and in mammals. He finds the cells have open mouths at their free extremities ; the margin is thickened and highly refractile, and when looked down upon vertically the bright borders (wahre Basalsaiime) of adjoining cells seem to be continuous and to form a mosaic. The thickness of the basal border varies in different cells. Brettauer and Steinach described this border as splitting up into ciliaform processes, but v. Thanhoffer maintains that these are altogether distinct from the true basal border, being situated immediately to its inner side, and being projections of the protoplasmic contents of the cells. In frogs the processes are longer, and in winter he has observed them performing active movements, the effect of which was to favour the entrance of oil globules into the mouth of the cells. Bile and fat in emulsion seemed to excite the movements of the processes, water to arrest them. At their attached extremities the cells appear to be connected with two processes, one of which is continuous with the connective-tissue- corpusclc's of the matrix of the villi, whilst the other presents the closest rescmblauce in form, connection, and chemical character, with nerve-tissue, and penetrating the foot of the cell may be traced to the nucleus. The peculiar cup cells, thought by Letzerich to be the true commencement of the absorbents and by Schultze to be mucus-glands, V. Thanhoffer regards as ordinary columnar cells, modified only by certain physiological processes. He describes both longitudinally and circularly arranged muscular fibre-cells as existing in the villi. Charles Williams4 shows by experiments on the passage of oil through plaster of Paris uuder pressure that alkalies and the like favour its absorption, i ' Pfliigcr's Archiv/ B. viii, p. 163. 2 ' Wiener med. Jahrb.,' 1874, p. 45- a «Pfliigcr's Archiv,' 1874, P- 39>• * ' Bost- Mcd- aud Sur^ Journ" MnJ'» l87*