216 REPORT ON SURGERY. showed that the humerus had a little spicula of hone attached to its shaft which was the immediate cause of the rupture. The vessel itself ■was very atheromatous. The head of the hone had during the compara- tively short period of seven weeks formed for itself a false glenoid cavity. It was instructive to note that this cavity was not only of car- tilaginous texture, but even exhibited traces of osseous development. ('Med. Times and Gazette,' Feb. i, 1873; and'Edin. Med. Jour.,' March, 1873, p. 829.) Rupture of the axillary vein during efforts at reduction of a dis- location of six weeks' standing.—Dr. D. II. Agnew reports the following case (' Phil. Med. Times,' Aug. 16, 1873). The patient was a female, aged 60. Steady and persevering extension was exerted for several minutes while an assistant's hand was held in the axilla to guide the head of the bone towards the glenoid cavity. A sudden, increasing swelling appeared over the right pectoral region, distending in an instant the entire breast, rendering it exceedingly prominent and form- ing a firm, but fluctuating tumour. The patient instantly became cold and collapsed ; respiration ceased and the pulse could not be felt. The subclavian was compressed, the tongue drawn forwards, and colddouches, ammonia, artificial respiration, &c, tried. She rallied, and on relaxing pressure it was found that the radial pulse on that side was as strong as on the other. The tumour was not tense and distended and did not seem filling with any force. Firm compresses were applied and stimu- lants and heat tried. The swelling slowly increased backwards, but did not become more tense. In ten days she was discharged from the ward, and in ten weeks had recovered with a stiff arm, the humerus seeming to be forming a new articular facet. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Oct. 1873.) Subclavian aneurism ; temporary compression of the innominate fol- lowed by ligature ; death from hcemorrhage.—Mr. Bickersteth records the case of a man, aged 40, in whom he reflected a flap of skin upwards from the right sterno-clavicular region, divided the sterno-mastoid, &c, muscles, exposed the innominate, passed a lead wire behind it, and then exercised compression by passing the wire through apertures in a bar placed in front of the artery and then drawing the wire tight. The pulsation was completely checked. In about 48 hours it was found that the wire had given away. A double silk ligature was then applied above and below the part affected by pressure from the wire. Haemor- rhage occurred on the seventh day subsequently and proved fatal on the following day. The aneurismal sac was filled with clot and the in- nominate from its origin to the point of ligature was filled with a firm, closely fitting plug of fibrin, but from the ligature to bifurcation and along* the common carotid and subclavian arteries there was no clot. The haemorrhage proceeded from the distal side of the upper of the two ligatures, which had partially cut through the vessel. (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' lv, p. 129.) Treatment of subclavian aneurism.—Mr. Poland continues his statis- tical report on the treatment of subclavian aneurism by detailing the cases in which a ligature was applied to the first portion of the subclavian artery. A tabular statement is given and then the gases are grouped