372 UEl'ORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. Archives,' gives the results of his clinical observations on choroiditis syphilitica. Objective symptoms.—He thinks the complication of very fine dust- like opacities of the vitreous is seldom absent, and is a very early symptom. These opacities are especially found at the posterior, lower, and central portions of the vitreous humour, the upper and lateral portions being generally freer from them. This he has observed to pass into such a dense opacity that the optic disc was no longer visible, though more frequently he has had the opportunity to observe the clearing of the vitreous. It is usually very obstinate, and some remains of the opacity are left after the diseased process is passed, causing the vessels of the retina, the inner side of the optic disc, and the central portion of the retina to have a grey veiling over them, the periphery being generally free. The changes of the retinal vessels, apart from this veiling of the central ones, he thinks are trifling, and not to be relied upon. Circumscribed changes in the red colour of the retinal ground, he says, are present in at least a third of the case?, are moro frequent in the region of the macula, and consist of groups of light red or white spots, and sometimes of larger light-grey spots. These must be carefully looked for, as they are not always very apparent. The usually recognised pigment changes come much later. Subjective symptoms.—These are important. The acuteness of vision is in mild cases lowered to £ or \, but without much objective change may go to -fo or -j^. The peculiarity of the defective vision is, that the fixation point itself is fairly seen, while there is a more or lesB regular ring-formed defeat round it, the periphery still acting properly. The defect may run out to the periphery of the field of vision here and there, leaving the visus reticulatus, which is the result of this affection more often than of any other. In the first stage small defects of vision towards the blind spot may be seen, which do not give a bad prognosis. TIemei'alopia is a highly constant symptom, which Professor Forster measures by means of his " Lichtsinnmesser." The light perception he finds much more lowered than the acuteness of vision, and the light perception can undergo considerable deterioration, although the acuteness of vision is very little altered. Sometimes the hemeralopia is present only on certain parts of the field of vision. Another very constant symptom he believes to be subjective light sensations, generally in the region of the fixation point, consisting of transparent spots in the form of discs, rings, or oval figures, which move with a shaky velocity. These, if lasting, prove a defect, which may be found if carefully looked for. This photopsy passes away if the patient is kept at rest, but any excitement of the circulation is sufficient to call it up. Micropsy, as noticed by Mooren and Schweigger, is also sometimes present/depending, Forster thinks, on the retinal change, and not on the accommodative apparatus. The accommodation is lessened, and he thinks he has observed a degree of myopia developed during the course of the affection, but never any hypermetropia. Iritis is not uncommon, either before the choroditis or succeeding it, but it does not produce lasting posterior synechia^ does not go the length of the closure of the