THE PUE11PERAL STATE. 441 diminishes the pain. It may be given to weak, norvous, and irritable women. It should not be given in affections of tho heart or vessels of the lungs or neck, or in any condition which tends to syncope, anasmia, &c. IV. The Puebperai/ State. Dr. Playfair in a paper on puerperal thrombosis (' Obst. Soc. Trans.,' 1874) points out that, on account of its tangible symptoms, attention has been chiefly directed to only one of its manifestations—phlegmasia dolena. He discusses at some length the analogies between this and thrombotic affections in other parts of the body, especially in the heart and pulmonary arteries, and brings forward many arguments to prove their essential identity. In considering the question of spontaneous thrombosis and embolism, he argues in opposition to the view of Virchow and other writers, that the former was a possible though a rare affection. After discussing the anatomical conditions accompanying puerperal thrombosis and cerebral thrombosis and embolism, the author proceeds to consider the possibility of eventual recovery after pulmonary obstruc- tion, bringing forward several illustrative cases, and concludes by dis- cussing the treatment. Dr. Morton, writing on the treatment of puerperal septicaemia by elimination (' Obst. Jour.,'Sept. 1873), gives the details of six cases which presented the following features: rigors at the onset, rapid pulse, 120—140; temperature from 101°—1040, sometimes io5°to 1060; sup- pression of the milk and lochia, abdominal pains, headache, tongue dry and brown, or dry, red, and glazed. The author's rule of treatment is never to repress diarrhoea; when there is improvement without it to let well alone ; when no improvement without it, to lose no time in setting it up. The purgative employed was calomel, 3—5 gr., either with Dover's powder or compound colocynth pill; opium, should not be given unless with calomel. The sulphite of soda was also given, though the author does not think it does much good. Dr. Tilt read a paper on lymphangitis in pelvic pathology (' Trans. Obst. Soc.,' 1874). Dr. J. J. Phillips relates a case of urgent and prolonged dyspnoea coming on suddenly after labour in a patient set. 36. The dyspnoea was most urgent; respirations 48 and pulse 144, very small; the respiratory murmur was heard over the chest in front and behind. First sound of heart muffled ; otherwise the sounds were normal. The history of the symptoms pointed to a coagulum in the pulmonary artery. Brandy in repeated doses was given, with at first 5-grain doses, then 10 of the carbonate of ammonia. She was better the next morning, and then gradually improved. Dr. "Wiltshire writes on continuous discharges after delivery (' Obst. Jour.,' 1873). Dr. Milne writes on the causation, effects, and treatment of uterine subinvolution ('Edin. Med. Jour.,' 1873). Dr. Angus MacDonald in a paper read before the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society (' Edin. Med. Jour.,' June, 1873), on latent gonor- rhoea in the female, supports Dr, E. Noeggerath s views, and thinks