499 IMPURE MILK. (1) Absolutely forbid under adequate penalties the casting of solid matters iuto river channels. (2) Enact the foregoing standards of purity, below which any liquid discharges into water courses should, with the exceptions already mentioned, be forbidden. (3) Give power to all manufacturers in towns, except those of gas, paraffin oil, pyroligneous acid, animal charcoal, tin-plate, and galvanised iron, to discharge their drainage waters into the town sewers under suitable regulations. (4) Confer additional powers on corporations, looal boards, manu- facturers, and mine owners to take land compulsorily under provisional order for the purpose of storing their waste refuse, or of cleansing sewage or other foul liquids, either by irrigation, filtration, or otherwise. Impure milk as a source of disease.1—Dr. T. P. Crothers, of Albany, New York, publishes a most instructive essay on impure milk as a source of disease. The article is of especial value when read by the light of the facts of late ascertained respecting the propagation of enteric fever by means of milk adulterated with water. Dr. Crothers thus summarises his conclusions :—1. Milk coming from ill-nourished, half-fed cows, having no surplus of food beyond the minimum require- ments of nature, is injurious, and may be the source of disease. 2. Cows deprived of abundance of good water, ventilation, and exercise secrete impure and dangerous mdk, which may be loaded with gases, animalcule and fever germs. 3. The milk from old, debilitated cows fed on grains or overstimulating food, is also imperfect and unhealthy to a variable degree. 4. The nervous condition of the cow at the time of milking determines the purity of the milk. If this be neg- lected the milk is an active source of disease, positively dangerous and fatal. 5. Milk adulterated with water is always liable to contain poi- sonous elements, particularly so in the spring of the year, when all spring and well water is more or less contaminated with surface drainage. This is the most common adulteration and probably the most dangerous. 6. Experience has shown that the milk of one cow, unless the exact circumstances and conditions are known, is not supe- rior to the aggregate milk of the whole dairy. 7. Eacts show that milk is the prolific source of many diseases now obscure, and unless careful inquiry is made into the condition and surroundings from which we receive our supply, we neglect a sanitary measure of great importance. Cholera. Cholera in Northern India.—After a period of comparative immunity during 1870-71, Northern India was in 1872 again affected with cholera, and the deaths registered during the year 1872 were 165,458, of which no less than $0,^6^ occurred in the North-Western Provinces. The epidemic has been reported on by Dr. Cunningham,2 the Sanitary Commissioner, who is a strong opponent of the water-theory in its simplest form. Against it Dr. Cunningham quotes several cases, and 1 ' Lond. Med. Rec.,' ii, p. 528, from the ' Philadelphia Med. and Surg. Reporter.' 2 ' Report on the Cholera Epidemic of 1872 in Northern India.'