llEPOUT ON SURGEIIY. breathing was solely diaphragmatic. There was marked priapism. The pupils were equal and of small size iu a dull light. The temperature was 980. The next day the pulse was noted as 36 in the minute, and small. In the evening, the temperature in the rectum was only 95-8° in the distended penis 930. The cardiac sounds were of course very distinct, owing to the slow action of the heart. His cheeks and lips were of very good colour, remarkably so; while to the touch they seemed as cold as those of a corpse. He did not complain of feeling cold. On the fourth day, the pulse was very weak, 35 in the minute! The temperature was 95°. On the fifth day, he was pulseless and insen- sible. He died on the sixth day from the accident. The temperature was frequently taken from the time of admission till death. It was only once as high as 980, usually it was 940 or 95° It was taken in the mouth, axilla), rectum, penis, &c. The highest temperature from just before death till time of post-mortem was 95° The autopsy showed fracture of fifth cervical vertebra and severe injury to cord at that part. Perforating ulcer of the foot. —MM. Duplay, and Morat describe in the 'Archives Generates de Medecine' for March and May, 1873, the results at which they have arrived from a careful clinical and patho- logical study of this disease. Very various opinions have been advanced as to its nature ; but none of the theories are applicable to all cases. The authors state that perforating ulcer of the foot, whether occurring in parts subjected to, or on parts free from pressure, is always dependent on a degeneration of the nerves of the foot. This degeneration may be altogether peripheric; for instance, frost-bite of the foot appears to produce degeneration of the nerves, and consequent disposition to ulceration ; or it may arise from more remotely situated disease in the trunk of the sciatic nerve, as from wounds, pressure, &c.; or the source of the degeneration may be in the spinal cord or the spinal ganglia. The authors are therefore disposed to class perforated ulcer of the foot in the same category with the lesions of nutrition which, in the form of ulceration of the cornea, follow diseases of the trigeminus nerve. On this assumption, a ready explanation is afforded of the principal symptoms which always attend perforating ulcer, and which may be regarded as essentially disorders of sensibility and of local nutrition ; the greater or less loss of cutaneous sensibility, the thickening of the epidermis, the malformation of the nails, the abnormal formation of hair and pigment. Around the ulceration, inflammation is developed, which implicates all the tissues, and shows itself sometimes in the form of extensive arteritis; a circumstance which had led many observers to attribute the disease entirely to arterial sclerosis. The prognosis of the ulcer will necessarily depend on the possibility of successfully treating the affection of the nerves. Sonnenburg (' Deut. Zeit. f. Chir.,' 1874, 416) details the case of a woman in whom a perforating ulcer of the foot followed injury to nerves (division). No treatment was of any avail. (Various abstracts in relation to surgery of nerves, bones, cancer, &c, have been unavoidably omitted.)