REPORT ON SURGERY. 276 place (generally from the irritation produced by an artificial limb), and if this be excessive tbe stump may become conical. Amputation at the hip-joint.—Mr. Pridgin Teale records two'success- ful cases. He marked out by incision through the skin a long anterior flap. He next transfixed the muscles in front of the femur, bringing the knife out through the skin incision, and having secured the large vessels opened the joint. The form of flap proved remarkably convenient. By the preliminary incision through the skin, the exact amount required was secured long enough and broad enough up to its extremity to cover easily and amply the transfixed muscular portion of the flap, a condition which cannot be secured by simple transfixion of muscle and skin at one cut. ('Med. Times and G-az.,' July 29, 1873.) Dr. C. J. Q-ibb records a case in which he used elastic compression of the limb and aorta in a case of amputation at the hip-joint. The plan was suggested by Dr Page. The limb was bandaged, then a good- sized pad of linen placed over the aorta, just below the umbilicus, and seven or eight turns of elastic tubing made over it. No inconvenience was experienced from the application of the tubing. ('Lancet,' Jan. 31, 1873.) Dr. Oarothers narrates the case of a lad, set. 14, who was wounded by a conical musket ball on Dec. 5, 1871. He was first seen on Dec. 13, having suffered severe secondary haemorrhage the previous night. A most extensive fracture of the trochanters and upper half of the left femur was discovered. A sketch of the bone is shown. The profunda was wounded. Amputation through the joint was performed Dec. 15 ; that is, ten days after the injury. The wound was washed with chloralum j (one ounce to four ounces of water), and subsequently dressed with it. The lad was pulseless for some time afterwards. He did well and left his bed a month after the operation. The author has found chloralum very efficacious in many cases. (' Am. Jour. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1873.) A successful case in a lad, est. 13^, for malignant disease, is recorded j in the ' Lancet,' May, 1873. The tumour had been growing about four months. The first symptom was pain. Then in a month a small tumour was noticed at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the femur. 1 A month later this was punctured ; only blood escaped. The swelling at last increased rapidly. On admission it occupied the middle and 1 lower thirds of the thigh. Spicula of bone were met with in the | tumour, which proved to be encephaloid, springing from the periosteum. | (' Lancet,' May 17, 1873.) A case in which amputation at the hip was performed by the present compiler is noted in the 'Brit. Med. Jour.,' Oct. 18, 1873. ; The patient was a child and recovered very quickly after the operation. Amputation of thigh below trochanters for fibro-cartilaginous tumour ; elastic compression of aorta.—The case was under the care of Mr. Lister. The patient was a woman, aet. 27, and the tumour bad been growing for ten years. It proved fibro-cartilaginous, with cysts. The blood was emptied from the limb by elevation to the utmost. Instead of the aortic tourniquet, Esmarch's elastic band was used. A piece of tubing three eighths of an inch in thickness was wound tightly three or four times round the waist over a folded towel, placed as a pad upon