REPORT ON SURGERY. 2-18 getting caught in the ladder-rungs, and being violently twisted inwards. The position of the foot is shown by illustrations. It was violently twisted inwardB and adducted (talipcB varus). The outer malleolus was very prominent, the inner concealed. Neither was fractured. The rounded head of the astragalus, completely dislodged from the scaphoid, was resting subcutaneously over the calcaneo-cuboid articulation. The skin covering the head was so tensely stretched that a circular slough was subsequently formed at the spot. The finger, on being passed up- wards beneath the external malleolus, readily felt the cartilaginous surface of the large posterior articulating facet of the astragalus. Its external margin rendered the skin very tense. The interosseous liga- ment must have been ruptured. The tuberosity of the scaphoid stood out prominently. The foot could be slightly flexed and extended on the ankle, and further adducted; but it could not be moved towards its natural position. Under chloroform, the knee and hip being flexed, the foot, partially extended, was then steadily pulled upon, with one hand on the heel and the other on the instep, while the head of the astragalus was pressed on. After a time the foot slipped outwards with an audible snap. The patient recovered well. In two other similar cases reduction was not effected. In one the astragalus was excised a month subsequently, the patient recovering ; and in the other, excision about the same period was followed by improvement for a time, the patient ultimately sinking. The fourth case was compound, and there was fracture of the neck of the astragalus. The body of the bone was removed, but the head was left. Sloughing of parts damaged and formation of abscesses followed, but the patient made an excellent recovery. Mr. Mac Cormac prefers to divide luxations in the region of the ankle into tibio-tarsal, sub-astragaloid, and dislocation proper (or enucleation) of the astragalus. When the foot is violently twisted out- ward, the joint most likely to give way is the tibio-tarsal, and therefore we find the ankle displaced inward, and inevitably (in the complete form) fracture of the fibula. The shallow depth of the internal malleolus favours the dislocation (of the ankle) inwards, while the strong astra- galo-scaphoid ligaments resist any tendency of the head of the astragalus to leave the scaphoid in that direction. When the foot is inverted and adducted the malleoli very often do not yield, the body of the astragalus remains locked in place, and the sub-astragaloid form of luxation is pro- duced. The head of the astragalus is first forced from the scaphoid, then the interosseous ligament gives way, or the neck of the bone may be fractured. The author discusses the treatment and the opinions and cases recorded. Attempts should be made at reduction, and if these do not succeed, tendons may be divided, and if still reduction is not effected the case should be left till the head of the astragalus is exposed by sloughing, and then the whole bone should be removed secondarily. If the neck is fractured the head should be left. Generally anchylosis follows. In a few cases the foot may be so movable at the ankle as to be useless. The surgeon, in cases of sub-astragaloid dislocation, must expect sloughing of soft parts and the formation of abscesses. (' St. Thomas's Hospital Eeports,' iii, 1872, p. 83.) Mechanical appliances far the treatment of fractures ofthe jaws —Mr,