14 REPORT OxN SURGERY. WAEEN TAY, F.R.C.S., ASSISTANT-SUBGEON TO TUE LONDON HOSPITAL, ETC. Recovery after apparent death induced by the inhalation of chloroform.— Sir John Eose Cormack narrates the case of a woman, ajt. 27, whose pulse and respiration almost ceased after inhalation of chloroform, and who seemed on the point of death. Inversion of the body was practised, and she was kept in this position four or five minutes. She was then placed horizontally. Before long her state again gave rise to alarm. The inversion had to be tried twice subsequently, each time with a good result. Artificial respiration was kept up for a long time. She finally recovered. Dr. Marion Sims records a very similar case. The lady had taken chloroform once without ill effect. On the second occasion very alarm- ing symptoms came on. The body was inverted, and this position was maintained for fifteen minutes or more. When the horizontal position was again resumed the symptoms recurred, and inversion was practised twice subsequently before recovery was permanent. Dr. Sims also mentions a second case in which inversion was successful in restoring a patient. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,1 August 22, 1874.) Methylene ether as an anaesthetic.—Mr. Lawson Tait speaks highly of the use of methylene ether as being unattended with sickness (comparatively), and requiring a smaller quantity than sulphuric ether. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 8, 187.3.) The administration of ether in America.—An account by Mr. Tomes of the method, &c, of administering ether in America is given in the 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 15, 1873. Death from ether.—A letter from Dr. Bigelow on the case of alleged death from ether at the South Hants Infirmary is given in the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 13, 1873. He thinks the attempts at resuscitation produced asphyxia in a partially narcotised lad. The stimulation adopted (flogging) led to muscular exertion which expended his remain- ing strength. Death in coma after the use of ether, with remarks on the choice of anaesthetics.—Mr. Hutchinson, in a clinical lecture on the case of an old