AimilUTIS OF INl'ANTa, 3UiJ situ had given rise to absorption and not new formation, but a con- siderable quantity of new bone was found around the points of entrance and of exit of these pegs. Mr. Butlin records the case, under the care of Mr. Callender, ' Path.Trans./ vol. xxv, p. 212). Treatment of chronic strumous synovitis, more especially of the knee.— Mr. Barwell (' Brit. Med. Journ.' Oct. 17, 1874), has practised injec- tions with iodine. Latterly he has used a solution of half a drachm to the ounce. A syringe with a very fine needle should be used and care must be taken not to inject into the cavity of the joint, but into the thickness of the morbid tissue. Injection must not be practised when any active inflammatory process is going on. The softest and most prominent parts of the tumefaction are selected and from two to four punctures made, about five minims of the solution being injected into each, the needle being withdrawn as the piston descends. After- wards pressure with an elastic bandage is used. Tapping the knee-joints in arthritic disease.—A man aged 40, under the care of Dr. Bainskill, had both knee-joints tapped with advantage for synovitis of some weeks' duration. (' Brit. Med. Journ.' Nov. 14, 1874.) Suppuration of the elbow-joint; puncture; recovery.—Mr. Mac Cormac narrates the case of a lad, aged 16, whose elbow-joint was swollen apparently from acute suppuration. The joint was punctured with a fine aspirating trocar and cannula, and three or four ounces of pus, &c, removed. The puncture healed at once. The elbow was kept in a splint for six weeks. He was under notice for some time and the cure remained permanent and complete. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' i, Acute arthritis of infants.—Mr. Thos. Smith writes on this subject. The affection, according to his experience, occurs within the first year of life and is characterised by the suddenness of its onset and the rapidity of its progress and termination, whether the latter be of a fatal or a favorable kind. It is very dangerous to life and intensely de- structive to the articular ends of the bones, which of course, at this period of life, are largely cartilaginous. Another feature is that it rarely produces anchylosis, but leaves a child with a limb shortened, by loss of part of the articular end of some bone and with a weakened flad-like joint. Eight cases occurred in infants under a month old ; four cases under two mouths; seven between two and six months, and and in three between six months and twelve. In all the cases, the disease first attacked either the shoulder, hip, or knee, and often more than one joint was subsequently affected in the same infant. The disease was ushered in with restricted movement and usually flexion of the joint affected followed by pain, swelling, and rapid suppuration within the joint; the redness of the skin was often but little marked until the abscess was on the point of bursting. After the abscess had opened, or had been punctured, if recovery took place the discharge generally ceased to flow much sooner than is usual in ordinary cases of suppuration within the cavity of a joint. When death occurred, it resulted from exhaustion from local suppuration, or, as one may believe in certain cases, from this together with a general condition of pyaemia,