^ ACCIDENTS DURING LABOUR. 486 from the uterus by a rent 6 inches long running transversely across the round ligament. On the right side, and at the border of the anterior aud posterior labia, the uterine tissue was torn for about 3^ inches. The abdominal cavity contained a large quantity of blood, aud there were signs of recent peritonitis. There was no thinning of the uterine tissue anywhere. (' Archiv f. Gyniik.,' vi, I, 1873.) Mr. Eobert Grey communicated a case in which the greater part of the cervix uteri separated during labour. The patient had been twelve hours in labour; on examination the head was halfway through the pelvis surrounded by about half-an-inch or more of the anterior portion of the cervix uteri, which was thick, soft, and congested: it had a pulpy feel to the touch; passing the finger round the posterior portion it was found to be separated from the body, leaving a ragged, uneven margin. There was a slight oozing of blood from the vagina. The separated portion was removed and a living child delivered by the forceps. There was no febrile disturbance. The attached ring sepa- rated completely on the fourth day. The patient recovered. The only cause assignable for the laceration was pressure of the cervix between the head and the pelvis. (' Obstet. Soc. Trans.,' 1874.) Dr. Gervis gives in detail ('St. Thomas's Hospital Eeports,' 1873) a case of annular laceration of the cervix uteri during labour. The con- jugate diameter was contracted by the projection of the sacral promon- tory, and forceps were used, and delivery effected without difficulty. Upon introducing the hand to remove the placenta a loop was found stretched across the vagina. This was a ring of the cervix about £ in. broad, and attached for about 2 in. in front. The ring was replaced as nearly as possible, and complete rest enjoined. A month later the parts had united, and only a linear depression marked the line of separation. Dr. Parry reports (' Amer. Journ. of Obstetrics,' 1873) three cases of rupture of the uterus. The first occurred in a rachitic dwarf through neglect. The child, placenta, and much blood were found in the abdo- minal cavity. The antero-posterior diameter was i\ inches. In the second case the labour was difficult from the size of the head. The forceps were tried, then craniotomy was performed. The uterus was : found ruptured by a clean cut wound. The patient recovered after a : severe attack of peritonitis. In the third case there was disproportion between the size of the pelvis and the child's head. The uterus ruptured. ! The child was delivered by forceps. The patient died. Inversion.—Dr. Kidd gives the details of a case of inversion of the •.uterus, of four months' standing, produced by dragging at the cord to Ibring away the placenta; he reduced it by manipulation under cchloroform ('Dublin Med. Journal,' 1873). Dr. G. Johnston relates, in detail, a case of inversion of the uterus of seven months' standing occurring in a woman, set. 35 ; it happened sat the time of the coming away of the placenta, following which she bad great flooding; she had had haemorrhage more or less abundant rever since. She was put under chloroform, and the uterus was reduced by pressure with the fingers. (' Obst. Journal,' 1873.) Dr. G. "VV.II. Kemper relates (' Indiana Journ. of Med.,' March,i874)