155 EMBOLISM, PERICARDITIS. was dilated. From this point upwards its internal coat as well as that of the veins dipping down to the deeper vessels was intensely red, more than bloodstained, and swollen. The femoral and popliteal veins were in the same condition, and in the- latter lay the dtbris of a clot, non- adherent to the vessel-wall, and overlying a pair of valves. The writer remarks on the slight injury to the leg and the consequent thrombosis, the probably embolic pleurisy, the fainting fit and death due to the clots in the heart, and the agreement of one of the latter with the clot in the popliteal. Egli, " Zur Aetiologie der Fettembolie" (3 cases, with autopsies), ' Untersuch. aus deui Path. Inst, zu Zurich,' 1873, 100. Molliere, "Note sur un cas de Thrombose feres-etendue de la branche droite de l'Artere pulmonaire" (man, aat. 69, autopsy), ' Gaz. Hebd.,' 1S73, 684. Mauthner, " Zur Lehre von der Embolie der Arteria Cen- tralis Retinae," ' Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1873, 195. P. Smith, " Embolism of Central Artery of Retina" (man, ast. 58, thickening and adhesion of aortic valves), 'Brit. Med. "journ.,' i874» ii 452- S. Smitb, "Subacute Rheumatism, extensive heart- disease, embolism, death" (man, set. 34, embolism of middle cerebral artery, rupture of chorda) tend., fatty degeneration of heart), ' Lancet,' 1874, ii, 866. Liddell, " On Thrombosis of the Cerebral Arteries," ' Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,' lxv, 364. Id., " On Thrombosis of the Arteries of the Extremities," ib. ib., 37. Ward, " Embolism of the Arteries of the Extremities" (man, ast. 32), 'New York Med. Journ.,' xix, 257. Lente, " Two cases of Thrombosis of the Arteries of the Lower Extremities, recovery, one with, and one without, amputation" (women, ajt. 61 and 35), ib., xx, 48. Coombs, "Thrombosis following Injury of the Leg, recovery" (man, ast. 57), 'Lancet,' 1874, ii, 726. E. Crisp, " Heart Clot and Sudden Death" (woman, set. 21, death on eighth day after childbirth), ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiv, 46. J. Gay, " Varix on the Terminal Portion of the Saphena occluded by a dense Clot" (incomplete case), ib., 48. T. B. Peacock, " Disease of Aortic and Mitral Valves, with Embolism of the Middle Cere- bral Artery" (see abstract under "Malformation"), ib., 49. J. Pollock, "Cardiac Disease and Embolism" (girl, ast. 19, gangrene of right leg, mitral incompetency, plugging of right iliac and femoral arteries), ib., 58. H. T. Butlin, " Aneurysm of the Right Subclavian Artery in the second part of its course undergoing a process of natural cure " (embolia in right subclavian and left femoral arteries in female), ib., 67. Pericarditis. Kussmaul (" Ueber Schwelige Mediastino-Pericarditis und den para- doxen Puis," 'Perl. Klin, Woch,,' 1873, 433) writes on a variety of pericarditis which may be called callous mediastinal pericarditis, having well-defined clinical and anatomical characteristics. He recounts a case seen by Griesinger in 1854, and adds two others of his own, with the post-mortem results, in a youth, set. 21, and a woman, set. 34, and gives the particulars of another case very similar to them, which came under his notice while he was writing his paper. In these cases the pericardium is thickened interstitially, with tough callous patches on both surfaces and entire obliteration of its cavity. The same growth invades the mediastinum, constricting and twisting the larger vessels, and even obstructing their calibre. The clinical symptoms are those of chronic pericarditis, but in addition there is partial or complete absence of pulse in the arteries during inspiration, and, if the latter be suffi- ciently strong, swelling and not collapse of the cervical veins. In Griesinger's case the radial pulse could not be felt during inspiration, and the aorta was found firmly adherent to the sternum. The heart Bounds were weak in Kussmaul's first case and absent in his second,