REMOVAL OF BKONCHOCELE. 309 being cut by the ligature; while any attempt to reach the bleeding mouths will usually be baulked by the iuiiltration by clot of this cellular envelope. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,'Sept. 1873.) Removal of a large bronchocele.—M. Holmes records the case. The patient was a woman, a>t. 65, who bad suffered from bronchocele for forty years. Of late it had caused her great trouble by its large size. It had inflamed and burst, and discharged a quantity of pus. She was apparently sinking gradually. The tumour was surrounded by appro- priate incisions, flaps were dissected off, all large vessels that could be seen were divided between two ligatures, and others tied at once. Its neck was surrounded witb the chain of an ecraseur to check the haemorrhage and the mass cut away with an amputating knife. It was necessary to leave a portion of the cyst behind. The tumour weigbed a little over seven pounds after removal. The patient survived about thirty-nine hours. The author remarks that this operation bastened the patient's death, and the chance of recovery was small, yet the danger to the patient's life from the disease was sufficient to justify the admitted risks of the operation, seeing that no less dangerous method of treating the disease efficiently could be suggested. This case differs from others recorded in the motive for operation—suppuration caused by the bursting of the tumour, rather than pressure on tbe trachea, oesophagus or great vessels. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,'Jan. 1873.) In tbe same number (p. 280) will be found a note of four other cases. Prof. Michel (£ Gaz. Hebd.,' Oct. 1873) removed a cystic broncbocele from a woman, set. 24. The trunks of the inferior thyroid veins and arteries were divided between ligatures, and the tumour then removed. Tbe patient recovered. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1874.) A successful case in a boy, a?t. 7, occurred under tbe care of Mr. Jessop. The growth began four years previously. Tbe tumour was about the size of a small ben's egg and occupied the position of tbe right lobe of tbe thyroid. Its only apparent attachment was at tbe larynx. After an incision tbrougb the skin tbe growtb protruded on pressure as by enucleation, except at its inner margin where a broad and deep attachment prevented its complete removal. A needle carrying a strong whipcord Hgature was passed througb the centre attachment, whicb proved to be the isthmus. This was tied in two portions. In tbe centre of the tumour was a cyst containing a dark-coloured fluid. ('Lancet,' Dec. 13, 1873.) Dr. P. H. "Watson records a case in which tbe trachea was wounded. The tumour impeded respiration. The early steps of tbe operation were effected as usual; but on clearing tbe tumour from its attachments after ligature of the thyroid vessels, it was found to be laterally and anteriorly closely connected to the larynx and trachea. A venous trunk wa3 wounded, but bleeding was readily checked by pressure. On attempting still further to clear the trachea an opening was acci- dentally made into its posterior surface. As the bleeding made its way into the air-passages, respiration became much impeded; the tumour wa3 therefore rapidly detached and all bleeding permanently arrested by the application of ligatures to the open venous trunk. The patient