505 QUARANTINE. tions of the ship allow it. In these cases the unloading of the ship for disinfection is not necessary. 3. When, during the passage or after the ship's arrival, cases of cholera or of other suspected disease occur, the surveillance for those who are not ill is to last seven full days, beginning from their isolation in a hospital or whatever place is assigned to them. The sick will bo disembarked and properly attended to in a place separated from the persons under surveillance. The ship and all objects belonging to it are to undergo a thorough disinfection, after which persons obliged to remain on board will be subjected to surveillance for seven days. 4. Vessels from suspected ports, that is, such as lie near places or ports where cholera prevails, and are in intercourse with them, may be subjected to observation lasting at most five days, provided that no sus- picious case of disease have occurred on board. 5. The quarantine of emigrant and pilgrim ships, and in general all vessels whose condition is deemed especially dangerous to the public health, shall be carried out under particular regulations which the Board of Health will decide. 6. When the conditions of a place do not allow the prescribed regulations to be carried out, the infected ship is to bo despatched to the nearest hospital after it has received all the assistance its condition may require. 7. Ships coming from infected ports which have touched at a port en route, and have left it without undergoing quarantine, will be treated as ships coming from an infected harbour. 8. In cases of mere suspicion the Sanitary Board may order special disinfection regulations. 9. In ports where cholera is epidemic, full quarantine is not to be kept, but means of disinfection are to be strictly applied. Sea.—Quarantine can afford an effectual preservation against cholera in those seaports only which may be regarded as the special gates of exit for cholera in its spread towards Europe by the way of sea. These quarantines must be international institutions. When cholera has once passed beyond these points, quarantines are without value in the ports of the European continent, as travelling on land remains free and de- prives them of their value. Under these circumstances, in place of quarantine in Europe ports, there should be instituted a strict system of examination of every ship arriving from an infected locality. The regulations which the committee have drawn up with regard to the carrying out of this system of examination with a view to existing maritime intercourse for the purpose of preventing the spread of cholera, recommend the establishment of a sanitary board partly com- posed of medical men and partly of administrative officials in every seaport open to intercourse, whether cholera is threatened or has been introduced. This board shall receive official information as to ships coming from infected ports, as well as all ships which during the voyage have touched at infected ports, or communicated with infected ships, or on board of which cases of illness or death suspected to be from cholera have occurred (regarding which the captain and officers must