23 GLANDS. thelial cells. They are separated by these cells alone from the wide cavernous-like lymphatic spaces. In adult life the cavities are filled with colloid substance which stains with aniline and carmine. Kidney.—Heidenhaiu,1 in a paper on the histology of the kidney, confirms the statements of other observers that the Malpighian body ia provided in the mammaha with a double layer of epithelial cells, one lining the inner surface of the capsule, the other covering the vascular glomerulus and penetrating into the interstices between the vessels. He maintains that the epithelial cells of the tubuli contorti are com- plicated in structure, a large part of their protoplasm being broken up into a number of fine cylindrical rods which are placed vertically on the tunica propria, and run in a radiating course through the epithelial layer embedded in a very minute amount of structureless ground substance. The rods surround the nuclei, which are placed at regular intervals, and are sheathed with a greater or less quantity of the protoplasm which remains undifferentiated into rods. The greater part of what was formerly described as ' fine granular matter' in the ground substance of the cells is only the optical expression of the sum of the rods seen in section. The epithelium of the broad ascending part of the tubes of Henle agrees with the above, but that of the remainder of the uriniferous tube seems to be quite destitute of the rodlike character. Eabuteau2 has investigated the influence of caffeine, coffee, and tea, on the excretion of urea. He found that the ingestion of from two to four grains of caffeine caused a diminution in the amount of urea from a previous five days' average of 22-o6 grm. to ic/8i grm., and in another case from 21 "34 grm. to 17"26 grm. The quantity of urine diminished with that of the urea. Coffee had a similar and tea a similar but less marked effect. The diet was kept as far as possible the same throughout the experiments. In experiments by M. Eoux,3 undertaken, like those of Eabu- teau, with the view of determining the influence of various kinds of food on the excretion of urea, the results arrived at were as follows :—1. The quantities of urea, of uric acid, of chlorine, and of phosphoric acid, expelled in twenty-four hours by the urine, are very constant under the same system or conditions of alimentation.—2. As long as the amount of urine passed is the same or varies but slightly, the relation of the urea to the chlo- rine is constant.—3. The ingestion of a large quantity of water does not cause any augmentation in the amount of urea, uric acid, or phosphoric acid, excreted in the twenty-four hours.—4. The acidity of the urine is very notably diminished by the ingestion of a large quantity of water.—5. The quantity of chlorine injected in twenty- four hours increases with the quantity of the urine emitted, and by consequence of the amount of fluid taken.—6. In a subject who is 1 ' Schultze's Archiv fur Microscop. Anat./ Band x, and abstract in 1 Mod. Times and Gaz.,' Aug. 1, 1874. - ' Comptes Rendus,' 1873, t. lixvii, p. 489—492. M. E. licmx, " Des Variations dans la Quantitd do Ure"o cxcre'teo avoc uno Alimentation normale et sous l'influence du The et du Cafe," 'Archives do Physioloeie.' Nos. 4 and 5, 1874.