IIEHEDITAIvY AFFECTIONS OF OPTIC NERVES. 309 guperiutendont, that the school as a whole is ovou freer from the disease now than it was early in September." With regard to the relation between the ophthalmic state aud life iu the metropolitan pauper schools, the author arrives at the following conclusions : " ist. The number of bad granular lids varies directly as the length of time during which the children have lived in these schools ; 2d. The number of ophthalmic corneal damages varies directly as the same time; 3d. The number of ophthalmic corneal damages varies directly as the number of badly granular lids." The most important part of the Eeport, aud that to which all the materials have been rendered subservient, is the question, stated under head F (see p. 358), viz. whether the disease can practically be got rid of from these schools. The question is one of national concern, and Mr. Nettleship's facts and arguments concerning it are of considerable importance, but occupy too much space to allow of quotation. AThilst recognising that ophthalmia holds a subordinate place in the list of pauper difficulties, he holds that it is a very serious evil, both on account of the direct harm to sight and the loss of time caused by it, and because there is a close relation between the ophthalmic state of an institution and the general hygienic conditions of its inmates. The question is treated in detail as regards, 1st, the introduction of the disease into schools from without; 2nd, its extension and sponta- neous origin within them. The former can, he thinks, be effectually prevented only by a uniform system of quarantine, the second by very prolonged isolation and increased medical treatment. The plan pro- posed is to form one or more large establishments, which might serve the purpose of both quarantine and infirmary, and where, at the same time, the children's education might go on with the same regularity and nearly the same completeness as for the healthy children, who would on this plan be kept quite apart in separate buildings. It is thought likely that by a redistribution of the children, under a different plan of management, the existing buildings might be made to serve these ends. Many valuable facts and suggestions as to matters of detail are con- tained in this part of the report. Hereditary affections of the optic nerves.—Leber writes on cases of disease of the optic nerves in which the malady was inherited or due to congenital predisposition. No cases have been recorded in modern times excepting by Grraefe and himself. He details the histories of four families. 1. Retro-ocular optic neuritis, central scotoma, hereditaria ness in a collateral line. [Five brothers were affected and two maternal uncles ; a sister was not affected. 1. Retro-ocular neuritis and neuro- retinitis in two brothers and one sister, partly acute, partly chronic—cure. There were two other sisters and one brother unaffected. 3. Retro- ocular neuritis in a brother and sister, resulting in a high degree of ambly- opia from atrophy of the nerves. Another brother and sister had no defect of sight. 4. Central scotoma in consequence of retro-ocular neuritis, hereditariness in a collateral line. No mention is made of the brothers and sisters, but it is said that two materftal uncles suffered 84