238 KBPOItT ON SURGERY. her confinement. In her first childbirth all attempts to make the nipples project were fruitless. The right nipple had also a central depression, the left a transverse slit: both were short, hard, and defi- cient in blood-vessels. After the healing of the wounds, which was attended by rather tedious suppuration, the outer portions of the nipples lay at the level of the surrounding parts, the central portions deeper. By the subsequent application of a narrow-necked sucking- glass, the left nipple was rendered so far prominent that the child could suck from it; the right one remained useless, partly from its great shortness and stiffness, and partly from the occurrence of mastitis. In both cases contractile pigmented areola?, as large as those which had been removed, were developed. Disease of the mammary areola preceding cancer of the mammary gland. —Sir James Paget contributes a paper on this subject. He thinks it has not hitherto been pointed out that certain chronic affections of the skin of the nipple and areola are very often succeeded by the formation of scirrhous cancer in the mammary gland. He has seen about fifteen cases. The patients were all women, varying in age from 40 to 60 or more years. In all of them the disease began as an eruption on the nipple and areola. In the majority it had the appearance of a florid, intensely red, raw surface, very finely granular, as if nearly the whole thickness of the epidermis were removed like the surface of very acute diffuse eczema, or like that of acute balanitis. There was discharge and some tingling, &c, in the part, but no disturbance of the general health. It did not extend beyond the areola and only once did it pass into a deeper ulceration of the skin after the manner of a rodent ulcer. Another form, attended with increased production of dry epidermis, therefore like psoriasis, did spread beyond the areola and in fact over almost the whole breast. The cancer has followed within at most two years and usually within one year. On the whole the eruption does not differ from eczema or psoriasis. The formation of cancer did not in any case take place first in the diseased part of skin. It has always been in the substance of the gland, beneath or not far from the diseased skin, and always with a clear interval of apparently healthy tissue. There has been nothing peculiar in the nature of the cancer. The sequence of cancer after the chronic skin disease is so frequent that it may be suspected of being a consequence and must always be feared, and may be sometimes almost certainly foretold. A persistent rawness of the glans penis may be followed after more than a year's duration by cancer of the substance of the glans. Irritation of the surface of the lower lip often precedes cancer in its substance. Superficial syphilitic diseases of the tongue are followed by cancers which do not always appear to commence in a diseased part of the tongue. It may be sug- gested that a superficial disease induces in the structure beneath it, in the course of many months, such degeneracy as makes them apt to become the seats of cancer, and that this is chiefly likely to occur in the cases of those structures which appear to be most liable to cancer. So cancer of the rectum, pylorus, &c, may be hastened in its course by surface irritation. Practically, should such a part be removed ? In the member of a family in which cancer has frequently occurred and