515 VAPOURS. how (the brass ague of Thakrah), Hirt describes the effects produced on himself when he was inquiring into the subject. The first symptoms (coming on a few hours after the inhalation of the metallic vapours) are peculiar uncomfortable feelings in the body, weakness, pains in the back, and then often very severe muscular pains; the pulse and respiration are at this time tranquil. Then comes on a general shivering, lasting fifteen to twenty minutes ; the pulse quickens, reaching 100 to 120, and cough ensues so severe as to cause pain in the chest and to make the frontal headache almost unbearable ; the height of the attack is reached in from three to six hours, and then a copious sweat breaks out; the pains lessen and the patient falls into a deep sleep, from which he wakens with merely a little weakness and some remains of headache. This curious affection, which might very well be mistaken for ague, is not lessened by habit; nothing protects the men from it; they fancy, however, that previously drinking large quantities of milk lessens the severity of the attacks. With regard to its production by metallic fumes, no doubt is felt by Hirt. He does not, however, seem convinced that copper fumes may not play some part, and he also states that the workmen engaged in making zinc houses, who inhale pure zinc vapour without copper fumes (which exist in the fumes of smelters), never suffer from this brass- founders' ague. Vapours of iodine, bromine, and vapours from oil, tar, petroleum, benzoin, fyc.—Hirt states that poisonous symptoms from iodine and bromine vapours very seldom occur, but when they do happen they are acute, very variable in kind (cough, headache, sometimes partial loss of consciousness, irritation of the eyes and nose, and iodine catarrh), and are never or very rarely fatal. Vapours from vegetable oils (such as rape, linseed) are not injurious. Hirt denies altogether the old statement of Ramazzini (that headache, giddiness, and cachexia are produced), and states that he could find no bad effects ; indeed, he thought the workers in oil less liable to catarrh, and men with tendencies to chest disease appeared to get stronger. He could not, however, feel certain that phthisis was actually cured by the oil-vapour. In other vegetable oil factories injurious effects may arise from the dust produced by the pulverizing of the vegetable structures and by the effluvia from the volatile oils. But, with the exception of mustard dust, which sometimes cause violent bronchial catarrh, the bad effects are inconsiderable. "With regard to vapours of turpentine, Hirt relates some experiments on twenty-one men who inhaled considerable quantities of turpentine. He concludes that with persons unaccustomed to its use short periods of inhalation, during which much turpentine is introduced, produce injurious symptoms ; respiration was slower, cardiac action quickened, and at a later date the brain and cord were affected, and there were heaviness, headache, nausea, noises in the ears, &c. Workmen, how- ever, generally get accustomed to the fumes, and workmen in shellac, asphalt, and india rubber do not suffer, except in very rare instances,