256 REPORT ON SURGERY. on the grey cortical substance, the more weighty and numerous will be the phenomena. 3. Compression from depressed bone. Generally complicated with some other conditions. It is of the utmost practical importance to remember that depression of the skull may, and usually does, excito remote phenomena, when no signs of compression have immediately followed the injury. The phenomena do not depend en- tirely on the depression. When the compression sets in at a period varying from thirty minutes to eighteen or twenty hours, there having been a lucid interval, it is due to effused blood, which, starting from the seat of depression, gradually extends over the dura mater until a clot of sufficient size to awaken symptoms is formed. If headache, more or less pronounced, febrile movement, exalted nervous irritability, as indicated by intolerance of light and of sound, and slight delirium, or other signs appear at any time between the second and sixth day, seventy-two hours being the average, they are induced by hyperemia of the brain and its membranes, this state, unless held in subjection by appropriate means, passing rapidly into that of inflammation, and there will be found either depression or the trifling displacement will be combined with a small local clot. When the symptoms of cerebral disturbance depend upon the formation of pus, they are usually ushered in by rigors, more or less defined, and set in at a later period ; not before the sixth day, rarely before the eleventh, and generally prior to the expiration of the second week, the average being the thirteenth day. In intra-cerebral abscess, the most frequent of all causes of secondary compression, they do not manifest themselves before the thirteenth day, may be delayed for months, and are most common between the fifteenth and twenty-seventh days, the average being the twenty-fifth. The author is in favour of surgical inter- ference in fractures with depression and comminution, be they simple or compound, the degree of irritation from pointed fragments being very great. 4. Compression from foreign bodies. Generally due to secondary causes. A ball or section of a ball lodged in the dura mater excites more irritation generally than when lodged in the white brain substance. In any case the indication is to remove the in- truder. A tuft of hair carried into a fissure is a valuable indication of some foreign body having penetrated. The non-existence of pressure on, or compression of, the brain.—Mr. Neil Macleod writes on this subject. He maintains that when depressed bone, pus, or blood, &c, diminishes the capacity of the skull, the blood is driven out to a corresponding extent; but there is no compression of the brain. There is diminished blood supply. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' July, 1874.) In the August number there is a paper by Dr. James Cappie on the relation of the cranial contents to the pressure of the atmosphere. He quotes Dr. Nellie's observations in 1822. He criticises Mr. Macleod's views. Punctured fracture of skull opening longitudinal sinus in a child, aged three gears; probe passed down to corpus callosum; r« covery.—Under the care of Mr. Sydney Jones. (' Lancet,' Aug. 22, 1874.) Some points in the mechanism of the cranium considered with reference