ANEURISM—LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. 211 form, and he thinks it is prohable that a great number of the successful cases on record were so. But it is equally impossible to deny that in others the aneurism has been of the ordinary circumscribed form. Finally, Mr. Holmes does not see how we can avoid admitting that m some instances the usual aneurismal symptoms have been produced by the pressure of enlarged and consolidated veins upon the arteries of the orbit. The character of the bruit is the main point in the diagnosis of the arterial from the arterio-venous form. A cleai', intermittent, blowing murmur can hardly proceed from an arterio-venous communi- cation, which, on the contrary, has a soft continuous murmur interrupted by the intermittent arterial whiz, and this latter is exaggerated oc- casionally, according to M. Delens, into a piping or whining sound. The difference in the bruit may suffice, then, in some well-marked cases to exclude the idea of ordinary arterial aneurism. The more important question is whether it is possible to recognise those cases in which no arterial disease whatever exists, and this is much more difficult. There are two cases on record in which it seemed impossible. Mere coagulation of blood in the cavernous sinus, without dilatation of veins in the orbit, will not cause the symptoms of orbital aneurism, as Knapp's cases of thrombosis of the cavernous sinus show; nor, Mr. Holmes believes, will mere dilatation of the veins of the orbit, un- accompanied by coagula in the sinus. At present, all we can say is that the symptoms of orbital aneurism are in some cases exactly imitated by cases in which only the venous system is affected. The transference of the disease from one side to the other is difficult to explain. In regard to treatment, if we admit that the symptoms may be caused by coagula in the sinus, or that the disease, of whatever character, may disappear spontaneously, we shall be loth to resort to ligature of the carotid. IS we believe that many of these cases are of arterio-venous nature, we know that ligature at a distance is a very uncertain remedy. We know also that arterio-venous aneurisms (in the neck, &c.) do not necessarily involve any fatal symptoms. The opera- tion of ligature of the carotid in these cases (viewed statistically) is, however, very successful, only a few of the patients having died. The proportion in which the disease has been cured, however, is small. In a few cases a natural cure may result; in the majority it is necessary to do something. Not ligature of the carotid at once. Compression should be first tried. The injection of coagulating fluids into the tumour has been successful. Electro-puncture has failed. When we have tried other means without success, the ligature may be resorted to, if the exophthalmos, &c, be on the increase. (' Lancet,' Aug. 2 and n, 1873.) Arterio-venous aneurism in the neck.—Mr. Holmes (Lectures, College • of Surgeons) sums up to the effect that traumatic arterio-venous I aneurism in the neck, as far as published cases enable us to judge, does mot usually prove fatal if let alone. ('Lancet,' Aug. 23, 1873.) Ligature of the external carotid.—Dr. L. It. Longworth (' Archives of Scientific and Practical Medicine,' May, 1873) concludes that—1. Ligature of the common carotid is the widest in its application, but : most dangerous and least efficient. 2. Ligature of the external carotid