EEPORT ON SURGERY. 348 fortieth day. The forearm and part of the soft tissues below the liga- ture were removed on the day following its application. Syphilis communicated by vaccination.—Mr. Hutchinson records two fresh cases which came under his notice (see preceding Retrospect), and makes some general remarks on the subject. The vaccine fluid is not the source of inoculation; it is probably the blood accidentally conveyed, or the fluid which drains away after the lymph has been exhausted. The vaccine vesicle may pass through all its stages characteristically, and then the syphilitic sore makes its appearance. It usually begins as a little, red, firm, glossy tubercle which gradually increases in size and becomes harder. At the end of a fortnight, or earlier, it usually ulcerates and presents a sore remarkable for its small amount of secretion and for the hardness of its base and edges. It may last for months before it heals, if no mercury be given. After healing it leaves a dusky brown scar, very different, indeed, from that of vaccination. Mercurial treatment should be adopted. The cases afford an interesting illustration of the manner in which mercury interrupts the evolution of syphilis and delays the occurrence of secondary symptoms. In all the cases which were not treated, secondary symptoms showed themselves from the sixth to the ninth week after inoculation, whilst those treated by mercury did not show symptoms I until from five to seven months afterwards. (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' lvi, 189.) Syphilitic disease of the patella.—Mr. Howard Marsh details a case. The patient was a man, set. 29. The primary disease had been acquired eight years previously. He had had a blow on the knee four years later, but he had no inconvenience for the next six months. When he came under care, the patella was enlarged in all directions. With full doses of iodide, his pain was relieved, but the size of the patella was not materially altered. ('St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,' x, 395-) Surgery of the patella.—Mr. Willett writes on this subject. He insists on the importance of giving due weight to the anchylosis or non- anchylosis of the patella to the femur, before giving an opinion as to the probability of restoring motion in any case of fixed knee-joint. The patella ought to move with the tibia, in fact, may be regarded as part of the tibia. When it is adherent to the femur, the function of the quadriceps is abrogated and the muscle wastes. The femoro-patellar adhesions may, of course, give way. Mr. Willett thinks that their formation may often be avoided by employing passive motion at an earlier date than is generally the case. Mr. Willett is of opinion that the patella is generally the agent by which the condyles of the femur are split from one another. He thinks it acts as a wedge when a direct blow is given to it by a fall on the knee, or by a kick from a horse over the patella, resulting in a splintering off of the external condyle. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,' x, 329.) The elastic ligature. — Prof. Dittel, of Vienna, describes, in the 4 Allgemeine Wiener Medizinische Zeitung' for February 25 and March 4, 1873, the application of the elastic ligature as a means of operating. His attention was directed to this by a case under his