EXCISIONS. 281 opens the joint on the outer side, passes in a curved, cutting, hooked knife, and breaks down all adhesions, so as to permit the bones to bo replaced in a straight line. It was often not possible to do this at once, but by contrivances with elastic bands, &c, long-continued slight pres- sure produced excellent results, and firm straight anchylosis was the result. It was, however, an essential condition that it should be con- ducted entirely upon Mr. Lister's system of antiseptic dressing. (' Brit. Med. Jour.,' Sept. 19, 1874.) Excision of the knee.—Dr. Ashhurst records a case. The patient was a girl, aet. 11. The knee was flexed at a right angle. A year after the excision she could walk well with a limp, the shortening being an inch and three quarters. ('Am. Jour. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1873.) Mr. C. Heath gives an interesting clinical lecture on a case of excision of the knee in a boy, aet. 11. He recovered well from the operation and was sent away, but returned in a month owing to sloughing phagedena having attacked the wounds, which were still unhealed. Cauterization witb nitric acid checked the phagedena. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Jan. 17.1874.) -; ■ .. Mr. Tyrrell speaks highly of Dr. Watson s splint for excision of the knee. It consists of a back splint moulded and cut away opposite the wound, heel, &c, and a front long piece of iron from which the limb may be suspended. The whole is fastened on by means of plaster of Paris or paraffine. ('Dub. Jour. Med. Sci.,' Feb. 1874.) Mr. Grant performed excision for chronic rheumatic arthritis in a woman fifty-three years of age. The patient bad no unfavorable symptom for two months, when she was allowed to sit up out of bed. A sudden attack of erysipelas occurred. Ultimately she recovered a useful limb. The author remarks on the exceptional character of the disease, the age of the patient, &c. ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,'lvi, 213.) Mr. Arnott records a case of excision of knee (successful), while loss of blood was prevented by Prof. Esmarch's plan. This was the first case of the sort in England. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vii, 46.) Interesting remarks are made on the general use of this method. Dr. Thompson records a case in which he removeda wedge-shaped piece from the tibia and femur for anchylosis at a right angle. (' Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' May, 1874.) Mr. Sydney Jones adds eleven new cases. In four of them, the mischief was dependent on the existence of a sequestrum or bone abscess in the neighbourhood of the joint. In two, there was fibrous anchylosis and malposition of limb. In five, there was malposition and progres- sive disease. Pour were in children under seven years of age. These patients seemed to suffer less from shock. One woman, set. 29, died soon after the operation with erysipelas and disease of the kidneys. Another patient, set. 21, died at the end of eight days of pyaemia, and a third died in thirteen days of pyaemia. The latter case wras one of necrosis of the patella. In one woman, set. 32, who recovered, secondary haemorrhage occurred at the end of fourteen days and was controlled by pressure on the femoral. A patient, aet. 12, had a rigor live days after excision and several rigors subsequently—every appearance of pyaemia. Sixteen days after the excision amputation was performed, The femur showed