SCARLET FEVER—MEASLES VARIOLA. 83 Measles (Morlilli) and Rotheln (Rubeola), B. E. Cotting ('Boston Med. and Surg. Journ.,' Ixxxviii, 485) gives an account of his observations of an epidemic of rotheln in the early part of 1871 and since 1852. It occurred at the end of an epidemic of measles and scarlet fever, and without any distinction attacked persons who had or had not had both those affections. It differed from scarlet fever in the slight intensity of the throat affection, from measles in the absence of the catarrhal symptoms, and from both in the earlier appearance of the eruption (during the first twenty-four hours), in the long period of incubation (about three weeks), and in the absence of desquamation. Steiner ("Morbilli bullosi sivi pemphigoidei," ' Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.' 1S74, vii, 346) relates the occurrence of a bullous eruption in four children of the ages of 6, 5, 3 and f years, who had all had measles one after the other. It appeared shortly after, and in one case before, the eruption of measles, on the most various points of the head, trunk, and extremities, and on the mucous membrane of the mouth and nose. The contents of the bullae were alkaline. After lasting from one to two days, the bullae became flat and scabbed over. Their appearance was accompanied by an increase of temperature—in the four eldest, who recovered, it was between 38*5° and 400 C.; in the youngest, who died, it rose to 40*6° C. The writer holds that this was no combination of pemphigus with measles, but a modification of the latter eruption, similar to that often noticed in scarlet fever. F. Bezold, " Keratomalacie nach Morbillen," 'Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1874, 408. Brouardel, " Lecons sur la Kougeole," ' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1874, 435. R. Liveing, " Clinical Lecture on Rotheln " (five cases), ' Lancet,' 1874, i, 360. Variola and Varicella. 0. Scheby-Buch ('Arch. f.Derm.,' iv,5o7,v,2oo) analyses the materials gathered from the Smallpox Hospital at Hamburg between August 1, 1871, and Feb. 1, 1872, in 1413 cases of the disease, about 13 percent, of which were fatal. The incubation stage was accompained in 58 cases (4 p. c.) with headache, pains in the back and limbs, vomiting, &c.; and in three cases, in which it could be accurately defined, lasted 22, 12, and 17 days. There was nothing out of the common in the prodromal stage; menstruation occurred pretty regularly in 270 cases (13 p. c.) at this period, and the writer holds that though variola, like other acute diseases, may influence the appearance of the menses, there is no connection whatever between the outbreak of smallpox and the time of menstruation. The urine was albuminous in about three fourths of the cases in which it was looked for—in about half the confluent and in almost all of the haemorrhagic cases. As a rule, the albumen appeared and disappeared with the eruption; in the fatal cases it was present up to the end,' and some of the few cases in which it appeared during convalescence terminated in death from acute nephritis. There were 6y cases of the true hajrnorrhagic form, all fatal, hajmor- rhage from the mucous membranes being common. The writer dis- tinguishes from this another slighter form—"smallpox accompained by