CALCULUS VESICAE, ETC. 321 and possesses decided advantages in cases in which the stone is of moderate dimensions. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 30, 1873.) Calculus in the female.—Mr. Heath in a clinical lecture ('Med. Times and Gazette,' April 11, 1874) details cases iu which calculi were removed by dilatation of the urethra or by vaginal lithotomy. Lithotomy.—Mr. Davidson, of Madagascar, recommends the use of Buchanan's stall", with a gentle curve and a groove on the inner aspect. He makes a semilunar incision through the skin, &c. The membranous part of the urethra having been opened, a guide is introduced along the groove in the staff into the bladder. The guide, consisting of two parallel and connected bars or blades, capable of being separated by means of a screw, forms, when approximated, an instrument about five inches long, somewhat like a female catheter in size, straight, slightly flattened from above downwards, and grooved on the left side so as to permit the button point of the knife to slide along without escaping from it. When the guide has been fairly introduced into the bladder, the stall' is withdrawn, and the blades are separated by the screw to such an extent as to render the tissues tense. The knife used has a button-shaped extremity to fit the groove in the guide. After the parts are incised the blades are separated, and, if necessary, a further in- cision made. The forceps are slipped along between the blades of the instrument. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' June, 1873, 1063.) Gases of sterility after lithotomy.—Mr. W. I\ Teevan reports four cases of sterility after lithotomy. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' yii, 179.) Calculus impacted in a vesical sac.—Sir Henry Thompson records the case of a lady, aet. 52, who was the subject of a calculus impacted in a vesical pouch. After dilatation of the urethra only about one third of the calculus was found protruding into the bladder, the other two thirds being contained in a sac and outside the cavity of the bladder. It was turned out by the tip of the finger into the bladder, and then extracted with forceps. An outline showing the size and shape of the stone is given. (' Lancet,' Aug. 1, 1874.) Perineal lithotrity.—An account of Prof. Dolbeau's operation is given in the ' Lancet,' Oct. 17, 1874, by Mr. W. Ewart. Construction of lithotrites.—Mr. Teevan writes on this subject. ('Lancet,' Oct. 31, 1874.) Calculus vesicae.—In crushing for stone, Mr. Teevan thinks the secret of success lies in making each crushing as short as possible. At the first and second sittings, the male blade ought only to be screwed home once; later, it may be repeated twice or thrice. He does not give chloroform. In lithotomy, he advocates the adoption of the lateral operation and making a free incision. He has cut seventeen patients (twelve being children) with only one death, an adult, a month after the operation; no children. He extracts the calculus with hia forefinger. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 18, 1873, 60.) The local treatment of cystitis.—Dr. Braxton Hicks advocates injec- tions in the treatment of cystitis. He uses an open-ended gum- elastic catheter, and is careful to enter the bladder as short a distance as possible. He withdraws the catheter without the neck as the bladder empties. Then he injects a slightly acidulated solution. When 21