159 DISEASES OF MYOCARDIUM. reference to the question whether simple anosmia can produce fatty defeneration of the heart. He found this change in animals which had been reduced, by repeated venesections, to a state of fatal marasmus, but not in cases in which the bloodletting was frequent, but not so excessive. The papillary muscles of the left side of the heart were found to be most degenerated, those of the right almost as much so • less so the wall of the left ventricle, still less the left auricle and right ventricle, and least of all the wall of the right auricle. 0. Frantzel writes (ib., lvii, 215) on hypertrophy and dilatation of the heart caused by the fatigues of war. He met with neither in the Danish war of 1864 or the Austrian war of 1866, the former not causing any long marches, and the latter being short in dura- tion. But in the French war of 1870, in which the marches were long and forced and the hardships great, he found both changes in men who previously to the war were healthy and afterwards became the subjects of dyspnoea. He gives the histories and diagnosis of seven cases in full. Of 19 cases observed, there was diagnosed hypertrophy and dilatation of the left ventricle in ten, of the right in two, and of both ventricles in three. In two there was simple dilatation of the left, and in two of the right. There was no evidence of valvular mischief, chronic lung disease, kidney affection, or vascular change, in any of the 19 cases. A. B. E. Myers showed (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiv, 82) two specimens of extensive hypertrophy with dilatation of heart and disease of the aortic valves and aorta in soldiers as typical instances of this affection in the army. They are, according to him, purely dependent for their origin and development on overstrain of the heart in its endeavours to force the blood beyond the numerous points of constriction which are produced by tight clothing and accoutrements, and to the consequent over-dilatation, followed by degeneration, of the aorta within the thorax. T. B. Peacock records ('Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiv. 37) the following case. A man, set. 38, who had suffered from dyspnoea on exertion for a year before his death, with a feeling of uneasiness at the heart and symptoms of dyspepsia latterly, was suddenly seized with sickness and shivering, followed by collapse and death in a few hours. The post- mortem examination showed the pericardium much thickened, and the two surfaces united by firm flakes of lymph. The heart was generally large, but free from valvular affection. A tumour about the size of an orange was found embedded in the posterior wall of the heart, and pro- jecting on each side of the septum into the ventricles. Its walls on the right side were so thin that pus exuded on pressure, and on cutting into the thin wall on the left side, numerous hydatids, varying in size from peas to plovers' eggs, escaped from the cyst mixed with pus. The lungs, liver, and kidneys, were perfectly normal. Cnrschmann, " Zur Lelire vom Fcttherz," ' Deut. Arch.,' xii, 193. Seitz, " Zur Lehre ■ von der Ueberstrengung des Herzens," ib., xi, 485. Vanden Bergh, "Stcarose du t Ctfcur" (woman, art. 51, death from typhoid), ' Presse Med. Beige,' 1874, 115. Wilks, " Idiopathic Anaemia," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1874, ii, 680. Fothergill, "Strain in its I relation to the Circulatory Organs," ib., 1873, i, 281. Moore, 'Observations on the ' Shape of the Chest in cases of Hypertrophy of the Heart,' London, 1873, pp. 32.