REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 452 alloy of lead, silver, and zinc. Dr. Frost, the narrator, states that of nine persons who were poisoned by the gas, three died. Lead.—Drs. Bergeron and l'Hote relate some remarkable cases of lead poisoning. Twenty-six persons suffered from what was supposed to be biliary enteric fever, but, two of the patients dying, an examination revealed lead-poisoning. The drinking water was highly charged with lead, probably due to the large quantity of soluble chlorides in it acting upon a very old leaden pipe through which the water passed. Poisoning hy chrome yellow.—Dr. von Linstow1 relates two interesting fatal cases of poisoning by chrome yellow (lead chromate). Two boys, set. 3£ and if years respectively, sucked some sweetmeats coloured with chrome yellow at 9—11 a.m. The quantity of the pigment taken by each child could not have exceeded one sixtli of a grain. At 2—3 p.m. on the same day, after dinner, the children were seized with vomiting and great prostration. The vomiting persisted till 8 p.m., when it became less violent. There was great flushing of the face, high temperature (1030 Fabr. in the axillae), great thirst, and disturb- ance of the sensorium. The breath was very offensive, and swallowing was difficult. The younger child died in forty-eight hours, and the elder five days after partaking of the poisonous sweetmeats. The post-mortem examination of the viscera of the younger child showed swelling of the gastric mucous membrane, especially towards the cardiac end. It also exhibited red points, and these were noted in the duodenum. The liver had undergone fatty degeneration. In the elder child, also, the liver had undergone fatty degeneration. The mucous membrane of the stomach and duodenum was softened, easily detached, and the duodenum was highly ingested with blood. There was hyperemia of the brain and its meninges, commencing icterus, hyperemia of the kidneys, with purulent affections and softened spleen. These are appearances which are commonly observed after poisoning by such corrosive (?) poisons as phosphorus, arsenic, and antimony. No poison was detected in either body, except a trace of copper in each, and this circumstance is not unusual. Dr. von Linstow draws attention to the highly corrosive and poisonous character of lead chromate, and states that it is as deadly a poison as either phosphorus or arsenic. The cases he relates are of great interest, as a case of poisoning by chrome yellow pure and simple is perhaps unique. Sweetmeats coloured with lead chromate have been recently sold in England. Zinc.—Dr. L. Popoff2 communicates a highly interesting case of chronic poisoning by the vapours of zinc oxide observed by him in the clinique of Prof. Botkin in St. Petersburg. The patient was a worker in metals. When admitted into hospital he was feeble, atrophied, and suffered from a peculiar form of paralysis. The liver was a little enlarged; the spleen normal in size. He suffered habitually three or four hours after meals from eructation, heartburn, and vomiting of a sour 1 • Vrtljhrsschr. f. Gericbtl. Med.,' xx, p. 60. 2 ' Uerl. Klin. Wochenschr./ ix, p. 72.