ANEURISM—LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 223 all the cases recorded shows very encouraging results. Eighteen cases of failure of compression are noted ; in three death occurred without anv furtheroperation. Nine cases in which the sac was laid open and the old operation performed are alluded to. In one case (successful) the vein was tied as well as the artery. Twenty-three cases are recorded in which rapid pressure was applied with a view of curing the aneu- rism at a single sitting. Where the only alternative is ligature of the abdominal aorta the result of rapid compression has been very en- couraging. Mr. Holmes thinks that the prolonged anaesthesia is quite as dangerous as ligature of the femoral, and compression of the ab- dominal aorta exposes the patient to considerable danger; so also does total compression of the common or external iliac. He would, there- fore, prefer ligature in any case in which ligature of the femoral was suitable. A case of cure by galvano-puncture, another by ma- nipulation, and another by direct compression of the tumour, are narrated. Arterio-venous aneurism of the femoral artery and vein.—Many interesting cases are noted. The inferences as to treatment are two: —ist. That it must be directed to obliterate the orifice of communi- cation between the artery and the vein. It is upon this communication that all the secondary consequences of the affection seem to proceed. Its obliteration may be brought about by (i) laying the sac open and tving the artery above and below ; the vein may be tied or not as well. (2) By tying the artery above and below outside the sac. (3) By com- pression applied to the venous orifice and to the artery above the tumour. This is best done simultaneously after Vanzetti's method. Cases have been treated by first compressing the venous orifice, converting the case into one of simple aneurism, and then dealing with the latter. 2nd. All cases which have been dissected at a late period prove that the artery becomes so attenuated and enlarged above the tumour, that no opera- tive interference can then be successful; hence the necessity of treating the disease decisively at first. The Hunterian operation is not adapted for such cases. Mr. Spence advocates tying the artery above and below the tumour without interfering with the latter ; the incision required is necessarily a long one. "When the tumour is below the profunda, or even when the long saphena vein would be left intact, Mr. Holmes is in favour of the old operation, and tying artery and vein. Aneurism of the profunda and other branches is discussed Oct. 17. Aneurism of the popliteal, Dec. 12, 19, &c. The importance of the condition of the sac in reference to the question of treatment is insisted on. Much also depends on whether the orifice of the aneu- rism is on the deep face of the artery, and the tumour grows towards the knee-joint, lifting up the vessel; or, on the other hand, is situated at the back of the artery, growing towards the vein, the nerve, and the skin, or laterally ; or finally, is of the fusiform or tubular variety, in which case it often extends up Hunter's canal and becomes femoro- popliteal. The form of the aneurism is important. The progress of the case while under observation must be carefully noted, that is, the rate at which the symptoms are advancing. The presence of other dis- ease, cardiac mischief, arterial degeneration, &c, is important. As