280 REPORT ON SURGERY. of the bead of the humerus and the irritation caused by the sawn end of the clavicle. In future, Mr. Spence would recommend disarticulation of the acromial end of the clavicle instead of sawing it off. This would render the operation more difficult. ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' June, 1873.) Amputation at the wrist-joint.—Mr. Barwell advocates the following. An incision from the outer point of the scaphoid downwards across the ball of the thumb to the fold of skin formed in the palm by flexing the fingers. A transverse incision is then made along the fold to the outer side of the fifth metacarpal bone ; from the end of this a third incision is brought along the outer margin of that bone to the pisiform. At* the back of the wrist, on a level with the joint between the two rows of carpal bones, a transverse cut connects the two perpendicular oues. The two flaps—a short posterior and a long anterior—are dissected up, saving the vessels in the flaps. "When the flaps are turned back the pisiform is felt for, and the knife being placed above it, the hand is severed from the forearm; then, the soft parts being removed for a short distance on the outer side of the styloid process of the radius, the operator removes as much of the bone with forceps as may be necessary to render the end of the stump plain and level. The advan- tages are—1, the flaps fit accurately; 2, the chief flap is formed of dense tissue accustomed to pressure ; 3, there are no ends of obliquely cut tendon or nerve on the stump, all these parts are cut off higher and straight; 4, the stump is square and level; 5, the operation is easier and quicker, there being no possible hitch in the separation of the wrist from the arm. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' August 30, 1873.) Excision of the head and neck of the femur for long-standing disease of the hip-joint and removal of bone from the acetabulum in a patient set. 41. Recovery with useful limb. Dr. Newman records the case. ('St. Bartb. Hosp. Rep.,' x, 389.) In the 'Medical Times and Gazette' (June 6, 1874) are notes of four cases of disease of the hip in which excision was practised by different surgeons. Where the head of the bone was not already dislo- cated by the disease, the femur was sawn across below the trochanter before trying to exarticulate. In this way the soft parts are LeBS damaged than when the disarticulation is accomplished first. Mr. Croft advocates subperiosteal resection. He uses a keyhole saw to divide the femur at the level of the lesser trochanter. He describes a special apparatus for after treatment. Both thighs are fixed, and extension kept up by a weight. The case of a boy, set. 7, is recorded. After the operation the limb was kept extended by weights. Pour weeks afterwards passive motion was tried. At the end of about seven months he was able to get about with an iron support. Eighteen months after the operation he could run about, flex and ex- tend the thigh on the pelvis, but not rotate or abduct. The limb was only an inch shorter than the other, and an interesting point was that the two femora measured all but exactly the same, though two inches had been removed at the operation. ('Brit. Med. Jour.,'Sept. 19, 1874, and ' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vi, 174.) Incision versus excision of the knee in children.—Mr. Lund prac- tises incision of the knee iu young children rather than excision. He