CANCER OF THE BREAST. who is at or beyond middle age, the risk is very great that such an erup- tion of the nipple will be followed by cancer. In two cases the nipple was removed, but too late. If the disease is extensive good scar tissue may not be formed after removal of the diseased patch, and then bad scar tissue, often irritable and ulcerating, is as likely to induce cancer as the syphilitic or ichthyotic patches would have been. (' St. Bartholo- mew's Hospital Reports,' x, 87.) Pustular or disseminated scirrhus of the breast in a man.—At a meeting of the Niederrheinische Gresellschaft in Bonn, on July 21, 1873, Prof. Dontrelepont related the case of a man, very weak and emaciated, a>t. 50, who was affected with this form of cancer (squirrhe pustuleux ou dissemine of Velpeau). There was no family history of cancer. In July, 1870, he perceived a hard painless swelling of the left nipple; iodine ointment was applied. In 1872 the patient, for the first time, felt pain in the tumour, which was attributed to the pressure of his braces ; and from this time the swelling gradually increased. In Pebruary, 1873, the tumour ulcerated, and extended more and more; the ulcer was cauterised with nitrate of silver. At the end of May, when he came under Dr. Dontrelepont's care, the tumour was firmly adherent to the ribs. The ulcer was nearly circular, and had a diameter of about 2f inches; its base presented many fissures, and appeared as if cicatrized at some points; the margin was raised and very hard. At a little distance there were several cutaneous nodules larger than lentils, and near the axillary line there was one almost as large as a pigeon's egg; all were movable. At the edge of the sternum and near the xiphoid process were two nodules which had become firmly adherent to the bones. Several of the axillary glands were swollen and felt very hard. The patient was taken into hospital for some time, at his own request. During his stay there, several fresh nodules appeared in the skin around the ulcerated surface ; and in July about a dozen new growths had formed, the ulcer itself (which had been dressed with chlorate of potash) and most of the nodules showing scarcely any signs of growth. Two freshly formed cutaneous nodules were removed for microscopic examination. This showed that the case was one of scirrhus. In the neighbourhood of the nodules, an infiltration of cells ran obliquely towards the surface of the skin in the form of canals, which presented irregular enlargements, were branched, and on closer examination were found to be evidently lymphatics. Where these infiltrations were present there was also cell proliferation. Dr. Dontrelepont considered it probable that in this case the scirrhus spread through the cutaneous lymphatics. Whether the epithelial lining of the lymphatics had a direct share in the process, or whether there was only a growth of cells within the vessels, could not be determined. Cancer of the breasts in a man; removal; recovery.—The patient was sixty-one years of age. The disease was scirrhus. Both breasts were removed by Mr. Wagstaffe. In the left, the disease was of eighteen months' duration ; in the right, of three months' duration. (' Med. Times and Gazette,' Aug. 1, 1874.) Primary scirrhus of the breast treated by caustics and incisions.—Mr. Keateven treated a scirrhus of the breast in a patient set. sixty-five,