REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 84 haemorrhage." Of this there were 93 cases, of which 53 died. Unlike the true form, this attacked persons of middle and later age, and those already undermined by drink or other causes. The prodromal ex- anthem, which is not to be confounded with the temporary erythema, was present in 237 cases, mostly those in early life; and was most commonly visible on the lower part of the abdomen and groins ; it seems to stand in some sort of a relation to the smallpox eruption, as parts of the body attacked by the one remained free in the same patient from the other. He did not find Knecht's view, that in patients over thirty years old this prodromal exanthem preluded a severe attack, confirmed; and is himself inclined to look upon it as a modification of the true eruption. The mortality of vaccinated cases was nh, that of unvaccinated 48I, per cent. Thirteen cases were revaccinated suc- cessfully ; of these, two died, one having been vaccinated six, the other twenty-four years before. The paper contains further statistical accounts of the various complications and sequela), and the results found post mortem. Pollak, in a review ('Wien. Med.Woch.,' 1873, No. 29) of the epidemic of smallpox in the garrison at Graz, between Jan., 1872, and April, 1873, finds the longest incubation period to have been sixteen days. Frequency of pulse and elevation of temperature during the eruptive fever did not aid much in the way of prognosis, though cases with well marked eruption and but slight feverish symptoms ended fatally. Cases in which the eruption had been preceded by a short prodromal stage ran their course better than those in which the latter had been long. Good results were obtained by pencilling the eruption with a solution of caustic potash in glycerine or carbolic acid ointment; but in spite of all measures directed towards isolation and disinfection, twenty-seven cases of the disease occurred in the hospital itself. J. Haddon, after giving ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1873, i, 517) an account of the epidemic of smallpox at Eccles in July to November, 1871, states conclusions which agree in the main with those of Pollak. He found that in favourable cases the pulse and temperature ran in parallel lines; the longer the duration of the primary fever, the more serious is the prognosis, and if it lasts beyond the fourth day the case will certainly be severe. A high temperature does not indicate a severe case, any more than a low temperature does a mild one. The quicker and lower the temperature falls after the primary fever has ceased, the more favourable is the prognosis, and vice versa. In favourable cases the tongue was tolerably moist, the urine abundant and of good colour; in the fatal cases the former was dry and brown, the latter high- coloured and scanty, while the delirium, present in seven cases, was rarely present in the fatal ones. ~W. Zuelzer ('Centralbl.,' 1874, 82) has made experiments on apes (Cercopithecus) with blood and pus taken from patients suffering from variola. Two of the animals were fed on the pus mixed with bread- crumbs without being affected, nor did any result follow rubbing-in of the poison into the unwounded skin. Twelve days after the last experiment one of the same apes was inoculated with fresh blood from a severe case of smallpox—the blood containing a large quantity of bacteria. Six days later the temperature rose; there was temporary