REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 90 thcmia, with Hypertrophy of the Spleen and Lymphatic Glands and Lymphadenonia of the Pleura, Mediastinum, Liver, Kidneys, and Epididymis" (boy, a;t. 12), 'Path. Soc. Traus./ xxv, 246. W. H. Cripps, " Adenoid Disease," ib., 245. Muscular Atrophy and Hypertrophy. H. Eichliorst writes ('Berl. Klin. "Woch.,' 187,3,497) on the hereditary- character of progressive muscular atrophy. The examples occurred in a family, the oldest living member of which, a female, suffered from the disease. The father, grandfather, and great-grandfather of this woman had been affected in the same way. Of her ten brothers and sisters only one sister had been attacked, the brothers, however, dying at a relatively early age. At the time the notes were made the woman was seventy years old, and of her seven children, three out of four boys and one out of three girls had inherited the disease, as also did two of her grandchildren, sons of the one healthy son, and of one of the healthy daughters, and two out of three of her nieces. The affection began in almost all with weakness and wasting of the thighs, and later of the hands. E. H. Greenhow records ( 'Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vi, 149) a case of acute muscular atrophy. The patient, a woman, set. 26, was the sister of a woman who had died at the age of 27 of progressive muscular atrophy (see 'Clin. Soc. Trans.,' v, 210). The chief symptoms during life were weakness, pain in the shoulders, arms, and abdomen, delirium, a very fre- quent pulse, constantly elevated temperature, increasing loss of power, and somewhat sudden death. The urine, as in the former case, acquired, after standing some hours, a deep reddish-purple hue, due to the presence of uro-erythrine. The autopsy showed the body apparently well nourished ; muscles of the normal colour; no apparent wasting of any but the pectoral muscles, which were thinner than usual. The spinal cord was firm and apparently normal. On dividing it a large vessel full of blood was seen in the mid-dorsal region, close.tothe central canal. The lumen of the canal could not be made out even with the aid of a lens. The brain and other organs were tolerably normal, but greatly congested. Most of the fibres from the extensors of the fore- arms presented within the sarcolemma a finely granular appearance, resembling ground glass. There was no fat Avithin the sarcolemma. Portions of various voluntary muscles and of the heart showed the same change—an important point in reference to the latter organ, which has not been found in recorded cases of atrophy to have undergone the granular degeneration. Examination of the cord showed the multipolar cells of both anterior and posterior horns, and of the posterior vesicular column altered by deposition of pigment-granules; their nuclei and nucleoli enlarged and pigmented. The nerve-processes retained the same granular aspect for a short distance. The central canal was choked with non-nucleated corpuscles of various sizes, and with debris of its epithelium. The spaces through which the arteries pass up by the sides of the central canal were much enlarged by loss of substance of the transverse commissure. The writer holds that the muscular atrophy in this case was a primary disease, and that it was the cause of death.