TIE PORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 472 Btamed with blood. [In England the problem is usually more difficult. The expert is asked whether a given stain is human blood or not.—T. S.] To the second objection, that the variations above and below the standard size of corpuscles from any particular animal are too great and irregular to permit us to obtain an accurate result by measure- ment, the author answers, that this difference in size is more especially observed in corpuscles dried in a thin film upon a glass slide, and is then probably in part a pathological change due to external violence in spreading and drying. These variations are, he alleges, comparatively slight in fresh blood. Among one hundred red corpuscles freshly drawn from five different persons, whites and blacks, of ages varying from eight to fifty years, the diameters were—maximum j-j^, minimum 37>V?> mean jtts incn respectively. But when one of the specimens was dried in a thin film upon a slide, the maximum, minimum, and mean measurements were ^n^, s-fat, and of an inch respectively; whereas the measurements of the undried blood gave the numbers 3~23T» -stW> and jstst inch. Virchow's assertion that a man's life should not be put in question on the uncertain calculation of a blood- corpuscle's ratio of contraction by drying is met by the statement that since the red corpuscles of oxen, horses, pigs, sheep, deer, and goats are all much smaller than those of man, no degree of contraction which they could undergo would render the stains in which they occur more liable to be mistaken for man's blood; and if, as is rarely, if ever, the case, according to Richardson, human red blood-corpuscles in a stain were by any means contracted so as to resemble those of an ox, for instance, in size, the evidence from microscopic examination would only mislead us into assisting in the acquitting of a criminal, and could not betray us into aiding to convict an innocent person. Moreover, the author's observations, made upon many different kinds of blood, and under a great variety of conditions, clearly indicate that the cell- wall of a red blood-globule is nearly or quite inelastic, and incapable of any marked expansion by the process of drying or moistening by the fluids which he recommends for the examination of blood-stains ; and he states that the experience of Prof. Wormley and of Prof. Leidy accords with his in that those observers had never seen the drying or remoistening of red blood-corpuscles cause them to expand. Dr. Richardson says that it is interesting and important to observe, that in no instance do the minimum diameters of the human blood- corpuscles closely approach the maximum diameter of even those from ox blood. The red corpuscles of ox blood were found to vary from _.gu.¥ to -43V7 inch w'tn a mean °f tsVs 5 aQd those of the sheep from *° tjW' w^tn a mean °f 5 855 inch. The author submits that he has proved that, since the red blood-globules of the pig, 42W tue OX 42VT' the red deer 4^V*> tlie Cat 445T> tbe llor8e «W> the sheep srQQ, and the goat ^j\-)B- of an inch, are all so much smaller than even the ordinary minimum size of the human red disk, as measured in his investigations, we are now able by the aid of high powers of the microscope—and ^ inch objectives—and under favor- able conditions, to positively distinguish stains produced by human