REMOVAL OP THE TONGUE. 289 He recommends accurate adaptation of the edges of the wound and the application of pressure. He used carbolized muslin, a i per cent, solution of carbolic acid in water and carbolized sutures. (' Liver- pool and Manchester Med. aud Surg. Eep.,' 1873-4.) Fibrous tumour of the popliteal space.—The patient was a young woman under the care of Mr. Lister. The tumour appeared to have grown from the deep fascia, and its removal involved exposure of the popliteal vein as well as the internal popliteal nerve. Strict antiseptic management was adopted, with free drainage, and the wound healed in four weeks. (' Edin. Med. Jour.,' July, 1874.) Excision of the entire ulna for necrosis.—The patient, a girl, set. 16, was under the care of Dr. Hutchison. At the end of four months a new ulna had formed, including the olecranon and styloid processes. ('Am. Jour. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1874.) Necrosis of the radius; resection ; preservation of a useful hand.— Dr. B. J. D. Irwin records a case in a lady, set. 27 (' Am. Jour. Med. Sci.,' Oct. 1874). Hemoval of the tongue by the galvanic cautery.—Mr. Bryant narrates a series of cases in the 'Lancet,' Feb. 28, 1875. Four cases of removal of the tongue by the galvano-ecraseur under care at University College Hospital are recorded in the 'Lancet,' June, &c, 1873. Mr. Furneaux Jordan has removed the tongue three times by a combination of steps which seems to constitute a new operation. First, the cheek is divided backwards to the vertical ramus of the jaw, then the root of the tongue is seized by the finger and thumb of one haud while the other passes under it a strong curved needle carrying stout cords; the cords are left in the chanuel made by the needle, which is withdrawn. Next, the chains of two ecraseurs are drawn, one after the other, through the channel by means of the cords ; then one chain is tightened over the dorsum of the tongue, close to the faucial pillars, the other deeply at the floor of the mouth, and both are worked simul- taneously and slowly. Next, if there be any haemorrhage at all, there may be needed a touch or two of a pointed cautery or the application of perchloride of iron. Lastly, the wound of the cheek is brought together. The patient is supported by enemata for two or three days, only a little iced water is given by the mouth. Care must be taken that the ecraseurs are not locked. (' Surgical Inquiries,' p. 18.) Harelip and cleft palate.—Sir AVilliam Fergusson, in some observa- tions on harelip and cleft palate, after discussing the anatomical con- ditions which are met w'ith, passes on to the surgical treatment, and says harelip may be operated on at any time, but he prefers the period between three weeks and three months. In unhealthy pining infants, brought soon after birth, it is better to wait to see that health flourishes. In case3 of double harelip with a projecting intermaxillary portion he is in the habit of removing the projecting part. He uses the truss- compressor to each cheek, as he thinks strappingexercises injurious pres- sure on the parts. He removes the projecting part high up, where there is only cartilage to cut through. Latterly he has been in the habit of making an incision through the mucous membrane and periosteum over 19