274 REPOllT ON SUltGERY. operation, the author goes on to relate cases which he has operated on by the galvanic cautery. He describes the method of using it and figures the necessary instruments. ('Lancet,' Feb. 28, 1875.) Mr. Mac Cormac finds Esmarch's plan exceedingly efficacious. He was the first to adopt it in England. (' St. Thos. Hosp. Rep.,' iv, 1873, 430 In an address on this subject to the Clinical Society, Prof. Esmarch narrates a case in which he removed the outer two thirds of the clavicle (after bandaging the arm) and then tied the subclavian artery and vein. By this means he was able to remove the arm, scapula, and an attached growth without material haemorrhage. He also details a case in which he used elastic compression to arrest haemorrhage while he amputated the penis, testes, &c, in a case of extensive carcinoma. He states that his results since he has adopted plans of entirely preventing loss of blood have been better than before doing so. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 17, 1874.) The formation ofperiosteal flaps in amputation.—Dr. G-uido Tizzoni has ('Rivista Clinica de Bologna,' No. 6, 1874) made a number of experiments on animals on the formation of periosteal flaps, and from these and from observations of patients he has arrived at the following conclusions :—1. The formation of periosteal flaps in amputations is easily carried out. The slight prolongation of the operations is of no consequence in the present day, when we possess the means of sparing the patient pain and loss of blood. 1. The periosteal flaps retract strongly but equally, without forming folds. 3. They remain spread over the sawn surface of the bone without any trouble. The application of metallic sutures to fasten them is not only superfluous but mischievous. 4. Strong union takes place between the medulla and the periosteum within twenty-four hours, and at a later period the latter becomes united to the bone through the medium of the Haversian canals. This early adhesion of the marrow and periosteum is of the greatest prac- tical importance. It effectually protects the marrow from the influence of suppuration eventually taking place in the stump. The union between the periosteum and the bone is, clinically speaking, more by the first intention, inasmuch as it takes place without suppuration; anatomically, however, it is a union by the second intention, inasmuch as it is brought about by granulations, which spring from the Haversian canals. 5. In the interval, the extravasated blood is absorbed, a pro- liferation of cells takes place in the periosteum and marrow, and an exudation of plasma takes place, so that the flaps are kept moderately distended over the stump of the bone. 6. If the amputation wound heal by the first intention, the ossification of the marrow and periosteum is slight. Under irritation, there is extensive ossification of the periosteal flaps, of the adjacent periosteum, and of the marrow. Thus an internal and an external callus are formed. If the irritation be still greater, abscesses are formed in the periosteal flaps, and these undergo change, first into cartilage, and then into bone. 7. In all cases, without exception, a bony plug is formed in the medullary canal, which prevents the absorption of pus into the marrow. 8 and 9. The periosteal flaps prevent or impede the formation as well as the absorption of pus into the