ANEURISM LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 215 desired eftect; suppuration ensued, a free exit was given for the pus ; the tumour gradually diminished in size and the wound healed. At this time no pulsation could be detected in the radial artery. (' Am. Jour. Med. Sci.,' April, 1873.) Ligature of the subclavian artery for axillary aneurism.—Mr. Stocks records a case. The patient was a man, aged 42. After the failure of prolonged attempts to effect a cure by pressure, the vessel was ligatured in its third part by a carbolised catgut ligature and the wound dressed antiseptically. The patient died on the twelfth day from asthenia with some solidification of one luug, though the pleura was uninjured by the operation. The point of special interest in the case is the fact that, though the artery was closely coustricted above the aneurism and filled with a fibrinous plug, the ligature itself had disappeared entirely, thus furnishing another instance in proof of the value of carbolised cat- gut and the antiseptic treatment. The sac was wounded, but this did not have any ill effect. (' Liverpool and Manchester Med. and Surg. Rep.,' 1873, p. 126.) Axillary aneurism.—Mr. Holmes (Lectures, College of Surgeons) sums up—1. That there are a great number of these aneurisms, both traumatic and spontaneous, which are amenable to gradual intermitting pressure when carefully applied to the artery above the tumour. 2. That in cases where this is not possible, from the pain which the patient experiences on pressure, the application of rapid total compres- sion under anaesthesia may effect a cure. 3. That the ligature of the sub- clavian artery is so dangerous an operation, both from its own risks and from the proximity of the sac, that it ought to be restricted to cases where pressure has failed and to those in which, from the size and rapid growth of the axillary tumour, the surgeon thinks pressure unadvisable, 4. That the old operation is to be preferred to ligature of the subclavian in cases of ruptured artery, and that it may be practised in cases where, from the elevation of the shoulder or from the extent of the tumour, the surgeon would find it difficult to tie the subclavian or fears in doing so to injure the sac; but that the anatomical relations of axillary aneurisms render this a peculiar hazardous proceeding, and the surgeon should always be prepared to amputate if necessary. 5. That in very large axillary aneurisms, if any treatment be adopted, the arm Bhould be amputated at the joint, after ligature of the subclavian. Attempted reduction of dislocation of the shoulder; rupture of the axillary artery; ligature; death.—The patient was a man, aged 58, under the care of Mr. Lister. The dislocation was of seven or eight weeks' standing. Prof. Lister, by manipulation and subsequently by the pulleys, attempted to reduce the dislocation, no undue force being exerted by either method. During the attempt a sharp crack was heard and subsequently a swelling, which ultimately reached the size of an adult head, took place on the dorsal and posterior part of the scapula; the occurrence being due to rupture of the axillary artery and subse- quent effusion of blood into the surrounding structures. Without hesitation Prof. Lister cut down on the spot and searched for the ruptured vessel. An aperture was found at the posterior part of the axillary. The patient rallied, but died about three hourB later. Dissection