REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 92 Faradization " (man, middle-aged),' New York Med. Journ.,' xix, 395. Sourier, "Atro- pine Musculaire progressive, guerison " (man, a)t. 35). ' Gaz. de's Hop.,' 1874, 754. Gueury and Cuignet, " Paralysic partielle des mcmbrcs superieurs, congenitale, he're- ditaire progressive avec ou sans Atropine musculaire" (man, rot. 21), 'Union Mud.,' xvii, 955. Diabetes. P. Burger ('Deut. Arch.,' xi, 323) has made investigations into the insensible perspiration in diabetes mellitus and insipidus. He refers to the uncertain views held with regard to the subject. Some writers assert that it is not a perspiration, but an insensible attraction of mois- ture from the air, and in this way explain the supposed fact that diabetic patients secrete with their urine more fluid than they take with their food without decreasing in weight. In opposition to this JvTa?se had shown that they did not, when placed in a bath, absorb water through their skin. Burger's researches were made on a child suffering from diabetes insipidus and two adults affected with diabetes mellitus, and were compared with the same experiments made on healthy persons of the same age. He finds that the insensible perspiration is very much diminished—a fact already shown by the very dry state of skin. Fluid absorbed was never exceeded by that given off without corresponding loss of weight. In the child, for instance, the insensible exudation was, in three different periods of 24 hours, 685, 544, and 537 grm., while in a healthy girl of the same age it was, in the same periods, 901, 683, and 949 grm. The average amount of perspiration in the child was 8 per cent., in the two adults 8-3 and 4^3 per cent.—the normal quantity being, according to Vierordt, from 32 to 33 per cent. The conclusion drawn from this diminution of sweating is that the polyuria and not the polydipsia is the primary symptom. In opposition to the conclusions of Mosler and Strauss, Burger found no inosite in 7000 centimeters of urine passed by his patient with diabetes insipidus. W. Ebstein (ib., 344) writes on the relation of diabetes insipidus to affections of the nervous system. With an analysis of cases already recorded he combines some observations of his own. In cases where an autopsy was made, the seat of change was found to be either the medulla oblongata or the floor of the fourth ventricle, or portions of brain substance were found to be in a condition of inflammation or of alteration from new growths, the latter exercising some pressure on the medulla. In other cases, in which no autopsy was made, he refers the symptoms to probable haemorrhage into the medulla oblongata. Other cases occur in which, with well-marked symptoms of affection of the me- dulla, there was no change in the urine, or, instead of a diabetes insipidus, a diabetes mellitus or inosituria was found. On the relation of the disease to epilepsy, to alcoholism, and to affections of the spine, he has not much to say. In cases of hysteria and other neuroses in which there is an increased flow of urine, he would look for the cause in some affection of the vaso-motor nerves, by which the pressure is regulated in the glomeruli of the kidneys. Zimmer concludes, from his observations of diabetic patients (' Deut.