GLANDS. designated by Dean and KolKker as the inferior diffuse part of the superior olivary body, and by Clarke as the antero-lateral nucleus. See also Claude-Bernard,1 who refers the trophic changes observed in the eye after division of the fifth nerve between the Grasserian ganglion and the brain to the vascular changes produced. Vulpian 2 adduces strong experimental evidence to prove that the vaso-motor nerve centre in the medulla oblongata is not the only centre of vascular nerves, but that a chain of such centres is situated in the grey substance of the spinal cord throughout its whole length. See also Vulpian3 and E. Cyon.4 Schlesinger5 shows that both vaso-motor nerves and motor nerves for the uterus issue from the spinal cord, and Rokitansky that centres exciting the respiratory movements exist in the spinal cord, since these movements can be called into play after division of the cord in the neck by strychnia. Eckhard,*5 in order to ascertain the course of the nervi erigentes in the cerebro-spinal portion of their course, applied electrical excita- tion to various parts of the central nervous system, both in rabbits under the toxic influence of woorara and to animals not so poisoned. He found that, besides the proper nervi erigentes, there is a nerve in the rabbit corresponding to the hypogastric plexus in man, the irrita- tion of which effects movements of the vasa deferentia. He found also that irritation applied successively in different animals to the lower cut surface of the lumbar and cervical portions of the spinal cord, even when the section of the latter was made between the atlas and occiput, produced free bleeding from the lower part of the ampu- tated penis, such bleeding, of course, corresponding to erection. "When the lower cut surface of the lumbar portion of the spinal cord was stimulated—provided the animal was not under the influence of woorara—perhaps in consequence of the coincident iritation of vaso- motor nerve fibres, a speedy diminution of the haemorrhage, and in some cases even complete arrest of it occurred. This phenomenon was independent of the capability of functional activity of the nervi pudendales communes. Erection could also be called forth by excita- sion of the pons Varolii and of the crura cerebri at their points of entrance into the cerebrum. Eckhard draws the conclusion that the nerves inducing erection run through the pons and take their origin from some part of the cerebrum. Putzeys and Tarchanoff,7 E. Cyon.8 1 'Gaz.Med.de Paris,' 1874, No. 13. "Extraits dcs Recherchcs sur lcs Nerfs tropbiques et vaso-dilateurs." s 'Archives de Physiologic,' 1874, p. 175. "Experiences relatives a la Physiologic des Nerfs vaso-dilateurs." 3 ' Comptcs rendus,' 1874, B. lxxviii, p. 472. • ' Pfliiger's Archiv,' B. viii, p. 327. " Zur Lehre dcr reflectorischeu Erregung dcr Gefassnervcn." ' 'Wiener Med. Jahrh.,' 1874, p. t. * " Ueber den Verlauf der Nervi Erigentes inncrhalb des Ruckenmiirks und Gehirns," in ' Eckhard's Bcitriige,' B. vii, p. 67. 7 ' Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wiss.,' 1874, p. 641. "Ueber den Einfluss dcs Ncrvcn- system? auf den Zustand der Gefiisse." 8 ' Pfifigo'fl Archiv,' 1874, B. viii, p. 340. " Ueber den Einfluss dcr Tempcrntur- verandernngen auf die centralen Endcu der llerzncrvcii."