BLOOD.—CIRCULATION. ' Pfluger's ArchiT,' Band vii, p. 101. corpuscles in the blood, and finds that it varies considerably in different regions, and this is owing either to a real or an apparent increase or diminution. Thus, the number is really less in the hepatic blood, owing to their destruction in the liver, and apparently less in the mesenteric veins during digestion, owing to absorption of fluid. It is really increased in the blood of the splenic vein, owing to their formation in the spleen, and it is apparently increased in the skin, glands, &c, owing to evaporation or elimination of fluid for the purposes of nutrition. Arnold1 has studied the phenomena of diapedesis, or the passage of the blood-corpuscles through the walls of the vessels after ligation of the veins (frog's tongue). He has distinctly seen the escape of the red as well as of the white corpuscles, and describes the process very minutely, together with the alterations the corpuscles subsequently undergo. They some- times enter the lymphatics, but he has never observed their entry into the blood-vessels again. Thoma2 has investigated and describes fully the passage of the white corpuscles of the blood from the blood into the lymph-vessels. He, with Arnold, admits the existence of stomata, or preformed passages, in both sets of vessels. Purves3 maintains that the white corpuscles escape from the blood-vessels through the inter- spaces of the endothelial cells. Faber 4 relates observations which have led him to ascribe vital contractility and the power of locomotion to the red blood-corpuscles of man. His observations were first made on blood-corpuscles contained in the urine of a patient suffering from Bright's disease, and afterwards on blood exposed to a temperature a little over ioo° F. It has long been known that in the process of bleeding to death, though several vessels may have been simultaneously opened, a rela- tively large proportion of blood remains in the smaller vessels of various organs. "Welcker proposed to estimate this quantity by washing out the vessels thoroughly with pure water, and comparing the colour of the washings with certain standard test solutions previously prepared by the dilution of known quantities of blood with definite quantities of water. ^ Brozeit has recently made use of another method suggested by v. Wittich; he obtains the hsematin from a definite quantity of the blood by means of ether and hydrochloric acid, and this constitutes a standard. The quantity obtained from a measured quantity of the washing is then ascertained, and the amount of blood in the washings is then easily determined. Steinberg,5 having noticed that some diffi- culty exists in estimating the fine shades of colour in Welcker's colori- metric method, dilutes a definite quantity of the natural blood of the animal till a green colour appears in the spectrum. The washings are dduted till the same band is developed, and data are thus obtained for the calculation of the amount of blood contained in the washings. Carrying out this plan Steinberg finds that the total quantity of blood in the rabbit is ^ to of the weight of its body. In the guinea- 1 'Virchow'a Arcbiv,' 1873, B. lviii, p. 20.v2.ii4. 2 'Ccntralblatt,' 1874, p. 364, abstract of nnHabilitntionschrift. ■ Abstract in ' Centralblatt,' 1874, P- 654. * 'Arcbiv der Heilkunck,' 1873,15. xiv, p. 481-511.