EXCISION OF THYROID GLAND. 307 Anel's operation appears to greater disadvantage than iu any other region of the body. " If the indolent or timid surgeon, who, to con- trol bleediug from minor branches of the carotid, prefers to stuff the wound with styptics, or to perform the easy operation of tying the common trunk, rather than seek in the difficult anatomy of the maxillary and thyroid regions to place double ligatures on tho bleeding point, he may temporise or may associate his name with the necrology of liga- tions ; but if his patient recover it will generally be found to be under circumstances in which the surgeon's operative intervention was un- called for." Stricture of the trachea following suicidal wound relieved by opera- tion.—Mr. Lee records the case. ('Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vii, 112.) Bronchocele, treatment of, by injection of iodine.—Dr. Morell Mack- enzie has tried Prof. Liicke's treatment with advantage. He injects thirty drops of the officinal tincture of iodine into the substance of the thyroid gland once a week for the first two or three weeks and then once a fortnight. The treatment extends over a long period generally. No irritation (suppuration) followed when the injection was made into the gland itself. The average duration of treatment was four months. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Aug. 30, 1873.) Dr. Morell Mackenzie advocates injections of perchloride of iron in cystic bronchocele. The cyst is first punctured and emptied with a trocar at its most dependent part; a drachm or two (according to the size of the cyst) of a watery solution of perchloride of iron (§ij ad Jj) is then injected with a glass Byringe and the canula plugged, the iron being left in. After seventy-two hours, the solution is allowed to run out and the plug is reinserted and linseed-meal poultices kept constantly applied. In a few days suppuration is set up and the plug is then per- manently removed, the canula being allowed to remain till the secre- tions become limited in amount and thin in consistency. One injection is generally sufficient, but if the first injection is too quickly removed the process has to be repeated three or four times at intervals of two or three days, and the injection should be repeated from time to time as long as the discharge contains much blood or hsematin. The injection of air is avoided by using a special kind of syringe. The duration of the treatment is from three weeks to four months. In the fibro-cystic cases, the cysts are first treated and then the fibrous structure afterwards treated by subcutaneous injections of iodine. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vii, 115.) Excision of the thyroid gland.—Dr. P. H. Watson records the case of a young lady from whom he removed an enlarged thyroid gland. The operation was effected by a central linear incision through which the surface of the tumour was readily exposed, with scarcely any bleeding. No sooner were the lateral attachments on one side divided than blood issued copiously both from the tumour and from the vessels. The latter were secured with some difficulty, and a ligature embracing one half of the tumour arrested all further flow. To escape from all further trouble, before dividing the vascular connections on the other side, two preliminary ligatures were passed beneath the superior and inferior thyroid vessels, and the ligatures having been tied the opera-