REPORT ON SURGERY. 338 mental functions. (' Centralblatt fiir die Med. Wissenschaft.,' 17 May, 18 73-) Mbro-cystic tumour of the uterus; removal, together with the uterus and its appendages; recover;/.—The patient was under the care of Dr. Trenholme. The nature of the ease was diagnosed and the operation performed on account of failure of general health, &c. (' Lancet,' Nov. 14, 1874.) Oastrotomy for extra-uterine pregnancy.—Mr. Lawson Tait records a successful case. He did not remove the placenta. He cut the cord about midway and left the placental part hanging out of the wound. The cavity was well sponged out and then the cut edge of the sac was stitched by catgut suture all round the peritoneal edge of the parietal wound and the peritoneal cavity completely closed. The upper half of the abdominal wound was closed. A tube was inserted below and the fluid accumulated drawn oft' from time to time. He attributed the success to leaving the placenta, closing the peritoneal cavity, and leaving that of the abnormal sac open. (' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' lvi, 219.) The surgical treatment of intraperitoneal injuries. — Mr. Smith reviews the statistics of ovariotomy in reference to the question as to whether there is less risk of peritonitis from interfering with a peri- toneum which has already been inflamed or one which shows no signs of past peritonitis. Mr. Wells' statistics would show the latter to be the more favorable condition. He urges the importance which ovario- tomy statistics show of thoroughly removing any foreign or acrid fluids from the peritoneal cavity. He especially quotes Dr. Peaslee's plan of draining or washing out the peritoneal cavity if there seems reason to suspect that decomposing fluids are pent up after ovariotomy. He suggests that in cases of rupture of intestine with extravasation of faeces and in cases of peritonitis after hernia operations, it might be well to open or reopen the abdomen and wash out the offending materials. In cases in which ovariotomy has been performed during an attack of acute peritonitis, the results have been surprisingly favorable. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,' ix, 147.) Sloughing of vagina; loss of portion of ileum in connection with a con- finement ; ileum communicating ivith bladder, rectum, and vagina by common pouch for twenty years.—Dr. Jennings records an extraordinary case. (' Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' August, 1874.) Imperforate hymen; evacuation of one hundred ounces of menstrual ■fluid; recovery.—The patient was twenty years of age. A puncture with trocar and cannula was first made and then in a few days the opening was enlarged. The patient was under the care of Dr. Lloyd Eoberts. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Oct. 18, 1873.) Internal intestinal obstruction treated by operation.—Mr. Howse records two cases. One patient was a man, set. 56. The abdomen was resonant except over a patch about four inches by three above and parallel to the right Poupart's ligament. There was also a slight feeling of resistance to°the hand different to that of other parts. At the end of seventeen days' constipation, it was determined to explore. This was done by an incision above Poupart's ligament and a portion of intestine tightly strangulated by a band was found. The band was divided. The in-