89 LEPROSY, ETC. LEUCIIjEMIA. skill was pale, his legs (edematous, his temperature normal. There was nothing abnormal in the chest, no enlargement of the liver or the lvmphatie glands ; the spleen was greatly increased in size ; the red blood-corpuscles stood in the relation of two to one of the white. He had frequent epistaxis, general oedema, effusion into the left pleural cavity, ascites, and diarrhoea followed by death. The osseous system had been carefully examined during life, but nothing abnormal had been discovered. " The autopsy revealed the ribs, sternum, and pelvis, filled with dirty greenish-yellow marrow. The spleen was hard, measur- ing 25 cm. in length by 12 in breadth ; the left pleural cavity was filled with serum; several drops of blood resembling pus were found in the left ventricle. The microscopical examination of the spleen showed great development of the trabecular; in its tissue as well as in the blood from the splenic vein were found the fine spindle-shaped crystals often described as occurring in leuchaBmia. The marrow of the ribs was exceedingly soft, greyish red, made up of thickly packed marrow- cells, without any transitional forms. The crystals were more numerous in the marrow than elsewhere. E. Southey collects the histories ('St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,' ix, 46) of nine cases of adenoid disease, two occurring in his own practice, the rest in that of Sibson, Church, Moxon, Murchison, Payne, Pye- Smith, Hodgkin, "VVilks, Bright, and Addison. He objects to the term leuchsemia or leucocythaemia, because an excess of white cells in the blood is not a common or abiding symptom. He gives in addition notes of two cases of Virchow's " splenic " form of leucaemia, and holds that the views of that writer as to this form apply also to the " lymphatic; " that is to say," that to every case there is both an early and a late stage—a stage of follicular activity, in which the corpuscular elements of the glands multiply and develop, furnish an abundant milky juice when cut and squeezed, and attended by acute febrile sym- pathetic disturbance, anorexia, and vomiting; and a late stage of interstitial stroma increase, when the interfollicular elements, at first rich in nuclei, loose and delicate in structure, afterwards increase in toughness, develop and fibrillate, forming that trabecular framework which perfects the gland-like tumour." Thus, Virchow's hard and soft forms of lympho-sarcoma may be really only early and late stages of the same pathological process. 0. Bollinger ('Centralbl.,' 1874, 600) has observed the occurrence of leuebamiia in two dogs, and gives a short review of other cases already observed in the domestic animals (three dogs, two pigs, and a cat). He concludes that the disease, especially in the dog and pig, is essen- tially the same as that seen in the human subject, not only as occurring under the same different types, but also in the pathological changes found in the liver, lungs, and kidneys, and in the tendency to hemor- rhage, T. Anderson, "Leucocythcmia in the Insane" (case of a man, set, 51, autopsy), ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1873, i, 571. E. Wells, "Ilapid case of supposed Lcucocy- themia" (boy, act. 2i), ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1874, ii, 305. Perrin, "Note sur un cas du Ketinite Lenceinique," 'Gaz. des Hop.,' 1874, 419. Ossikousky, *' Sur la composi- tion du sang dans la Leucemie," 'Gaz. Med.,' 1874, 198. P.Taylor, "Leucocy-