381 ltEFOltT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. or the disease may commence as such. The prognosis is very doubtful. A fourth form of choroiditis spreads from the periphery in small dis- tinct patches towards the centre, and is associated with pigmentation of tho retina, and a progressive diminution of field, with preservation of central vision. Finally, atrophy of the disc dependent on progres- sive atrophy of the nerve fibres of the retina is observed. Inability to see in a dull light is a not unfrequent symptom. The author sums up as follows:—i. The atrophic form of choroiditis usually met with may run its course without great defect of sight so long as the ophthalmo- I Bcope reveals changes confined to a zone between the equator and the I posterior pole. The prognosis depends chiefly on the way in which the disease spreads, that is, where fresh patches make their appear- I ance. When they encroach on the neighbourhood of the disc, vision I is affected by the disturbances set up in the circulation in the optic nerve and by opacities in the posterior part of the vitreous. If the disease spreads forwards, vision is then interfered with by anterior i vitreous opacities. 2. Circumscribed exudations lying on the surface of the choroid produce local scotomata, photopsia, chromopsia, and metamorphopsia. The degree of the defect of vision essentially depends on the part affected; for instance, the yellow spot. 3. Vision will be most severely affected when changes in the outer retinal layers are added to persistent changes in the choroid, or where the whole uveal tract is affected. Atrophy of the optic nerve follows. If exudation persists at the posterior pole of the eye, central vision is destroyed. 4. Pigmenta- tion of the retina, in consequence of choroidal atrophy progressing from 1 the equator to the posterior pole of the eye, causes diminution of field i and hemeralopia; whilst central vision may remain, even though the nerve may show signs of atrophy at an early period. (Graefe's ' Archiv,' Bd. xx, Abth. ii, pp. 95 — 122.)