REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, KTC. 440 one of the electrodes, a flat piece of metal of the size of the two hands opened and joined in the line of the long axis and curved to fit the transverse abdominal curve, is applied to the abdominal parietes, and retained by the patient's hand, a layer of blankets lying between the fingers and the metal. The other pole is placed against the perineum. The uterus lies in the direct line of the current and its fibres contract. The contraction of the abdominal muscles also aids in the expulsion. Dr. M'Eae points out that if one of the poles was applied to the os the whole uterus would be thrown into tonic contraction, and the 08 would be narrowed and labour obstructed. In the same journal, May, 1874, Dr. M'Rac reports 2 other cases, on which the electro-magnetic current did good in arousing the action of the uterus, but was insuffi- cient for delivery through other mechanical causes. Dr. Playfair writes ('Lancet,' Feb. 1874) on the value of chloral as an anaesthetic during labour. It has an advantage over chloro- form that it docs not seem to diminish the strength and intensity of the pain, while it markedly diminishes their painfulness. It can also be administered at the termination of the first stage before the com- plete dilatation of the os to lessen the severity of the sharp grinding pains. It is preferable to opium for this, as it does not stop uterine action; it is also of great use in rigidity of the cervix. Dr. Playfair recom- mends its administration in fifteen-grain doses, at first every fifteen minutes; after the second dose the interval should be increased and the dose lessened. Dr. Plumb and Dr. Lincoln write on the oxytocic effects of quinia (' Amer. Journ: of Med. Sci.,' July, 1873). They both speak of its use- fulness when given to hasten labour, when dilatation is going on and the pains are not very strong. Dr. Martemucci (' Gazz. delle Cliniche,' April, 1873) considers electricity preferable to ergot in cases of inertia uteri during labour. 1. Because the electricity can be stopped when needful, but the action of ergot is uncontrollable ; (2), unless the labour is speedily completed after giving ergot the fcetua is in danger from pressure on it and the placenta; (3), under the action of electricity the physiological uteriue contraction can be imitated; this is not so with ergot. Electricity is also useful in the haemorrhage depending upon placenta praevia (' Lond. Med. Eec.,' May 22, 1873.) Dr. Dujardin Beaumetz ('Gaz. Med. de Paris,' No. 5, 1873) gives a case of eclampsia successfully treated by chloral. In a second case, in which eclampsia was threatening, the woman suffering from oedema of the legs and albuminuria, and with symptoms of uramiia, the attacks were warded off by chloral. He has found the chloral of use in those cases where the pains are very painful, doing no work and the woman of a nervous temperament, the contractions were rendered less painful, and were more powerful and so hastened the completion of labour. Mr. Bourdon has also noticed that after the administration of chloral the contractions become more powerful, and the duration of labour is shortened. Dr. Pellissier (These, Paris, 1873), speaking of the action of chloral hydrate, says that it in no way suspends the course of labour, but