ItEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 38 Schafer1 also gives a new view of the structure of muscular fibre. His observations were made on the large water beetle (Dytiscus marginalia.) The muscles were examined without addi- tion of any reagent. He distinguishes a ground aubstance aud muaclc-rods. The ground substance appears at first sight to be com- posed of alternating dim and bright disks. The muscle-rods are of au elongated dumb-bell shape, the central shaft being embedded in, and traversing a disk of dim substance, whilst the enlarged extremities or beads extend into the bright disks. The beads give the appearance of the line of dots long ago observed to cross the middle of each bright stripe. During rest the muscle-rods are nearly or quite uni- formly cylindrical, but in contraction the heads of the rods become .enlarged at the expense of the shaft, and the enlarged heads being closely applied both to the neighbouring ones of the same series and to those of the next series which meet them in the bright stripe, the line of dots appears as a dark transverse band with bright borders. As the contraction proceeds, and these dark bands approach one another, the bright border encroaches upon the dim stripe, which finally disappears, bo that its place is occupied by a single transverse bright stripe. Con- sequently contracted muscle shows alternate dark and bright stripes ; the former, however, are in this case due to the enlarged juxtaposed extremities of the rod, the light, on the other hand, being mainly com- posed of the ground substance which has become accumulated in the intervals between their shafts. He describes the appearance pre- sented on transverse section, and the appearances presented by muscle under polarized light. He regards the whole of the muscular fibre as anisotropous or doubly refracting, with the exception of the musele-rods. He considers the intermediate ground substance as the really contractile part, while the rods are probably elastic structures, serving merely to restore the fibre to its original length. Eanvier 2 has paid especial attention to the anatomical and physiolo- gical differences existing between the pale and the dark muscles of birds, rabbits, torpedoes, and rays. The difference of colour is not dependent upon the different amount of blood these muscles receive, since if serum be injected into the vessels the white muscles become still paler, but the red preserve their colour. Eanvier states that the two forms of muscle, when exposed to electrical excitation, behave dif- ferently. The red, when excited with an interrupted electrical current, gradually and progressively shorten. When the muscle has once con- tracted it remains so without communicating any vibration perceptible to the hand holding the electrical forceps like that produced by ordi- nary muscles. When the excitation ceases the muscle gradually re- sumes its former length. The ivhite muscles, on the other hand, when excited by the same current, suddenly contract, and as long as the excitation lasts exhibit contractions corresponding to each interrup- tion. When the excitation ceases they suddenly return to their origi- 1 ' Philosoph. Transact.,' 1873, p. 429. 2 " De quelques faits relatifs it I'histologie ct it lii physiologic des Muscles Strios." 'Archives de Physiologie norniale et pathologique,' 1874, vi, p. 5, and ' Comptos Rendus,' 1873, lxvii, 1030.