REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 40 Dr. Van Bambeke1 in acordance with Balbiani, maintains that the ovule is not so simple a structure as is generally believed ; for by an extensive series of researches over nearly every class of animals he has assured himself that besides the germinal vesicle considered as the nucleus of the egg cell, there is a second nucleus the function of which consists essentially in bringing about the separation of the elements, till then indifferent, of the protoplasm of the young ovule into a germinal part and a nutritive part, grouping around the one the materials destined to form the plastic part or the germ whence is later formed the embryo, whilst the other or simply nutritive material remains around the ger- minal vesicle. Hence the name Vesicule embryogene given by Milne- Edwards to Balbiani's vesicle. Prof. His in a recent paper has, how- ever, omitted all mention of Balbiani's vesicle, but Bambeke from observations made upon the ovarian egg of osseous fishes is certain that in ovules of a certain age besides the germinal vesicle may be found another nuclear mass, viz. le noyau de Balbiani. Generally speaking, this nucleus is not readily distinguishable in ova examined in the fresh state or in indifferent liquids, but it soon appears under the influence of certain reagents, such as chloride of gold, picrocarinine, and above all acetic acid. It exists in even the smallest ovules and is always excentric as regards the germinal vesicle, and is in general very close to the peri- phery of the egg. Its volume, which is generally inferior to that of the germinal vesicle, increases with the age of the ovule. It disappears with the maturity of the ovum, consequently its disappearance precedes that of the germinal vesicle. Yolkmann3 has subjected the rotation of the body to careful examina- tion, and has arrived at some interesting results. . He employed a gonio- meter, the middle point of which was placed in the axis of rotation of the trunk. Two persons were examined, one of whom was aged (I), the other (II) young. The knees were kept straight and stiff during the measurements. i. n. [. Rotation of the Pelvis 66° 88° 2. Rotation of the Pelvis and Thorax as far as the Neck . 910 113° 3. Rotation of Pelvis, Back, Neck, and Head . . . 147° 175° 4. Rotation of Head and Neck alone .... 53° 320 5. Rotation of Head alone 320 520 6. Rotation of Back alone 25° 25° 7. Rotation of Neck alone 21° 200 The rotation of the pelvis with stiffened knees was effected by the hip and ankle-joints. On excluding the ankle-joint by bending the knee, the rotation fell from 66° to 40° The rotation in the ankle-joint was "effected by the tibial and peroneal muscles. In rotation of the pelvis the breadth of the hips, that is to say, the distance of the two characters from each other, is diminished to the extent of 10 millimeters. The pelvis moves in rotation in a screw line with distinct depression at the end of the movement. 1 Van Bamheke, ' Monthly Microscopical Journal,' Aug. 1, 1874. 2 Volkmann, " Uchcr die Drchbcwcgung des Korpers," ' Virchow's Arch./ Band lvi, p. 467.