CEREBRAL ABSCESS, TUMOURS, ETC. 119 Tho autopsy showed on the posterior inferior aspect of the left lobe of the cerebellum a clot of blood about the size of a florin, and beneath it, embedded near the surface of the cerebellum, two cysts filled with glairy fluid, one the size of a walnut, the other that of an almond. His mother had died after a long-continued succession of paralytic seizures, and in addition to atheromatous change in the arteries of the brain her cerebellum contained patches of softening cysts in the white substance of each lobe, aud there was atrophy of the substance and nerve-cells of one of the olivary bodies. One of her daughters was, when the author wrote, under his care for paralysis agitans with a curious complication, viz. permanent contraction of the left wrist, extension of the first phalanges, and contraction of the remaining phalanges. Her diathesis was, like her mother's, gouty. "Westphal publishes ('Berl. Klin. Woch.,' 1873, 205) the case of a boy, set. 17, who had suffered for about six months from headache, vomiting, and other symptoms. A month later a fluctuating tumour presented itself on the right frontal bone, which on being punctured set free numerous hydatid cysts. After their evacuation the exophthalmos and difficulty of sight improved, and the boy finally recovered. Sunderland ('Lancet,' 1873, i, 20 j) states the following case. A man, Sdt. 29, had suffered for ten weeks before admission into hospital from pains in the back of his head and neck, noises in the ears, vomiting, staggering gait, and increasing impairment of hearing, speech, and memory. His general condition was otherwise normal. The optic discs were hyperemia A month later he died comatose. At the base of the brain was found a hydatid cyst, which seemed to have become developed in the anterior subarachnoid space and bulged into the third ventricle. The third nerve on each side, especially on the right, was flattened out. The corpora albicantia had disappeared. Another large cyst was present in the right lobe of the liver, and another in the left kidney. Stock showed to the Manchester Medical Society ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1874, i, 111) a hydatid cyst removed from the left lateral ventricle of a lad, aat. 22. Three months before death "he had received a severe blow on the head," followed by intense pain, irritability, vertigo, tremors, and Blight dilatation of the pupils. He had no convulsions, and died apparently from coma. The cyst had produced an opening through the brain-substance into the longitudinal fissure. J. S. Bristowe gives (' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiv, 9) the case of a girl, set. 17, in whom was found a nearly globular cyst, between if and 2 inches in diameter, partly in the anterior, partly in the middle lobes of the left hemisphere of the cerebrum, containing a solitary healthy hydatid. It seemed to have orginated between the corpus striatum and the convolutions of the island of Rett, and in its progress gradually to have displaced the neighbouring parts of the brain without destroying them. The symptoms during life were headache, paralysis of face and tongue, and epileptic fits. E. Kotsonopulos, "Zur Casuistik dcr Hirntumorcn," 'Virch. Arch.,' lvii, 534. J. Simon, "Ueber Neubildung von Gchirnsubstauz in Form von Geschwiilsten an dcr Obfjrflache der Gehirnwindungen," ib., lviii, 310. Annuskc, " Die Neuritis Optica t>ei Tumor Cerebri," 'Arch. f. Ophth.,' ix, 165. H. Jackson, "Lectures on tho