490 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS. extract, mixed with glycerin and water. The alleged hemostatic effects of ergot were found to be very doubtful; except in uterine haemorrhage, where it is very effective when subcutaneously injected, especially in anaemic women, and no unpleasant effect results from its use. He thus summarises his conclusions : (i) In certain vascular tracts (skin, muscles, intestine, bladder, pia mater, and spinal cord), ergot produces contraction of individual arteries, especially when it is injected directly into the veins; and this action is not directly influenced by division of the sympathetic. (2) Perhaps on account of the peculiar arrangement of the uterine vessels, contraction of these is not well marked. (3) Contractions of the whole uterus occur after injection of ergot, but these are somewhat later than contraction of the vessels in other organs, but before the contraction of the uterine vessels—indicated by the uterus becoming paler. (4) These contractions are probably caused by irritation of the brain (possibly anaemic), or of the motor centre of the uterus high up in the cord; for the contractions do not occur after severance of the spinal cord. Hellebore.—H. "Weppen1 has extracted a bitter principle, to which he assigns the name veratramarin, from the root of white hellebore. It appears to be a glucoside. Its physiological and therapeutical proper- ties have not yet been investigated. Digitalis.—Drs. Brunton and Powe'r 2 find that the diuretic action of this drug is not due to its power of increasing the blood-pressure in the arterial system, but that the secretion was least when the blood-pressure was highest, and most copious when the tension had fallen below the normal. The explanation they offer of these phenomena is, that digitalis probably stimulates the vaso-motor nerves generally, but affects those of the kidney more powerfully than those of other parts of the body. Thus it causes a moderate contraction of the systemic vessels, and raises the blood-pressure in them, but, at the same time, produces excessive contraction of the renal vessels, so as to stop the circulation in the kidneys and arrest the secretion of urine. As the action of the drugs on the systemic vessels passes off they relax, and the blood- pressure falls; but the renal arteries dilate more quickly and to a greater extent than the others. Additional evidence in favour of this explanation is afforded by the fact that the urine collected after the re-establishment of secretion contains albumen, just as Herrmann found it to do after mechanical arrest of the circulation through the renal arteries. It is possible, also, that the alterations in secretion may be partly due to the direct action of the drug on the secreting elements of the kidneys. Widal3 has made comparative researches with the newly discovered crystalline digitalin and also with the original article bearing the same name discovered by M. Homolle; the preparations being given to patients suffering from febrile diseases. His conclusions as to the therapeutic actions of the crystallised digitalin are summarised thus :— (1.) Crystallised digitalin may be given in typhus in doses of ^th 1 * Arch. Pharm.' [3], ii, p. 101. a ' Pr. Roy. Soc.,' xxii, p. 420. ^L'TJnion Med.,' 1872, pp. 123, 126; 'Schmidt's Jakrb.,' clviii, p. 239. *