REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 394 tions; in some the ovaries were either uot present, or were in an infant state, undeveloped, or not acting; in others, the fault was in the ab- sence of the uterus, or congenital closure of the os uteri (one case). In most cases nothing can be done as regards treatment if the uterus is undeveloped. Sir J. G. Simpson recommended a galvanic pessary. The practical question was whether the patient should marry. Dr. Churchill thinks not; or, if so, the other party should be informed of the defect. Mr. Lawson Tait writes on menstrual irregularities and their relation to diseases of the nervous system (' Obst. Journ.,' May, 1873). Speaking of uterine epilepsy, he says it may be induced by the normal func- tional changes at the two extremes of menstrual life, and may occur from accidental disturbance between these two periods. The most common variety is the moliminal; it is almost invariably due to a deficient development of the uterus and its appendages. The climac- teric form is the most unfavorable in its progress. The third class may be subdivided into those due to uterine atrophy from some cerebral or general cause and those due to super-involution, as the direct result of pregnancy. Dr. Aveling writes on nidation in the human subject (' Obst. Journ.,' July, 1874). He first speaks of nidation or the periodical development of the mucous membrane lining the interior of the uterus, and its con- nection with ovulation, impregnation, and lactation; then on denidation and menstruation, and on the disorders of nidation. Dr. Berthier writes on menstrual neuroses ('Archives de Tocologie,' April, 1874). After speaking of the more or less palpable connections and relations existing between the different organs of the body, he insists, relating facts in support of it, on the incontestable sympathy which unites the brain and the uterus; he then recalls some of the well-known cases where a fibrous tumour of the uterus, an anteverted or congested uterus, has given rise to facial neuralgia, epileptic attacks, &c.—accidents explained by reflex action. He then runs over the prin- cipal points of the phenomena of physiological menstruation, and shows how this may produce neuroses. He relates 35 observations of simple neuroses—cephalalgia, migraine, facial neuralgia, blindness, hallucina- tions, dyspnoea, gastralgia, hyperesthesia, &c, which all appear to prove either an obstacle to the menstrual excretion, a trouble in the excretion, or an excess. From another series of observations, 51 in number, which treat of convulsive neuroses, convulsion, chorea, hysteria, catalepsy, epi- lepsy, &c, the author concludes that the arrest of the menstrual flow gives rise nearly as often as its excess to convulsive neuroses. From a third group, consisting of 29 observations of cerebral affections con- nected with menstrual troubles, cerebral and spinal congestions, apoplexy, paraplegia, hemiplegia, general paralysis, febrile delirium, meningitis, &c, Dr. Berthier concludes that menstrual troubles, prin- ciplly suppression, may give rise indirectly or directly to fluxionary accidents capable of producing febrile delirium with or without epi- lepsy, and the different forms of paralysis, and may end in death. Then the author treats of insanities connected with derangement of the menstrual flow.