51 INFLAMMATION—CONTAGION, pushed, by mechanical pressure, through the stigmata and stomata of the vessel wall. By the same mechanical process they may be carried away farther, perhaps into the lymphatics. Their end is also passive, as he has noticed them, whether in groups or separately, becoming gradually colourless, and finally breaking up ; and these appearances, he thinks, have led other writers to describe certain corpuscle-holding cells. C. Binz (ib., lix, 293), while adopting Cohnheim's view as to the wandering of the white blood-cells in suppuration, holds that a supply of oxygen is needed in order that the cells may exert their amoeboid motion. The origin of the oxygen he finds in the red blood-cells, which he believes supply it to the white. He has noticed that the white cells have become crowded and inactive in a blood-vessel during the process of inflammation, and have taken on amoeboid movements, and so been able to pass through the walls only after a few red cells have made their way among them. Apolant (ib., 299) writes on the relation of the white to the red blood-cells after suppuration. He gives the case of a boy, set. 4 months, who presented a succession of small pustules or abscesses. "When first noticed, the relation of the white to the red blood-cells was 1 to 20. As the child improved and the abscesses diminished the relation became 1 to 200. He thinks it probable that the leucocytosis was due to a draining off of the white blood-cells in the process of suppuration. His experiments on animals with a view to clearing up the question do not present any decided results. S. Samuel,' Der Entzundungsprozess,' Leipzig, 1873, pp. 90. F. Konig, "Ueber die Bedeutung der Spaltriiume des Bindegewebes fur die Ausarbeitung der entziind- lichen Processe," • Volkmann's Vortrage,' ser. iii, No. 57. M. Benedikt, "Zur Lebre der Entziindlichen * Kernwucherung'" ' Centralbl.,' 1874, 195. C. T. Ebertb, "Die Entzundung der Hornhaut," ib., 81. B. v. Pfungen, " Studien uber Entziindung der Froschcornea," ' Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 1873, 81. " Offener Brief an Herra Professor Axel Key in Stockholm (from Strieker, on Inflammation of the Cornea)," ib., 496. Lordereau, " Sur les differents modes de production de la suppuration a la suite de l'erysipele et sur les varietes qu'elle presente," 'Arch. Gen.,' xxiii, 276. Grasset, " Dea pbenomenes histologiques de l'inflammation. Essai d'une nouvelle theorie basee sur la consideration de la granulation moleculaire," ' Gaz. Med./ 1873, 3. Addi- son, " On Inflammation," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1873, ii, 513. R. Thomn, 'Die Ueber- wanderung farbloser Blutkorper von dem Blut in das Lymphgefass-systein,' Heidel- berg, 1873, pp. 48 (with four plates). G. Kerner, "Ueber den Einfluss des Krystal- linischen und des Amorphin Chinins auf die weissen Blutzellen und den Eiter- bildung3-process," 'Pfliiger's Arch.,' vii, 121. E. B. Baxter, "The action of Cin- chona Alkaloids and some of their congeners on bacteria and colourless Blood-corpus- cles," 'Practitioner,' 1873, 321. C. Faber, "Ueber die rothen Blutkorpcrchen," •Arch. d. Heilk.,' xiv,48i, 565. L.'Landois, " Auflosuug der rothen Blutzellen," 'Centralbl.,' 1874, 419. H. F. Parsons, "Blue Pus," 'Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1874, Contagion and Infection. <f. dementi and Cr. Thin publish ('Wien. Med. Jahrb.,' 187,3, 292) the results of their experiments on putrid infection. These investiga- tions were made for the purpose of comparing the results of inocula- tion with healthy and putrid blood; of seeing whether the blood of animals infected by putrid inoculation would produce the samo con-