453 POISONS. ZJ Ann. d'Hyg./ t. xxxix, p. 192. fluid, containing lactic and butyric acids, and abundance of sarcina) ven- triculi. For twelve years ho had worked with bronze, taking care, how- ever, to use a covering for the mouth and nose. During the summer, with open doors and windows, he suffered but little; and in winter, whilst working in a more confined atmosphere, he suffered from head- ache, coldness and cramps of the extremities, nausea, vomiting, and, at times, diarrhoea. The diagnosis was confirmed by the detection of zinc in the urine, which was free from albumen and sugar. Under treat- ment by rhubarb and enemata of water, and subsequently the internal use of chlorine water and enemata of dextrine, the zinc disappeared from the urine and the patient recovered. Copper.—Dr. Bailly1 draws attention to what he terms a new patho- gnomonic sign of copper poisoning, and one which he asserts is never absent from those who are suffering from the pathological effects of the metal. It consists in a bluish-green line on the edge of the gums. Dr. Clapton has, however, long ago drawn attention in this country to the copper line on the gums. Its re-discovery by Dr. Bailly adds, nevertheless, to the value of it as a pathognomonic sign of copper poisoning. Bucquay2 also treats of the same subject. Alum.—Dr. Hicquet3 relates a remarkable and fatal case of poisoning by burnt alum. A man 57 years of age, suffering from some gastric trouble, swallowed about an ounce of alum dissolved in water, in mis- take for Epsom salts. He immediately felt a sensation of constriction and burning in the mouth, fauces, and stomach. Incessant nausea and vomiting of sanguinolent fluid followed, with constipation, extreme malaise, intolerable pain, small quick pulse, hurried respiration. The intelligence was intact. The symptoms were at first attributed to an overdose of magnesium sulphate, and the treatment consisted in the administration of lemonade and strong coffee, cataplasms to the belly, and castor-oil enemata. The patient died in collapse eight hours after taking the alum. The section revealed a softened state of the mucous membrane of the mouth, pharynx, and oesophagus, which were covered with a yellowish- white coating, and the epidermis could be detached with facility. The tongue and uvula were swollen. Blood was effused at the upper part of the trachea and oesophagus, in front of the thyroid cartilage. The whole peritoneum was inflamed, and contained a brownish serum. The omentum, stomach, and intestines were injected, except the duodenum, which was thickened, grey, and retracted. There was an exudation on the peritoneal surface of the liver. The kidneys were highly injected ; the bladder empty. The substance of the lungs was healthy, but the pleura contained much sanguinolent serum. On opening the stomach its interior was seen to be of a greyish colour, the veins distended with dark blood, as if acted upon by an acid. The mucous coat was grey, softened, disorganized, and puckered up towards the pylorus. The contents of the stomach attacked the scalpel, and contained a grey 1 'L'Union Med.,' xvii, p. 61. 2 lb., xvii, p. 104.