407 OVARIOTOMY. Mr. Spencer Wells relatos a case of ovariotomy successful in a girl eight years old. The operation was performed as usual, the pedicle was long aud tied with silk in two portions. The tied pedicle was allowed to fall back into tbe pelvis and the abdominal wound closed. The cyst contained 20 ozs. of fluid; the solid portion weighed 3 ozs.; in this solid portion there was a mass of bone covered with true skin from which grew a quantity of long, light hair. (' Brit. Med. Journ.' and 'Obst. Journ.,'April, 1874.) Dr. Malins gives in detail a case of ovariotomy in a woman, set. 29; she had twice been tapped during pregnancy; at the operation 2 years after there were extensive adhesions, and the woman died twenty hours after. ('Lancet,'Feb. 1874.) Mr. Pridgin Teale relates a case of ovariotomy during acute suppu- ration of an ovarian cyst ('Lancet,' June, 1873). The patient was tapped and in the evening of the same day had a rigor. She rapidly got worse, and as death was threatening it was resolved to operate to re- move the irritating cause. This was done; there was a large quantity of ascitic fluid, the result of peritonitis, and the cyst was full of foetid gas and stinking fluid ; the pedicle was tied with whipcord and returned into the abdominal cavity. The patient did well, and was'up on the 17th day. Prof. Humphreys reports two cases of ovariotomy under his care in which a drainage tube was passed from the peritoneal cavity through the vagina. The first, a widow aged 52, has had ovarian dropsy for 14 years and had been tapped 21 times. She measured five feet round the navel, and three feet from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes. At the operation the pedicle was long and the clamp was used; the cyst was adherent to the whole of the fore part of the abdominal wall; the adhesions were torn through with some difficulty. After tying two bleeding vessels in the pelvis and four on the abdominal walls, there was still oozing, and Marion Sims' precautionary plan was tried. Atrocar with canula was pushed through the retro-uterine pouchinto the vagina and a drainage tube introduced, and the ends, one from the vagina and the other from the lower part of the abdominal wound, tied together. Por three days sero-sanguinolent fluid passed through the tube; the tube was removed on the 16th day, the clamp came away two days after; the patient recovered well. In the second case the patient was aged 62. The cyst was extensively adherent to the front of the abdominal walls and to the pelvis; the operation was effected with very great difficulty. The pedicle was long and the clamp was used ; some vessels were tied with catgut ligature. As oozing continued, a drainage tube was passed through the recto-vaginal pouch as above. Por two or three days bloody fluid passed through it; it was removed on the sixth day. The patient recovered without a bad symptom. (Mirror, 'Lancet,' Oct. 1873.) Dr. A. "Wernich writes on the prognosis of ovarian tumours com- plicating pregnancy ('Beitrage zur Geburts. und Qynak.,' ii). He witnessed a case where a doubtful abdominal tumour, which had existed in an indolent manner before conception was complicated by pregnancy. Shortly before delivery violent pain was felt in the