OVAllIOTOMY, ETC. 337 was found which had suppurated aud was universally adherent. All was separated except a small portion the size of the palm of the hand. The patient was so collapsed that this was left. No pedicle could be discovered. The patient recovered, but has a discharge from a sinus. The case in which death resulted suggested to Mr. Teale the question whether when a patient, aftei' ovariotomy, is evidently on the point of sinking from peritonitis, it might not be justifiable to open up the wound and sponge out the cavity, &c. He asks further, " Does not the experience of ovariotomy in general, and of his cases in particular, suggest a hope that we may some day deal with the almost hopeless cases of perforating ulcer of the bowel by opening the peritoneal cavity, washing out the irritating material and stitching up the bowel at the seat of perforation ? " The nature of the cyst where no pedicle was found is discussed. The patient who died did fairly for four days. On the fifth day, fresh symptoms of peritonitis showed themselves, and she died on the evening of the sixth. ('Lancet,' May 2, 1874.) Cyst removedby abdominal section.—Dr. Lloyd Eoberts records a case in which a cyst was removed by abdominal section, which had no connection with the uterus, ovaries, or their appendages. It was covered with peritoneum, being bound down by it posteriorly; there was no pedicle, but an abundant vascular supply was derived directly from the investing serous membrane. Catgut ligatures were applied to the divided vessels and the patient made a good recovery. The cyst was filled with a clear colourless fluid, feebly albuminous, with a sp. gr. 1004. The tumour weighed 17! pounds, and was regarded by Dr. Eoberts as a non-fecundated ovum which had escaped into the abdominal cavity. (' Liverpool and Manchester Med. and Surg. Eeports,' p. 190, 1873.) Cyst of the liver simulating an ovarian tumour; partial removal ; death.—The patient was under the care of Mr. Ward Cousins. The nature of the cyst was undetermined; probably it was a simple one. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 5, 1874.) Vaginal ovariotomy.—Dr. J. T. Gilmore ('N. O. Med. and Surg. Journ,' jSTov. 1873) records a case in a woman, set. 48. She was so much out of health that it was feared an abdominal operation would be fatal. He, therefore, adopted Prof. Thomas' plan of removing the cyst through the vagina. The patient recovered well. The operation is described in detail. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1874.) Large medullary sarcoma of the left ovary.—Th. Clemens describes in the 'Deutsche Klinik' for 1873, iii, a case in which the swelling first appeared ten years previously, three months after the patient's last labour ; it grew rapidly with occasional interruptions. During the last two years the measurement from one crista ilii to the other was nearly three feet. The tumour was of firm consistence, and, as was expected, no discharge flowed when it was punctured. The patient died eight weeks afterwards. The tumour was found to be a medullary sarcoma of the left ovary; it weighed eighty pounds. The other organs were all healthy. With the exception of the severe pain which the patient suffered during life, there was no disturbance either of the bodily or of the 22