ACCIDENTS DURING LABOUR. 437 eating labour. A primipara was seized with haemorrhage, at first supposed to be due to placenta praevia. No portion of the placenta, however, was felt. A ft or rupturing tho membranes and giving ergot labour was safely completed. In the patient's second labour haemor- rhage again occurred at the first stage. The os uteri was found dilated to the size of a crown; the cervix felt largo and pulpy posteriorly. The finger introduced into the cervix and curved round its circum- ference did not meet with the least trace of placenta, but corresponding to the pulpy portion of the cervix posteriorly a swelling, rugose in character, with raised and thickenod edges, was felt. Two fingers passed over and beyond this enlargement reached true smooth uterine tissue on all sides. On pressure the swelling yielded and became smaller, and the bleeding was noticed to lessen or cease, returning again when the pressure was removed. The explanation of the haemor- rhage Dr. Murray believes to be an unusual varicose state of the veins at the cervix uteri giving way during labour. Dr. J. H. Aveling writes on immediate transfusion in England ('Obst. Journ.,' August, 1873). He relates seven cases in which it has been performed; two of these are taken from the register books of the Eoyal Society of London, and were performed in the year 1667. Three of the others were performed by Dr. Aveling, one by Dr. Savage, of Birmingham, and the seventh by Mr. Clement, of Shrewsbury. These cases were all successful. Dr. Aveling recommends immediate trans- fusion on the following grounds:—(1) The exact quantity of blood required is taken from the blood-donor and no more. (2) JSTo delay is caused by previous complicated manipulations of the blood, it being allowed to pass from vein to vein physiologically unchanged. (3) The chances of coagulation are small, because the blood is removed from the action of the living vessels for only a few seconds, and glides smoothly through the india-rubber pipe without being exposed to the air. Dr. Carey, of Guernsey, reports a successful case of transfusion in post-partum haemorrhage. The blood was drawn into a warmed wine- glass and then injected by an ordinary glass syringe. The patient rallied at once after four ounces had been injected. Puerperal mania set in, and she died exhausted eleven days after the operation (' Obst. Journ.,' 1873). Dr. Henderson, of Shanghai, reports ('Lancet,' Oct. 1874) a case of post-partum haemorrhage, in which perchloride of iron was injected with success after other remedies had been tried; transfusion waa then performed twice, at an interval of two hours; the first time a saline fluid was used with alcohol; the second time defibrinated blood. Dr. Playfair relates ('Obst. Journ.,' May, 1873) a case of post- partum haemorrhage, in which the patient's life was saved by the injection of perchloride of iron. The case is also intended to point out one of the dangers of the practice. Alarming symptoms came on on the third day, which were explained by the fact that the perchloride at once corrugated all the blood and coagula with which it came into contact, and these clots in due course began to decompose and septic absorption took place. By the finger and the intra-uterine injection of