DISEASES OF THE UTERUS PROPER. 39? physical sign of ulceration of the cervex uteri, and says tlio upper part of the vagina is generally involved, the ulcers are superficial, and com- mence just within the os. He then inquires into the causes of chronic endometritis, including the influence diathesis has upon the com- plaint, then he gives the treatment; local treatment hy styptics and caustics is mentioned, but particular stress is laid upon the combining constitutional with local treatment. Dr. E. J. Tilt writes on the prognosis of uterine inflammatory diseases (' Obst, Journal,' 1873). It is governed by the following conditions:—t, constitution; 2, age, social condition and domestic circumstances ; 3, length of disease; 4, nature of the disease and part of the womb affected. After speaking of the prognosis of uterine in- flammation generally, he treats at greater length the prognosis of endometritis, and refers to the ending of several cases of the kind previously published. Dr. Leblond writes on the employment of the actual cautery in uterine diseases ('Annales de G-ynsecologie,' Jan. 1874). The disease for the treatment of which the actual cautery is best indicated is chronic metritis, whether accompanied or not by ulceration. In chronic metritis the cauterization should be deep or superficial,—deep in the first period, or that of congestion ; superficial in the second, or period of anaemia. In cancer the actual cautery is rarely useful, on the contrary it may become very dangerous. Its use is contra-indicated in acute inflammation of the uterine parenchyma and in all peri-uterine inflammations. Its use is nearly always innocuous, provided sufficient care is taken as to when it should be used. Dr. C. H. Eouth, in a paper on the use of the intra-uterine stem in uterine diseases, advocates first of all the combating of all inflamma- tory and congestive symptoms. If it was necessary to enlarge the cervical canal by tents, disinfected sea-tangle tents should be used, and he objected to forcible and immediate dilatation by instruments. He then states the diseases for which the intra-uterine stem should be employed, and the necessary conditions for the formation of an intra- uterine stem and their different varieties (' Obst. Soc. Trans.,' 1874). Olshausen writes on the incision of the cervix uteri (Sammlung Klinischer Vortrage, No. 67, 1874). This is suitably employed where dysmenorrhcea is dependent upon the small size of the external opening, or where sterility exists from the same cause. For the operation he prefers using Marion Sim's knife; to secure a good result the incision should be made high enough up in the cervix, and the vaginal portion should be cut through. To prevent the too rapid healing, the best way is to break down the adhesions with the finger for the first two days, and then to pass the sound so as to break down adhesions where the finger cannot reach. Incision of the cervix may be usefully performed in severe cases of uterine catarrh, when through a too narrow orifice a hindrance exists to the outflow of the secretion ; it also permits intra- uterine medication to be more readily applied. On intra-uterine medication in the treatment of uterine catarrh.—Dr. Playfair in two lectures on this subject ('Lancet,' 1873, i) recom- mends the swabbing out of the interior of the uterine cavity by means