477 INFANTICIDE. 2 Vide ' Vi-tljahrsschr. f. Gerichtl. Med.,' xiv, N.F., p. 328. respiration, and sums up as follows. The proofs of respiration having taken place are—i, the lungs fill the chest; 2, the surface of the lungs is of a rosy hue, and covered with vesicles, around the edges of which capillary vessels may be descried; 3, the lungs float upon water; 4, the lungs when divided into fragments float upon water, and wheu respiration has been incomplete only portions of them may be thus buoyant; repeated compression between the fingers does not cause the fragments to sink in water. These data afford proof of either complete or incomplete respiration having taken place. He gives the proofs that no respiration has occurred thus: a. No respiration has been set up: 1, the tissue of the lungs is compact, the colour like that of liver, and there are no vesicles visible ; 2, they sink in water as a whole; 3, cut into pieces^ each fragment of the lungs sinks, and of course the same occurs after compression between the fingers. B. Eespiration has not been established, but putrefaction has pro- ceeded in the pulmonary tissue. 1, The lungs are formed of compact and liver-like tissue, but vesicles are perceived on their surface of variable size, and occasionally of an oblong shape; 2, the lungs as a whole sink in water; 3, each divided fragment of lung may sink in water; 4, when compressed beneath the surface of water, bubbles of gas escape, and then the fragments sink to the bottom of the vessel. M. P. Budin1 also makes a communication on the same subject, and formulates his conclusions thus : 1, Docimasia pulmonum, though often extremely valuable as a proof that respiration has occurred, sometimes fails to prove the fact of respiration ; 2, this is the case only when the child has been born before the expiry of the full period of gestation, and is very feeble ; 3, in these cases the lungs preserve their foetal aspect; 4, their anatomical state at this epoch of intra-uterine life explains the results of observations; 5, when an incision is made near the hilum of the lungs, and the air of the central pulmonary tissue is compressed, a sero-sanguinolent fluid exudes, which bears on its surface extremely minute bubbles of air; 6, if the same parts are compressed beneath the surface of water, these air-bubbles are seen rising to the surface; 7, these last two phenomena are the sole indications, in such cases, that the lungs have been penetrated by air. Points of ossification as signs of maturity.—Prof. Barkow,2 of Bres- lau, in a small work on the pathology of development, discusses the diagnostic value of points of ossification in the epiphyses of the long bones as regards the maturity and viability of the child. As is well known, Casper and others lay it down as a rule that a child must have lived after birth if the epiphyseal nucleus of the lower end of the femur is over three lines in diameter. If the bones only are found and none of the viscera, Barkow thinks it would be Tery hazardous to conclude from this sign alone as to the maturity of the child, and thinks that only a diameter of four lines would warrant a medical jurist stating with any degree of certainty that the child must have lived after birth, seeing that the nucleus of the lower end of the femur, as well as all other 1 Ibid., p. 179.