REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 196 logical observations with regard to lupus, as it occurred in fifteen cases. In some there was an infiltration of small cells in the corium and sub- cutaneous tissue, in most cases surrounding the vessels, and in several appearing as large collections of cells containing vessels ; in two numer- ous reticulated tubercles were present; in one the cutis had been trans- formed into a cytogenous tissue ; in two the sebaceous and sweat-glands were filled with collections of epithelium ; and three preparations had the character of epithelial carcinoma. He thinks that while lupus con- sists essentially in a group of clinical symptoms due to irritation of the cutis leading to proliferation of its cellular elements, it cannot histo- logically or pathologically be strictly divided off from tuberculosis of the skin, adenoma of the sebaceous and sweat-glands, or carcinoma. P. Baumgarten (ib., 484) describes the existence of large, uneven tubercles, covered with thickened epithelium, corresponding to one end of the same metacarpal bone in the hands of a man who died of general tuberculosis. They had becnpresent for two years before death, and had been taken for papillomata, but in their bases true reticulated tubercle was found. The tuberculosis was not complicated by any ulceration or cheesy degeneration. Friedlander, " Untersuchungen iiber Lupus," 'Vircli. Arch.,' lx, 15. Lang, " Ucber die Bedeutung der sogennanten Riescn-zellen im Lupus," ' Viertel. f. Derm. u. Syph.,' 1874, 368. Id., "Lupus und Carcinoma," ib, 165. T. Fox, "Case of Lupus treated without Caustic," 'Lancet,' 1873, ii, 555. Gaskoin, "Oui Leprosy and Lupus as Signs of Innutrition," 'Med. Times and Gnz.,' 1874, ii, 258. Bizzozero, " Ueber Tuberculose der Haut," ' Centralbl.,' 1873, 292 (sec abstract under "Tuberculosis," p. 47 of this Report). Lepra: Elephantiasis. A. Renault (" Observations de lepre anesthetique, devenue plus lard tuberculeuse," ' Union Med.,' 1874, xvii, 154) gives the case of a Mexi- can officer, set. 19, who complained of anaesthesia of his right great toe, extending, four years later, up the right leg. At this time knots of lepra began to show themselves on the cheeks. At the age of 28 his whole body was covered with patches and knots, and two years later he had albuminuria and died. The post-mortem examination showed two ulcerated knots at the entrance of larynx, advanced granular disease of the kidney, and lardaceous degeneration of the liver. Gaskoin, " On Leprosy and Lupus as Signs of Innutrition," ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1874, ii, 258. Milton, " On some cases of an unusual form of Lepra," 'New York Med. Jouru.,' xix, 173. Michel, "Ucber eine Hyperplasic des Chiasma und des rechten Nervus Opticus bei Elephantiasis," ' Arch. f. Ophtbal.,'xix, Abth. iii, 145. Kosenkranz, "Ueber Elephantiasis Arabum rait Auscbluss von zwei Fallen von Elephantiasis der Labia Majora," Berlin, 1873. Scheiber, "Ueber zwei in Ru- m&men beobachtete Lepra-Falle," ' Viertel]. f. Derm. u. Syph./ 1874. 363- Poucet, " De la Decortication du Nez dans ^Elephantiasis " (as a consequence of excessive alcohol drinking), 'Gaz. Hebd.,' 1873, 619. Munro, "Case of Elephantiasis of the. leg," ' Edin. Journ.,' xviii, 611. (For other papers see under "Endemic Diseases, p. 88 of this Report.) Abnormal pigmentation, Sfc. W. S. Church publishes (' St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,' x, 65) some notes on the hereditary character of certain forms of xanthelasma palpebrarum, a character to which C. H: Fagge first drew attention (' Path. Soc.