REPORT ON SURGERY. been made to exercise traction on the portion within the sac, and reduc- tion occurred in each instance without any trouble. In one case he had made an incision into the sac, but had not divided the stricture. The patient was inverted, and he then found that the posterior part of the hernia slipped back first and then the anterior. The plan is not applic- able to all cases, of course not to very bad cases, when strangulation has existed some days and the traction might tear tho semigangrenous parts asunder. This happened in one case (not under his care). (' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' April, 1874.) Reduction of large hernia; by elastic pressure.—Mr. Duncan has found the pressure of an elastic bandage serviceable in reducing large scrotal hernia). A turn or two of the bandage is first made pretty firmly round the neck of the sac and then layers of bandage are placed in succession over the surface. Care should be taken that the first layer be lightly laid on, so that until the whole surface of the swelling is covered the tension of the band may be very slight; but after the first layer or two, others may be applied with a firmer hand. The method is, of course, only applicable to large hernise. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' Nov., 1873.) Strangulated hernia in infants.—Mr. Howard Marsh tabulates forty- seven cases of inguinal hernia in which herniotomy has been performed in young children. Strangulated hernia appears more fatal in children than adults. The operation should be performed as soon as taxis, fairly tried, has failed, if symptoms of strangulation exist. Cases of umbi- lical hernia of a peculiar character are also given, the peculiarity con- sisting in the lower part of the cord being apparently dilated into a pouch containing intestine. At an early period, the caecum and adjacent portion of the ileum are contained in the part of the umbilical cord which is next the embryo and they subsequently retire into the cavity of the abdomen. In some cases, however, this recession fails to take place. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,' x, 219.) Subpubic hernia.—Dr. A. Paci describes a case of subpubic or obturator hernia in ' Lo Sperimentale' for March, 1874. The subject was a woman aet. 50, who was seized rather suddenly with symptoms of strangulation. A left inguinial hernia was present, and was reduced without much trouble, but the symptoms continued, and she died on the seventh day. A t the post-mortem examination, an obturator hernia of the size of a nut was found on the right side. The gut was gan- grenous and had burst, discharging its contents into the abdominal cavity. The author has examined the records of seventy cases, and arrives at the following conclusions : For anatomical reasons, hernia in the thyroid foramen is rare. It is more frequent in women than in men, on account of the greater breadth of the pelvis and of the obturator foramen. It is oftener observed on the right than on the left side ; most of the cases have occurred in old persons, none in children. The diagnosis is generally difficult, the hernia is generally regarded as femoral, both forms presenting a slight enlargement, and eventually a palpable swelling to the inner side of the femoral vessels. Obturator hernia, however, lies behind the pectineus