262 REPORT ON SURGERY. between the meshes of the gauze or amongst the drops of the spray used, but it would be quite unaltered after passing through a substance containing a non-volatile antiseptic salt, such as boracic acid, the action of the latter being confined to the objects with which it comes into actual contact. The proportion of the ingredients with which the gauze is saturated is as follows :—By weight—carbolic acid, i ; resin, 5 ; paraffin, 7. The resin is employed on account of the tenacity with which it holds the carbolic acid ; the paralfin (which gives it up with great readiness) being added to give the mixture a suitable consistence. The gauze is folded in eight layers and thoroughly overlaps the wound and adjacent parts. Between the two outer layers a piece of thin mac- intosh " cloth " is inserted, by which the discharge is made to traverse all the layers. For use as a lotion, carbolic acid is dissolved in water in the proportions of 1 part to 20 or 1 to 40, the weaker solutions being now abandoned, as they did not appear to be perfectly trust- worthy. The stronger is used for destroying germs already present (injecting compound fractures, &c), and the weaker for spray, &c. Mr. Lister used the boracic acid for storing up a supply in the so-called boric lint. As boracic acid is much more soluble in hot than in cold water, the effect of soaking lint in a saturated boiling solution is a copious deposit of the crystals throughout its substance on cooling and drying ; and as these will be but slowly acted upon by the discharges from the wound, which are at or below the temperature of the body, the lint remains for a considerable time efficacious as an antiseptic application. As a general rule, the lint is used as a dry dressing, over- lapping a piece of the protective moistened with lotion, and it is often found very convenient to fix the lint by means of collodion, its edges having been previously frayed out with a pin for the purpose. The special advantage of the boracic acid is its blandness; but its non- volatility limits its application to superficial sores, in the treatment of which it will be found invaluable. Chloride of zinc is also non-volatile, and acts as a caustic, or pickles the tissues. It is only used in par- ticular cases. Mr. Lister uses a solution of forty grains to the ounce for application to the surfaces of the wound after operating on a part where decomposition is already present, or on one which communicates directly with one of the natural cavities of the body (as, for example, after removing piles or cutting a fistula). Mr. Lister constantly uses a drainage-tube, which he modifies in the following way :—A piece of tubing provided with suitable holes is cut obliquely at the inner end, so that it may not be closed by pressing against the flat surface of the interior of the wound, while through opposite sides of the tube, close to its outer extremity, two pieces of silk are passed with a fine needle, and the ends of each are cut at a distance of about two inches and fastened together by a knot. It should be of such a length that when inserted as far as possible into the wound, its outer extremity, pre- viously cut obliquely or transversely, according to the direction of the sinus, may be exactly level with the surface of the skin, a position which the pieces of silk will be found to maintain. The process of skin grafting in Mr. Lister's hands has attained a state of great per- fection. The granulating surface is first carefully dressed with carbolic