35 SPECIAL SENSE. Bischoff, that it is the spinal accessory nerve which supplies the motor fibres to the larynx. Extirpation or eradication of the accessory nerve of one side causes immobility of the vocal cords on that side, wlrilst eradication of both accessories causes immobility of both vocal cords in cadaveric position and complete aphonia. Experiments on the superior laryngeal nerve.—This branch divides near the great cornu of the hyoid bone into a large internal branch and a smaller external branch. The former is sensory, the latter motor, supplying the crico-thyroideus ; section of the superior laryngeal nerve prior to its division, or even of the external branch alone, prevents the longitudinal tension of the vocal cords, causes the production of a hoarse and deep voice, and abolishes the power of making high notes. Action of the crico-thyroid muscle.—The generally accepted view is that the crico-thyroid draws the thyroid cartilage forwards and down- wards, and therefore elongates and tightens the vocal cords. But-in opposition to this is the fact that in the production of high notes the thyroid rises towards the hyoid. The elevation and fixation of the thyroid is effected by the contraction of the thyro-hyoids; for the cri- cothyroid, therefore (in order to effect the desired tension of the vocal cords), nothing remains but to oppose the thyro-hyoid with all its might, to which, however, its power is very inadequate. Schech thinks the action of the crico-thyroid is best explained on the following view. "When the thyroid cartilage is fixed by the thyro-hyoids, the crico- thyroids • draw the anterior part of the cricoid upwards towards the thyroid, and then effect a rotation of the plate of the cricoid back- wards and downwards. Now, since the thyroid cartilage is fixed anteriorly by the thyro-hyoids, whilst the arytenoid cartilages are fixed posteriorly by the arytenoidei transversi and crico-thyrodei laterales to the cricoid cartilage, the backward inclination of the body of the cricoid caused by the contraction of the crico-thyroid affects also the arytenoid cartilages resting on it, the distance between the anterior and posterior attachments of the vocal cords is increased, and the longitudinal tension of these cords is brought about. Function of the nervus laryngeus inferior.—This is the principal motor nerve of the larynx, supplying all its muscles, with the exception of the crico-thyroid. The constant results of section of the recurrent nerves on both sides are complete aphonia, immobility of the vocal cords, constriction of the glottis, and absence of dyspnoea of the animal, make no muscular movements. The vocal cords take up the position they assume in death, since all the muscles are rendered inactive, and none, therefore, preponderate in their action over the others. Function of the crico-arytenoideus posterior muscle.—This is the most important of all the muscles of the larynx. It is the ddator of the glottis, and its nervous supply, though this has not been demonstrated, is probably partly derived from the vago-accessory centre, and partly from the respiratory centre. When divided on both sides the vocal cords approximate one another, and are no longer capable of moving outwards, or separating from each other during efforts at inspiration. Complete approximation and persistent dyspnoea do not occur iinme-