235 EMBOLISM FROM VAKIXj ETC. niquets are convertible into this one. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 3, Torsion.—Reports from the metropolitan hospitals on the use of torsion will be found in the 'Brit. Med. Journ.' for Dec. 20, 1873.) Esmarch's elastic bandage.—Mr. W. H. Cripps figures and describes a simple and easy method of applying the elastic bandage. Instead of using a long bandage in the ordinary way, he uses a piece of sufficient length to go several times round the limb, the ends being fastened together. He now slips a reel (with two handles) under the loop and winds this round and round the limb spirally. Compression is thus exercised with any required vigour as high as desirable with a short instead of a long bandage and with great expedition. (' Lancet,' Oct. 11,1873.) Partial rupture of arteries from external violence.—Mr. T. P. Pick records a case in which there was a rupture of the internal and middle coats of the femoral artery caused by a severe strain and followed by a gradual dilatation of the outer coat and the formation of a trau- matic aneurism. Gangrene of the limb set in and the patient died shortly after amputation at the hip-joint. Digital compression had been tried previously for the cure of the aneurism and with apparent success for a time. (' St. G-eo. Hosp. Pep.,' vi, p. 161.) Slight injury to the leg; sudden death ; thrombi in right ventricle from popliteal vein.—Dr. A. B. Shepherd records the case. (' Lancet,' Sept. 19, 1874.) Sudden death from embolism of the pulmonary arteries ; phlebitis of the leg following a blow.—Mr. G/ascoyen records the case of a man, ast. 44, who had a slight injury to the leg followed by swelling. He died suddenly a fortnight or so afterwards. The branches of the pulmonary artery were found plugged. The left femoral vein and its tributaries from below were plugged. The original injury, it was supposed, affected some small vessels in the popliteal space, and was followed by coagulation in the veins of the leg and thigh. Exertion detached a portion of clot from the femoral vein, which was arrested in the pul- monary arteries. (' Lancet,' Aug. 8, 1874.) Sudden death from embolism of the inferior vena cava in connection with varicose veins of the leg.—The case is recorded by Surgeon Thos. Browne. The patient was a man, set. 51, who had varicose veins of one leg and received a blow on the leg, causing bruising, &c. He had pain in the leg and the veins seemed swollen and knotted. He re- covered in a few days, but while running was suddenly taken ill, faint, and died in three quarters of an hour. A clot was found in the inferior vena cava. It was supposed that a clot had formed in the internal saphena and then, when he ran, a portion of this had become detached and impacted in the common iliac, &c. Prom this point coagulation had extended. (' Lancet,' June 27, 1874.) Epistaxis.—Mr. Prescott Hewett calls attention to the importance of severe epistaxis spontaneously occurring after the middle period of life. In several cases which have come under his notice it has been associated with thickening of the radial artery and ultimately with cerebral haemorrhage. ('Clin. Soc. Trans.,'vii, 1873.)