408 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. tumour which had never before caused pain or inconvenience, rapid wasting set in, and death occurred three weeks after delivery. At the autopsy the tumour was found to be a medullary carcinoma of the ovary partly decomposed. From the history of the case it is more than probable that the malignant chauge in the tumour took place only after conception. Cruveilhier, Rokitansky, Spiegelberg, Waldeyer, Virchow, Spencer Wells, Braxton Hicks and others have called attention to the connection of colloid disease of the ovary with carcinoma, and reported cases in which ovarian tumours rapidly increased during pregnancy, or where found at the autopsy after delivery to be of can- cerous nature. Martin, Winkel, L. Mayer, and Lucke have demon- strated the fact that pregnancy exercises a positive deleterious influence on hitherto benign tumours, not of the sexual organs only. He thinks that a multilocular ovarian tumour existing with pregnancy, as soon as the diagnosis is undoubted, should be removed, if possible, in the first months of gestation. Other remedial measures—puncture or induc- tion of premature labour—are either useless or impracticable. M. d'Olier, of Orleans, relates a case of twin pregnancy after ovariotomy. The patient fell pregnant three months after the opera- tion, and was delivered at term of two fine boys ; it was the fifth preg- nancy. The abdominal walls did not suffer at all. ('Obst. Journ.,' 1873.) Dr. Bantock in a paper on the pathology of certain (so called) uni- locular ovarian tumours (' Obst. Soc. Trans.,' 1873) considers that there is no such thing as a true unilocular or unifollicular disease of the ovary. That these are always multiple at first, and that through the breaking down of the fibrous septa between the smaller cysts one large sac is formed ; for it is the whole ovary that is enlarged, and several of the follicles become cystic. That a true unilocular cyst from the first is a cyst of the parovarium. Dr. West has laid down that such cysts are never larger than an orange, but Dr. Bantock considers that this has now been disproved by several cases. Mr. Thomas Keith gives a detailed account ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Dec. 1873) of a case of intestinal obstruction following ovariotomy. On the fifth day after the operation fluid was detected in Douglas' pouch ; it rapidly increased, and was drawn off on the 9th and 10th days. By the falling-in of the roof of the haematocele a trap had been formed somewhere from folds of intestine adhering at angles, and the patient began to suffer from an accumulation of flatus; this at last became enormous, and the colon was punctured, and the escape of a large quantity of flatus relieved flhe patient greatly. This was repeated some days later, and the patient eventually did well. Dr. E. Martin reports (' Berl. Klin. Wochenschr.,'June, 1874) the case of a young woman, aged 25, who had an ovarian tumour which was found to be adherent to the abdominal walls so as to preclude removal. It was tapped and emptied, and two clastic catheters passed in and the wound closed. Injections of carbolic acid into the cyst were made at first three times a day, then less frequently; the cyst became less, and in two days the catheters were removed. The patient was well five months after.