REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, KTC. 386 Dr. A. Bidder gives a detailed account ('Berl. Klinische Wochen- schr.,' No. 46, 1874) of a case of ha?matometra in a uterus bicornis with complete absence of the vagina. The patient, aged 17^, had for the last year Buffered from pains recurring at four weeks' interval, but there had been no discharge. On examining the patient no vaginal orifice existed; from the urethral orifice to the posterior commissure there was only smooth mucous membrane with a slight depression in the middle. A finger in the rectum felt distinctly a catheter in the bladder, and apparently only separated by loose cellular tissue. About three inches from the anus the finger came upon a large elastic body, the size of a fist; this was in the site of the uterus and felt distinctly by bimanual examination ; it was movable, nothing like a cervix could be felt. As the diagnosis was not doubtful, the question was as to the closure or absence of the vagina. The forefinger was placed in the depression and worked in the direction of the axis of the pelvis with a boring movement separating the walls of the vagina; in places this was easily done; there was slight haemorrhage, at a depth of about i\ inches the tumour was reached; as no oa could be felt, a small hole was made by the finger nail and a trocar pushed in; a thick, tenaciouB treacly fluid escaped; the opening was then widened by the finger; The fluid was allowed to run away, and no pressure, &c, was made on the uterus, then the vagina was syringed out with tepid water. The patient did well, except a slight febrile attack on the eighth day. Men- struation occurred normally shortly after. Later on the patient was examined under chloroform, the uterus was found large, soft and elastic ; to the left and be! ow the fundus a thick projection was felt, about one and a half inches long and three quarters of an inch broad, which sprang directly from the uterine substance; it was probably the other horn of a uterus bicornis. By the rectum no vaginal portion could be detected, but from the lower part of the uterus a small cord-like vagina was recognised. The finger only entered the vagina for an inch, above this a contraction through which the sound passed. Attempts were made to dilate this part of the vagina by laminaria tents. When seen six months after the uterine condition was much the same; the vagina was still contracting, but the girl menstruated normally. The case is interesting both from its nature and the successful result; these cases are somewhat rare; it is not certain that the projection from the uterus was another horn, though exceedingly probable. Prof. Braun-Fernwald, writing on the arrested development of the uterus, vagina, and vestibulum, says— 1. That the absence of the uterus in fully grown women is generally combined with deficiency of the entire vagina, but the vestibulum, mamma? and mons veneris are perfectly developed. The genitals terminate in a cul-de-sac at the hymen; the vestibulum is a pouch about the size of a thimble ; the menstrual molimen is absent, it is impossible to make a vagina in this affection. 2. The arrest of the growth of the uterus is either congenital or acquired. The vagina ends in a cul-de-sac or communicates with a rudimentary uterus, the shape of which varies. The external genitals are usually regular in form ; the ovaries are normal or abnormal. The |