43 GENERATION.—DEVELOPMENT. the sterilization by heat of organic liquids and mixtures. He finds that when beef tea or a decoction of turnip is boiled for a few minutes and afterwards preserved from extraneous contamination it passes into a state of permanent sterility. This state is characterised by loss of power to originate organisms with conservation of the power of nourish- ing and promoting the growth of organisms. All organic liquids and mixtures seem capable of being brought to this state by exposure to a heat of 212° F., but the length of time during which exposure to this heat is necessary to induce sterilization varies greatly according to the nature of the materials; ordinary infusions being sterilized in ten minutes, whilst milk, chopped green vegetables in water, pieces of boiled eeg in water, and other mixtures, were not sterilized unless the heat was continued for twenty to forty minutes. Hay infusion was sterilized like other infusions by boiling for a few minutes, but when rendered alkaline by ammonia or liquor potassa? it was not sterilized except after an exposure to 2120 F. for more than an hour; sometimes it germinated after two and once after three hours' exposure. The two factors— duration of heat and its degree—seem to be mutually compensatory, a longer exposure to a lower heat being equivalent to a shorter exposure to a higher temperature. Speaking roughly, an exposure for an hour to a heat of 2i2° F. appeared to be equivalent to an exposure of fifteen minutes to 2280 F. The second section is devoted to the capabilities of the normal tissues and juices to generate bacteria andtorulse without extraneous in- fection. Egg albumen, blood serum, blister serum, milk, grape, orange, and tomato juice, turnip, and potato tissue—these were rapidly removed from their ordinary sites and placed in sterilized tubes, and kept at temperatures varying from 60° to 90°, and the rarity with which bacteria and torulsB were developed when the last condition of the experiment were carefully preserved led to the conclusion that the normal tissues of plants and animals were incapable of breeding bacteria and torulaB except under the stimulus of extraneous infection. The third section is devoted to the bearing of these facts, which is that ordinary air and water contain, in addition to their proper elements, multitudes of particles capable of provoking germination. Dr. Roberts is therefore a panspermist, and he observes that were it hereafter established that bacteria and fungoid vegetations do under exceptional instances arise abiogenically, it would not overturn the panspermic theory, but would merely limit the universality of its application. Dr. Williams's1 paper consists of observations made on the uteri of nine women who had died in different stages of the monthly period. Dr. Williams finds that menstruation appears essentially to consist, not in congestion or a species of erection, but in growth and rapid decay of the mucous membrane. The menstrual discharge consists chiefly of blood and of the debris of the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus. The source of the hemorrhage is the vessels of the body of the uterus. The mucous membrane having undergone fatty degenera- tion, blood becomes extravasated into its substance, then the membrane undergoes rapid disintegration and is entirely carried away by the 1 "The Structure of the Mucous Membrnne of the Uterus, and its Periodical Changes," ' Proceed. Koynl Soc.,' 1874, vol. xxii, p. 297.