336 REPORT ON SURGERY. and the wound closed ; 29 of these recovered and 28 died—a mortality of 49U2 per cent. The ecraseur was only used in one case (successful). The cautery alone in 16, with 14 recoveries ; and in 14 others combined with ligature of some vessels, there were 1 o recoveries and 4 deaths, making altogether a mortality of 20 per cent.—within a fraction of that of the clamp cases. In 2 5 cases both ovaries were removed—mortality nearly double that of the single ones. In four other cases the second ovary was removed at a subsequent period ; two recovered and two died. The 373 patients who recovered have been kept under observation as far as possible. Some have since married, a number have borne children and the majority had excellent health. (' Med. Chir. Trans.,' lvi, 113.) Mr. G. C. Wheelhouse remarks on the teachings of the General Infirmary at Leeds with regard to the operation of ovariotomy. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 21, 1874.) In the ' Lancet,' May 16, 1874, are recorded the cases of ovariotomy under care at the Hospital for Women, Soho, during 1873. There were twenty-three cases, with ten deaths, giving an average mortality of 43^5 per cent. From 1868 till 1873 eighty-two ovariotomies had been per- formed with thirty-two fatal cases, or an average mortality of 39 per cent. Mr. Wagstaffe records a successful case. (' Med. Times and Gazette,' Jan. 3, 1874.) Remarks by Dr. Marion Sims on the mode of treating the pedicle, drainage from the peritoneal cavity, &c, will be found in the ' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1873, p. 282, taken from the ' New York Med. Journ.' Mr. Hulke records three cases; two successful. One of the latter was a large multilocular tumour, and one of the cysts had ruptured three days previously. The second was a compound proliferous cyst. Both patients were fifty years of age. The fatal case was in a patient twenty- one years of age. The cyst had grown rapidly. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,'Aug. 30, 1873.) A case of recovery, the pedicle being "pocketed" after enucleation had been almost practised; another, of enucleation which ended fatally ; and a third in which drainage through the cul-de-sac of Douglas was practised successfully, the pedicle, ligated in two halves, being dropped back, are noted in the ' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1874, from various sources. Mr. O'Grady records two cases and tabulates other cases operated on in Ireland—fifty-three in all. ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' August, 1874.) Mr. Spencer Wells records a case in a girl eight years old. The patient recovered well. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' March 14, 1874.) Mr. T. P. Teale records a case in which he performed ovariotomy during acute suppuration of the cyst. The patient recovered rapidly. (' Lancet,' June 28, 1873.) He also records three cases in which be performed ovariotomy on persons apparently dying. Two patients recovered and one died. In j the latter the cyst had ruptured. In one patient who recovered there was peritonitis, which had followed tapping. In the other case a cyst