RIVER POLLUTION. 497 which had allowed the contents of tho drain to he sucked into the main, and thus typhoid excreta was passed into the town water supply. 2035 people were attacked with enteric fever within a very short period, and of these 104 died. Typhoid and drinking water.—Dr. R. Cobelli,1 of Roveredo, has made, through Dr. Max v. Pettenkofer, an important communication bearing upon the relations of typhoid to drinking water. He finds that the town of Roveredo has not been freed from typkoid by the introduction of a drinking water derived from a source (the Spino well) situated without the town. The introduction of this water for domestic use has had, he asserts, no sensible influence in diminishing the mortality from enteric fever, nor in diminishing the general mortality of the place. Moreover, Roveredo suffered, in 1872, an epidemic of typhoid, spite of its new and presumably purer water supply. Pettenkofer2 himself, in a long article, combats the notion that the prevalent drinking water theory is competent to account for the prevalence of typhoid; and he reiterates, with his accustomed vigour, all that he has before said, and adds something more relative to the necessity of a local and a seasonal cause, other than, and in addition to, the specific typhoid stool, in order to render typhoid in any sense contagious. He quotes, with approval, Adolph Yogt's dictum that the drinking water theory bars the way to and is the death of sanitary reform. Dr. Max von Pettenkofer3 also makes a further vigorous onslaught upon the received views respecting the connection between enteric fever and drinking water; i.e., that endemic and epidemic typhoid is caused by the ingestion of impure drinking water. He criticises in his peculiar sarcastic style those who, when all evidence of the origin of an epidemic of enteric fever from the use of impure water fails, resort to drains, water-closets, and foul emanations from filth as additional sources of the disease. He appears to regard these supplementary theories much in the same light as a modern astronomer would regard the theory of cycles and epicycles. Pettenkofer lays down, as fundamental axioms, that enteric fever is a specific disease of man, which, in all probability, has its origin in so-called infective matter, which never arises spontaneously in the healthy organism, but is always imported from without. Although no one has ever isolated this matter, we conclude that there is such a material, both from its pathological actions and from analogy. He appears to regard enteric fever as neither purely contagious (in the older sense of the term), like smallpox, nor miasmatic. His great piece de resistance is typhoid fever in Munich, an outbreak of which, in 1871-2, he proceeds to describe, after enunciating the drinking water theory in its most naked form, and after exposing its alleged deficiencies. River pollution.—In the Fifth Report of the River Pollution Com- 1 ' Ztschr. f. Biologie,' ix, p. 550. 2 Ibid., x, p. 439. 3 Ibid. 32