241 DISEASES OP THE BREAST—FRACTURES. seemed, at first, to be cystic, but ultimately assumed all the objective signs of carcinoma ; two cases of cysts which were non-recurrent; a case of cancer with cyst, removal, followed by death from general diffusion of cancer; and a case of cyst which was emptied and refilled, cancer developed, the breast was removed and there was no local re- currence, but death occurred nearly eleven years later from cachexia. Illustrations are given. He adopts the following classification. 3< I. Associated, com- f i. Milk munieating, or connected with the ducts. "I i. Adenoid. 2. Growths; with serum, co- I 2. Granulation cells, agulable, and sometimes [3. Cancer, tinged with blood. J II. Not connected with the ducts. fi. Blood. 2. Milk. 3. Simple cysts. 4. Entozoon cysts 5. Growths; with serum, co-" agulable, tinged with blood, and containing cholestearine. (' Guy's Hos. Eep.,' xviii, p. 413.) Serum not coagulable. 1. Adenoid. 2. Granulation cells. 3. Cancer. Fracture of coracoid process by muscular violence.—The patient was a man, aet. 57, under the care of Dr. Hulme (Dunedin Hospital). ('Lancet,' Nov. 22, 1873.) Comminuted fracture of the clavicle, with compression of the subclavian vein by one of the fragments.—Mr. Erichsen gives a clinical lecture on the case of a man, set. 27, who came under care for a comminuted fracture of the clavicle. A bandage was applied to the limb and the arm fastened to the side. The next day the arm swelled and continued to swell for several days, necessitating incisions. The limb having become gangrenous in part, and large sloughs separating, amputation at the shoulder-joint was performed seventeen days after the accident. Eleven days later the man died with symptoms of pyaemia. The fracture was peculiar. A fragment compressed the subclavian vein. A figure of the bone is given. Should a similar case occur it would be advisable to leave the limb without any bandage which could exercise compression. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' June 7, 1873.) Comminuted fracture of the clavicle; compression of the subclavian vein and subjacent plexus of nerves by a fragment.—Dr. W. H. Boone (:Med. Record,' Nov. 15, 1873) reports the case of a man, set. 28, who sustained a comminuted fracture of the clavicle about the middle. One fragment, about an inch and a quarter in length, was tilted so as to lie transversely between the two larger ones; there was much de- formity. The arm was cold and there was considerable swelling of the veins; no sensation in the fore-arm or in the fingers, while he com- plained of pain at the seat of the fracture. No efforts could alter the position of the fractured portions. The arm was secured to the chest, and the whole limb wrapped in cotton wool. The swelling, &c, in- creased for the next two days, at the end of which time some incisions were made in the upper part of the fore-arm and in the arm. From 16