ItKPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. diately. The contraction of the glottis and the vibration of the vocal cords occur normally, and the voice remains wholly unaltered. Dr. Rumbold1 endeavours to prove the correctness of the followiug propositions: 1. That during the act of deglutition the Eustachian tube is not an open passage into the tympanum. 2. That the walls of the Eustachian tube are constantly in slight contact. 3. That the air continually permeates the Eustachian tube into the tympanum, thus maintaining the normal air density in this cavity. 4. That the air in the normal tympanic cavity is not of equal density with that of the surrounding atmosphere, the air in the tym- panum being rarefied. 5. That one of the functions of the Eustachian tube is the main- tenance of this normal air density. 6. That the rarefied condition of the air in the tympanum is the cause of the uniform concavity of the membrana tympani, especially that portion of it from which the light spot is reflected. The evidence adduced in favour of these several propositions is chiefly derived from clinical observation. RELATION OF NEEVE TO MUSCLE. Arndt,2 G-erlach,3 and Calberta,1 have investigated the mode of ter- mination of motor nerves. Arndt finds that the nerves passing to striated muscle form the Doyere's eminence within the sarcolemma, but can be traced beyond this, and end in a " granular fibrous" and tena- cious fluid material which surrounds the primitive fibrils of the muscle like a coat. This material stands in intimate relation with the so- called muscle-nuclei, and, in fact, constitutes the protoplasm belonging to these nuclei. The sarcolemma and the neurilemma are continuous with each other. Arndt distinguishes a superficial more homogeneous and a deeper more granular basal portion in the Doyerian eminence. He finds the relations essentially similar in the Arthropoda and in Vertebrata. Arndt finds other fibres on the surface of the sarcolemma, which he thinks are sensory fibres. Gerlach has used the gold method of staining perfectly fresh muscles, and doubts the existence of the nerve-plates. He finds that the axis-fibre, which is always simple, after it^has perforated the sarco- lemma, splits into two branches, one of which runs upwards, the other downwards, for a considerable distance. From these fibrils numerous branches are given ofi" towards the centre of the muscular fibre, where they again divide, and run upwards aud downwards. A plexus of axis- fibres is thus formed within the muscular substance. Calberta describes the nerve-fibre as losiug its medulla and becom- ing constricted as it traverses the sarcolemma. The axis-cylinder then 1 'The Function of the Eustachian Tuhe,' 187,3. Pamphlet. 2 1 Max Schultze's Archiv f. Microscop. Anatomic,' Baud ix, p. 481-599. 3 ' Sit7.ungsbericlit d. Phys.-Mcd. Soc. zu Erlangen,' 1873. * «Zeitschrift f. Wiss. Zoologie,' Baud xxiv, p. 164.