137 MEDIASTINAL GROWTHS. the sternum a large nodular growth, having tho appearance of ence- phaloid, was found occupying the anterior mediastinum, situated imme- diately behind the manubrium, which had not suffered erosion. Late- rally the growth was bounded by the lungs, the roots of which it par- tially enveloped ; inferiority by the heart, the pericardium of which it had invaded, appearing upon the internal surface, where it was reflected over the great vessels ; included in its substance were both innominate veins and the descending cava. The superior cava had an available calibre of not more than a quarter of an inch in diameter. The walls of these veins were infiltrated, and masses of a whitish substance, not unlike very soft encephaloid, nearly filled the cava and projected into the right auricle (the writer allows that these may have been clot, as they were not examined microscopically). The pulmonary artery, the aorta and its primary branches, the trachea and oesophagus, were all slightly compressed, but not invaded. The right lung, filled with bloody serum, showed numerous cancerous patches, as did also the left, but to a less extent. C. Terry publishes (ib., ii, 60) what he considers to be a case of mediastinal abscess opening into a bronchus. The patient was a coach- man, set. 58, who, being apparently in perfect health, was suddenly attacked by symptoms of suffocation; at this time there was crepitation over the whole chest, lividity, and the signs of collapse. After bringing up a large amount of pus, the crepitation disappeared and the patient rapidly got well. Lasegue (' Arch. Gen.' xxiii., 486) gives the case of a man, set. 49, in whom a right-sided pleurisy was the consequence of lympho-sarcoma of the bronchial glands, which were enormously enlarged and had com- pressed the right bronchus. The same growth was found in the liver, which was large, and along the course of the large and small bronchi. The writer suggests that the starting-point of the affection was on the surface of the right pleura. The course of the disease was very rapid, extending only from December 8, 1872, to February 16, 1873. T. C. Allbutt contributes ('Brit. Med.. Jour.' 1874, ii, 300,) a case of mediastinal sarcoma, simulating " callous, mediastino-pericarditis" (Kussmaul).1 The patient was a girl, set. 16, who had been perfectly well up to about four months before her admission into hospital, when she " caught cold." Her breathing became short, and latterly she had been unable to lie down on account of great dyspnoea and palpitation. She never complained of pain. The superficial veins of the neck were prominent; the aspect was one of distress. Taking the base line of dulness from the lower edge of the liver and heart, it extended up- wards all over the front of the chest, leaving only a triangle of reson- ance on each side, the outer two thirds of each clavicle being taken as the upper side of such equilateral triangle. The dulness reached about an inch beyond the mammary line on each side. On the left side there was in addition to and continuous with this dulness another dull portion corresponding to a small pleuritic effusion. This was tapped and fourteen ounces of clear fluid Temoved, but the patient died fifteen minutes after the operation. There was found to be enormous dilata- I See abstract of KussmaulVpaper under " Pericarditis."—A. B, S.