293 TUMOURS OF THE JAWS. (carcinoma). Illustrations of these various cases, naked-eye and micro- scopic, are given. Tumours of the loiverjaw.—Mr. Bryant narrates cases (' Guy's Hosp. Eep.,' xix, 126). Tumour of the inferior maxilla (fibroma); ex- cision ; recovery. The patient was a man, a)t. 25. A portion of the inferior maxilla was removed with the growth attached. Illustrations of the naked-eye and microscopic appearances are given. Spindle-celled periosteal sarcoma of the right ramus of the lower jaw; removal of one half of the jaw. The periosteum was separated above the angle of the jaw, the insertion of the muscles being left and the vessels protected. The bone was easily twisted out. Illustrations are given. Removal of large fibro-cystic tumour of the lower jaw ; recovery.—The patient was a man, set. 42, under the care of Mr. Reginald Harrison. The tumour was large and felt of the hardness of cartilage. After incisions through the soft parts the lower jaw was divided on the right side behind the canine tooth. An attempt to disarticulate was frustrated by the jaw giving way immediately below the left condyle. This was subsequently dissected out. The patient made a rapid recovery. Oclontome of the lower jaw successfully removed without division of the lone.—A woman, set. 17, came under the care of Mr. Annandale for a tumour of the lower jaw. She had never had any lower molar teeth on the left side. Nine months before she first observed a swelling on that side. An abscess soon after formed, burst and continued to discharge. Examination detected a tumour the size of a hen's egg, very hard to the touch, and including the entire thickness of the bone for an extent of two inches in front of the left angle. The patient was placed under chloroform and an attempt made to extract the tumour through the mouth without dividing the bone. At first the attempt seemed unlikely to succeed, but finally the tumour yielded and came out entire leaving a large cavity behind. A figure of the tumour is given. Microscopically it was shown that a cap of enamel, varying in thickness, was arranged over a portion of the irregular surface of the tooth mass. Beneath this, well-formed dentine, possessing a considerable thickness, was met with; and still deeper in the substance of the mass, true bone, containing lacunae, canaliculi, and Haversian canals was seen to be intermingled in a confused manner with portions of dentine so as to form the substance called by histologists " osteo-dentine." It appeared to be a well-marked example of those rare growths connected with the teeth which have been termed by M. Broca " odontomes." The case shows the prac- ticability of entirely removing these tumours, although firmly fixed, without division of the jaw itself. It represents one or more absent teeth. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 1873, p. 599.) Tumour of lateral portions of the lower jaio removed without external wound.—Mr. Maunder narrates a case of myeloid tumour, in which he removed a large portion of the lower jaw (from beyond the symphysis on one side to the middle of the vertical ramus on the other) through the mouth without external wound. (' Med. Times and G-az.,' July 4, 1874.) In the following number a second case of tumour is narrated in which a large portion of the jaw was removed in a similar manner, Illustrations are given.