160 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Perroud, "Auevrysme du Coeur" (woman, wet. 78, autopsy), 'Lyon Med,' xvi, loi. Magnan et Micrzcjewsky, " Des Lesions des parois ventriculaires et des parties sous- jaceutes dans la Paralysie generale," 'Arch, de Pliys.,' v. 52. Endocarditis. W. Moxon, writing (Lancet, 1873, ii, 622), on the immediate causes of the changes of the heart as produced in endocarditis, draws atten- tion to the fact that the inflammation of the endocardium is always circumscribed. Several such patches of inflammation, apparent in the presence on the membrane of granulations or fibrin, may occasionally be found, but except in the rarest cases, they are within reach of a fibrinous clot on a valve, which, no doubt, struck the affected part in the action of the heart. The study of a great number of cases has led him to conclude that such friction with fibrin clots, together with mechani- cal strain, make the principal, if not the sole, direct cause of endocar- ditis ; rheumatism and other general states creating only a vulnerability of the fibrous structures, so that they cannot resist the irritation of the friction. After comparing endocarditis with other inflammations, he describes its special characters, defining it to be either plastic or ulcerative, and insisting that the occurrence of ulceration is a rare and formidable complication of plastic endocarditis, by no means necessa- rily, as some writers hold, a further stage of it. This process he de- scribes as first an abrasion followed by a breach of the inflamed surface of a valve. The force of the heart drives the blood into the hollow so formed, and presses before it the remaining layer of the endocardium, thus forming an acute aneurism of the valve, such aneurism bulging into the left auricle or left ventricle, according as the mitral or aortic valves are affected. The ulceration or the heart's action easily works through the remaining layer, and perforates the valve. Such perfora- tions are always covered with " vegetations," i. e. nodular masses of fibrin which hide the opening, and increasing in size and becoming calcareous, by friction start ulceration in the wall of the heart where they come in contact with it. Lancereaux (' De PEndocardite vegetante ulcereuse et de ses rapports avec l'lntoxication palustre 'Arch. Gen.,' xxi, 672) holds that the endo- carditis occurring in acute rheumatism and that in puerperal fever are essentially different processes. The former is most extensive in cha- racter, attacking the whole circumference of the mitral valve, while the latter is always localised and circumscribed; the former, again, consists in the formation of a tissue which has a tendency to organization, cica- trization, and shrinking, with their results, the latter gives rise to the production of a tissue, which sets up irritation and swelling of the valves, with a varying number of vegetations; the true organization of the latter is impossible, and their destruction leads to secondary infec- tion of the system. In his present paper he tries to show that there is another form of endocarditis accompanied by vegetations and ulcera- tion ; its seat is generally the aortic valve, and it occurs most fre- quently in persons exposed to ague and malarial poisons. He gives at length five cases in illustration of this point, and mentions shortly a few others. The chief points in the diagnosis of ulcerative endocarditis