41 MUSCLE. the muscle called into play estimated from careful dissection previously- made.1 It was found that the work done by the shoulder muscles employed in holding the unloaded arms horizontally, per ounce per second, was equal to 1*468 foot-pounds, whilst the work done by muscles holding the loaded forearm horizontally, per ounce per second, was equal to ro28 foot-pounds, and by calculation he finds that the useful work is a maximum when the weight held in the hand is half the weight of the arm. He further deduces a "law of fatigue," which is, that when the same muscle (or group of muscles) is kept in constant action until fatigue sets in, the total work done, multiplied by the rate of work, is constant; so that if a man become fatigued after walking thirty miles at the usual rate, if he walk twice as fast he will become fatigued at the end of fifteen miles, having done only half the total work in a quarter of the original time. If he walk three times as fast he will become tired out at the end of ten miles, in one ninth part of the original time, and so on, the total work done always varying as the square root of the time necessary to produce fatigue. Another series of experiments was undertaken to determine the dynamical work done by muscles alternately contracted and relaxed, and estimates were made from various well-known instances where great muscular effort is put forth. Amongst others, it was found that the work done by each man in the university boat race is four foot tons per minute. In many other kinds of labour 400 foot-tons of work are accomplished in ten hours. The oarsman, if he could continue his work at the same rate, would finish his day's task in one hour and forty minutes, or he works six times as hard as a hard-worked day labourer. In another way of putting it, the muscles of the oarsman raise 13*825 lb. one foot per ounce of muscle per minute. Dr. Haughton found the absolute force of muscle when employed for an instant, or for a very short space of time, is 9541b. per square inch, but when moderately used their maximum force per square inch of cross section is 102*55 lb. av., or 7*225 kilogrammes per square centimetre. Dr. Haughton illustrates at great length by reference to the size of the tendons of the muscles moving the band and foot in man and animals the principle of economy of force or of material in nature, showing that these tendons are never larger than is absolutely necessary for the object in view. He next proceeds to consider the mechanical work done by the heart. He estimates the capacity of the left ventricle at three ounces ; that when experiencing the minimum of resistance, as when the vessels are nearly empty of blood, it contracts with a force 'measured by 2*58 ft. of a vertical column of blood, and that the ordinary blood-pressure is equal to the weight of a column of blood 9*923 ft. in height. The daily work of the left ventricle is thus 3X9'923X 75x60x24 = f 16x2240 Jl ' and as the thickness of the right ventricle is to that of the left as 1 The weight of the portion of deltoid called into piny in this notion was found to be 2-83 oz., and of the snpraspinatus 1*6707,. av., giving a total of 4*50 0/,. av. The length of the arm varied in different persons from 22 to 24 inches, the time the nrm conld be held out varied from 390 to 720 seconds. The weight of the arm varied from 5 lb. 14 oz, to 7*5 lb.