ANOMALIES OF STRUCTURE. 387 sterility present is always incurable. The uterus fcetalis seu infantilis re- sults from an interruption in the continuous development of the uterus ; its cervix may be from one to two inches long; the body is always very short, about the size of a hazel-nut, with very thin walls; the vaginal portion of the cervix may be a mere rudiment or very short, with a small external but a wide internal os ; the vagina is narrowed, the tubes well formed, the ovaries are absent or small, the Graafian vesicles absent, or the contained ova do not come to maturity. Men- struation is deficient or seldom, irregular, scanty, and more or less painful. From the thinness of the walls this has been called uterus membranaceus, or when it occurs in young persons after delivery, atrophia uteri precox. At puberty the growth of the uterus is often left behind, without retaining its infantile form ; it is altogether small —uterus parvus—both the body and cervix. The breasts, vagina, aad ovaries are perfectly developed; menstruation is not always absent; conception may take place and delivery at full time. 5. Uterus duplex et unicornis.—This malformation depends upon abnormal changes in Miiller's ducts during embryonic life, from which the vagina, uterus, and Fallopian tubes are formed. («) Uterus duplex separatus seu uterus didelphys (Kussmaul, Klob) is an arrest of de- velopment, so that on each side an uterus unicornis exists tolerably separate from each other, with an imperfectly developed Tagina, or, if present, bipartite. This is met with only in children incapable of a separate existence; it results from the non-fusion of the dual com- ponents of the organ. An uterus bicornis or bilocularis, results if the fusion of the middle section of Midler's ducts, does not go on in the normal way; there are either two distinct uterine cavities reaching from the fundus to the os, or there are two or more cavities formed by a membranous partition. Each cavity has its one Fallopian tube and ovary. The extreme degree of uterus bicornis, that is, where the two horns with a double vaginal portion open into a single or a double yagina, is rarely met with. Kussmaul recognises two forms of uterus bicornis; the uterus bicornis duplex, where the separation into two halves by a conjoint partition is complete, and the uterus bicornis infra simplex, seu semi-duplex, seu unicollis, where the separation is in- complete. If one horn of an uterus bicornis duplex be impregnated it enlarges, and its walls thicken as in the gravid uterus ; the impregnated horn rises up into the abdominal cavity, and both in their proportional growth retain the same relative position as when unimpregnated. In five case3 of pregnancy observed by Prof. Braun-Fernwald, occurring in uterus bicornis, there was never twins, all the children were born alive and the puerperium was natural. In uterus bicornis unicollis, preg- : nancy and birth proceed naturally. (c) The unhorned partite uterus, uterus bilocularis (Eokitansky), uterus septus (Kussmaul), is where the cavity of an externally single uterus is divided by a septum springing from the normal fundus reaching downwards to a greater or less extent. When this septum is complete throughout the whole length of the uterus Kussmaul calls it uterus Sptus duplex ; when incomplete, uterus subseptus. The vagina may alao be divided by a continuation of the uterine septum, but usually the