220 HEPORT ON SURGERY. evacuated by a large warm-water injection. The baud being anointed witb lard and the fingers folded into a cone, it is gradually introduced into the rectum witb the dorsum towards the sacrum till reaching the sigmoid flexure, wben the hand may be pronated, and, as the vessels are right under tbe fingers, tbe main supply of blood to the lower limb may tbus be completely controlled. The sphincter recovers its tone in a few days, and superficial lacerations, fissures of the anus, &c, need not occur if the band be introduced slowly. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1874.) Femoral aneurism; ligature of external iliac with catgut ligature; premature absorption of ligature; second operation; recovery.—The patient was a soldier, aged 32, under the care of Staff-Surgeon Elliot. The first ligature was applied August 20th. The artery appeared sound. A simple carbolised catgut ligature, prepared by Messrs. Weiss, of the largest size, was made use of, tied until pulsation was perfectly arrested in the sac, trebly knotted and tbe ends cut short off. The wound seemed to be uniting by first intention, but free suppuration was sbortly estab- lished. On the 25th pulsation began to return, and on the 27th a bruit was heard. Tbe tumour steadily enlarged. On Nov. 26 the patient was operated on again. A stout carbolised hempen ligature was tied firmly and one end left banging out of the wound. No trace of the previous ligature could be found. The operation was tedious from the close matting of parts. The peritoneum was wounded twice and intes- tines and omentum protruded ; vomiting ensued, and it was difficult to return the bowel. On the 28th there was a faint pulsation in the sac which then consolidated. Free discbarge was again set up. On Jan. 4 the ligature separated. On Feb. 21 faint pulsation and bruit were again detected in tbe sac, pulsation persisting till March 2. On April 2 be was discharged fit for light duty. " This was probably a case of fusiform dilatation. The catgut ligature evidently became absorbed prematurely, permitting the re-establishment of the circulation; but it is remarkable that there should have been no formation of clot in 120 hours. It is evidently advisable to draw the ligature sufficiently tight to cut the internal coats. In this and the following case the advantage of previous pressure in preparing for the change in the circulation was marked, the after-suffering from arterial enlargement being little or none, the temperature remaining perfect and the appearance of tbe limb natural. In both cases intermittent pressure served only to arrest rapid development." Femoral aneurism; pressure on external iliac ; cure.—Tbe patient was a man, aged 25. Intermittent pressure on the external iliac by a Carte's compressor was tried without success from Nov. 12 till April. Then, on April 22, 23, 28, continuous pressure under chloroform. On May 13 another attempt was made and pressure kept up for fifteen hours. At the end of nine and a half hours no bruit nor pulsation was discernible, and for the next five and a half hours no readjustment of the tourniquet was necessary. "When the tourniquet was finally removed impulse and bruit became evident, but slightly weaker, and bo continued throughout the day. At 1.30 a.m. on the 15th all pul- sation and bruit had ceased. The sac became harder and smaller. The cure became complete. ('Lancet,' July 5, 1873.)