PNEUMONIA, GANGRENE, ETC. the pigment formation described by Langhans within cells containing blood-corpuscles, a free formation of pigment is also caused by in- direct change in red blood-corpuscles. Gangrene and Abscess. E. Lancereaux gives the particulars ('Arch. Gdn.,' xxi, 276) of a case of gangrene of the right lung in a gardener, ast. 21. Three years before, he had had an attack of intermittent fever, but had been ap- parently well up to about a fortnight before his admission into hospital, at which time, after a drinking bout, he was seized with pain in the right side and cough. He complained of general malaise and night sweats; his sputa were yellowish, and once tinged with blood and, like his breath, fetid.. The lower third of his right lung was dull on per- cussion. Three weeks later these symptoms had become worse; he lost flesh rapidly; there was trembling of his lips and hands, vomit mingled with greyish, extremely fetid sputa, a pulse of 104, and a tem- perature of 387 C. The dulness on percussion was more extensive, the cavernous breathing was accompanied by large crackles ; there was diarrhoea, and latterly hasmoptysis. The patient died in about two months from the time of admission. The autopsy showed general ad- hesion of the whole right lung; the upper lobes were aedematous, the lower riddled with cavities containing fluid of darkish grey colour and most horribly fetid stench. The left lung showed the existence of lobular pneumonia at the base. The bronchial glands were swollen and injected. The heart contained clots prolonged into the vessels, but was otherwise normal; the liver was congested, and the spleen increased in size. The fluid removed from the right lung gave under the microscope "granular leucocytes," red blood-cells, and bacteria. The writer remarks on the symptoms of death from septicaemia present in this case ; he made experiments with the blood removed from the heart of the patient on several rabbits, and thinks that the results found in these animals after their death were due to a special modifi- cation of the blood during life, and due to the presence of vibriones. A. "W. Foot (' Dublin Journ.,' lv, 28) publishes two cases of " circum- scribed pulmonary gangrene from haemorrhagic infarction, the result of submersion ; frequent haemoptyses ; recovery." Both patients were men, aged 35 and 37 ; both had rigors in shorter or longer periods after the immersion, followed by pain in the left side and fetid expec- toration. The physical signs were, in both, mainly those of bronchitis. Both bad the same profuse sweatings in the early, haemoptysis in the middle, and diarrhoea in the later, stages; the same prostration of strength out of all proportion to the physical signs; the same varia- bility of symptoms—one day better, another day worse; both were singularly free from high fever, one had hardly any pyrexia. The writer enters into full particulars of the sputa and the different drugs used to combat the fcetor. N. Alcock records (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1873, i, 271) a case to show the interrupted correlation of respiration, pulse, and temperature, in gangrenous abscess of the lung. The patient was a soldier, oet. 33, ■who had been nine years in India. Moist crepitant rales were heard 10