REPORT ON SURGERY. A woman, who had fallen on her hip, was admitted into hospital with very slight shortening of the limb and slight eversion. The capsule was almost entire and held, the fragments in position. (' Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' June, 1873.) Dr. Bishop describes a case treated by a wire splint, bent at hip, knee, and ankle, and figures the splint. (' Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' July, 1874.) Prof. E. W. Smith describes two specimens of united impacted intra-capsular fracture of the femur (with illustrations). ('Dub. Journ. of Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1873.) Dr. Zach. Johnson figures a splint, &c, which he has devised for the treat- I ment of fractures of the femur. The splint is fastened to the thigh, either inside or outside, for counter-extension, and then extension made by a screw fixed to the lower end of the splint, and acting on a foot- I piece in such a way as to draw down the leg. Spontaneous fracture of the femur from caries; oony union.—A. Eosenberger describes in the ' Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift' (April 6, 1874) the case of a boy, set. 14, who, without any apparent cause (except much exertion of the legs in walking and standing), was seized with severe pain in the lower part of the left thigh; this was followed in four days by swelling and pain. At the end of nine days a deep abscess was opened ; the bone above the knee was denuded of periosteum to a great extent, and bathed in pus. The suppuration continued, with fever, for about four weeks ; then there was some im- provement ; and then again a return of the fever. The opening that had been made was enlarged, and it was found that the bone above had become nearly covered with periosteum, and that the abscess cavity had disappeared; but the bone was broken through about three inches above the knee. Slight suppuration followed, but the fever was very severe for some days. Six weeks later, complete bony union had taken place; there was still, however, a fistula leading down to carious bone. Treatment of transverse fractures of the patella.—Mr. C. J. Manning writes on a plan of treatment he has devised. The apparatus (figured) consists of a back splint with foot-piece, some cross strips of strapping fastened to a long band of calico pass behind the thigh, knee, and leg. The cross strips are fastened over the thigh in front. The calico passes through a slit in the splint, and. has a bar of wood at the end. Another bar of wood is attached lower down on the splint. Then by approximating these two bars the strapping above the patella is drawn upon and pulls down the upper fragment. The force used consists of elastic bands passed from one bar to the other. The limb is bandaged to the splint. The author considers the ordinary plan causes pressure on the vessels supplying the patella, and often leads to imperfect union. He figures the distribution of vessels. (' Lancet,' Feb. 28, 1874.) Transverse fracture of the patella without separation of the fragments.— Dr. Curtis Smith records the case of a man set. 51, who fell heavily on his right knee in consequence of a slip while walking on ice. He walked a short distance afterwards. When examined, a transverse fracture of the patella was found, the fragments being still in close contact, the upper one elevated above the level of the lower piece. The leg was then semiflexed, the patient sitting in a chair. Extension of