247 FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS. the limb rather increased the relative elevation of the upper fragment. Flexion of the knee nearly to n right angle brought the fragments in exact coaptation. There was also a fracture through the external condyle of the femur, the line of fracture being semilunar in shape. There was but slight displacement of this fragment, and but slight pressure required to return it to its proper place. The broadest portion of this condyloid fragment was three fourths of an inch in width, and extended to its articular surface. The leg was ordered to be semiflexed and at rest. This order was not obeyed at first. Ultimately no observable deformity was left from either fracture. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' April, 1873.) Dislocation of the patella on its edge,—Mr. Southam records a case in a male set. 20. The accident was caused in struggling. Very great pain was experienced. The outer border of the patella rested on the upper and outer side of the external condyle. The bone slipped into place on flexion of knee, nearly to a right angle, under chloroform, after previous extension. (' Liverpool and Manchester Med. and Surg. Eeports,' 1873, p. 95.) Latent syphilis preventing union of a fractured, tibia for upwards of seven months; rapid recovery under specific treatment.—The patient was a man, fet. 30, under the care of Mr. Barnes, of Liverpool. ('Lancet,' Nov. 1, 1873.) On suspension in the treatment of fractures of the leg.—Dr. Packard writes an article on this subject, pointing out the different methods adopted for suspending. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' April, 1874.) Compound dislocation of the anMe.—Mr. Ker records the case of a man, aet. 40, who came under care for a compound dislocation of the tibia and fracture of the fibula. Two inches of the tibia pro- truded through a wound on the inner side. The protruding part of the articular portion of the tibia and the lower end of the upper fragment of the fibula were sawn off. In the seventeenth week the patient could stand without support. (' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 3, 1874.) Compound dislocation of the astragalus ; excision of the hone.—A case is noted under the care of Dr. P. H. "Watson. The accident which occasioned this lesion was incurred while the patient was stepping on the ground from his carriage; the horses moving forwards, his weight was thrown suddenly upon the anterior and outer part of the foot. The bone had evidently been wrenched away anteriorly from the scaphoid bone and inferiorly from the calcaneum, and its anterior surface forced out through an opening in the cutaneous textures between the external malleolus and the external margin of the extensors of the toes, whereat the astragalus projected. On manipulation the bone was found to be only attached to the extremity of the tibia and fibula by the capsular ligament of the ankle. The bone was excised. The patient's progress subsequently was quite satisfactory. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' June, 1874.) Sub-astragaloid dislocation of the foot.—Mr. Mac Cormac writes a paper on this subject. After enumerating the various dislocations to which the astragalus is liable, he narrates four cases of sub-astragaloid dislocation of the foot which have come under his observation. The first case was that of a man, a;t. 25, who fell from a ladder, his foot