CONTAGION A.ND INFECTION. 53 albuminous matter, may also be produced by the introduction into the circulation or into the serous cavities, of small quantities of liquids derived directly from living tissues in certain states of inflammation; and that such states have the same distinctive character as those which distinguish inflammation of septicemic origin. (2.) That pyemia (the term being understood to denote a general febrile disorder of less virulence than septicaemia, accompanied by numerous disseminated inflammations, characterised chiefly by their proneness to suppuration) is so closely allied to septicaemia as regards its origin and essential nature that in these respects no line of distinction can be drawn between them ; and that pyaemia, like septicaemia, may originate from a purely traumatic inflammation, independently of any infection with contagium derived from a previously existing pyaemic inflammation. (3.) That both of these conditions are characterised by the existence of micro- zymes in the infected liquids ; and that the relation of intensity between different cases of septicaemic and pyemic infection is indicated by the number and character of these organisms ; so that in the most intense processes (£. e., those which exhibit the character of septi- caemia) the exudation liquids and the blood are crowded with actively moving bacteria, while in the more chronic processes the spheroidal and dumb-bell forms prevail, and the numbers of organisms found in the liquids are relatively inconsiderable. The author regards the question of the origin of the infective agent itself as entirely distinct from that of the intrinsic or extrinsic origin of the microzymes ; it does not at all follow because these organisms come in from outside they bring con- tagium with them; for it may be readily admitted that they may serve as carriers of infection from diseased to healthy parts, or from diseased te healthy individuals, and yet be utterly devoid of any power of them- selves originating the contagium they convey. Orth (" Untersuchungen iiber Puerperalfieber," ' Virch. Arch.' lviii, 437) finds numerous micrococci, but no bacteria in the peritoneal fluid in cases of puerperal fever. Injection of this fluid into the abdo- men of animals was followed by similar results, so far as inflammation and the presence of these organisms was concerned. Inoculation of cornea? with the fluid, and of other corneas from those so inflamed, gave the appearance described by Eberth. The paper has plates of the appearances found. Gigot-Suard (' Gaz. des Hop.,' 1873,69) has made experiments upon dog3 with uric acid (uricaemia), and finds well-marked morbid changes. In several the blood became almost neutral, and the microscope and chemical analysis revealed the presence of crystals of uric acid, oxalic acid, and urate of soda. The skin presented erythematous, vesicular, and other affections; the mucous membrane, especially that of the mouth, nose, eyes, and bronchi, was more or less injected; the glands, especially the tubular glands of the rectum, were hypertrophied and even ulcerated. The lungs and liver were congested; the kidneys were in different stages of disease, from simple congestion of the cortex to advanced Bright's disease. The pericardium, pancreas, spleen, brain, and spinal cord were injected. The lymphatic glands were in