422 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. A white friable mass was discovered, having all the characters of malig- nant disease. As the mass could not be removed the incision was closed. The patient died 53 hours after the operation, and upon opening the abdomen the mass of malignant disease was found to be the omentum, about one inch thick, which overlapped the tumour, which was adherent in every direction, and proved to be a large fibro-cystic tumour of the uterus. This case was brought forward to show the difficulty there is in diagnosing abdominal tumours. Mr. Lawson Tnit, in a paper on the diagnosis of extra-uterine preg- nancy, read at the same meeting, said there were two points invariably to be noticed in extra-uterine gestation which had gone past the period, viz. a " show " during the false labour, and that the size of the abdomen diminished after it. The first was due to the general excitement and congestion of the organs involved, especially to the enlargement of the uterus, and the second to the absorption of the liquor amnii after the death of the child. The complete arrest of menstruation during the period corresponding to normal pregnancy is far from being a constant con- dition. Before the death of the child extra-uterine pregnancy may be mistaken for displacement of the normally pregnant uterus during the early months, for pregnancy complicated with fibro-myoma or cystic dis- ease of the uterus, and more rarely for pregnancy of one-half of a double uterus. After the death of the child the diagnosis was more difficult. The other conditions with which it might be confused were pelvic haematocele, and ovarian tumour, especially dermoid cysts, cancer, fibro- cystic disease of the uterus, hydatids of the uterus, and phantom preg- nancy. The uterus in extra-uterine gestation was intimately associated with the tumour, generally in front of it, moveable to a limited extent and enlarged. The most important was that the cervix is always patu- lous. If the child was dead, the tumour would be soft, and parts of the child might be made out by internal or external examination. Dr. Depaul related the following case of extra-uterine pregnancy to the Paris Surgical Society, Dec. 1873. A woman aged 32, menstruated for the last time in Dec. 1872, and there soon followed symptoms of probable pregnancy. One day the patient fell and felt a violent shake in her abdomen, followed by a great pain. The abdomen enlarged, at the time for delivery there were pains and efforts ; nothing more, and from this time persistent pain in abdomen with vomiting supervened. "When examined, the abdomen was moderately enlarged, painful, and difficult to explore ; fever. At the navel was a soft yielding mass, rising above the umbilicus, ballottement well marked, os uteri patulous, milky fluid in breasts. The inflammatory symptoms increasing, an exploratory puncture was made, giving issue to more than a gallon of pus. This brought ease and the vomiting ceased. Three days later gastrotomy was performed. A quantity of pus and a foetus werd removed, but the placenta being very adherent was left. On the next day the fever was less. The dressing was frequently changed and per- manganate of potash used as a disinfectant. On the eighth day the patient suddenly sank, the dressings being soaked with blood. At the autopsy 18 ounces of clots were found in the sac, which was formed by the anterior wall of the abdomen, one kidney, a part of the stomach,