ItEPOIlT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. 356 than the other for objects which are above, lower for objects which are below. A constant sign of paralysis of the external rectus—which is not given in books, but which Coppez says that he has seen in fifteen cases—is a considerable elevation of the external third of the eyebrow on the affected side ; an elevation such as to alter the natural symmetry of the face. Operation for staphyloma of the cornea.—De "Wecker1 describes his method of operating on cases of total staphyloma of the cornea, espe- cially in children, in whom it is desirable to reduce the size of the globe only so much as to fit it for the reception of an artificial eye, and not so much as to interfere with the development of the orbital bones. He divides the conjunctiva, all round, at the corneal margin, and dissects it back, with the sub-conjunctival tissue, nearly to the equator. He then passes four sutures through the conjunctiva, entering his needle from without below the cornea, and from within above it. The four sutures are left as long loops, and two of them are laid aside towards the temple, two towards the nose. A Graefe's knife is then made to trausfix the base of the staphyloma, which is next cut out by scissors, accurately at the corneal margin. If the lens does not escape, the capsule is divided to allow it to do so ; and the sutures are tied so as to unite the wound of the conjunctiva in a horizontal line. If a bead of vitreous should project, another suture is applied at the place where it appears. De "Wecker claims as advantages of his method that it leaves the ciliary region intact, that it secures a rounded stump for an artificial eye, and that its results in his hands have been eminently satisfactory. The same author has published2 a lengthy paper on his method of incising the iris to make an artificial pupil; a method which he calls iridotomy, to distinguish it from iridectomy ; although, in his double iridotomy, the basis of the distinction is not quite clear. He uses for the operation a pair of small scissors, with very fine, fiat, slender blades with rounded extremities, which open and shut after the manner of Liebreich's iris forceps. Simple iridotomy is performed in cases of laminar cataract, or of central corneal opacity, as a means of making an artificial pupil of a triangular shape, with its base towards the natural pupil and its apex towards the ciliary margin of the iris. An incision is made through the cornea near its margin with a lance knife, on the side opposite to that on which the iris is to be cut. The scissors are introduced closed; and, when they reach the further margin of the pupil, they are suffered to expand, and are pushed on, with one blade in front of the iris and one behind it, until their extremities approach the margin of the cornea. They are then closed and withdrawn, so that they leave a simple in- cision through the iris in a radial direction, which, gaping by the contraction of the muscular fibres, leaves the pupil that is desired. In double iridotomy, which is adopted only for cases in which a closed pupil is left after removal at the lens, the operator pushes a lance knife through both cornea and iris, near the margin, and carries the 1 ' Annales d'Oculistique,5 vol. lxix. 2 Ibid., 1873.