AN'EUUISM—LIGATUKE OF AltTlSllIES. '225 Popliteal aneurism.—A case, in a man of 31, cured by digital com- pression, and another, cured by ligature of the femoral artery after compression had failed, in a man a)t. 33, are recorded in the 'Lancet,' July 24, 1873. They were under the care of Mr. Bryant. The ligature used was of catgut. Popliteal aneurism; spontaneous cure; gangrene of the foot; death. —The patient was a man, set. 73, under the care of Mr. Berkeley Hill. Pain behiud the knee came on seven weeks before admission. After death a small aneurism was found and a long plug in the femoral artery from the entrance to Hunter's canal downwards. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Nov. 14, 1874.) Popliteal aneurism ; ligature of the femoral; gangrene three weeks later; separation of four toes ; recovery.—The patient was a man, set. 40, under the care of Mr. Thomas Smith. The aneurism was large and no pulsation could be detected in the tibial arteries. No com- pression was tried. The ligature was of catgut. The wound healed well. The tumour remained soft. The gangrene did not make its appearance for three weeks, when the patient was allowed to be out of bed. The four outer toes separated at the second phalanges. ('Lancet,' July 12, 1873.) Popliteal aneurism cured by ligature of the femoral.—A case under the care of Mr. Henry Smith is recorded. ('Lancet,' July H, 1874.) Popliteal aneurism ; ligature of femoral artery ; fluctuation in aneurism for seven weeks afterwards; ultimate consolidation and contraction.— The patient, a man set. 47, was under the care of Mr. Smith, of Man- chester. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' Jan. 3, 1874.) Aneurism of popliteal artery ; compression (digital) for twenty-three hours; cure.—The patient was under the care of Mr. Sydney Jones. ('Lancet,' Nov. 14, 1874.) Popliteal aneurism cured by compression, at first instrumental, then digital. Dr. Zach. Johnson records the case. ('Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' June, 1873.) Popliteal aneurism cured by compression (instrumental) in twenty- four hours; by pressure (various) over some days; by ligature after failure of compression. Aneurismal varix following punctured wound of femoral artery and vein—repeated haemorrhage; ligature of the , artery above and below the wound after failure of compression.—Cases under the care of Mr. Hamilton. (' Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,' May, 1873.) Popliteal aneurism; compression; ligature of femoral; rigors; sup- ,puration; hemorrhage; death.—Mr. Hamilton records the case of a :man, set. 52, who came under his care for popliteal aneurism. After compression had been tried and failed the artery was ligatured. Sup- puration in the thigh and elsewhere followed, with rigors. Hsemor- irhage occurred on the twenty-first day. The man died two days later. '.There was no clot whatever in the artery. The vein was full of puru- 15