DYSTOCIA BY THE CHILD. i:;i the elongated portion was found hanging down into the vagina like a shrivelled skin, and was removed. The patient has had several easy labours since. Dr. Matthews Duncan read a paper on the size of aperture neces- sary for the passage of the placenta and for the passage of the ac- coucheur's hand, before the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society, Feb. 1874. From the experiments he had had made it appeared that an aperture of fully two inches in diameter was required for the transmission of the uninjured mature placenta; in a much lacerated state it may be brought through an aperture of smaller dimensions. The hand could be passed through an os of s£ inches in diameter or a little more. (' Obstet. Journal,' May, 1874.) Dr. James Cappie related to the Edinburgh Obstetrical Soc, March, 1S74, a case of fibroid of the uterus, complicating pregnancy and prov- ing fatal by torsion of the pedicle. Dystocia by the Child. Schatz writes ('Archiv f. G-ynak.,' v, ii, 1873) on the conversion of face presentations into vertex presentations by external measures. He first gives the methods usually employed, and speaks of their in- convenience. He advocates the following manoeuvres ; having exactly ascertained the position of the foetus by palpation, first, to grasp the shoulders and the chest of the foetus and push them upwards and towards the side where the back of the foetus is, and as soon as they are brought into the long axis of the ovum, cease to push them upwards, but only directly towards where the back of the foetus lies. Whilst the one hand is doing this, the other fixes the fundus of the uterus and the pelvic extremities of the foetus; it is advantageous also to push the breech towards the place where the shoulders had previously been. Dr. Frost, in a paper read before the Obstetrical Society of Edin- burgh, April, 1873, recommends the following method of delivering in breech presentations, viz., to allow the child to breathe whilst its head is still in utero or in the pelvis, by passing the finger of the one hand into the child's mouth, drawing down the jaw, and at the same time passing the two fingers of the other hand high up into the vagina, and pressing them sharply backwards so as to open the passage to admit air to the child's mouth. He mentions a number of cases in which a living child was born under circumstances which, apart from this, would have caused its death. He has found that the best position of the patient to do this, is to place her on the lap of an assistant, and, with the accoucheur kneeling in front of her; he has then the free use of the hands, and can extract in the'direction of the axis of the pelvis, and especially in that of the outlet. Dr. Inglis advocates the practice of assisting the spontaneous evolu- tion of the foetus in cases of jammed shoulder presentation (' Obst. Journ.,' April, 1873). He does not approve of decapitation or of evisceration, but believes that if podalic version cannot be effected the natural spontaneous evolution should be assisted as much as possible ; should this fail to procure sufficient doubling of the spine, division through it must be made as low in the trunk as possible.