TYPHUS—RELAPSING FEVER. 79 which some of the papers found below refer, but no further light is thrown by it on the general question. T. W. Grimshaw (' Dubl. Jour.,' lv, 579) publishes a paper on the influence of digitalis on the weak heart of typhus fever, giving a series of cases in which he employed the drug. He concludes that when given in moderate doses it neither shortens the duration nor influences the temperature of the disease, but it prevents or diminishes delirium, and increases the frequency and fulness of the pulse. It should be discontinued if the pulse rate and temperature undergo a sudden fall, and also if, after using it for 24 hours, the pulse does not improve. "When digitalis is used alcoholic stimulants are required in less quantity. He gives a dose, varying from an ounce to an ounce and a half of the infusion, every second or third hour. T. B. Ullersperger, " Bemerkungen iiber Aetiologie des Typhus," ' Deut. Klin.,' 1873, 196. Lender, "Ein Fall von Flecktyphus, wesentlicli durch Electrischen Sauerstoff behandelt," ib., 212. Bouchardat, "Note relative a la communication de M. Chauffard sur la question du typhus," ' Bull, de l'Acad. de Med./ 1873, 5. J. Perier, "Lettre relative a l'etiologie du typhus," ib. ib., 606. Guillemin, "Les origines et le propagation du typhus," • Gaz. Hebd.,' 1873, 813. Bernheim, "Note sur un cas de typhus exanthematique," ib., 36. J. Martin, " On the Generation of Typhus by Overcrowding," ' Dub. Journ.,' lvi, 36. H. Ashby, " A case of Typhus Fever rapidly fatal" (man, a;t. 34), 'Lancet,' 1874, ii, 156. T. B. Peacock, "Clinical Lecture on Fever" (three cases of typhus, two of typhoid), ib., i, 435. W. B. Lewis, " Typhus at the Sea-coast" (outbreak at Burry Port), 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1874, i, Relapsing Fever. E.Ponfick ("Anatomische Studien iiber den Typhus recurrens," 'Virch. Arch.,' lx, 153) publishes a review of the pathological changes found in relapsing fever, based on about a hundred post-mortem examinations. All the cases, with one exception, occurred in men of debilitated and drunken habits, so that allowance must be made for results due rather to alcoholism than to relapsing fever. But these left aside, there were marked changes in the liver, kidneys, heart, and muscles. The fatty degeneration found in the heart was so far advanced as to resemble that due to poisoning from phosphorus. In addition to traces of interstitial inflammation in the liver and kidneys, the latter showed points of haemorrhage in portions of the convoluted tubules and the loops of Henle. The writer holds that though none of these alterations are necessarily characteristic of the disease, the changes found in the spleen, the bone-marrow, and the blood, are almost patho- gnomonic. The spleen was greatly enlarged, and its capsule generally so thin that death occurred sometimes through its rupture, followed by hemorrhage and peritonitis ; the more minute changes found in it seem to have consisted in thrombosis of some of its veins and fatty degeneration of the lymphoid elements of its follicles. The bone- rnarrow had undergone fatty and purulent changes. Deatli occurred in 20 per cent, of the cases from the affection of the spleen, followed mrectly in 12 per cent, by peritonitis, in 8 per cent, from fatty degeneration of the heart, in 60 per cent, from catarrhal and croupous pneumonia, and in 12 per cent. Irom oedema of the glottis. Parotitis,