23:2 REPORT ON SURGERY. pulsation in aneurisms he discusses (i.) "when a solid coagulum of blood or fibrine fills the cavity, especially if the arterial opening is a narrow slit, or if blood has been extravasated out of the artery into the cellular or muscular tissue," and (2) " when a very large aneurismal sac compresses the vessel above itself." Mr. Holmes thinks the latter cause (practically) unproven. He thinks the usual cause is some change, either in the contents of the tumour near the mouth of the sac, or in the shape of the orifice itself, whereby the direct and free interchange of blood between the sac and the artery is hindered. The sign of alteration in size of tumour, on compressing the artery, may be of value; but it is a doubtful symptom. The conclusions which the paper is meant to enforce are:—(j) The difficulties in the diagnosis of aneurism, although they are real enough, are not so frequent as might be inferred from the statements of some authors, provided that all the means of examination are carefully employed. Most of the errors which are recorded have depended on the omission of stethoscopic examina- tion, or occurred before the invention of the stethoscope. (2) Of tumours which pulsate, but are not aneurisms, some are abscesses and others pulsatile cancers. The diagnosis of the former is generally possible, with careful examination, since they can hardly have a true aneurismal bruit unless they communicate with the artery, when they would become aneurisms; but the diagnosis of the latter is often attended with the most serious difficulties, though on carefully and repeatedly examining the symptoms the proper diagnosis can usually be made. (3) The occasional occurrence of aneurisms which do not pulsate, and have no ajidible bruit, is a motive for the greatest caution in opening any presumed abscess in the situations where such aneurisms may be found, and justifies an exploratory puncture. Such exploration is more likely to do good than harm if the swelling should turn out to be an aneurism. (4) In these more difficult cases it is necessary, not merely to ascertain the existence of the ordinary symptoms, such as pulsation and bruit, but also to compare their degree with that which might have been expected if the tumours were aneurismal. Successful treatment of aneurism by position and restricted diet.—Mr. Jolliffe Tufnell reports three cases of aneurism in which a cure resulted from position and restricted diet. Cases are suitable in which the aneurism springs from the front of the aorta, where the sac is entire, and the individual possesses a fibrinating power in his blood. Case 1. Aneurism of the abdominal aorta cured by rest and restricted diet in thirty-seven days. The patient was a man a?t. 31. The daily allowance of food (from Feb. 17th) was, for breakfast, 2 oz. of bread and butter; 2 oz. of milk or tea. Dinner, 3 oz. of mutton, 3 oz. of potatoes, or bread, 4 oz. of claret. Supper, 2 oz. of bread and butter, 2 oz. of tea; Total, per diem, 10 oz. of solid food and 8 oz. fluid, and no more. At the end of seventeen days (March 6th) there was improvement. On March 26th the aneurism was nearly solid. Case 2. Aneurism of the abdominal aorta cured by rest and restricted diet in twenty-one days. The patient was a man aged 70. Case 3. Aneurism of the popliteal artery cured by rest and restricted diet in twelve days, The patient was a man set. 37. (' Med.-Chir, Trans.,' lvii, 83,)