ANEURISM—LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. 219 scribed aneurism pressure may be tried. This having failed, whether the sac should be opened or the Hunterian operation performed will depend on the situation of tho tumour and the chance of finding the vessel at the wounded point. The structure of the palmar fascia would appear to permit an aneurism to enlarge only in one of two directions—either towards the ball of the thumb and first interosseous space or towards the ulnar side of the palm. The wounded vessel is liable to be at some distance from the part of the tumour opened. Pressure in these cases might answer as in recent wounds. Mr. Cripps concludes that it is better, except as a last resource, to avoid opening traumatic aneurisms of the palm, since pressure appears to be parti- cularly successful in a large proportion of these cases. In the case of bleeding from the arteries of the palm, well-adjusted pressure, not only on the wound, but also on the radial aud ulnar arteries, should be tried ; and further, that the arm should be carefully bandaged from the fingers to the shoulder. This pressure failing, the brachial might be tied. Pressure on the radial and ulnar is as likely to be efficient as ligature of them. It is not desirable to compress the brachial for long, since such pressure cannot be kept up without interfering with important veins. Cases of palmar aneurism illustrating modes of treatment adopted are quoted. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vii, p. 157.) Palmar aneurism.—Mr. McCormac records a case in which com- pression of the brachial artery was successful in curing a palmar aneurism. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 30, 1874, p. 707.) Inflammation of the aorta.—Dr. Moxon relates a case of inflammation of the aorta causing contraction of its ascending part and fatal ischa> mia. Drawings of sections of the diseased aorta are given. (' Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' xviii .p. 324.) Galvano-puncture in the treatment of an aneurism of the descending aorta.—Mr. Marcus Beck ('Lancet,' Oct. 18, 1873). Aneurism of superior mesenteric artery ; trial of abdominal tourniquet abandoned owing to urgent symptoms; improvement.—Mr. "W. Haward records the case, which was under the care of Mr. Pollock. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vii, p. 58.) Abdominal aneurism treated successfully by pressure on the aorta under chloroform.—Four hours' compression was attended with great benefit, but subsequently a relapse occurred. At the end of a month pressure was reapplied for three hours. Consolidation gradually followed, pul- sation remaining for several days. (See case last ' Bien. Eetrosp.,' p. 205.) The effects of the pressure upon the pulse were remarkable, and the stomach and kidneys were affected, as shown by hsematemesis and albuminuria. Prolonged and for some time uncontrollable vomiting on both occasions followed the compression. Immediate compression of the common iliac artery for the prevention of hemorrhage.—In the examination of a case of nephritic colic, in which a stone was supposed to exist in the renal pelvis or in the ureter, Dr. Woodbury found that while exploring the abdominal cavity with the right hand in the rectum he was able to observe that no stone of size emitted in the parts indicated, and that he could feel pulsation in the large vessels of the pelvic brim quite easily. The bowel should be