330 REPORT ON SURGERY. the lower fourth of the kidney, the other parts being seemingly healthy. The patient recovered well, though slowly. The author remarks that the case is not only interesting as one of recovery after removal of the kidney, hut as showing how impossible it is to arrive at anything like an accurate diagnosis in some cases of abdominal tumours. ' There was no evidence to lead to the suspicion of there being any kidney mis- chief. All the symptoms pointed to ovarian disease. The tumour first appeared in the. left groin and continued to extend upwards and in- wards. There was no history of nephritic colic, albuminuria or other change in the quantity or state of the urine. The secretion of the urine was very little affected by the operation. Plenty of clear urine was excreted from the first, and there were no ursemic symptoms. (' Edin. Med. Journ.,' July, 1874.) Erysipelas of the kidney and urinary tract.—Under this term, Dr. G-oodhart details certain cases of so-called " surgical kidney " often attributed to the passage of catheters, &c. He is inclined to refer many of them to an erysipelatous condition, the contagion being often conveyed by the catheter. He concludes—1. That the suppurative nephritis is generally secondary to disease about the bladder and to decomposition of the urine. 2. That it may be produced without putrefaction of the urine, without any apparent disturbance from without, by the occurrence of retention, either in the bladder or pelvis of the kidney. 3. That the free communication between the bladder and external air has not a large share in most cases in producing sup- puration of the kidneys, but this is not so at special seasons or whe n this condition is coupled with inflammation of the bladder, whether set up by decomposing urine or other causes. 4. That atmospheric con- ditions or particles at particular times, more especially those having to do with erysipelas, are likely to induce the disease. <. That surgical operations, in proportion to the intensity of the inflammation they excite and the completeness with which they ensure that those inflam- matory products shall be intensified by the admixture of air, are also fertile sources of disease. (' Guy's Hosp. Rep.,' xix, 357.) Extirpation oftlic kidney.—A collection of eight cases in which the kidney has been extirpated will be found in the ' American Journal of the Medical Sciences' for Jan. 1873, p. 277. Of these, six died and two recovered. Another case of recovery after excision of an injured kidney, by Dr. Brandt (' Wiener Med. Woch.,' Nov., Dec. 1873), is noted in full in ' Edin. Med. Journ.,' May, 1874. Chylous urine.—Notes of a case of chylous urine are given (' Edin. Med. Journal,' Sept. 1874) by Mr. Eobert Smith. The patient, a woman, set. 56, died, but there was no post-mortem. Rare concretions in the urinary organs.—Dr. C. Fiirstner describes in ' Virchow's Archiv,' lix, the case of a man, set. 72, who had suffered from symptoms of calculus for two years, and who died of rigors five days after the first attempt at lithotrity. At the necropsy, the bladder was found to be small and hypertrophied, and in it were six small uric- acid concretions of the size of pigeons' eggs, without facets, " like eggs in a bird's nest; " each was embedded in a shallow diverticulum. The mucous membrane of the bladder and ureters was in a state of