322 REPORT ON SURGERY. this has run out, he injects a grain of morphia dissolved in an ounce of water. This may be done twice daily. The morphia may be increased to two grains. As the acute symptoms subside, astringent injections may be tried. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' July u, 1874.) Mr. Forster treated a girl, set. 4 years, Buffering from cystitis with extreme pain and incontinence of urine, by injecting into the bladder an ounce of water containing five minims of laudanum. This was continued daily for twelve days, at the end of which time she seemed quite well. (' Clin. Soc. Trans.,' vi, 18.) The frequency of renal and vesical calculus in Norfolk.—Mr. Cadge in his address on Surgery (' Brit. Med. Ass.') deals with the question of the cause of the frequency of stone in the kidney and in the bladder in Norfolk. He has collected statistics from all parts and enters into the subject in detail. In Norfolk, stone is comparatively rare in children. At the Norwich Hospital, out of 90 patients, only 18 were under ten years of age. At Wolverhampton, out of 50 patients, 37 were children under ten years of age. In Birmingham, of 127 patients, 69 were under ten. At the Aberdeen Infirmary, of 47 patients, only 3 were under ten. After entering into the various suggestions which have been made to account for the prevalence of stone in one place more than another, Mr. Cadge says that there is " one article of food—namely, milk—the want of which, in my opinion, does influence the develop- ment of lithuria very largely." Stone in the bladder is very rare in the children of well-to-do parents. In one case which came under his notice he found that the child never would take milk at all. He thinks the prevalence of stone will be found in strict accordance with the difficulty of procuring milk. Hereditary transmission is a powerful cause. ('Brit. Med. Jour.,'Aug. 15, 1874.) Urethral calculus incarcerated between two strictures; internal and external urethrotomy; recovery.—The patient was a man, set. 33, under the care of Mr. Teevan. Internal urethrotomy was performed, under the impression the case was one of stricture only. A calculus was dis- covered between two strictures and was extracted through an external incision. The man recovered well, and was finally able to pass a full-sized catheter. ('Lancet,' Aug. 15, 1874.) Xanthine calculi.—Dr. Jaillard describes ('Gaz. Hebd.,'April 18, 1873) a case in which he removed a xanthine calculus from the bladder of a boy set. 13. It was of a brick-red colour; its length was nearly two inches, and it weighed about 350 grains. Ectopia vesica?.—Three cases treated successfully by Mr. "Wood after the manner which he has detailed in the ' Med. Chir. Trans.' vol. liii (see previous Retrospect) are narrated in the ' Lancet,' July 27» l873- Treatment of chronic disease of the bladder by injection of warm healthy urine.—Clemens, in the 'Deutsche Zeitschrift' for 1873,No. 7, states that in cases of chronic vesical catarrh, and of irritation of the bladder from abnormal urine, gravel, calculi, &c, he has injected into the organ the fresh urine of healthy young subjects from 10 to 14 years of age, and always with excellent results. The bladder is first emptied by the catheter and washed out with warm distilled water, and then the