8 ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. inner half, they showed that the deeper parts of the glands contain more pepsin than the superficial. In a particular experiment the infusion of a piece of the memhrane of a certain size dissolved 0341 of a gramme of hoiled white of egg ; the infusion of the superficial half of a similarly sized piece, when shaved off, dissolved o'2$2 gramme, and the deeper part 0*511 gramme. Braun1 gives evidence to show that the stomach secretes the gastric juice, not intermittingly, but continuously. He has not been able to decide whether division of one or both splanchnics causes increase of the secretion of the gastric juice, since, though this occurred once or twice in a well-marked manner after such division, yet it also sometimes occurred in the course of his experiments without appreciable cause. E. Lepine,2 from experiments made with a view of deter- mining whether the peptic cells of the stomach secrete an acid, has satisfied himself that the acid is thrown out on the free surface, and is not formed in the cells. J. Etzinger3 shows that bone-dust, cartilage, and tendon, are all capable of undergoing digestion, since under their use the amount of urea rises. ^loriggia* has shown, from the examination of more than ioo embryos, chiefly of cattle, that the stomach possesses a digestive power on its own tissues at the sixth and fifth, and even at the fourth and third, months of foetal life. The salivary glands, however, have no action at birth. This, however, is contested by Schifier and Korowin.5 The bile-forming power of the liver begins early. Moriggia finds liquor amnii constantly in the stomach, and amniotic epithelium constantly in the meconium ; hence he thinks the fluid is constantly swallowed. See also v. Luttich,6 C. Greve,7 0. Nasse,8 and v. Wittich.9 Intestines.—Mr. Watney10 finds connective-tissue-corpuscles amongst the columnar epithelial cells of the intestinal tract of many animals (monkey, sheep, cat, dog, rat, rabbit). The cells are round and nu- cleated, and there is a delicate reticulum observable which is continuous with that formed by the most superficial layer of connective-tissue- corpuscles—basement membrane. This is the case at the pyloric end of the stomach, on the villi over Peyer's patches, and in Lieberkuhn's glands. The lining endothelium of the lymph-vessels of the mucosa is in anatomical continuity with the reticulum of nucleated cells, so that it may be said the endothelial cells of the lymphatic vessels are only transformed connective-tissue-corpuscles. In animals killed during the absorption of fat (cream) the fat can be seen in preparations stained by ' « Eckhard's Bcitragc,' Band vii, p. 27. 2 ' Gazette Med.,' 187^ No. 51. * ' Zeitschnft f. Biologic,' B. x, 1874, p. 84; "Ueber die Verdaulichlceit der leim- gebenden Gewebe.' See also a paper without name in idem, p. 59, "Ueber die Anfnahme des Fflanzcnschleimes und des Gummi's aus dem Darm in die Safte " * ; Rivista Clinica,' 1873. s • Centralblatt,' 1873, p. 398. ' Leber den Mechanismus des Brechactes," Inaug. Dissert., abstract in 'Cen- tralblatt,' 1874, p. 729. » ''^ndi.m uber den Brcchact," ' Berlin Klin. Wochenschrift,' 1874, No. 28. '* Ueber die Fermente," abstract in ' Centralblatt,' 1874, p. 543. Noch einmal die Pylorusdriisen," 'Pfliiger's Archiv,' 1874, B. viii, p. 444. n Proceed. Boy. Soc.,' 1874, vol. xxii, p. 293. 1