REPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. 3G8 health and to recovery from this special disease at Anerley, with its high site and large grass-field, than they were at Bow, with its low foggy site and no open ground nearer than Victoria Park. It has thus come to pass that though the Bow plan is said to have succeeded, there were still (at the date of my inspection) a large num- j ber (about 100) isolated, because their eyes were considered more or i less unsafe, and 48 others under medical treatment for ophthalmia, so i that the school appeared to compare unfavorably in this respect with I many others. The apparent anomaly is explained by the fact that a much higher standard as to ophthalmia has been practically carried out at Anerley 1 than at any other school. Cases are isolated there which in every other metropolitan school would be left among the healthy children, and cases are kept on the Medical Belief Book at Anerley which at most other schools would not be returned as infirmary patients at all, but would either receive no treatment, or at the most be only ' out- patients.' I must explain that these extreme precautions are the fruit, chiefly, of a similarly high standard which I took when I first became 1 acquainted with Anerley school. I took it then because the expressed opinion of some eminent oculists is in favour of the chronic granular disease of the conjunctiva (what I have here called the predisposing ) condition) being contagious, and I thought it prudent to act on that opinion, as far as circumstances allowed, so as to avoid all possible risk. Further experience has convinced me that this chronic condition, so long as it is unaccompanied by discharge, is not contagious, and I should therefore now draw the line at which isolation is necessary somewhat lower than I formerly did. I believe, however, that the medical officer | at Anerley has thought it necessary to maintain almost unaltered the very high (and, as I now think, rather unnecessarily high) standard | which I set up, and thus the number of cases which were still isolated at the time of my inspection was somewhat in excess of what I thought needful; while at the same time there were a few among them (and I may add a few also among those cases which were at Margate) who were not in my opinion receiving enough local treatment. The error as to isolation, if it be an error, is of course on the right side. It has, I think, now been made clear that the number of cases which are isolated, added to those which are under treatment at Anerley, do not fairly represent the ophthalmic state of that school as compared with other schools, nor even as compared with the same number of poor children living in their own homes. If the standard in use at Anerley, or even the slightly lower one which I should now adopt, were applied to other schools, the result would show that almost all the schools are in a less satisfactory state, while several are in a far worse state, than Anerley is now; indeed a few of the schools were in a worse Btate as to eye disease when I inspected them than Anerley was * before the curative measures of the last two years were undertaken. I believe that the number of isolated children at Anerley has been gradually reduced since my last visit two months ago, and I have every reason to believe, from information quite recently sent to me by the