PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OP TttE OVUM. 413 yellowish or even a yellowish-grey tint, and the process which the microscope shows to be one of fatty degeneration pusses into the deeper layers. When parturition occurs a portion of the membranes is expelled with the foetus, the superficial portion of the decidua vera is included ; the deeper portion is retained, although this is not always so. During the first week post partum the discoloured lining membranes of the uterus may be found microscopically to present the characters of the decidua vera, but the sinuses are full of blood, the superficial cellular layer gone ; the fatty degeneration extends to the deepest layers, and the tissue generally is infiltrated with round cells and blood. The lochial discharge consists of such cells and of products of disintegration. In the second week post partum the process has still further advanced, and the epithelium of the exposed sinuses is found to be proliferating. Re- stitution now begins and advances, and soon there is found on the surface of the muscular coat a fine layer of connective tissue covered by epithe- lium and furnished with young glands to represent the mucosa of the uterus, which is again at rest. ('Med. Times and Gaz.,' ii, 1873.) Dr. Slavjansky, ('Archives de Physiol.,' 1874) has investigated some points in connection with the anatomy and physiology of the ovum in the human subject; the following are his conclusions: 1. the Graafian follicles are developed from the primordial follicles, and acquire a greater or less degree of maturity during the whole of life, from the first month after birth till about the age of forty. 2. The greater part of the follicles are not ripe, do not burst, and do not discharge their contents, but undergo atresia, presenting an almost complete analogy with that of the formation of the corpora lutea. 3. The development and maturation of the Graafian follicles are not produced periodically in a regular manner, and no connection exists between them and menstruation. 4. Menstruation constitutes a physiological phenomenon quite indepen- dent of the development and maturation of the follicles. 5. The rupture of follicles more or less mature always bears a certain relation to congestion of the genital organs, produced by any cause whatever. 6. There exists certain maladies (ague, poisonings, &c.) which produce atresia of the follicles at different periods of their development, after a parenchymatous inflammation of the ovary. Mons. Delore, in a paper read before the Society of Biology (:Gazette Obstetricale,' 1874), on the maternal circulation in the placenta, Bays the mother's blood does circulate in the placenta; a fact de- monstrated by "Weber, Kolliker, Turner, Wincklen, and which his researches confirm. To the naked eye the placenta presents the fol- . lowing appearances : 1. Vascular orifices situated on the surface or at the circumference. The former are placed in the middle of the cotyle- 1 dons, or on the level of the furrows or grooves between the cotyledons : ■ these orifices end in channels which are lost in the vilhpsities of the ;placenta. 2. The circular sinus varies in size; on opening it, it is i found to be lined by a greyish membrane, with orifices communicating 'with the interior of the placenta. Fibrous columns are seen supporting :the villosities and encircling these orifices, which are sometimes arranged iin stages. 3. When the circular sinus is wanting, it is replaced by .orifices in the form of a grating: their diameter ranges from 4 raillim.