445 T&E INFANT. of August and September. Hygienic conditions have tho most to do with it, as it occurs more frequently in the crowded private houses for delivery than in the maison d'accouchements. As trismus often attends the practice of the women who havo charge of these private houses, Dr. Stadfelt thinks the malady may be contagious, and that probably there exists a specific contagion for the disease. (' Archives de Toco- logie,' July, 1874.) Prof. Bohn writes on intermittent fever and its various forms during childhood ('Jahrb. far Kinderheillc. und Phys. Erziehung,' vi, 2, 1873). The age of childhood is much more susceptible to the malarious poison than the adult age. The effect of the poison on the spinal nervous system is more violent and rapid in the growing body. The children of mothers who had suffered from intermittent fever during pregnancy were born with large tumours of the spleen, with all the signs of ma- larial cachexia, colouring of skin, &c. Some of the children immediately after birth fell ill with intermittent fever ; others did not recover for years. Eegular intermittent fever was observed in 465 children from the first year (21 cases) to the fifteenth. The common type was the quotidian. Characteristic regular attacks are exceptional in children: the paroxysms are incomplete, fragmentary, often difficult to recognise. A constant symptom is the enlargement of the spleen, sometimes slight, but always present, and if rapid accompanied by acute radiating pains during the hot stage. A gastro-intestinal catarrh is so common an accompaniment that it may be considered a valuable diagnostic sign. Jaundice and bronchial catarrh are at times concomitant affections, The youngest children observed by Bohn were 10, 14, and 20 days old. Irregular varieties are often met with and are thus characterised: Inter- mittent sporosa; I. convulsiva; I. neuralgica; I. vertiginosa; I. psycho- pathica ; that with bloody diarrhoea, with croupy and laryngeal symptoms, and with pneumonia. The chief remedy for all the forms is quinine, in doses of 2-12 grs. every two hours or oftener. (' Arner. Journ. of Obstetrics,' 1873.) Zweifel has made investigations as to the action upon the fcetus by chloroform administered to the mother during labour ('Berlin Klin, Wochens.,' xxi, 1874). He accidentally noticed that the breath of a child whose mother had been delivered under chloroform had a strong odour of it; he first examined the placenta and found that an ap- preciable quantity of chloroform could be obtained ; but as this might be said to be due to the bloody clots adherent to it, he examined the urine passed by children soon after birth, both when the mother had been under the influence of chloroform and when it had not been administered ; and found in the first case that Pehling's solution was in every case reduced by it. Prom these facts he thinks we may conclude that chloroform imbibed by the mother passes into the circulatory system of the fcetus. Dr. A. Seeligmuller writes on the paralyses which are dependent on the birth of the child ('Berlin Klin. "Wochenschr.,' Nos. 40 and 41, 1874). He first runs over the history of the subject and analyses the cases collected by various authors, Duchenne in particular. The patho-