13 BLOOD.—CIRCULATION. enee of pressure under which the blood moves in different parts of the system. He finds that in the larger arteries the blood pressure rises very rapidly at the commencement of the pulse wave, and then gradually falls to the normal. The pressure varies to only a slight extent in the right auricle, usually standing at zero, that is, at the pressure of the atmosphere. The action of the heart has little influence upon it, and it is somewhat remarkable that the contraction of the right ventricle has more effect in augmenting the pressure in it than that of its own walls. The respiratory movements cause distinct variations of pressure in the right auricle, expiration causing it to augment, and inspiration to fall as much as 10 mm. of mercury below zero. "When the manometer was connected with the interior of the right ventricle the pressure rose during its systole to between 18 and 42 mm. of mercury. An important point noticed was that after the systole the pressure fell considerably below zero, which seems to show that the walls expand actively, and exert a kind of aspiratory power. The pressure in the left ventricle at the moment of its systole amounted to 144 mm. of mercury. The pressure rose to the same height iu the aorta, but never fell so low as in the ventricle, on account of the closure of the valves. During very rapid action of the heart the pressure in the left ventricle fell below its previous amount. J. Worm-Midler1 shows that as much as three times the quantity of blood originally pre- sent may be injected into the veins of an animal (dog) without mate- rially increasing the blood pressure, and no extravasation occurred. His results are very important in regard to transfusion. Kratschmer showed that if ammonia, ether, and some other powerfully odorous bodies, be held before the nose of a rabbit, the heart's action becomes retarded, and may even be arrested in the course of two or three seconds. Brown-Sequard 3 attributes the inhibitory influence thus exerted to a reflex influence proceeding from the nasal mucous membrane. Knoll 3 also investigated the influence of irritating the vaso-motor nerves acting by reflex paths on the movements of the heart. He re- peated and corroborated the results of Kratschtner's experiment of irritating the nasal mucous membrane, showing that such irritation produced irregularities in the heart's action. Knoll, however, noticed that a sudden and considerable rise of blood pressure occurred, followed by retardation of the pulse. He considers that the elevation of the blood pressure in this case is due to a reflex irritation of a vaso-motor centre ; the blood pressure never augmented when the cervical spinal cord was divided. His experiments further showed tbat considerable variations of blood pressure, if sudden—such, for instance, as may be produced by compression of the aorta or irritation of the splanchnics— immediately cause irregularities in the rhythm of the heart's action. Even when the heart is entirely separated from the central nervous system, with intact spinal cord, increase of blood pressure causes dimi- nution of pulse frequency ; but when the spinal cord is divided varia- 1 " Die Abhangigkeit (leg Artcriellcn Driickes, v. dcr Blutincuge," ' Sitz. d. Snclis. Oeaell. d. Wigs.,' 1873, and ' Ludwig'g Arbciten,' Band viii, p. 159. 2 ' Arcbives of Sci. & Pract. Med.,' 1873, p. 90. 3 ' Wien. Acad. Sitz.,' B. lxvi, 1872.