REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 1 Ch. Legros, ' Sur la Struct, et l'Epithel. propre des Cauaux Sccrdt. de la Bile' tion was the rabbit. He finds that the nucleus of the hepatic cells, often double, but sometimes absent, appears on surface view as a round disc, which towards the centre is rendered hazy by the presence of numerous granules. Its margin is usually formed by a clear area with double contour. When the nuclei are absent the cells present peculiar forms, which Asp minutely describes; he was unable to discover any rela- tion between the presence or absence of the nuclei and the period of digestion. Injections showed that both the liver-cells and the biliary canals can be made to undergo very varied changes of form. In regard to the structure of these minute biliary canals, he finds that outside the columnar epithelial layer is a laminated investment of striated tissue, which is visible in the interspaces of regularly disposed spindle cells. The stria? and the long axis of the spindles are parallel with that of the ducts, and the reactions of this coat seem to show that it is composed of a collagenous tissue. Vessels with such coats may be traced between the cells, and then break up to form a close plexus. He found by the method of injections that whilst Prussian blue only passed as far as, and never into, the cells, solutions of resinous matters, as gamboge in alcohol and turpentine, penetrated the cells themselves, though he is not inclined to believe that any coarse openings between the two exist. In regard to the lymphatics of the liver, Asp confirms the statement made by McGrillavry, that in the liver of the rabbit the vessels are surrounded by a lymphatic sheath. In regard to the physiology of the liver, the idea suggested itself that by transmitting an artificial blood current through the liver some light might be thrown upon its func- tions. The animals were previously placed under the influence of woorara, which was found not materially to interfere with the secretion of bile, and as, during the connection of the tubes for the artificial current, the current of blood through the portal vein had to be arrested for a short time, it was necessary to ascertain the effects of such interrup- tion. It was found that with complete or almost complete interruption very material diminution or entire arrest of the flow of bile occurred, though this again recommenced to be discharged, even after the lapse of ten minutes, when the blood was readmitted, but the re-establishment of the secretion was very imperfect if the arrest of the blood current had lasted for an hour. Further researches showed that blood transmitted through the hepatic artery was capable of maintaining the secretion, and that the composition of the blood would be materially altered without rendering it unfit for forming the secretion. M. Legros1 recommends for the demonstration of the biliary canals the simultaneous injection of the blood-vessels and of the biliary ducts. After having experimented on a great variety of animals he finds the liver of the rabbit best adapted for injection. The injection should be made immediately after death, and as little injury should be inflicted on the organ as possible. He warms the liver, and allows the injections to percolate for several hours through the vessels at a very low pres- sure. He describes the finest biliary ducts passing between the ultimate cells of the liver as being composed of extremely small flat cells. He supports the view that the liver is a double gland, of which one, the