DISEASES OF THE VAOINA. 411 blood-vessels, veins, lymphatics, and nerves. Ho then describes the iutra-peritoncal effusions which may occur, the signs, and the diagnosis ; then parametric inflammations (exudations, &c, into the pelvic connec- tive tissue) are described, with their signs and diagnosis. Parame- tritis results from diseased states of the lower part of the internal genital organs, whether following labour or from injuries, such as violent jerks to the body, excessive coitus, cauterisation of the cervix, dilatation with sponge tents, incision or amputation of the cervix. Inflammation of the broad ligament is rather due to the extension of a parametritis, or it may arise from the tissue around the ovary. Pelvi-peritonitis ac- companies affections of the body of the uterus and the Fallopian tubes, especially those of the internal layer ('Volkmann Klin. Vortrage,' No. 71). Diseases of the Vagina. Prof. Breisky writing on vaginismus and its treatment (' Schweiz. Corr. Bl.,' 5, 1873) says he has met with three forms. The first in childless women, otherwise healthy, who have no disease of the genital parts, but simply such an extreme sensibility of the parts that inter- course is impossible, the hymen is usually intact, and their husbands are not seldom impotent. In the second class, it is the result of local irri- tation, causing reflex spasms, as from fissures and small ulcerations of the hymen, constricting cicatrices, tumours, excrescences of the urethra, &c.; this form occurs in women who have had children. In the third form the affection is a part symptom of a general neurosis, hysteria, &c, and persists after any existing affection of the genital organs has been cured. As to treatment, in the third form no very energetic local treatment. No injections should be made till the entrance to the vagina has been dilated. In general the ordinary astringents, local applica- tion of cold, leeches, &c, do no good in severe cases. The removal of local causes should be arrived at. In the first form forcible dilatation should be practised and repeated two or three times. Dr. Pehling reports ('Archiv fur Gynak.,' vi, 1) a case of rupture of the vagina and protrusion of the bowels, in a woman aged 63, who had suffered for thirty years from prolapsus uteri. No sup- port could be worn during the last fifteen years, and the womb came down whenever she stood, walked or sat. She tried to replace it one day and used great force; she felt something give way, and immediately the intestine protruded. "When seen several coils of the small intes- tine were protruding from the vulva ; they could not be replaced. The patient died eleven hours after the accident from shock. Mr. Churton related a case ('Obst. Soc. Trans.,' 1874) where a patient aged 60 had worn a Zwanck's pessary for two years. Recto- vaginal fistula resulted, the rent admitted two fingers ; it closed up entirely without operative interference in two months. Giraud writes on thrombus of the vulva and vagina in relation to pregnancy and labour. (' These de Paris.') Mr. Bailly contributes a paper on thrombus of the left labia and the corresponding wall of the vagina ('Archives de Tocologie,' Sept. 1874). Dr. 0, Routh writes on the etiology and treatment of carunculfe of