428 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. pubes, introduces the four fingers of the right hand into the vagina and lifts up the anterior part of the uterus: this being freed, the fingers are pushed towards the promontory, keeping the radial border of the hand firmly pushed against the puhic arch, and thus pushes successively above the sacro-subpubic diameter, the posterior and the left part of the uterus, and finally the fundus. By this manoeuvre the tumour is raised entirely above the superior strait; it balances itself then naturally and the reduction is complete. In this manoeuvre the an- terior vaginal wall is strongly stretched ; but this, on account of its insensibility, can cause no serious inconvenience. Dr. Edis reports ('Brit. Med. Jour.,' Dec. 1874) a case of retro- version of the gravid uterus in a woman four months pregnant, caused by lifting a child ; there was complete retention of urine ; the uterus was replaced and the patient went her full time. Prof. Dohrn writes on the absence of the foetal pulse during ex- traction by the feet ('Archiv f. Q-ynak.,' vi, 3, 1874), and relates two cases in which during extraction by the feet after the trunk of the child was born, there was a delay and the foetal pulse was arrested for several minutes ; in both cases the pelvis was narrowed : the children recovered and did well. It is usual in such cases when the foetal pulse is stopped, to leave the delivery to nature and to stop any further attempts at extraction. This Dohrn objects to, as the cessation of the pulse he does not consider due to asphyxia at all, but to the pressure on the head and the brain, causing irritation of the pneumo-gastric nerve. He refers to the writings of Frankenhauser, Leyden, and Schwartz, which show that compression of the brain slackens the heart's beats and may even arrest them; his clinical observations accord with these experiments. Cohnstein, in a paper read before the Berlin Obstetrical Society, recommends the use of a bent thermometer passed into the uterus as a means of ascertaining whether the foetus be alive or dead. The foetus has a higher temperature than its mother and communicates this to the uterus, so that when the thermometer is passed into the uterus (which may be done without any danger) it exhibits, if the foetus be alive, a higher temperature than when placed in the vagina or the axilla. After the death of the foetus the temperature of the uterus gradually sinks even lower than that of the rest of the body, as some of its caloric is given off to the dead foetus. (' Berlin Klin. Wochen.,' 1873. ' Med. Times and Gaz.,' March 1, 1873.) Dr. Schlesinger delivered an address before the Vienna Medical Society on the " Thermometry of the Uterus and its diagnostic sig- nificancy." The question he treated was whether by aid of the thermometer we can diagnose those difficult cases of pregnancy in the early months. In favour of this is the fact that the temperature of the foetus in utero is higher than that of the mother, and that the greater warmth of the uterus than that of the vagina in pregnancy is derived from contact of the foetus. He refers to the experiments ot Baren- sprung and Schroeder upon this point, and to the conclusions of Schroeder, that if the difference between the temperature of the uterus and vagina entirely ceases, or exists only to a very slight extent, we