•290 REPORT ON SUUGliltY. below the knee and above the ankle, was firmly pressed downwards. Fracture of the tibia, then of the fibula, took place with an audible snap. The leg was then fixed in splints and plaster of Paris bandage, which was renewed (in consequence of becomiug dirty) on June 3rd aud 15th. The healing of the fractured bone took place without any com- plication, and in the course of July the child was able to walk and run well, placing the soles of his feet on the ground in the ordinary manner. Antiseptic osteotomy.—Prof. Lister has communicated a paper by Prof. Volkmann, of Halle, on two cases of antiseptic osteotomy for anchylosis of the knee. Both patients were girls almost arrived at puberty and crippled by the condition of the limb. The author thinks such operations would scarcely be justifiable were it not that by the antiseptic plan of treating we may be sure of a successful result. The femur only was divided with a chisel in the first case and both tibia and femur in the second. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' and Reprint.) Excision of the supra and infra-orbital branches of the fifth; of the perineal; external popliteal and posterior tibial nerves in cases of neuralgia.—Dr. Morton details cases. The method of reaching the infra-orbital nerve varied in each of the three cases. The plan last adopted was the best. After the cutaneous incisions had been made and the lower edge of the orbit was reached, the eye and the adjacent soft parts were pressed upwards from the orbital floor, the nerve canal was punctured far back, and the very delicate bony covering was then broken up anteriorly the full extent. This method is the simplest, the least severe operation, and ensures the most rapid recovery. A curved hook, figured, was used to pick up the nerve. After the excision of the infra-orbital branch of the fifth pair, total facial anaesthesia followed on the excised side in each instance. In the first two cases this has completely vanished with the return of normal sensibility, showing conclusively that permanent paralysis of sensation need not be appre- hended after these nerve excisions. The line bounding the space of skin anaesthesia could be traced in each case along the median line, from the root of the nose downward to, and involving half of, the upper lip, thence outward from the angle of the mouth about an inch and a half, then directly upward to the external angular process of the orbit. The first case of excision of the infra-orbital nerve was for neuralgia of the most excruciating character, and which had existed for more than fifteen years; there was entire relief for a long time; in fact, there has never (for three years) been any pain at the original seat of suffering. The second was a most distressing case of terrible neuralgia, which had existed for upwards of thirty years ; more than two years and a half have elapsed since the nerve excision, and the patient continues perfectly well and has never had the slightest return of the old malady. The third case of excision of the infra- orbital nerve was for blepharo-facial spasms without neuralgia, whicli had existed for twenty years with a sensitive infra-orbital nerve; the patient was in a miserable condition, and was desirous to undergo any operation which held out the slightest chance for any alleviation. There was great improvement at the end of a few months (date of note). In a case of blepharo-spasm, in which the supra-orbital nerves