RETINITIS IN TRAUMATIC) FEVER, ETC. 377 choroid was thickened and infiltrated with pus. The ciliary body and, the vitreous contained pus-cells. In the anterior chamber were pus- corpuscles and granular clots. The conjunctiva was swollen and ecchymosed. Greyish-yellow deposits were l'ound on the mitral valves, which were thickened. No microscopic examination of the deposits was made. Retinitis septica, in consequence of traumatic fever.—This form is distinguished from the preceding by (i) its more frequent occurrence ; (2) its comparatively harmless character ; and (3) by the fact that it is not generally embolic. In the neighbourhood of the optic disc and of the yellow spot there are a number of small, white, or it may be red spots, which are mostly present in both eyes. The white spots, anatomically, consist of thickened and hypertrophied nerve-fibres ; the red spots, of acumulations of extravasated red blood-corpuscles. Similar accumulations are met with in the retina in Bright's disease and in cerebral affections, as well as in other chronic or acute diseases. Pyaemia seems, however, to be more specially connected with these changes, and more frequently than other affections. The author thinks these collections depend on a chemical change in the blood, and proceed from multiple abcesses containing apparently good pus; particularly, however, from septic conditions and widely spread putrefactive changes. The earliest period at which the retinal changes appeared was, in one case, eleven days after the commencement of the disease ; in the other cases the disease had lasted several months. Nine cases are related. The author alludes to a case communicated by Virchow, in his, I Archiv,' as the only notice of the subject be can find, and this has not attracted much attention. (' Zehend. Klin. Monatsbl.,' x, p. 346.) Commotio Setincs.—Dr. Berlin writes on the effects produced on the eye by blows from blunt objects, not causing any apparent injury. The first symptom is considerable diminution in the acuity of vision in the centre of the field, and marked resistance of the sphincter pupillae to the influence of atropine. Within a short time a distinct haziness of the fundus over a considerable area becomes developed; sometimes small haemorrhages result. The changes are most marked around the disc and yellow spot. In one case there were two separate patches. The ophthalmoscopic appearances reach their highest development in 24 or 36 hours, and disappear in two or three days, in proportion to the violence of the injury inflicted. The sight improves greatly at first, and then remains stationary; some defect remaining after the retinal haze has vanished. The deficient reaction of the pupil to atropine lasts about as long as the defect of sight. Dr. Berlin gives an account of experiments he has tried on the lower animals. A direct blow on the eye produces changes in the portion of retina directly opposite. An indirect blow produces changes in the portion of retina which would be cut by a line continued in the direction taken by the foreign body. On examining the eyes experimented on, he found that extravasation of blood had occurred between the choroid and sclerotic. The chief injury consisted in a rupture of choroidal vessels. He thinks the transitory character of the symptoms accounts for their not having hitherto attracted attention. He has come to the conclusion that the defect of