414 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. to 7 centim. : they consist of white fibrous tissue; where these orifices occur the placenta is occupied by whitish rugosities like lobes or prominent lines. 4. The lacunal sinuses are central or peripheral; the peripheral are few and join the circular sinus freely. The great central lacunae are numerous, irregular, and winding. Columns and orifices like those in the circular sinus are visible. The framework of the placenta is formed by the connective tissue sent by the chorion round the foetal vessels ; in the interstices are inserted the cells of the decidua. The following facts show that the mother's blood bathes the villosities: 1. An injection of the circular sinus penetrates the whole of the placenta. 2. In still-born children when the blood of the placenta has lost its colouring, the placenta contains recent clots. 3. All sections show the villosities in contact with the corpuscles of the blood. 4. Vascular epithelium is found in the placental sinuses. Dr. Ernest Frankel, writing on syphilitic disease of the placenta, ('Arckivfur Gynlik.,' v, 1, 1873'), after giving the history of over twenty cases, summarises his observations thus: 1. The placenta may become affected by syphilis, and there are certain characteristic indica- tions of this. 2. The syphilitic placenta occurs only in hereditary or congenital syphilis in the foetus. 3. The seat of the disease varies according as the mother remains healthy, and the syphilitic virus is communicated directly from the father to the ovum by means of the semen ; or according as the mother is diseased. In the former case the affected foetal villi of the placenta degenerate through proliferation of cellular granulations, -with consecutive obliteration and atrophy of the vessels, complicated frequently by marked proliferation and thickening of the epithelial covering of the villi. 4. In the latter case when the mother is syphilitic, the three following conditions may occur: (a) The mother through the act of impregnation is simultaneously affected with syphilis with the foetus; diffused syphilis of the placental villi may then develope itself, though primary infection of the maternal parts—endo- metritis placentaris—is not excluded. (A) The mother becomes infected shortly after conception. The placenta may remain normal, or become diseased under the forms of endometritis placentaris gummosa, or, according to Virchow, in a more limited sense—endometritis deciduals, (c) The mother becomes infected only during the latter months of pregnancy (seventh to tenth month). It then generally happens that in case the father was healthy at the time of impregnation, the foetus as well as the placenta is exempt from the above-described alterations. The infection of the foetus passing through the maternal passages ia rare, and not yet proved conclusively. Dr. Matthews Duncan, writing on the haemorrhage that occurs during the continuance of pregnancy in cases of placenta praevia, says that it may be produced in various ways; hitherto it has been said to be produced only by the separation of the placenta; but he thinks that Buch haemorrhages occur most frequently without any separation of the placenta; though undoubtedly in some cases separation does occur. He gives the following four ways in which this kind of haemorrhage may occur : 1. By rupture of a utero-placental vessel, at or above the internal os uteri. 2. By rupture of a marginal utero-placental sinus