76 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. that the short duration of the affection, not the insignificance of its symptoms, is its most marked characteristic, and gives some observa- tions of his own in support of this view. The first peculiarity of these slighter forms is their sudden onset, with a rapid and regular rise in temperature, and enlargement of the spleen in every case. The occur- rence of roseola seems to depend on the severity of the affection, measured by its duration. Miliaria is common, while diarrhoea is seldom, and haemorrhage or perforation never, present. The urine is generally albuminous. Convalescence is relatively long. Error in diet may cause relapses, and Jiirgensen believes that the so-called typhus ambulatorius is only this form prolonged by such repeated errors. The treatment following the symptoms is simple. Vallin ('Arch. Gen.,' xxii, 513), on the other hand, holds that apyretic cases of typhoid occur which are not to be confounded with typhus levissimus. These may be very severe, and even fatal. He gives two cases in which the temperature never exceeded ^y6°C. One ended in death, and the autopsy showed marked affection of the intes- tinal glands and degeneration of various muscles. The French have written much during the two years past as to the treatment of typhoid fever with cold water. Numerous references to the discussions held in the medical societies at Lyons may be found below. W. McEwen has translated and condensed (' Giasg. Med. Journ.,' N.S., vi, 370) the papers by E. Glenard on the subject contained in the 'Lyon Medicale,' 1873-4. Eourrier (' Bull. Gen. de Therap.,' t. 85, p. 241) gives the results of 15 cases, most of them observed in German soldiers during the war of 1870, in which typhoid fever was treated with alcohol. He concludes that the latter has a most favourable action upon the fever, and shortens its duration, and that it was especially useful in cases of delirium, which disappeared rapidly under its influence. He gives also six cases of " infantile cholera " treated successfully with the same agent. Port, " Ueber das Vorkommen des AbdominaltyphuR in der bayerischen Armee," 'Zeitscbs. f. Biol.,' viii, 457. R. Cobelli, "Einfluss der Einfiibrung des Wassers der Spino-Qucllc auf die Sterblicbkeit an Abdoniinaltyphus, gastrisebem Fieber and auf die Gesarnmtsterblichkeit in der Stadt Roveredo," ib, be, 550. A. Bieriner, "Ueber Entstchung und Verbreitung des Abdominal-Typhus," ' Volkmann's Vortrage,' ser. ii, No. 53. P. Guterbock, "Ueber spontane Lnxationen und einige andere Gelenk- kraukbeiten bei Ileotyphus," ' Arch. f. Klin. Chir.,'xvi, 58. M. Krocher, ' Typhus- complicationen,' Berlin, 1873, pp. 31. A. Oeffuer, 'Ueber die Anwendung des Chinina im Typhus,' Munich, 1874, pp. 23 (with temperature curves). C. Gerhardt, " Perichondritis nach Typhus; Heilung," ' Deut. Arch.,' xi, 578. A. Burkart, " Ueber Miliartuberculose und iiber das Verhiiltniss der Tuberculose zum Abdominaltyphus," ib., xii, 277. H. Eichhorst,"Ein Merkwiirdiger Fund im Blute eines Typhus-Kranken" (finely granular colourless cells containing red blood-cells), ib., xiv, 223. Cazalis and Renaut, " Observations pour servir a l'histoire des affections typho'ides," ' Arch, de Physiol.,' v, 227. E. Charron, " Ficvre typho'ide adynamique, Mort, Autopsie : dilatation excessive de la vesicule biliaire nvec obliteration du canal cystique," ' Presse Me"d. Beige,' 1873, No. 25. Crocq, " Autopsie d'une femme de 29 BUS, decedee a la suite de fievre typhoi'de apres cinquantc jours de maladie" (perforation of large in- testine at junction of cajcum with ascending colon), ib., 1874, 240. A. Netter,' Lettre sur 1'element buccal dans la ficvre typhoi'de et sur Pheurcuse influence de gargarismes