496 repout on public health. vaccinated, (2) when the operation has been thrice performed without results, (3) when it has bad natural smallpox. 3. Should the parents, &c, neglect to have a child vaccinated within the appointed time, they shall be liable to a penalty of 1—5 thalers (.3—15 shillings), which in the event of renewed neglect shall be doubled. 4. On the eighth day the vaccinated child shall be again taken to the public vaccinator, in order that it may be seen whether the vaccination has taken effect; and only in the event of such being the case can the child be received into a public or private school. C. In order to ensure compliance with the above obligations, the public vaccination stations shall be opened every year subsequent to the ist May. Private stations are still to be permitted. 6 and 7 relate to the persons appointed to conduct public vaccina- tions, and to the division of districts, the salaries to be paid, &c. 8. Relates to the mode of keeping the registers of vaccination. 9. On attaining the age of twelve years the individual is obliged to be re-vaccinated before the completion of the school-age. 10. Relates to the performance of re-vaccination. 11. A certificate of re-vaccination must be produced, (a) at marriage, (b) on going into service, or being bound apprentice, (c) on competing for a public appointment, (d) on changing residence. 12. On the outbreak of smallpox or of varioloid in any place, an extraordinary public vaccination shall be instituted, which shall embrace all children declared unsecure under § 2, and all adults who have not been re-vaccinated; and every one without distinction shall, if he or she wishes it, be voluntarily vaccinated at the public expense. 13. Relates to payments for these extraordinary vaccinations, and, 14. To the establishment of stations for the regular supply of vaccine- lymph. The Over-Dartoen epidemic.—In the autumn of 1874 Over-Darwen suffered from an unusually virulent and wide-spread epidemic of enteric fever. The origin of the outbreak was, according to Dr. Stevens, the local government board medical inspector, very simple. The first case of enteric fever imported into the Over-Darwen occurred in a house at a considerable distance from the town. The patient contracted the fever whilst away from home, came home, and died of the fever. As the house in which he died was distant from the town, and its sanitary arrangements apparently good, and as there was no known communica- tion from the house with the town's water supply, attention was not drawn to this case till the epidemic had in a great measure subsided. Over-Darwen drew its water supply from a distant and unpolluted source, the water being brought in covered channels. It was sub- sequently proved that the drain of the closet into which the excreta of the first typhoid patient was passed emptied itself into a neighbour- ing field. Through this field passed the main conveying the water- supply for most of the residents in the town. As the pipe and the drains came into contact, special precautions had been taken to prevent infiltration of sewage into the water, but it was found that just above the spot where the drain had been cemented a leak had occurred,