393 MENSTRUATION. examinations during the menstrual period show that tho stroma of the vessels as well as the epithelium of the glands and surface are dull and filled with fat-granules. Kundrat believes that the fatty change causes the haemorrhage, the fatty change is more abundant at the surface of the mucosa where the bleeding takes place, so that Kundrat believes the following is the anatomical sequence at the monthly periods of uterine activity ; swelling of the mucosa, fatty change in the cells and vessels, vascular rupture and haemorrhage. "With the blood much altered epi- thelium is thrown off, but not the whole mucosa. Physiologically con- sidered the swelling of the mucosa must be looked upon as the prepara- tion for the reception of the ovum, and the type of the impregnated uterus is seen in the active uterus when the mucosa is swollen, and menstruation has not yet commenced. If the bleeding comes on it is a sign that the ovum has perished and that the mucosa is returning to a state of rest. So we must conclude that a developing ovum or grow- ing embryo belongs not to a menstrual period just passed, but to one just prevented by fecundation. Dr. Cohnstein gives the following results as to the duration of men- struation in 400 women in whom the menopause had occurred, some vears previously. 1. The average duration of menstruation was 31 vears. 2. The menopause occurred gradually in 76 per cent., suddenly in 24. 3. It occurred in those who had menstruated early (under 13 years), about 3 years later than in those in whom the catamenia ap- peared late (after 17). Pluriparaa show the highest percentage of dura- tion of menstruation 29-32 years. Abortion hastens the appearance of the menopause. Lactation increases the duration of menstruation. The catamenial function is of longest duration in women who men- struate early, are married, have more than three children, suckle them and cease child-bearing between the ages of 38 and 44 ('Deutsche Klinik,' 1873, No. 3). Dr. Slavjansky, in a communication to the Obstetrical Society of Leipzig, gives the result of the examination of the sexual organs of 12 non-pregnant women who died of cholera. The mucous membrane of the uterus had undergone the most change ; it was in a state of acute hemorrhagic inflammation, with not unfrequently partial destruction or even complete throwing off of the membrane. This explains the haemorrhage which occurs without assuming a pseudo-menstruation. Dr. Slavjansky also examined the organs of two women after abor- tion, one in the fourth and the other in the sixth month of pregnancy, the mucous membrane forming the decidua was most affected, and the foetal membranes were involved ('Wiener Medizin. Wochenschr.,' Feb. 1873, ' Brit. Med. Journ., March,' 1873). Dr. Churchill in a paper on amenorrhcea from congenital malformation ('Dub. Obst. Soc.,' May, 1873) says that it is often difficult to make an accurate diagnosis, though the question of relief depends upon this. The means of forming a diagnosis are either physiological or physical; the first deals with the presence of the menstrual molimen and of sexual gratification, &c. By the second, we ascertain the presence or absence of the different organs of generation; for this the bimanual ex- amination was most useful, Dr. Churchill related 12 cases as illustra-