REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 14 tions of blood pressure do not alter the rate of its contraction, and lie attempts to explain away the opposite results obtained by V. Bezold and Cyon. Rutherford1 gives a mucb simpler and more satisfactory solution of the phenomena observed in Kratschmer's experiment, for he shows that a retardation of the pulse occurs in a rabbit a few seconds after ammonia is held to its nose, and that it is due to the animal holding its breath for a time, since the same retardation occurs at about the same period if the nostrils be pinched, whilst it does not occur if the animal continues to breathe through a cannula introduced into the trachea. The effect observed is therefore due to the state of the blood, which acts on the cardio-inhibitory centre, the stimulus being either the absence of oxygen or the presence of carbonic acid gas. It does not occur if the vagi have been previously divided. "Winiwarter2 finds that the resistance of the walls of the blood- vessels of the mesentery in health is equal to 70 mm. of mercury. Tarchanoff3 obtained contraction of the spleen from irritation of the central end of the divided vagus; irritation of the opposite end had little or no effect. Section of the nerves of the spleen is followed by swelling of the organ and increase in the number of the white corpuscles in the blood, which, however, disappear in a week. M. Bochefontaine 4 discusses the cause of the enlargement of the spleen which Moreau states is consequent upon ligature of the splenic artery, and demon- strates by experiment that whilst ligature of the artery alone is fol- lowed by this effect, it does succeed ligature of the splenic plexus of nerves, and is probably the result of a retrograde venous flux, favoured by the abolition of the tone of the vessels and of the spleen itself. IV.—RESPIRATION. Onimus, 5 from electrical experiments on a decapitated animal, has satisfied himself that the external intercostals elevate whilst the internal intercostals depress the ribs. Schiff0 considers that in normal respi- ration the respiratory oscillations of the blood pressure are due to rhythmical excitation of the vaso-motor centre in the medulla, which, again, results from a decrease in the amount of oxygen or an increase in the amount of carbonic acid in the blood. In proof of this he adduces the fact that if an animal be made to breathe pure oxygen the respiratory oscillations become less frequent, so that there may only be one respiratory oscillation in pressure for three or four respiratory movements. Occasionally the respiratory curves of the blood pressure are wanting, and this occurs, according to Schiff, when the interval between two respirations is not great enough to occasion an accumu- 1 ' Humphry and Turner's Journal of Anat. and Phys.,' 1873, p. 283. - 'Wicn. Akad. Sitz./ Bd. lxviii, 1873, "Der Widerstund dor Uefasswiiude iiu normalen Zustande und wiihrend der Entziiudung." a ' Pflug. Archiv,' B. viii, p. 97- See also lvusnezolt, 'Wiener Akad. Sitzungsbcr./ B. lxvii, p. 58, " Ueber BlutkOrperchenhaltige Zellcn der Milz." '« Brown-Sequard's ' Archiv. de Physiologic,' 1874, p. 698-704. s ' Journal de l'Anatomie,' 1873, p. 442- 0 ' Ccnno sul riccrche,' &c., abstract in ' Ccntralblatt/ 1872, p. 756.