277 AMPUTATIONS. the bodies of the lower lumbar vertebrae, tho tube being secured by the simple plan generally adopted by Mr. Lister, viz. tying in a bow two pieces of bandage previously tightly tied to the ends of the tube. No inconvenience whatever resulted from the tight constriction of the waist. The method seems likely to have this advantage over the aortic tourniquet, that it will avoid the possibility of injury to the viscera, especially in cases of aneurism. When the aorta deviates more than usual from the mesial line, the adjusting of the aortic tourniquet in the oblique position then required is a matter of some difficulty. (' Edin. Med. Jour.,' July, 1874.) Myeloid tumour of femur; 'amputation through thigh; antiseptic dressing; recovery.—The patient was a man, set. 18, under the care of Mr. Berkeley Hill. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Dec. 20, 1873.) Amputation through the hiee-joint.—A successful case in a man, set. 22, is recorded by Dr. Erickson. The operation was not performed for sixteen hours on account of collapse. Long anterior and short posterior flaps were cut, the patella left and brought down over the end of the femur. The man made a good recovery and could wear an artificial limb well. At one time, when the wound looked sloughing, it was wrapped up in cloths saturated with turpentine and left on for six hours. After- wards the wound was sponged with turpentine three or four times a day fora week with manifest advantage. ('Am. Jour. Med. Sci.,' July, 1873.) M. A. Despres, in reporting on a memoir of M. Duplong on four cases of disarticulation at the knee-joint, arrives at the following con- clusions : 1. Disarticulation of the knee is a no less severe operation than amputation at the lower third of thigh, in consequence of the Bevere immediate complications, such as inflammation of the remaining parts of the joint, purulent burrowing, and grangrene. It is only in excep- tional cases that it offers any advantage as regards the application of an artificial limb. 2. The best proceeding for disarticulation is that of Gunter, with a long anterior and a short posterior flap, so as to cover the intercondylar space. 3. As regards the indications for the operation, it may be accepted for young subjects ; in adults, it suits special cases only, such as tumours of the tibia, but it should not be performed for injury unless this be at the lower part of the leg and do not at all implicate the knee. 4. Disarticulation with resection of the condyles for gunshot wound of the knee is admissible ; but it is not superior to amputation of the thigh low down. (Societe de Chirurgie, Jan. 7, 1874, in ' Gaz. des Hopitaux.') Elephantiasis of the leg; successful amputation through the diseased tissue.—The case is recorded by Dr. Munro. The thigh was greatly swollen, but diminished in size markedly afterwards. (' Edin. Med. Jour.,' Jan. 1873, 611.) Amputation of loth feet by Byrne's method ; preservation of periosteum Worn os calcis; one stump longer than the other from production of lone.—The patient was a male mulatto, set. 19, under the care of Mr. Johnson Smith. Gangrene of the feet followed exposure. On one side the periosteum was loosened from the bone and peeled off the os calcis easily. On the other side it was firmly adherent and no attempt wus