243 fRACTUKES AND DISLOCATIONS. not use the left arm after falling from a waggon, and on examination a rupture of the belly of the biceps was discovered. There was very little evidence of injury to the skin. The ends were brought together as well as possible by pads, bandages, position, &e. At the end of ten days there was only a slight indentation visible, and movements of the elbow did not excite pain. He was then lost sight of. ('Am. Jour. Med. Sci.,' April, 1S73.) Compound dislocation of the elbow ; rupture of the brachial, artery ; recovery.—A case is recorded in the 'Lancet,' Aug. 8, 1874. The patient^ a?t. 18, was under the care of Mr. McCarthy. The articular surface of the lower end of the humerus protruded through a lacerated wound at the anterior and inner part of the fore-arm. The brachial artery was found to have been torn across. The progress of the case was uninter- ruptedly good. At the end of eight weeks the lad was sent into the country with the wound healed and the elbow anchylosed at a con- venient angle. Splint for treatment of compound fractures of thefore-arm.—Mr. Callen- der figures a splint consisting of a piece for the arm and another for the fore-arm, with a joint for the elbow, and also admitting of rotation of the piece for the fore-arm, owing to its being fastened on a bar (round which it can turn) by a screw. The fore-arm can thus be set at any angle of supination to accommodate it to the position taken by the upper fragment in fracture of the radius below the tubercle. (' St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,' ix, 33.) Dissection of a recent case of Colles1 fracture of the radius.—Dr. Chiene describes a recent specimen of Colles' fracture of the radius in detail in the' Edin. Med. Jour.,' June, 1874. The patient was a woman, a3t. 60. The symptoms were of the usual character. On examination there was extravasation of blood, no rupture of tendon. The principal strain ; appeared to be on the flexors of the thumb and fingers. The lower fourth of the pronator quadratus was torn across, and no fibres of this muscle : remained adherent to the lower fragment of the radius. There was ex- • tensive splintering of the lower fragment into the wrist-joint. A care- : ful examination of specimens shows that splintering into the joint is : not at all uncommon, and the same is indicated by the stiffening of the • wrist which is so commonly met with afterwards. The fracture was ! fairly transverse. (Illustrations of the lines of fracture are given.) The 1 lower fragment was split into two others by vertical cracks. On looking ; at the carpal surface, in addition to the fissure running along its pos- i terior border, there was a portion of the centre of the surface separated i from the rest and driven at the same time upwards into the cancellated t tissue. The tip of the styloid process of the ulna was broken off. The ' triangular ligament was entire and firmly bound the lower fragment of the l radius to the ulna. The cause of the usual displacement met with is care- fully discussed. It is attributed rather to the direction of the original force than to muscular displacement. The upper fragment had passed into " the lower fragment, crushing the cancellous tissue. There was pene- tration, but no impaction. Dr. Chiene does not think that penetration with impaction accounts for the immobility met with now and again. : He thinks it is rather due to the carpus being driven up against and into