PERI-UTERINE CONDITION. 400 Peri-uterine Condition. Dr. F. Weber, from an analysis of 33 cases of retro-uterine hematocele observed by him, concludes that tbe condition occurs most frequently in hard-worked young women disposed to anemia. In 6 out of the 23 cases immoderate sexual indulgence—partly known, partly conjectured —was the inciting cause, in 4 the immediate cause of the disorder. The right ovary was the source of the haemorrhage in 18 cases. The prognosis, as regards life, he considers very favorable, as none of his cases were fatal. This result he ascribes to the method of treat- ment—ice bladder, perchloride of iron internally, and avoidance of puncture. Ten cases were completely restored; in three the broken up extravasation burst into the rectum. (' Berlin Klin.Wochenschrift,' Nov. 1873, and 'Med. Times and Gaz.,' May31, 1873.) Dr. Mariotti writes ('Archiv. Gen. de Med.,' 1873) on the pathogeny of retro-uterine hematocele. Dr. Schroeder writes on the pathogeny of hematocele, retro- and ante- uterine ('Archiv f. Gyniik.,' v, 2, 1873). He first runs over the various theoretical considerations which determine the situation of an intraperitoneal effusion of blood. He then describes in detail a case of ante-uterine hematocele occurring in a woman who had tubal preg- nancy. Through the rupture of the sac an intraperitoneal effusion of blood followed, which filled Douglas' pouch. Inflammation set in, which caused bands of adhesion to form between the rectum and the uterus. The haemorrhage recurred, and the blood collected in the anterior cul-de-sac, and coagulated there. This condition was recognised by vaginal examination. The patient sank under another effusion of blood, and the condition was verified at the autopsy. Dr. Fritseh writes on retro-uterine haematocele ('Saml.Klin.Vortrage,' iSo. 56, 1873), and gives a resume of the subject. Haemorrhage from the ovary is a frequent cause of hematocele; then tubal pregnancy and a congested condition of the Fallopian tubes; then hemorrhage from the uterus by reflux ; then peritoneal hemorrhage. Hematocele is met with most frequently among the poor and those obliged to work • it occurs between 21 and 47 years of age; it is exceptionally met with in multipare. The author considers puncture dangerous, unless the tumour has softened and suppuration has begun. Dr. A. Meadows read a paper on pelvic hematocele before the Harveian Society. He deals chiefly with the symptoms and treatment. He limits the term to those cases where the blood is effused into the peritoneal cavity, using " thrombus " for those cases where the blood is 1 effused into the cellular tissue beneath the peritoneum. After speaking 1 of the prominent symptoms he points out the differential diagnosis I from pelvic cellulitis and pelvic peritonitis. He dwells upon the mecessity for a minute and careful examination, not only for diagnosis, Ibut in reference to treatment. With regard to treatment the first tthing is to obtain coagulation of the effused blood, which is best secured :by rest and opium, at times ice applied within and without is of use ; :the next is to obtain the removal of the effused blood. He advocates a •more speedy resort to tapping than that generally advocated, as in