MENSTRUATION. 391 the muscular bundles produced the colurauar epithelium of the glands. ('Proceed. Eoy. Soc.,' 1874, vol. xxii, p. 297.) Dr. Hagemann contributes a paper on the mucous membrane of the uterus ('Archiv f. Gynak.,' v, 2, 1873.) Connection betwe&n menstruation and smallpox.—Dr. Otto Obermeier, after careful investigation of 104 cases of smallpox in women, has come to the following conclusions: 1. Menstruation generally coincides with the first period of smallpox (in three fourths of the cases), and comes on generally at the time of the eruption. 2. The disorders of menstruation are not so frequent as is generally stated (only one fourth of the cases) ; the supervention of the disease, especially the eruptive period, hastens the appearance of the menses, whilst the retar- dation is exceptional, as also their absence and suppression : it is very seldom that smallpox brings on real haemorrhage. 3. It is most common to observe a coincidence of normal regular menstruation with the first period of smallpox (in more than one half of the cases), and the fact probably depends upon some physiological modification of the period of incubation. 4. The pathological influence of smallpox on menstruation depends less on febrile irritation, as suggested by Perroud, than on the morbid process itself (eruption). The menstrual flux which comes on after the disease is generally weak and retarded. ('Virchow's Arch.,' 1, 1873, and 'Lancet,' March, 1873.) Dr. Leopold gives an account of the lymphatics of the normal non- pregnant uterus (' Arch. f. Gynak.,' vi, 1). The following are the con- clusions at which he has arrived: 1. The mucous membrane.—1. The mucous membrane is made up of a framework of the finest connective tissue, the bundles of which are covered by endothehum ; the spaces between these bundles are the lymph- spaces. 2. The membrane of the uterine glands consists, in the deeper layers, of a fine layer of a delicate connective tissue, the bundles of which externally are covered by endothelium, but superficially it is formed only by a sheath made up of cell-plates. 3. The blood-vessels, from the finest capillaries, have a number of fine epitheMal sheaths increasing with their size. 4. The framework of connective tissue is directly con- nected with both kinds of sheaths by means of fine twigs. 5. The glands and bloodvessels, therefore, pass through the lymph-spaces, from which they are separated only by their sheaths formed from the framework of connective tissue. 6. At the limits of the muscular layer the lymph spaces extend a little into the funnel-shaped hollows between two mus- cular bundles, and gradually become narrowed into the intermuscular lymph vessels and spaces. 2. The muscular layer.—In the muscular layer both of animals and the human subject, there are lymph-vessels and lymph-spaces. The walls of both are made up of fine intermuscular connective tissue. The former are lined by fine endothelial lamella?, which here and there have openings and gaps ; the latter are lined by delicate cell-plates. 2. In animals the characteristic networks of the lymphatic vessels are arranged parallel to the long axis of the two muscular layers ; they therefore cross one another. Those of the inner muscular layer ruu into the lymph spaces of the mucous membrane, whilst those of the outer layer are