REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 206 climate and physical couditionsof that country have undergone material changes during a recent period; that it has become hotter and drier than in former years, and, consequently, the health of the people and the productiveness of the soil have deteriorated; and that these important changes are due, not to natural, but to induced causes:— (i) Increased surface drainage; (2) defective agriculture; (3) denu- dation of the surface of the country of trees and other vegetation; (4) above all, to artificial irrigation by canals. With regard to the first three points the reviewer thinks he is scientifically correct and borne out by facts, but he is inclined to attribute some of the evil con- sequences assigned to irrigation rather to an imperfect application of the principle than to the system itself. The reviewer refers to the light thrown by the author on the etiology of the endemic malarious fever which for some time has been devastating parts of Lower Bengal, inasmuch as, to some extent at any rate, the increased surface drainage in Upper India may have caused an overdue supply of water, and consequently a waterlogged and malarious state of part of Bengal. L. Lehmann (" 40 Badetage; eine vergleichend balneologische Studie," ' Virch. Arch.,' lviii, 92) has made a comparison of the effect of various forms of haths upon the different secretions and the functions of respiration and circulation. The results, in a tabular form, include the quantity of exhaled air, the amount of carbonic acid in it, the temperature in the axilla, and the frequency of pulse and respiration while in and after the bath, and the hourly amount of urine passed before and after the bath. The following are his chief conclusions:— The production of cutaneous redness is a certain means in classifying (fur G-ruppirung) baths. Consequently, the cold hip-bath and the hot bath belong to the same group. Baths of this kind act upon the retardation of respiration and circulation, and cause increase of arterial pressure, and in consequence of the secretions, especially the expired air and its contained carbonic acid; they do not, however, cause an increase in the quantity of urine, as the ordinary bath does, a fact pointed out by the author in 18 0. The increase of carbonic acid alter cold baths is not the result of increased combustion, but of increased arterial pressure, to which cause is also due the greater amount of urine excreted. The ordinary bath acts best as a diuretic, the hot bath as a quickener of respiration. After the ordinary bath, but not after the hot bath, the patient is conscious of peripheral cooling. In conclusion, attention is drawn to the various capabilities of baths, and their analogy to electric currents. Various writers (Caspari, Bode, Bertraud, Fleckles, Goschen, Kiscb, and others), writing in the ' Deut. Klinik' and ' Allgemein. Wien. Med. Zeitung,' give statistics of the number of patients attending the baths of Carlsbad, Marienbad, Meinberg, Nauheim, Teplitz, &c, and the number of baths taken, with, in some of the papers, dissertations on the employment of certain waters in certain cases. These, with other facts of no greater importance, make up papers bearing a strong resemblance to the advertisements special to each watering place. The latter noticed to some extent below, would swell the annexed bibliography to. a happily impossible length.