168 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Fussell, " Notes on a Fatal Case of Dysphagia, with an ahundant flow of saliva " (man, eat. 47), ib. ib., 625. Jaap, "Stricture of the (Esophagus treated by a new Dilator," ib. ib., 769. Mackenzie, " Clinical Lecture on Disease of the (Esophagus, with special reference to (Esophageal Auscultation," ib., 1874, i, 753. Hulke, " A case of (Esophagismus (spasmodic stricture of the oesophagus) in a Young Boy" (a;t. 10), 'Clin. Soo. Trans.,' vi, 52. Thornton, "Two cases of Cancer of the (Esophagus" (women, mt. 31 and 42), ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxv, 112. Crisp, " (Esophageal Obstruc- tion in a Cock," ib., 276. Rayss, " Schwere Krankheitszufallc in Folge von Ver- schlucken fremder Korper," ' Virch. Arch.,' lviii, 321. Emminghaus, "Von dem Einfluss der Eespirationsbewegungen auf die Luft in der Schlundsonde beim Liegen im Oesophagus uud Magen," 1 Deut. Arch.,' xiii, 446. Affections of the Stomach. _ C. Hilton Fagge writes (' Guy's Hospital Eeports,' xviii, 1) on acute dilatation of the stomach, of which he gives the notes of two cases, to- gether with two similar ones already published in the ' Path. Soc. Trans.' (iv, 13 7) and in Hughes Bennett's ' Principles and Practice of Medicine' (3rd edition, p. 659). All four cases were examined post mortem. He thinks that the following conclusions are fairly deducible from them:— A. Acute dilatation of the stomach may arise in young subjects in whom that organ may have been previously healthy; the process is more or less gradual, at first producing no symptoms; when the latter occur they are sudden in their onset, of great severity, and may destroy life in a few days. The dilatation may be the only post-mortem changes found, or it may have supervened upon some other morbid alteration in the alimentary canal. B. Its signs are (1) a rapidly increasing distension of the abdomen, which is unsyrametrical, the left hypochondrium being full, while the right is completely flattened ; (2) the existence of a sur- face-marking descending obliquely towards the umbilicus from the left hypochondrium, corresponding with the dropped-down lesser curvature of the stomach, this line appearing to descend with each act of inspira- tion ; (3) the presence of fluctuation in the lower part of the abdo- men ; (4) the occurrence of splashing when the distended part of the abdomen is manipulated ; (5) the presence of a uniformly tympanitic note over a large part of the distended region when the patient lies flat on his back. Above the pubes, on the other hand, there may be dulness on percussion simulating that of a distended bladder. If the abdominal walls be very rigid and the recti muscles prominent, the characters numbered (1) and (2) may be absent, but those numbered (3) and (4) remain. All of them may disappear for a time after copious vomiting, c. Its symptoms are those of severe abdominal disease, without evidence of peritonitis or lesion of the intestines ; vomiting, more or less consti- pation, and scanty urine, d. The stomach may be so greatly dilated as to be alone visible on opening the body, but after it has been re- moved and emptied it shrinks back to its natural size, leaving only slight lacerations of its coats to indicate its former extreme distension. e. The pain and distress can be entirely removed, and the patient's life may be saved, by the employment of the stomach-pump. The patients whose cases are given in the paper were a youth, about eighteen years old ; a man, £et. 30; a woman, a3t. 48 ; and a man, set. 26. The duration of illness in the four cases respectively was 15, 11, 11, and 10 days,