218 REPORT ON SURGERY. ho believes to be of no value. Galvano-puncture has, as yet, only been attended by negative results in his hands. (' St. Geo. Hosp. Eep.,' vi, P- *33)- . Aneurism of the arch of the aorta successfully treated by iodide of potassium.—Dr. Keith records the case. The patient was a man, aged 35. Large doses (5ss, thrice daily) were given. ('Edin. Med. Journ.,' June 1873, p. 1077.) Aneurism of the arch of the aorta treated by galvano-puncturc.—A case is reported in detail by Dr. Charlton Bastiau in the ' Brit. Med. Journ.,' Nov. 22 and 29, 1873. Aneurism of the brachial artery.—Spontaneous aneurisms are very rare. They are usually associated with cardiac disease. Treatment should not be too active. Traumatic brachial aneurism is decidedly under the influence of compression ; if this fails, it is a question whether the old operation is not superior to the Hunterian, for the sac is often imperfect. (Mr. Holmes, Lectures, College of Surgeons, 'Lancet,' Oct. 25, 1873.) Arterio-venous aneurism at the bend of'the elbow:—Digital pressure is often successful, even when applied to the artery alone. Vanzetti applies pressure to the orifice of the vein as well; not to the tumour. In traumatic aneurism of the arteries of the forearm there is good prospect of cure by digital pressure. Where this fails Mr. Holmes would be in favour of tying both ends of the vessel, as this does not fail. In spontaneous aneurisms ligature of the brachial may be suc- cessful, but these aneurisms are probably of embolic origin, and not prone to rupture. It is only, then, in case of rapid growth of an aneurism, or some exceptional condition, such as pain from the neigh- bourhood of a nerve, that any such operation should be contemplated. (Lectures, College of Surgeons, ' Lancet,' Oct. 25, 1873.) Aneurism of the radial artery.—Mr. Quain relates a case of aneurism of the radial artery in a man, aged 67. The tumour lay on the outer and back part of the carpus, behind the first metacarpal interspace. The treatment consisted in compression of the tumour by a pad and strapping and compression of the radial and ulnar arteries by means of a compressor (figured). The cure was soon effected. (' Med. Times and Gaz.,' Jan. 24, 1874.) Wound of the palm.—A case of wound ot the palm in which ligature of the brachial was resorted to after failure of compression, is recorded by Mr. Hulke in a clinical lecture. (' Med. Times and Gazette,' Oct. 31, 1874). Palmar aneurism ; treatment of hemorrhage jrom the palmar arch.— Mr. W. H. Cripps narrates the case of a man, aged 35, who wounded his palm. An aneurism formed; this was laid open and two small vessels ligatured ; other haemorrhage checked by pressure. The bleed- ing recurring, the radial and ulnar arteries were tied. The bleeding recurred and digital pressure on brachial resorted to for seven days. Hemorrhage recurring, the brachial was tied above the profunda in two places and the artery divided. The patient recovered well. As regards treatment of diffused aneurism, the practice of laying open fchfl tumour and tying the vessel is admitted to be the best, but 111 circum-