STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM—FISTULA. 347 of constitutional syphilis. In fourteen cases, there had been such sym- ptoms. In some of these cases, stricture appeared just after having had chancroids. The seat of the stricture, in sixteen cases, was two inches above the anus; in three cases, one and a half inches ; in five, between two and three inches ; in two, there were two distinct strictures; in three, one inch above the anus; in three, throe inchos above the anus. The age of the youngest patient was nineteen years ; of the oldest thirty, seven years. In conclusion, the author says the disease appears to be peculiar to women; it occurs chiefly between eighteen and thirty-live years of age. The locality of the stricture, as a rule, is between one and two inches from the anus. Antisyphilitic remedies (mercurials and iodine of potassium) possess no beneficial influence over the disease. It is more frequent than is generally supposed. Though unwilling to deny that a constricture of the rectum might occur as a sequence of a syphilitic ulcer, yet we believe that such occurrence must be remarkably rare, and therefore the term " syphilitic stricture " is an improper one, and hence the disease being due to the chancroid should be known as the venereal or rather the chancroidal stricture. "Where constitutional syphilis exists in a patient with this form of stricture, it is but a mere coincidence, there being nothing in the syphilitic disease preventing the patient contracting chancroids again and again. The author has practised incising the stricture several times with success. Dilatation with bougies should be kept up. In obstinate cases, colotomy is to be performed. ('Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,' Jan. 1873.) Treatment of fistula ani oy the elastic ligature.—Dr. Ventura Eomanin relates in the ' Wieuer Medizinische "Wochenschrift' for July 4, 1874, six cases of anal fistula treated with the elastic liga- ture in the hospital practice of Dr. Menzel, of Trieste. The ligature was applied to fistula? of various extent, except very small ones, scarcely extending above the sphincter, which were treated by the knife. To apply the ligature, an eyed probe was introduced through the fistula, being pushed through the mucous membrane of the fistula when blind, and bent down to the anal oriSce. An elastic thread of the size of a quill was then passed through the eye of the probe, drawn through the fistula, and tied in two or three knots. One patient was operated on twice for fistula on the right and left sides of the anus. The average duration of treatment was 46 days; the times in the cases being respectively 41, 33, 12, "12, 60, and 21 days, and four months. Excluding the last case, the average period was iq\ days. The liga- ture generally came away in six or eight days. All the patients recovered; there were no indications of tubercle in any of them. In one case only, the pain was very severe, lasting the whole time during which the ligature remained (three days) ; as a rule, it ceased entirely after a few hours. Dr. Grandesso-Silvestri describes, in the ' G-azetta Medica Italiana Provincie Yenete,' No. 30, 1874, a case in which he amputated the humerus on account of disease of the elbow-joint, by the elastic liga- ture. The operation had the disadvantage of being slow and painful, and of keeping the part which was being removed for a long time under the patient's notice—the removal not being completed till the