REPORT ON SURGBRY. 316 withdrawn together till the tuhe can be grasped beyond the catheter and the removal of the latter completed. In order to fix the tube in the urethra, a silver conical tube with rings is passed a certain distance down inside the elastic tubing and thus straightens the end of the penis. A longish stilette is also passed inside the conical tube when urine is not flowing, and additional security against the instrument slipping out afforded. Since he began to use the india-rubber tubing, he has found that a simpler plan is to push a shorter piece down the catheter by a sort of ramrod. Mr. Hutchinson has lately been using india-rubber catheters, which are_ not vulcanised, but perfectly smooth on the surface and very pliable. He has also found that in "almost all cases of prostatic retention a flexible india-rubber catheter, without any stilette, can be passed into the bladder." It should be well oiled, and pushed in inch by inch. " I have not the least hesitation in assert- ing that the time-honoured silver catheter ought at once to be super- seded by the india-rubber one, and that no one ought ever to think of trying metal or even gum-elastic unless he has failed with one of those I now recommend." Where the india-rubber catheter fails, the con- ducting silver catheter will be found very useful; but it should not be left in, only the india-rubber. (' Lancet,' June 7, 1873.) Stricture of the urethra icith retention.—Mr. Callender says he has never had to puncture the bladder for retention in the male, nor has he ever operated on a stricture by cutting into the perineum. In all severe cases of retention, no attempt should be made to pass a catheter till the patient has had a warm bath, a full dose of opium, and a purge. If no relief is obtained (which is very exceptional), at any rate, the attempt at catheterisation is made under more favorable circumstances than before. " If the patient passes water in or after the bath—and I never knew one fail to do so, even although the bladder may not he thoroughly emptied—it will give him a couple of days in bed, with opiates if needed, before using an instrument." When he has passed a catheter he has it tied in for about two days. The same day, or the day after, No. 6 or 8 can be passed. In some cases he has to dilate first with a catgut bougie, but this is but seldom required. A table of thirteen cases under treatment in this way lately is given. (' St. Barth. Hos. Eep.,' ix, 40.) Retention of urine relieved by pneumatic aspiration.—Mr. Henry Taylor records the case of a man, set. 74, in which he tapped the bladder above the pubes with the aspirator for retention. The aspirator was used seven times in all without any ill effects. (' Lancet,' Feb. 14, 1784.) Mr. William Brown records a case in which he used the pneumatic aspirator daily for some days to relieve retention from enlarged prostate. The result was quite favorable. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,' May 23, 1874.) Dr. Joseph Bell records a case of urgent retention (in a man of 65) in which he punctured the bladder with the aspirator. He speaks very highly of the efficiency of the plan and the ease of carrying it out. ('Ed. Med. Journ.,'1874.) Mr. Harrison records cases in which he has used the aspirator