REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. kl2 the urethra in the female, and gives a number of illustrative cases ('Obst. Journ.,' Dec. 1874). Dr. Hime relates a case of suspected pregnancy in a girl aged 17. She had not menstruated for five months and the breasts presented well- marked mammary changes ; she had suffered from incontinence of urine, which was becoming thick and offensive. A calculous mass was found in the bladder, which after much manoeuvring was removed; it was the handle of a tooth brush, which the girl admitted having used for stoppage of her urine, when one day it was drawn into the bladder. ('Lancet,' Jan. 1874.) II. Pregnancy. Physiology and Pathology of the Ovum. Dr. Kundrat writes on the anatomy of the gravid uterus and the foetal envelopes (' Medizinische Jahrb.,' No. 2, 1873). The mucous membrane of the newly impregnated uterus is known as the decidua, and divided into the decidua vera, reflexa, and serotina. Its structure at first resem- bles the mucosa in or before menstruation, it is thickened, the glands are dilated, elongated and tortuous, and the intertubular cells are increased. The structure of the three portions are in all respects very similar. Inferiorly the vera suddenly ceases at a short distance from the cervix, and the cervix takes no part in the formation of the uterine cavity. Both the Fallopian tubes and their inferior openings are patent during the whole period of pregnancy. When the impregnated ovum reaches the inferior tubal opening its progress is not obstructed by an adhesion of the opposite mucous membrane, for none such exists. So that the ovum does not push before it, and invaginate a portion of the mucosa to form the decidua reflexa. This is clearly an outgrown and infolded portion of the decidua vera, for it possesses glands on its deep or ovular, as well as on its free surface. The ovum is retained at the fundus of the uterus by the swollen decidua. If the swelling is not so great, the ovum may travel down towards the cervix, and for this reason placenta prsevia is more common in multipara?. The enlargement of the uterus is at first out of proportion to the growth of the embryo, and a free cavity exists between the vera and the reflexa, which is filled with a somewhat opaque mucoid fluid. It is not till the fourth month that the embryo fills the uterine cavity. In the fifth month the opposite walls of the uterine cavity^that is, the decidua vera and the decidua reflexa have become partially adherent. The chorion villi were found to be fixed in the grooves of the serotina and on the sides of its elevations by a connective mass composed of mucus and degenerated epithelium. Other villi had buried themselves in the tissue of the serotina, and were so inti- mately connected that any attempt at separation ended in rupture ; it is here the placenta is afterwards developed. As pregnancy proceeds the changes in the decidua are very considerable. The decidua reflexa becomes attenuated by pressure until reduced to a simple layer of the transparent envelopes of the embryo of which it forms the external part. The decidua vera and the decidua serotina remain as comparatively thick layers of tissue. As the termination of pregnancy approaches, the lining membranes of the uterus become whitish, dull, and of a pale