REPORT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINE. lo4 K. Hallopeau gives at length (' Gaz. Med.,' 1873, ^84) the case of a woman, aet. 36, in whom sclerodermia was accompanied by atrophy of certain bones and multiple affections of the joints. She had been per- fectly well up to ten years before, when pains attacked her hands, especially in the neighbourhood of the joints. Sometimes they became suddenly cold and of a blue colour; later they showed red patches which were covered in time by small scabs; on the falling off of the latter this skin was left white and retracted. By degrees all the joints became contracted, the skin of the face was like a wax mask, unmoving and expressionless ; the tongue grew small, and had but little power of movement; the joints of the fingers became anchylosed, and several of the phalanges disappeared by absorption, without any suppuration or external wound. The writer sees much analogy between this case and the affection described under the names atrophia unilateralis and trophoneurosis, and instead of sclerodermia would use the term trophoneurosis disseminata. As to the etiology of the affection he can say nothing precise, but draws attention to the facts that a brother of the patient was a lunatic and the mother was paralysed on one side (irrelevant !—Hep.). N. Moore records ('St. Barthol. Hos. Eep.,' ix, 70) a case of sclerema in a child, set. i\, and after comparing with it six already published cases, concludes that the affection consists in hardness and immobility of the skin, without any alteration in its colour or in the epidermis, and without noticeable changes in other organs. Lagrange, "Contribution h l'fitude de la Sclerodermic avec Arthropathies et Atro- phic osseuse," Paris, 1874, p. 78. Lepine, " Melanodermie etcndu a presque toute la surface du corps, Sclerodermic hornce aux doigts, avec atropine des phalangettes, atropine de la moitic droite de la face" (woman, a;t. 59), ' Gaz. Med.,' 1873, 195. Coliez, " Sclereine des Adultes," ' Gaz. des H6p.,' 1873, 97, 145. T. Fox and Kuaggs, "A case of Scleroderma" (man, sat. 26), 'Path. Soc. Trans.,' xxiv, 253. Mapother, " A case of Icthyosis" (woman, tat. 42),' Dublin Journal,' lv, 505. Molluseum Fibrosum. J. Murray records ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,' lvi, 235) three peculiar cases of molluscum fibrosum (? Rep.). They all occurred in children of the same family. The eldest, a girl, set. 7, had a variety of cutaneous growths on the face, ears, neck, fingers, and toes; extensive connective-tissue growths, frequently forming distinct, circumscribed tumours, and as large as an orange, occupied the face, scalp, trunk and extremities ; they grew rapidly, were painless, deeply discoloured by extravasated blood, and moderately soft and elastic. There were two or three slight peri- osteal enlargements on the front of the tibia aud elsewhere. The last phalanx of the fingers, with one exception, and several of the toes, were greatly hypertrophied; the nails were enlarged to a corresponding extent with the soft structures and marked by numerous transverse furrows. Occasional elevations of temperature seemed to point to intermittent increase of the growths. The tumours on the scalp in- creased till the skin became iilcerated and sloughed. The gums were greatly hypertrophied, fungous, and papillomatous in appearance, growing after partial removal. The affection was more or less sym- metrical ; there was no glandular enlargement. The child was deaf, but