457 POISONS. Morphine.—Dr. Ebertz1 relates an interesting ease of fatal poisoning of au adult by 3-85 grains of hydrocblorate of morphine. Camphor.—Dr. Klingelhoffer2 and Dr. Edward Pollack3 botb relato instructive cases of poisoning by camphor. The case related by Dr. Klingelhofter was that of a stroug healthy woman who swallowed more tban 30 grains of the drug suspended in water. She was immediately seized with giddiness, which increased. The drinking of some coffee induced vomiting. Headache followed, with burning at the epigastrium, eructations, thirst, and formication of the extremities. Six hours after taking the camphor the patient was fouud sitting up, with total loss of appetite, great thirst, eructations possessing a powerful odour of the drug. The face was pale ; the head and extremities cold. Pulse 90- 100, small, and irregular. The patient drank freely, and passed a large quantity of urine. She walked with difficulty. At one time she had tremor affecting the whole body, and when this passed off, there were constant movements of the hands. The treatment consisted of cold applications to the head, warmth to the feet, abundant ingestion of water, and laxative medicines and enemata. Twenty-one and a half hours after the administration of the poison she was convalescing rapidly, though she had slept but one hour. There had been vomiting and free action of the bowels. There was still an uneasy sensation at the back of the head, and the breath smelt slightly of camphor. The patient made a rapid recovery. Dr. Pollack's patient, a woman, had taken, with the intention of preventing pregnancy, two tablespoonfuls of camphor, moistened with alcohol and water. She quickly fainted. When first seen by the relator, she was lying in bed, with the hands moving restlessly to and fro, the face very pallid, the eyes glazed, the whole muscular system rigid, and there were cramps in the lower extremities. The pulse was 88, full and powerful. Temperature iori° Pahr. The breath had the odour of the drug, and there were frequent camphorous eructations. There was vomiting. The patient was quite conscious. The voice was faint. She complained of headache, singing in the ears, giddiness, weight at the chest, fulness at the epigastrium, and tingling of the lower extremities. There was thirst, and she drank freely of milk. The treatment consisted of cold to the head, aperient enemata, wine, and coffee. Sleep was thereby speedily induced, with free diaphoresis and diuresis. The urine, but not the perspiration, smelt strongly of cam- phor. The patient made a speedy recovery, and the poison had no influence on her pregnancy. Alcohol.—Cases of acute alcoholic poisoning are rare enough to make the following of interest.4 A man, aged 21 years, whilst passing through the street, observed another man spill three jars of brandy, whisky, and rum, respectively, into the gutter. He dropped on his knees, and drank freely of the spirits. In five minutes he was observed-to stagger, and in an hour he was taken home insensible. He was admitted into hos- 1 ' Vrtljhrsschr. f. Gerichtl. Med.,' xviii, p. 280. 2 'BerL Klin. Wcbnscbr.,' 1873, p. 414. 3 ' Wien. Med. Pres.,' 1874, p. 258. * ' Lancet,' 1875, i, p. 13.