ALIMENTARY SYSTEM. 5 whilst acids oppose it. Paschutin1 has made a series of researches on the fermentative operations of the intestinal mucous membranes. He obtained the fluids partly by Thiry's method., partly by infusion of the membranes. He finds that infusion of the small intestines is capable of converting starch paste into sugar in the course of a few hours, but acid fermentation then sets in, and the quantity of sugar formed dimi- nishes. Raw starch is converted very slowly into sugar by the infusion, and at 3 2° F. the action ceases altogether. It is necessary that a cer- tain proportion should exist between the starch paste and the fluid, as if the former is in great excess no action is observed to take place. Experiments with saliva showed that its activity continued unaltered up to 1300 F., it then began to diminish slowly to a temperature of about 1450 F., and then rapidly till at 1480 F. it almost ceased unless the action was continued for some time. It entirely ceased at a tempera- ture of 1630 F. Previous exposure to warmth diminished the activity of the saliva in proportion to the duration of such exposure. Saliva fre- quently filtered and preserved under mercury for six months still retained its activity. The saccharifying ferment of the small intestine completely loses its activity at a temperature of 1480 F. Infusion of pancreas behaves like undiluted saliva. The whole length of the small intestine in dogs, rabbits, pigs, and other animals, secretes two ferments, one which converts starch into sugar, the other which converts cane sugar into grape sugar. He has been able to separate the two ferments from one another; the ferment converting cane into grape sugar is absent in sheep and calves. M. Pettenkofer and C. Voit3 show that a large quantity of starch can be converted into grape sugar and absorbed in the ali- mentary canal of the dog, every 2'2 lbs. of the body weight being capable of absorbing 230 grains of starch, which is more even than a fat ox will take up. The absorbed sugar splits up completely into car- bonic acid gas and water. These experiments seem to demonstrate clearly, first, that fat can be formed from the metamorphosis of carbohydrates in the body, to which, indeed, many other facts seem to point; and secondly, that it proceeds from the disintegration of the albuminous com- pounds, 100 parts of meat yielding 11*22 parts of fat. "Weiske and Wildt 3 have made experiments to demonstrate that fat can be formed in the economy, not only, as Voit and Pettenkofer have shown, from albuminous compounds, but also from the carbohydrates. See also J. Forster,4 G-. Bunge,3 John Kurtz,6 and Czerny and Latschenberg.7 1 'Archivf. Anatomic und Physiologic/ i87i,p. 505. 2 'Zeitschift f. Biologie,' 1873, B. ix, p. 435-5405 " Ueber die Zcrsetsungs-vor- gange im Thierkorper bei Fiitterung mifc Fleisch und Kohlehydraten und Kohlehy- draten allein." 3 1 Zeitscbrift f. Biologie,' 1874, B. x, p. 1-20. 4 "Verauchc tiber die Bedeutung dcr Ascbenbestandtbeile in der Nahrung," 'Zeitsehrift f. Biologie,' B. ix, p. 297. 1 " Ethnologischer Nacbtrag zur Abhandlung iiber die Bedeutung des Kocbsalz, &c," 'Zeits. f. Biologie,' 1874, B. x, p. in. 4 " Ueber Entzicbung von Alkalicu aua dem Thierkorper," abstract of Inang. Dissert, in ' Centralblatt,' 1874, p. 569. 7 ' Vircbow's Arcbiv,' B. lix, page 161, and translation in'London Med. Record,' 1874, p. 145.