27 GLANDS. F. Goltz,1 and A. H. Garrod.'2 M. H. Duret3 gives in detail the dis- tribution of the minute arteries of the medulla oblongata, and draws various pathological applications from the facts he has made out. M. Pierret,4 from anatomical and pathological observations, believes it can be demonstrated, first, that in the posterior part of the spinal cord, throughout its whole length, there are longitudinal fibres, which are more superficial and more closely approximated to the posterior median fissure in proportion to their length; and, secondly, that throughout the whole length of the posterior columns longitudinal fibres spring from the grey substance at different levels, and after pursuing a longer or shorter course re-enter into the grey substance. These fibres consequently represent longitudinal commissural fibres. See also Fehst.3 Hitzig6 has repeated the experiment originally made by Galvani, of passing an electrical current across a nerve instead of along its course. He placed two nerves in such a position that they only touched each other at one point, and then applied the positive pole to one nerve and the negative to the other. He found that stronger cur- rents were required to produce contraction than when the current was conducted in the long axis of the nerves. The contraction following the cathode excitation did not always correspond to the closure of the current, nor the anode contraction to the opening of the current. Filehne 7 maintains that the above effects described by Hitzig are due to the nerve being traversed by a brush of currents, which are denser at one side of the nerve than upon the other. The electrode of the denser side gives the shock ; hence the varying results. Bernheim,8 pursuing the same subject, believes the strength of excitation of or effect produced by a given current is proportional to the cosine of the angle that the electrical current makes with the direction of the nerve fibres. Michael Foster9 shows that whilst uninjured frogs make violent efforts to escape from water heated to about 300 C, animals which have had their brains removed make no attempt to move till their muscles pass into heat rigor, providing the temperature be slowly and gradually raised. He describes various modifications of this experiment, and concludes that the absence of reflex action in the brainless frog is due to the repressing or inhibitory influence of heated blood carried from the skin to the spinal cord. 1 Goltz, ' Pfliiger's Archiv,' B. viii, p. 460. " Ueber die Functionen des Lendcn- marks dea Hundes." s Garrod, " On the Source of Nerve Force," ' Humphry and Turner's Journal of Anat. and Phys./ 1873, p. 251. 3 Duret, Brown-Sequard's 'Archives do Physiologie,' 1873, t. v, p. 97, 1874, p. 60, p. 316. 1 Pierret, Idem, 1873, p. 534-546. * ' Centralblatt f. Chirurgie,' 1874, No. 18. "Ueber das Verhiiltniss der Liingo des RnckenmarkB zur Lange der Wierbelsaule." r' Hitzig,' Pfliiger's Archiv,' 1873, B. vii, p. 253. 1 Idem, li. viii, p. 71-74. 8 I(iem, B. viii, p. 60. 1 M. Foster, ' Studies from the Physiological Laboratory in the University of Cambridge,' Part I, 1873, p. 36.