DISEASES OE CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 153 Embolism, Thrombosis, Sfc. F. Penzoldt ('Deut. Arch.,' xii, 13) writes on the hemorrhagic infarcts found in the lungs in cases of heart disease. In the majority of cases they owe their origin to emboli in the pulmonary artery. They occur most frequently in the lower and middle lobes of the right lung ; of twelve cases, these lobes Avere alone the seat of infarcta in six, and in five others mostly concerned; in one case only were they free. After commenting on the necessary fact that plugging of the right side is followed by emboli in the course of the blood-stream towards the left lung, the writer discusses the effect of pleuritic exudation, shrinking of the right lung, &c, in bringing about the same result. In discussing the differential diagnosis of these hemorrhagic infarcta the author shows from his own observations that the general view as to the temperature remaining normal, or even falling below that point, is in- correct, and that there is, at any rate in some cases, elevation of temperature, with sometimes distinct pyrexia. Ponfick (' Virch. Arch.,' lviii, 528) describes the occurrence of aneurisms in consequence of emboli. They are found, chiefly in arteries which run through yielding tissues, especially when the embolus is unusually hard and sticks fast in one of the branches behind the division of an artery. He sketches the process of for- mation of these aneurisms. During the course of an endocardial affection, a cretified block is detached from one of the valves and washed away into the blood-stream, till it reaches a vessel of about its own calibre; the lumen of the vessel is not completely filled, and the whole force of the blood-stream, till allowed to pass, beats upon one portion of the wall, which gradually becomes thinned and pushed out- wards. The blood-sac thus formed, and containing either at its entrance or in its cavity the original embolus, may at last burst. In the far smaller number of cases, in which the embolus is not calcified, but soft, the same changes occur without direct pushing out of the vessel-wall. T. Browne publishes ('Lancet,' 1874, i, 901) the following case. A man, set. 51, suffering from varicose veins, received a contusion on the lower third of the right leg. Some pain on the day of injury was followed by only slight discomfort subsequently. A fortnight later, after running, he was seized with a feeling of faintness, followed by dyspncea, syncope, and death in three quarters of an hour. The autopsy showed the lungs and heart normal, the latter not containing any clots. The inferior vena cava contained a tough ante-mortem clot, greyish-yellow in some parts, beginning above within an inch of the right auricle, extending downwards its whole length and some distance into the common iliac vein. It was easily removed entire. From the common iliac downwards the veins were free from clot till the internal saphena in the neighbourhood of the varix was reached, when a firm clot was" again encountered, and extended through all the varicose veins, being especially firm in the latter, and in many points closely adherent to the walla of the vessels. The veins throughout the entire varix were rough and reddened in their lining membrane, and there was considerable matting together of the cellular tissue in this por-