ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 2 4. Chesnut Soup. nr Take two quarts of liquor in which any salt meat has been boiled ; place on the fire in a saucepan ; add three pints of chesnuts, quite freed from skin, some onion and tomato, and a little common thyme. When the chesnuts are half done, add some potatoes and pumpkin, or vegetable-marrow cut small, and two turnips. When served, add two tablespoonsful of vinegar (if vinegar be liked), a little stale bread in the tureen, which must be well sopped first in the liquor, and some grated cheese placed on the top of the soup. 5. Calabash Soup. Cut up two or three Spanish onions, and place them in a saucepan with some dripping, and two or three tomatoes (tomato- sauce will do as well); add a very little water; cut the calabash (which will grow anywhere in England) in small pieces, put it in the saucepan, and let it simmer several hours. Add a few potatoes (to thicken the soup), and some herbs. 6. Haricot Bean Soup. Place one quart of beans in water overnight. Next morning cut up two or three onions and tomatoes, brown them in some dripping, drain the beans which have been soaking, place them with the onions and tomatoes ; add sufficient water to cover them (or stock is best if you have it at hand), some herbs, pepper and salt, and let the whole boil seven or eight hours, adding more stock or water as required, and thicken with seven or eight potatoes about an hour before you dish it up. 7. Lentil Soup. Soak half a pound of lentils in water all night (the whole lentils are better for this soup than the split ones); in the morning put them on to boil in as much stock as you require soup, add a good large onion chopped rather small, pepper and salt to taste, and in the season a few pieces of pumpkin or vegetable-marrow ; when these are not procurable, use potatoes, either cold boiled ones, or a few raw ones, just to thicken the Boup. Let it boil seven hours. 8. Onion Soup. Cut four Spanish onions in rings, and fry them a nice brown ; add five tablespoonsful of flour and some stock, gently stirring