55 PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 60. Cranberry Jelly. One pint of cranberry juice, to be added to one ounce of Nelson’s gelatine, which must have soaked all night in one pint of water ; stir on the lire with half a pound of loaf-sugar and the juice of half a lemon; boil five minutes, and remove from the fire; beat well the whites of two eggs into a thick froth, and when the jelly begins to settle add the whites to it, beating the whole mixture until it becomes spongy; if not a good colour, add a few drops of cochineal; pour into a wetted mould. Make this one day for the next. 61. Coffee Jelly (another way). Soak an ounce and a half of Nelson’s gelatine in one pint of cold milk, (overnight in the winter ; two hours before being used in the summer) ; in the morning place three ounces of best coffee in a cafetiere, and pour on it one pint of boiling milk ; when it has all run through, place it in a saucepan with the gelatine and cold milk, nearly half a pound of loaf-sugar, and the yolks of two beaten eggs ; stir until it comes to boiling- point, but do not allow it actually to boil, or the eggs will curdle; remove it from the fire, and stir gently for several minutes; pour into a wetted mould. Make this the day before it is wanted. N.B. This and the preceding jelly made at the same time would be convenient, as one requires the yolks and the other the whites of two eggs. 62. Bread Pudding. Two thick rounds of stale bread soaked in one pint of boiled milk ; beat smooth, and add a quarter of a pound of raisins or currants, sugar to taste, a little nutmeg, candied peel, a pinch of salt, and one well-beaten egg. Boil for an hour and a half in a buttered basin. 63. Pig Pudding. Half a pound of figs chopped fine, half a pound of bread- crumbs, half a pound of suet, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, the rind of two lemons (minced) and the juice of one, and two eggs well beaten ; mix all well together, and boil three hours in a buttered basin. 64. Wycombe Pudding. Fill a greased pudding-basin with slices of bread, each slice