SOUPS. 5 possible from bones. Save the water in which they were boiled, place it in a clean saucepan (after straining it), add two or three onions cut up small, a few cloves, a little allspice and whole pepper, some cayenne, anchovy sauce, an ounce of parsley, and two laurel leaves. Let these boil together, adding more water if necessary, for an hour ; then strain the liquor, add the boiled fish, let them simmer (but do not let them break) for a few minutes. Place a thick slice of bread in the tureen, soak it with the liquor ; lift the fish up carefully, serve them in a small dish, and place the liquor in the tureen over the bread. In helping this soup, a fish (or portion of one) is placed in each soup-plate as well as the soup. N.B. Perch or flounders are best. 18. Vegetable Soup Equal quantities of carrots, turnips, potatoes, and onions, a root or two of celery, and some herbs. Fry the vegetables in a little chipping, after cutting them in slices; add as much water or stock as you want soup ; put in some salt, pepper, and the herbs. Let them all boil until quite tender, then add a thickening of flour, mixed with a teaspoonful of mustard. Let the whole simmer for half an hour longer, and then serve. 19. Pea Soup. Three pints of liquor in which beef or pork has been boiled ; add two onions cut up in quarters, and some herbs. Let this boil until the onions are soft. Then add a twopenny packet of pea powder and a teaspoonful of currie powder made into a paste; stir this well into the soup for a few minutes, then let all boil together for two hours longer, and serve. 20. Stew Soup. Liquor in which tripe has been boiled ; add to it half a pint of split lentils (which must have been soaked the night previous), one or two turnips, a few potatoes, and a root of celery; add pepper and salt. Let all boil together gently for at least four hours, and then serve. 21. Tongue Soup. Pteserve the liquor in which a tongue has been boiled ; add to it the pieces of the root, gristle, and bones, two turnips, two