*7 MEAT. 2 4. Garlic Pork. Cut up some streaky fresh pork into small pieces, rub them with salt, pound a few cloves of garlic, according to the quantity required, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some Chili peppers. Pack them closely in a stone jar, and add sufficient cold vinegar to cover them. This preparation must be made at least a week before it is required, but will keep good for months. Note.—This is the grand national dish of the Portuguese; it is the universal dish on Christinas Day, and is as essential on that occasion as roast beef to the English. Two or three rabbits cut up and prepared in the same manner are excellent. When a dish of the pork is wanted, take as much of the meat as will be required out of the vinegar, drain it, and then fry of a light-brown colour. Serve each piece on a bit of toast. A cut orange is always an accompaniment to this dish—a few drops of juice just squeezed on the pork being a great improvement to the flavour. 5. Stewed Rabbit (Portuguese). Cut up a nice-sized rabbit into small pieces, fry it with some dripping, a sliced onion, and a tomato (or a little tomato sauce), a few spices, a piece of lemon-peel, and some pepper and salt. When the rabbit is done through, take it out of the frying-pan and place it in a clean saucepan ; add some stock and thickening to the ingredients in the frying-pan ; let all come to the boil, and then throw it through a sieve over the pieces of rabbit; let all simmer for an hour or more, and then serve with sippets of toast. 6. Stewed Rabbit (English). Cut up a rabbit into nice-sized pieces, place it in a saucepan with a few slices of bacon, pepper, two onions halved, and enough water to cover them. In another saucepan boil a pound of xice for ten minutes, then stir it gently into the saucepan with the rabbit, etc. Let all boil together for a few minutes, then serve. 7. Fowl and Rice (Madeira). Put a fowl to boil in sufficient water to cover it, and allow it to boil (or simmer) for some time ; in another pan put a large Onion and a tomato, salt and pepper, to stew ; when these are soft, pass through a sieve, and add to the fowl. When the fowl