46 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. with sugar and moistened with lemon-juice. Fill the pie-dish with these layers, rice being at the top ; place a few dabs of butter on the rice, and bake until it begins to brown. This is delicious eaten either hot or cold. 23. Orange Marmalade Pudding. A quarter of a pound of finely chopped suet, a quarter of a pound of grated bread, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, two tablespoonsful of orange marmalade, two eggs well beaten : mix all these ingredients together, put them into a basin or mould, and boil five hours. To be served with lemon sauce. 24. Compote of Sweet Oranges. Weigh some oranges, and take an equal quantity of sugar; boil the oranges entire in three or four waters, until they are so tender that you can pierce the skin easily with the head of a pin ; take them out, and place them in cold water ; when they are quite cold, cut each orange into six or eight sections, taking out the pips. Place the sugar in a little of the last water in which the oranges were boiled, and reduce it to syrup ; then put the slices in the syrup for a few minutes to glaze them ; take them out, arrange them on a dish, and pour the syrup over them. 25. Orange Pie. Take the skin off some oranges, removing the inner skin as well; divide them carefully into sections, take out the pips, and arrange them in a pie-dish with plenty of sugar and the juice of one lemon. Make a good crust, and bake for half an hour in a brisk oven. Note.—When economy is studied, pastry should never be made with butter or lard ; if dripping is not sufficient, Australian marrow, sold in tins, makes excellent pastry, and will keep good after it is opened any time. It is always well to be pro- vided with tins of this marrow, as in a small family there is not always a sufficiency of dripping ; and, besides, pastry made with the marrow is nicer to eat cold than dripping crust. 26. Lemon Cream. One quart of cream (milk can be substituted for economy) to to be boiled gently with one ounce of Nelson’s gelatine pre- viously soaked in a little of the milk or cream ; sugar to taste;