SOUPS. o the ingredients for a few minutes ; then pepper and salt, and a few herbs ; break up some pieces of bread in the tureen and sop them with the liquor ; stir the bread until thoroughly mashed, then throw the remainder of the soup over it and serve. 9. Jerusalem Artichoke Soup. Take some liquor that pickled pork has been boiled in (if not too salt), add to it an onion and some pepper, six pounds of arti- chokes, and let them boil until quite tender; then take them out and pass them through a sieve into a basin, adding as much of the stock in which they have been boiled as will make them nice and thick. They take a long time to rub through a hair sieve, but two hours is sufficient time for the whole process, as the artichokes do not take above half an hour to become tender. 10. Sorrel Soup. Boil a bunch of sorrel (as much as you can hold comfortably in one hand) in two quarts of water or stock. When the sorrel is boiled, take it out of the liquor and mince it rather coarsely; strain the soup, and put the minced sorrel back into it with some very small bits of bread, which must simmer gently for about fifteen minutes. Beat up the yolks of two eggs in a bowl, and add the soup gradually to them ; then return all to the sauce- pan again, and leave it beside the fire until the mixture begins to simmer, when it must be at once dished up. 11. Another Sorrel Soup. Prepare as above, without mincing the sorrel. Cut some very thin slices of bread, and lay them in a pie-dish neatly in layers until the dish is full; pour the soup by degrees upon the bread until it is thoroughly soaked. Put the boiled sorrel on the top of the bread, and place it in the oven to brown; it will take nearly an hour to do this; the top must not be too dry, and will occasionally require moistening. Note.—The sorrel for these two soups is to be found in almost every field; that kind which is sometimes cultivated in a garden comer is precisely the same, only the leaves are larger and the plant finer. 12. Friars’ Chicken Soup. Take the stock in which a chicken has been boiled, skim it, and place it in a saucepan on the fire ; when it boils, add some