63 MISCELLANEO US. spoonful of baking-powder, and a pinch of salt: mix with a little milk, roll out about half an inch thick, cut into cakes with a tumbler, and bake a quarter of an hour. When they are served, they should be cut nearly in half, and a little piece of butter put inside each. 19. Tea loaves. One pound of flour, two eggs, two ounces of butter, one teaspoonful of baking-powder, and a pinch of salt. Moisten with milk, knead well, and make into the shape of tiny cottage loaves. Bake in a quick oven from ten to fifteen minutes. 20. To make Bread with German Yeast. Take two ounces of German dried yeast, mix with a teacupful of flour, and place in a deep pie-dish ; make this into a smooth paste with half a pint of warm (not hot) water. Place the pie- dish with its contents on the kitchen fender ; if the yeast be good, it will soon begin to “grow,” or work, and nearly fill the pie-dish in about an hour. It is much wiser always to prove the yeast in this way (though it is not generally done), for two reasons : first, if the yeast be bad, the loss is but small; secondly, by increasing the yeast in this way the bread rises more thoroughly when you make the dough. Having ascer- tained that your yeast is good, weigh seven pounds of flour into a deep bread-pan, and mix with it two ounces of salt; make a hole' in the middle of the flour, and pour in the yeast; mix this well into the flour, and add gradually enough warm water to make a moderately stiff dough ; knead thoroughly for about a quarter of an hour, adding a small handful of flour now and then to take up the water, or rather to dry the dough suffi- ciently ; this done, place your pan beside the kitchen fire with a clean cloth over it: the heat of the weather and size of the fire must determine the distance at which you place the pan ; it must not be too near, and you must be careful never to place the pan in a draught. When the dough has risen to about double the height that it was when you left off kneading, and looks light and spongy, it is ready to be placed in the oven. An hour is the stated time, but it will often take longer than this to rise in the pan, and especially in winter-time. Flour some tins, to prevent the dough sticking (two large and two small tins will generally take the quantities given above); tear the dough into pieces large enough to half fill the tins ; place them in a quick oven, and on no account open the oven door after you have