i8 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. is nearly done, throw in a teacupful of rice which has been well picked and washed ; do not stir or mix it in any way ; when the rice is cooked, dish the fowl, putting the rice round it. Note.—Mutton or veal ribs are very nice cooked in the same way, only they will require more water, and should be browned first. 8. Portuguese Beef and Pice. Cut up two or three onions and two or three tomatoes, fry them in a deep saucepan, add two or three pounds of fresh shin of beef, sufficient water to cover it, pepper and salt to taste. Let this simmer for some hours; then add a cupful of rice (as in the preceding recipe), or a pound of macaroni (but this will take much longer to boil than the rice). Dish the meat, and cover it with the rice or macaroni. Note.—A much larger quantity of meat than given above can be used for this dish, as, freed from the rice or macaroni, it is delicious eaten cold. Sometimes the lower part of a large sirloin is used in this way, when not too fat. 9. Leg of Mutton Piece of Beef (Stewed). (This joint is not as well known as it deserves to be. It is delicious eating, and much cheaper than sirloin—not only lower in price, but is nearly all solid meat and fat, with very little bone.) Eight or nine pounds of beef : put it on to simmer the day before it is wanted, with only a cupful of water and a little salt. Let it simmer five or six hours. Take it out of the gravy, and drain it; put the gravy into a basin, and when cold skim off the fat. Next morning, warm up the gravy, and put the beef back into it, adding a little spice, and more water when necessary, and allowing it to simmer for about eight hours. Cut some carrots in half, and boil them in a separate saucepan with an equal quantity of onions entire. A few minutes before you dish up the meat, put the boiled carrots and onions into the saucepan with the beef. When you dish up the meat, put the carrots and onions alternately round it, and send the gravy to table in a sauce-tureen. This joint is very nice to eat cold. 10. Stewed Tongue with Tomatoes. Fry some onions in a saucepan; when they are nicely browned, put in a tongue which lias not been salted at all, and sufficient