ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 64 closed it on the loaves, for a full hour ; then look in to see that they are rising properly, and keep watching them from time to time. In about three hours from the time they are first put in the oven you may try if they are enough baked by stabbing them quickly with a clean knife; if any of the dough adheres to the knife, they are not ready to come out; if, on the contrary the knife has only a little steam upon it, they are done. Remove them from the tins, and then place them sideways on the kitchen table until they are quite cool, when they can be put away in the larder. 21. Apple Jelly. Choose some sour apples, cut them in pieces, but do not peel them; put them in a jar, with water to cover them, either in the oven or on the range ; when quite soft, squeeze the water from them, and to every nine pints of liquor add four pounds of brown sugar; boil gently until it jellies, then put in moulds or pots for use. 22. Vegetable-marrow Jam. To twelve pounds of ripe marrow, weighed after the skins and pips are l’emoved, allow nine pounds of loaf sugar (three-quarters of a pound to a pound) and four large lemons. Put the sugar into a preserving-pan with a little of the marrow, after cutting it all up into pieces about half an inch square. When the sugar, etc., boils, put in the rest of the marrow, and let it boil about two hours ; then cut the four lemons in half, squeeze out the juice and pips, and put the skin and pulp, etc., into the jam to flavour it well; let it all boil another half-hour, and then add the juice of the four lemons ; boil it again for half an hour, and then if it seems inclined to set, and the pieces of marrow are transparent, take it off the fire, throw away the lemon halves, and put the rest in pots for future use. This jam can also be made of green marrows, but would not look so nice, as the fruit smashes when green. Made with ripe pumpkin, it is superior and much richer than with ripe marrow. The jam ought to boil three hours after all the marrow is added. 23. Lemonade Syrup. Boil four pounds of loaf sugar in a quart of water, strain into a basin, and when nearly cold stir in two ounces and a half of powdered citric acid previously dissolved with a little hot water;