54 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 57. Pineapple Shape. Dissolve one packet of Nelson’s gelatine in half a pint of milk, overnight; next day put it on to boil, with a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar and another half-pint of milk ; let all boil for ten minutes; put in a basin, and when cold, and beginning to set, stir in a few pieces of fresh (or tinned) pineapple ; place in a mould, and turn out on the following day. 58. Cocoanut Blamanche Soak a one-ounce packet of Nelson’s gelatine in one pint o milk, either overnight or for four hours ; then put it into a saucepan with six ounces of soft sugar, and stir until it boils ; remove it from the fire, and let it cool; grate the flesh of a small cocoanut or half of a large one, add to it the milk of the nut if there be any, and stir into it one pint of fresh milk and essence of vanille to taste; add this to the boiled milk and gelatine, etc. ; stir well for a few minutes, and then pour into a wetted mould. A few drops of cochineal are an improvement to the appearance. 59. Citric Jelly. Soak one ounce of Nelson’s gelatine in half a pint of cold water, overnight; next day place the soaked gelatine in a saucepan, with three-quarters of a pound (barely) of loaf-sugar, and half the rind of a lemon cut thin ; dissolve a threepenny packet of Nelson’s citric acid in a pint and a half of hot water, add this to the ingredients in the saucepan, and stir now and then until it boils ; allow all to boil for five minutes, remove from the fire, add twelve drops of essence of lemon, and pass through a strainer into a wetted mould. Make this one day for use on the next. Note.—I am aware that this recipe is not a new one ; it has, however, only lately come under my notice, and I find it is .so very pleasant to the taste, so easy to make, and so economical, that I cannot resist giving it a place in my little book. The original recipe recommends half a pint of wine in place of the same quantity of water, but not only does this add to the expense without to my mind improving the taste, but in my opinion wine and spirits should never be used in cooldng except when it would not be possible to keep food (such as mincemeat) without a small proportion of one or the other.