27 MEAT. three hours ; then place the saucepan beside the fire, and when it ceases to boil add the meat; stir well; then add a teaspoonful of casareep and a teaspoonful of tamarind jam. After ten minutes the hash is ready to serve, or can remain without injury to its merits on the fire until required. Note.—This sounds like an extravagant dish, but in a family where foreign articles are constantly being supplied by gifts from foreign friends, its real cost is very trifling. For instance, all the unusual ingredients here named I have seldom if ever been without during the many years I have kept house in England, and yet I may safely say I have never had to buy any of them. Once in engaging a cook,—or rather I should say that trying anomaly a general servant,—I endeavoured to ascertain her culinary knowledge. She had never heard of a currie, or a rissole, or even a potato pie. I ventured to ask what the family in whose service she had lived for five years used to do with their cold meat. “ They made ’ashes, mum,” she said. ‘‘Howl” I demanded. “ With bones, water, flour, salt, and meat.” I trust my foreign hash may fall into the hands of some who, for five long-suffering years, have eaten English ’ashes, and that they may learn by experience to appreciate the difference ! N.B. The remains of this hash warmed up on the following day, with a tablespoonful of currie powder, and served with rice, makes an excellent dish. 42. Cold Savoury Rice. Boil a breakfast-cupful of rice in a pint of stock ; drain it; butter a pie-dish, and put in a layer of rice, and as much as will stick to the sides as well; have ready any cold meat minced and flavoured with powdered spice, pepper, and salt; place this on the rice, and cover it over with the remainder of the boiled rice; tie the pie-dish firmly in a cloth, and boil it in stock for half an hour. When it is quite cold, turn it out and serve, garnishing the dish with parsley and boiled crayfish. This rice can be boiled in a shape or a common pudding-basin equally well. 43. Rice Pie (to be eaten hot). Boil a breakfast-cupful of rice in a pint of stock ; drain it; butter a pie-dish, and put in a layer of rice ; have ready any cold meat minced fine and flavoured with chopped onion and