ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 23 23. Macaroni Mutton. Fry a few slices of cold mutton (underdone is best) with a large onion cut in pieces, add some stock, sauce of any kind, pepper and salt, and a quarter of a pound of macaroni. Let all simmer for two hours, and then serve. 24. Macaroni Pie. Any kind of cold meat minced through the machine, pepper, salt, a little Worcester sauce, an onion cut up small, and half a cupful of stock : place this mixture at the bottom of a pie-dish, fill it up with macaroni previously well boiled and drained. Strew the top with grated cheese and little dabs of butter. Bake in a brisk oven until the macaroni begins to colour. 25. Spiced Beef. About seven pounds of the thin flank salted : remove the inside skin, and powder the beef well with a mixture of pounded nutmeg, ginger, mace, and cloves, also black pepper and cayenne. Roll it up tight, putting a skewer at each end to keep in the seasonings. Cover it up close in a pan of cold water, and boil it for four hours. The beef must be tied with tapes or string to prevent its unrolling. When you remove it from the fire, place it between two plates with a weight on the top (or, better still, in a brawn-pan, if you happen to have one). Remove the tapes or string, and the skewers, before it comes to table. This is to be eaten cold. 26. Beef and Lentils. Fry some beef-steak cut small, or some slices of underdone cold meat, with some onions, pepper and salt. Have ready some lentils, boiled and mashed ; season them with pepper and salt, and warm them up in sufficient stock or gravy to moisten them without making them too liquid. When thoroughly hot, arrange them in a wall on a dish, and place the beef and onions in the middle with a nice thickened gravy. 27. Cassole. After soaking a pound of lentils in water all night, boil them in stock ; mash them, and place a layer of them in a buttered pie-disli. Over this layer place some mutton cutlets which have been partly fried ; moisten with gravy, fill up the pie-dish with