67 M.ISCELLA NEO US. eover them, and let them stand twelve hours. Next day put the contents of the bowl in a preserving-pan, and let them simmer for five hours, or longer, until the peel of the oranges looks clear: to every twelve oranges allow eight pounds of crystallised sugar (ihd. per pound), and boil after the sugar is added an hour longer. This marmalade costs 2\d. the one-pouncl jar. 34. Green Walnut Preserve. Take green walnuts, and boil them in water about ten minutes; strain, and reboil them in fresh water until tender; be careful not to let them break; strain them again, and add their weight in moist or lump sugar and a few cloves ; boil all together for half an hour, without breaking the walnuts : when the syrup jellies they are done. Place in pots like any other preserve. 35. Soda Buns. Take a pint and a half of flour and a quarter of a pound of butter, rubbing them together; add half a pound of moist sugar, a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda; dissolve a teaspoonful of tartaric acid in a quarter of a pint of milk, and add to the other ingredients ; and lastly, two well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture in rough pieces on a floured baking-tin, with a small slice of candied peel on each bun. 36. “Parkin.” Half a pound of treacle, one pound of oatmeal, two ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar: melt the treacle and butter together, put them into a basin, and add the oatmeal and sugar. Pour in buttered tins, and bake slowly for two hours or longer. 37. Winter Salad. Boil and mash eight large potatoes, using a little milk to make them soft; add salt, pepper, some onion chopped very fine, a small quantity of mustard, two tablespoonsful of oil, and two of vinegar : mix all thoroughly; cut up some celery rather small, a beetroot cut in slices and then quartered ; mix these with the potato, etc., and over all lay some slices of cut beetroot. 38. Tomato Chutnee. Two pounds of tomatoes, one pound of Spanish onions, half a pound of apples, half an ounce of salt, half a pint of vinegar, 1