PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 49 36. Creme de Chamouni. One ounce of gelatine, half a pint of boiling water, one glass of raisin wine, juice and rind of two lemons, and three-quarters of a pint of milk ; pour the boiling water upon the lemon rind, sugar, and gelatine ; boil for ten minutes, strain, add the other ingredients, and pour into a mould. 37. Meringues. A quarter of a pound of finely powdered sugar (loaf), and the whites of three eggs : whip the egg whites to a stiff froth; add the sugar quickly and lightly as you are beating the eggs. Have ready some tins, lined with buttered papers ; take a spoonful of the egg and sugar, and drop it on to the paper, not allowing the froths to touch one another ; bake in a slack oven, watching carefully. As soon as the outsides begin to acquire colour, turn them on the other side, scoop out a little of the egg, and when they are slightly brown on both sides take them from the oven, and leave them to harden ; then take them off the tins, make a whip of cream, fill one side of a meringue, attach another one to it, and fill a glass dish with them. Note.—These delicious sweets are very inexpensive to make, but require a good deal of experience. 38. My Plum Pudding. One pound of flour, one pound of bread-crumbs, two ounces of mixed spice, one pound of suet, one pound of candied peel, one pound of raisins, one pound of currants, half a pound of blanched almonds slightly bruised, six dried walnuts peeled and divided in half: mix the ingredients well together ; wet with rather more than a pint of milk. Boil ten hours. Note.—The absence of brandy and eggs makes this recipe much more economical than ordinary plum puddings. Experi- ence proves to me that both are quite unnecessary, and 1 can confidently recommend the above. 39. Potato Pudding. Rub eight ounces of potatoes quite smooth ; add two ounces of butter, the grated rind and the juice of one lemon, sugar to ta-ste, two eggs well beaten, and a teacupful of milk. Bake in a dish, with pastry round the edge, for half an hour. 4