MEAT. 21 19. Meat Charlotte. Line a pie-dish with stale bread, and moisten with stock or gravy ; sprinkle over this some meat (any kind of cooked meat) minced fine, and some chopped onion and parsley, pepper and salt ; add another layer of bread, which must be moistened in the same way; proceed until the pie-dish is nearly full. Over the last layer of meat and seasoning strew bread-crumbs (instead of a slice of bread), so as to hide the meat completely ; place a few little dabs of butter on the crumbs, and bake in the oven for an hour. 20. Steak and African Sauce. Fry about two pounds of beef-steak ; place it on a hot dish in the oven ; have ready one large onion cut in small pieces, lay it in the pan where the steak was fried, fry it a light brown, dredge in some flour, add a dessert-spoonful of vinegar, one of tomato sauce, a teaspoonful of unmade mustard, a little pepper and salt, and a teacupful of water. Let it simmer until all the ingredients are thoroughly done, constantly stirring. Pour over the steak, and serve. This sauce is delicious also with chops or slices of cold beef just warmed through. 21. Scrap Rolls. Take any little pieces of cooked meat—two or three different sorts if you happen to have them—and mince them through the machine; season them with pepper and salt, and either herbs, or parsley alone, or currie-powder, according to taste; make a crust with cold boiled potatoes, a little milk, and flour; place little pieces of the seasoned meat inside the crust, which must be cut according to the size you wish; moisten the meat with gravy, water, or milk ; roll it up in the crust, and bake for half an hour. 22. Scrap Pudding. Any little pieces of minced cooked meat, a quarter of a pound of suet, half a pound of flour, an onion chopped up very small, pepper, salt, and a little finely chopped parsley : mix all these ingredients in a basin, moisten with very little stock—just sufficient to make the mixture cling together, but it must not be wet; place in a buttered pudding-basin, tie a cloth over it, and boil for fou» hours. Turn out on a dish, and serve with made gravy in a sauce-tureen.