25 MEAT. The meat can be cooked first: remains of cold meat and ham, or bacon if more convenient. 36. East India Currie. Fry some onions in dripping, and also a few slices of apple ; stir until quite tender; then mix in a tablespoonful of currie- powder and a pinch of salt; cut up some lean meat in small pieces about an inch square ; mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon, and let it simmer gently for three hours. About ten minutes before serving add a pint of milk thickened with a little flour. Serve some rice on a separate dish. • 37. Schinken und Nudeln (Ham and Macaroni). When a cooked ham is nearly finished, hang it up for a few days to dry the meat; boil half a pound of macaroni until quite tender, drain it, grate about two tablespoonsful of the ham, stir it well into the boiled macaroni, with some pepper and a small lump of butter, place this in a cake-tin, and put it in the oven for a few minutes. Serve very hot, with a napkin pinned round the tin. 38. West Indian Pepper-pot. Procure a pipkin (a brown earthenware jar with a handle to it), into it put some little pieces of cold boiled salt pork, add some good stock, cayenne pepper to taste, three tablespoonsful of foot sugar, and the same quantity of casareep ; to this foundation add any odds and ends you may have in the house of either cold meat, poultry, or game. The pepper-pot must go to the fire every day, whether it be used or not, so that the ingredients are made thoroughly hot through. Stock must be added occasionally, as also casareep, pepper, and sugar according to taste. Great care must be taken neither to smoke nor burn the pepper-pot, as that would entirely spoil the contents. Never put the pepper-pot on the fire, or it will crack. This delicious dish is always brought to table in the pot in which it is kept, and warmed. Note.—Casareep is the juice of the cassava tree, prepared in some particular way by the natives of the West Indies.- It is procurable in England at Fortnum and Mason’s. A pint bottle will last a very long time, and is the only expense attendant on this favourite dish. Having once started a pepper-pot, it will be found an actual economy, as any little bits of meat or game