5° E CO NO MIC A L CO ONER V. 40. Bread Pudding. Soak any pieces of stale bread in half a pint of milk ; add half a teacupful of currants, moist sugar to taste, the grated rind of one lemon, or a teaspoonful of essence of vanille, and two eggs. Beat all well together, and bake for twenty minutes in well-buttered teacups (not tins) three parts full. Very nice either hot or cold. To be turned out of the cups before serving. t 41. Lemon Rice Pudding. Boil three ounces of rice in a pint of milk ; add three ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, the peel of a lemon grated and the juice of half, and the yolks of two eggs. Place in a pie-dish, and bake in the oven. Break up the whites of the two eggs, and just before you take the rice from the oven spread the froth on the top. This is to be eaten cold. 42. Oswego Shape. To one pint of milk use two tablespoonsful of Oswego ; dis- solve the hour, and put it into the rest of the milk (when nearly boiling) ; add sugar to taste, and flavour with cinnamon, essence of vanille, or lemon-peel. Pour into a wetted mould, for the following day. 43. Oswego Surprise. Proceed as above : have ready some stewed fruit (any kind) or jam ; pour nearly half the Oswego, boiled and flavoured, into a wetted mould ; when that quantity is nearly cold, put in tli9 stewed fruit or jam, and on that the rest of the Oswego. When it turns out it looks like an ordinary white shape, and not until it is cut can the jam or fruit be discovered. 44. Toicinho-do Ceo (“ Heavenly Bacon ”). Beat the yolks of twelve eggs until they are quite thick, grease four small basins, half fill them with the beaten eggs, place the basins in a preserving-pan of hot water, and put a cloth over to keep in the steam. When they have boiled a little while, try the eggs with a very pointed wedge of wood to see if they are done, which you ascertain by the contents not sticking to the wedge. Turn the egg-mixture out of the basins, and cut them in slices. Make a strong syrup of a pint of water and one pound of sugar; when this boils, put in the slices of egg, and