50 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. pepper, mace, a bunoh of herbs, some strips of lemon-peel, two onions, two tablespoonsful of mushroom ketchup, and a thicken- ing of flour. Place the lid on the jar, and put it in a hot oven, and there let it remain for about two hours (unless the rabbit be young, when an hour and a half will be sufficient). Take out the joints of rabbit ; warm the forcemeat-balls in the gravy before doing so, and take them out with the rabbit; place in a deep dish, and pour the gravy through a sieve over the rabbit, etc. 15. Brazilian Stew. Cut up a few onions, tomatoes, and carrots ; have ready two pounds of the shin of beef cut into pieces about two inches long, and dip each piece into vinegar. Put the vegetables and meat, pepper and salt, into a saucepan without any water, and let them simmer by the fire for three or four hours. There will be plenty of gravy, and the meat very tender. ■ 16. Haricot Beans and Pickled Pork. Take one quart of beans, and soak them all night in water; next morning boil them in a saucepan for twenty minutes ; take them out and drain them ; have ready an earthenware jar with a lid; put three-quarters of a pound of pickled pork into the jar ; add the beans, and sufficient water just to cover the whole. Bake the pork and beans in the oven from six to twelve hours 17. Sausage Pudding. One pound of sausages steeped in boiling water, to remove their skins : make some suet crust, and line a pudding-basin with it; place on the crust the sausage-meat, an onion chopped small, a few sage leaves also chopped, pepper and salt, and some stock and mushroom ketchup to moisten the whole. Cover up the pudding with the suet crust, and boil in a floured cloth for three hours. /' 18. Bacon Rolls. Make a crust with some cold potatoes well mashed, flour and milk ; roll it out into pieces about eight inches long and half the width ; place a thin slice of bacon and an oyster (tinned ones do very well) inside the crust; roll them up, and bake them for about an hour, or until the crust assumes a nice brown.