ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 26 too little to make a dish of, are cared for and well flavoured by being consigned to the pepper-pot. A few red peppers, when obtainable, are an improving addition. 39. Bacon and Oysters. Cut a dozen slices of bacon very thin ; have ready twelve oysters just opened ; lay an oyster inside each piece of bacon, and roll it up, putting a small skewer through it : when all are ready, fry them in the frying-pan, or in a Dutch oven, for a few minutes ; place each roll on a piece of toast, and serve very hot. (Remove the skewers.) Note.—This makes a delicious entree or breakfast dish, and one that may be indulged in occasionally when oysters can be bought at fourpence a dozen. 40. Spanish Stew, or “ Guiso.” Take about two pounds of beef, brown it in the stewpan with a very little dripping, add about a pint of stock, a little salt, two or three cloves and allspice, a bay-leaf, two onions (a little garlic if approved), and three or four tomatoes cut up and the seeds omitted : let all simmer for an hour, and then add about two pounds of potatoes, pared and exit in slices. Cold roast beef may also be used, in which case all the other ingredients are stewed in the stock and the beef added last. 41. A Foreign Hash. Remains of cold leg or shoulder of mutton. Take the meat well off the bones, and if you have no digester, with stock, make some from the bones. Cut the meat into equal-sized pieces, or if more convenient, pass it through the mincing machine. Cut up two Spanish onions, four carrots, two tomatoes, and two large apples in slices ; fry these in some dripping, and when they are tender pour upon them about one quart of stock (more or less in proportion to your quantity of meat) ; then take two heaped tablespoonsful of flour, and make them into a smooth paste with a little cold water, and thicken the stock with it; then add a high seasoning of salt and pepper, a tea- spoonful of brown sugar, a few herbs (either fresh or dried), a piece of lemon-peel, a clove of garlic, one tablespoonful of fdiili vinegar, and if it be winter, and you have no tomatoes to fry with the onions and apples, add now two tablespoonsful of tomato sauce; let all these ingredients boil together for