19 ME A T. water to cover it; let it simmer very gently until tender ; remove it from the saucepan, and skin it; return it to the saucepan again, adding a few parboiled tomatoes and some spice, pepper and salt. Let all simmer until the tomatoes are done. Dish the tongue: with the tomatoes round it, and have some of the liquor sent to table in a sauce-tureen. Note.—The remains of the liquor serves capitally for soup. (See Tongue Soup, No. 21, p. 5.) 11. Minced Beef with Tomatoes and Onions. The remains of any cold beef minced fine : fry two or three onions cut into rings, and one or two tomatoes cut in slices ; add the minced beef and about a pint of stock, pepper and salt to taste ; thicken with flour. Have ready some mashed potatoes ; make a wall of them on a dish, and pour the contents of the saucepan into the middle. 12. Bacon Pie. Mash some potatoes, and place them in layers in a pie-dish ; between each layer of potatoes place a few thinly cut slices of bacon, a little chopped onion and parsley, and some pepper; moisten with stock or water as you proceed. Let the last layer be of potatoes, over which place a few little bits of butter. Bake in a hot oven for about an hour. 13. Plymouth Pie. Have ready some minced meat highly seasoned with pepper and salt, add some mushrooms cut up small (the pickled mush- rooms or ketchup are equally nice in the winter-time), or cham- pignons, and some chopped parsley ; moisten well with gravy or stock. Place this mixture at the bottom of a pie-dish, and fill it up with mashed potatoes, over which place little bits of butter. Bake in a hot oven until the top of the pie is browned. 14. Jugged Babbit. Cut up a large rabbit into joints; fry it in a saucepan with some forcemeat-balls ; have ready an earthenware jar with a lid; when the rabbit is nicely browned, place it in the jar, keeping out the forcemeat-balls, which will be sufficiently cooked, and will only need warming through. Cover the rabbit with some good stock, and pepper and salt, a few cloves, whole