14 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. butter to fry ; add pepper, a few cloves, a little ground cinnamon, a little vinegar, and a small quantity of sugar and salt. When the onions are done, put in the fish which has been already fried, and let all boil together for a few minutes. Any cold fish can be warmed up in this sauce, and is extremely nice. 31. Portuguese Stewed Fish. Fry about one pound of Spanish onions and one pound of tomatoes ; when ready, place any cold fried fish in the frying- pan with the onions and tomatoes; add some stock thickened with flour, some pepper and salt; heat all thoroughly, and then serve. Great care must be taken in removing the fish from the frying-pan not to break it. 32. Portuguese Fish Rice. Save the liquor in which cod or any other fish has been boiled; on the following day fry some onions and tomatoes and herbs ; add the stock in which the fish was boiled, and enough rice to take it up, adding pepper and salt. When the rice is nearly done, stir in any remains of cold fish, freed from bone, and serve very hot. 33. Scotch Dish of Haddock and Sauce. Skin two fresh haddocks ; cut slices longways off the bone, and lay them aside ; boil the skins, trimmings, heads, etc., with seasonings and some parsley ; strain off the liquor, and thicken it with milk and flour; have an egg whisked up in the tureen, and a little finely minced parsley. Take the fish cutlets, and when the thickened liquor is at boiling-point place them in it and boil for ten minutes; then gently stir some of the sauce into the tureen, or deep dish, among the egg and parsley, talcing care not to let it curdle. Add the fish with the sauce that remains, and serve very hot. 34. lobster Pudding. One tin of lobster free from the liquor and chopped small, one ounce of chopped suet, two ounces of bread-crumbs, one egg well beaten : season these ingredients with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. Mix well, and tie in a buttered pudding- basin. Boil for one hour. Serve with melted butter.