48 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. on a dish with a good sprinkling of sugar and sifted cinnamon over each one. 32. Golden Toast. Cut some slices of bread, not very thick ; take off the crusts, and soak the bread in milk flavoured with essence of vanille, almond, or lemon ; beat up an egg, and dip each slice of bread into it; fry the pieces of a pretty golden colour. When Berved, sift powdered loaf-sugar over. 33. Rice Cream. Take a large heaped tablespoonful of ground rice, and rub smooth with a little cold milk ; put a pint of milk in a sauce- pan ; sweeten and flavour ; when the milk is hot, add the ground rice, and stir well until it boils. Serve cold. bl ote.—This is a delicious accompaniment to any stewed fruit, especially rhubarb. It can either be poured over the fruit, or served alone in a glass dish. 34. Spanish Crema. Cut six or seven stale sponge-cakes in half, arrange them in a deep glass dish, and pour a little milk on each one to soak it; put nearly a pint of milk on the fire, and boil; in a basin place a tablespoonful of Osweigo flour and some sugar ; make it into a paste with the remainder of the pint of milk, and add to it one egg ; stir and beat well. When the milk on the fire is nearly boiling, stir in the Osweigo and egg until it thickens ; take it oif the fire and stir for a little while ; stick the soaked sponge-cakes with blanched almonds, and place amongst them any sort of jam you prefer. Pour the custard over all, sift with powdered cinnamon, and serve when cold. 35. Italian Sponge. Dissolve one ounce of gelatine into a pint of milk ; put it in a saucepan on the fire until it nearly boils. Stir a quarter of a pound of sugar into the yolks of four eggs, and having beaten it well, stir it into the saucepan with the milk, etc., until it thickens. Put it by until it begins to set. Beat the whites of the four eggs into a stiff froth ; add to the nearly set milk, etc., with a teaspoonful of essence of vanille ; beat for a few minutes, then pour into a wetted mould for the next day.