MEAT. *9 Crumbs ; fry them a nice brawn, and serve them with thickened gravy flavoured with lemon-juice. 49. Riblettes. Cut a few slices of uncooked mutton, and the same of pork, about the thickness of one finger ; beat the slices well with the back of a knife ; powder them with salt and pepper ; place the slices in a saucepan with chopped onion and powdered herbs between each slice ; throw over all enough stock to cover the whole. Let them simmer for two hours, adding more stock if necessary. At the end of two hours, thicken the gravy with two spoonsful of flour made smooth with a little cold water; simmer for another hour, and then serve. 50. Goose Giblet Stew. Place the giblets in a saucepan (all but the liver, which must only be added half an hour before serving), with sufficient good stock to cover them ; as soon as they boil, skim well, add pepper and salt, two small onions, one clove of garlic, two slices of lemon or orange, two cloves, and a thickening of flour; let these ingredients simmer for two hours, then add a slice of thick bread which has been fried in dripping or Australian marrow, and cut in small squares, and a pint of roast chesnuts freed from shell and skin. Stir well; let all simmer again for a quarter of an hour, and then serve. 51. Stew of Cold Roast Goose. Take the remains of a goose, and cut bones and all into small pieces ; into a pint of stock (or more, should there be much goose left) put two cloves, pepper and salt, a thickening of flour, two slices of lemon, and a pint of roast or boiled chesnuts, without shells or skin; as soon as it has boiled half an hour, put in the remains of the goose, and a slice of fried bread cut in small squares. Simmer for half an hour, and then serve. 52. Rabbit Mould. Joint a good-sized rabbit, and place it in a jar in tho oven, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg, a good pinch of gelatine, and sufficient stock to cover the whole ; let it stow until the bones drop from the meat ; pass the stock through a Bieve, lay the meat in a wetted mould (care being taken that all