5i PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. let tnem just boil up ; put the slices in a basin, and pour the syrup over. When you serve, sift powdered cinnamon on the top. To be eaten cold. Note.—This is a Portuguese dish, and extremely nice. 45. Victoria Sandwiches. Weigh two eggs, and take the same weight of sugar, butter, and flour ; beat the eggs, and add them to the other ingredients, mixing thoroughly; grease a pudding-tin, put in the mixture, and bake twenty minutes. When cold, slice the mixture in half, spread it with jam, put the top on again, cut it into pieces about two inches long, and place on a glass dish. 46. Economical Mincemeat. Half a pound of apples, half a pound of lemons, half a pound of suet, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of currants, half a pound of raisins, half a pound of citron, two teaspoonsful of mixed spice, two teaspoonsful of ground ginger, a pinch of salt, two wineglassfuls of brandy : grate all the skin of two lemons, add it to the remainder of the ingredients (not including brandy), pass all the things through a mincing-machine two or three times, stir in the lemon-juice and brandy, and put away in pots for future use. 47. Lemon Cheesecakes. Grate the rind of two lemons, add to it the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar (moist), and the juice of the two lemons ; place all these things, when well mixed, into a saucepan, and keep stirring one way until the mixture thickens. This will keep for months. Make some pastry, line some pattypans, and bake; when the pastry is nearly done, put in the lemon-cheese, and serve very hot. 48. Small Cocoanut Puddings. Dissolve two ounces of butter, add to it two ounces of grated cocoanut, four ounces of moist sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and two eggs : beat this mixture well together, then add the strained juice of the half-lemon, and place the mixture in buttered pattypans or cups, and bake for half an hour. 49. Large Cocoanut Pudding. Grate a quarter of a pound of fine bread-crumbs, and soak