2 4 ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 31. Potted Meat. The remains of cold salt meat. Pass the beef twice through the mincing-machine, and free it of little bits of gristle ; pound it well in a mortar, add anchovy sauce, a little good stock, pepper, and spice previously well pounded ; press the mixture into jars, and put some melted butter on the top. 32. Ensopada d’Ave (Stewed Chicken—Portuguese). Cut up into small joints a nice fowl ; put it in a pan of cold water for an hour; dry well on a cloth. Flour each piece of fowl, and fry it in a frying-pan a nice brown. Cut up some Spanish onions and tomatoes, and fry them in a saucepan ; add the fowl, a little water, pepper and salt, spice and sweet herbs. Simmer gently until cooked ; serve with toasted sippets round the dish. 33. African Chicken and Macaroni. Cut a chicken into small joints ; put it in a stewpan with three large onions sliced, and some dripping. When slightly browned, add some stock, half a pound of macaroni, salt, cayenne pepper, and tomato sauce to taste. Boil slowly for about two hours, until the stock is all absorbed, and the fowl and macaroni tender. Serve the macaroni heaped on a dish, and the pieces of chicken laid on the top. If this dish is thought too dry, take a cupful of the gravy out of the stewpan before the macaroni has absorbed it, so that it may be well flavoured, and send to table in a sauce-tureen when the fowl and macaroni are served : the same quantity taken out of the saucepan can be replaced with stock or water. 34. Ox-cheek Mould. Boil half a head two hours ; cut the meat off in slices, and lay them in a mould with some pepper, salt, and spice ; pour over it a little mushroom ketchup, and the liquor in which the cheek was boiled ; place the mould in a hot oven, and bake one hour ; when cold, turn it out. 35. Meat Sausage. Mince half a pound of fresh beef and a quarter of a pound of bacon or haan, a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs, two blades of pounded mace, one egg, salt and pepper; mix all together, tie very tightly in a cloth, and boil an hour and a half,