MEAT. 23 the remainder of the lentils, place some pieces of butter on the top, and bake for at least an hour. 28. Minced Bubble-ancl-Squeak. Mince any sort of cold meat, or any mixture of meat, but let it have a little cold ham or bacon (cooked or raw) mixed with it. Fry this a. nice brown ; keep warm in the oven. Mix cold potatoes, an onion, and some boiled cabbage together, and fry in the fat left from the meat. Place the mince on a dish, and lay the vegetables over. Cauliflower or broccoli are equally as nice with this dish as the cabbages. 29. Minced Currie (Cold Meat). Mince in the machine whatever meat you wish to curry. Fry a large onion in a saucepan. Moisten some flour and currie- powder with a little stock, add it to the onion, and keep stirring while you add as much more stock as you require, and a good pinch of salt and a piece of lemon-peel. Let this boil for two or three hours. About half an hour before dinner, take a large cupful of the liquor, and place it in a small saucepan to keep hot, while into the other saucepan you throw the minced meat; stir for a little while, and then let it simmer until the meat is thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil. Have ready some boiled rice to serve with the currie, but not in the same dish, and serve the gravy which was placed in the small pan in a sauce-tureen. Note.—It is a very common mistake, in making curries, only to put in the currie-powder as a thickening a few minutes before serving. Currie being made of raw ingredients, requires to boil or simmer for a long time, otherwise there is a raw flavour which is objectionable ; and not only that, but half the quantity of currie will suffice if it boils a long time, as the heat and the flavour of it is extracted more and more according to the length of time it is on the fire. 30. Potato Puffs. Mince some cooked meat and flavour it according to taste, either with pickles cut small or mushrooms ; moisten with stock or gravy. Mash some potatoes, roll them out with a very little flour, cut them with a saucer (into the shape of one), place the meat in the centre, cover over with a piece of the rolled and cut potato paste, pinch the corners, and fry them a light brown.