ECONOMICAL COOKERY. S8 74. Date Pudding. One pound of dates, stoned, (the mashed ones are best for this pudding, and are always cheaper than the others,) half a pound of suet, half a pound of bread-crumbs, one tablespoonful of sugar, two eggs, and one cup of milk : chop the suet and dates very finely, adding some powdered cinnamon and the other ingredients; place in a buttered basin, tie in a cloth, and boil for three hours. 75. Plain Cabinet Pudding. Butter a shape or pudding-basin, stick it all over with stoned raisins, then butter some slices of baker’s bread without the crusts, and place them in layers in the basin or shape ; beat one egg, and add to it a pint of milk sweetened to taste ; throw tins carefully over the bread in the basin ; leave it to soak for an hour, then tie it in a cloth, and boil one hour. Can be eaten hot or cold ; in any case turn it out of the basin or shape. 76. Jenny Lind Pudding. Two cups of flour, one of white sugar, one of milk, one egg, one teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in the milk. Add two teaspoonsful of cream of tartar, and a little grated lemon peel. Bake in a shape for half an hour, and serve with sauce. 77. Rice Pudding. Half a pound of rice, half a pound of suet, and a quarter of a pound of sugar. Chop the suet very fine, and boil it and the other ingredients in a pint of milk until quite tender. Butter a mould or basin, stick it with raisins and a slice or two of citron, pour in the rice, etc., and boil for half an hour. Turn it out of the mould or basin, and serve hot. 78. Crumply Pudding. A quart of milk, four tablespoonsful of flour, two eggs, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and a little finely chopped suet. Grease a mould, stick it with raisins, orange and lemon peel, and citron. Make the flour into a smooth paste with the milk, and add the sugar. Pour this into the mould, and on the top place sufficient chopped suet to cover it. Bake in the oven until the suet looks brown and set. Turn out of the mould and serve very hot.