PUDDINGS AND SWEET DISHES. 53 then add a little silt and three eggs, which must not have been previously beaten ; stir this batter until quite smooth. Put in a preserving-pan, or very clean saucepan, three-quarters of a pound of dripping ; when it boils, drop in a dessertspoonful of batter at a time : the batter ought to rise and float in the lard like a ball. As soon as the “ Sonhos ” are a pretty golden colour they are done, so take them out and drain them. Make a syrup of half a pound of loaf sugar to a pint of water ; place the “ Sonhos ” in a basin, and pour the syrup, boiling, over them. To be eaten the following day, cold. 55. Lagrimas (Madeira “ Tears ”). To a pound and a half of loaf sugar allow the yolks of twelve eggs and a teacupful and a half of water; place the sugar and water in a preserving-pan, and as soon as it boils fill a very tiny funnel with the beaten yolks ; hold the funnel over the syrup, and move it round and round so as to form a thread (about the size of vermicelli); every time the funnel is emptied take the pan off the fire, and with two little sharp-pointed wooden skewers move the egg about in the sugar until it assumes the shape of a large tear (that is, wide at one end and narrow at the other, and each tear must be about two inches long) ; when the egg in the funnel is finished, add a little more water to the syrup, and as soon as it boils on the fire again repeat the process with the funnel until all the egg is done. Return the syrup once more to the fire to thicken ; when it is ready, take the pan off the fire and stir the syrup with a wooden spoon. Then take each tear and stick it -with a wooden skewer, dip it in the thick syrup, and hang it up to drain and dry. To be eaten when the tears are candied, and with no syrup over them. Will keep for weeks. Note.—This is a very troublesome sweet to make, and by no means economical, as the above quantities will only make a few “ Ligrimas but they are so delicious, and make such a charming variety to the usual English sweets, that I could not resist giving the recipe. 56. Queijadas (Madeira). Mix one pint of goats’ milk with the yolks of eight eggs ; add sugar, pounded cinnamon, and almond paste ; make some large tartlets, and put the mixture in, doubling the corners of the paste over. Rake for half an hour in a good oven.