ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 6 or three onions, two carrots, some celery, and a few herbs. Thicken with flour, boil altogether about three hours, and serve. 22. Carrot Soup. Weigh two pounds of carrots, peel and slice them ; also a few onions. Fry the onions and carrots in a saucepan, and add two quarts of stock, some pepper and salt. When the vegetables are tender, take them out and pulp them through a sieve into a basin ; add as much of the stock in which they were boiled as will make them the thickness required ; return the soup to the fire, bring it to the boil, and then serve with sippets of toast in the tureen. 23. Potato Soup. Fry two onions in a saucepan, add fourteen good-sized potatoes cut in quarters, and boil them in some stock until the potatoes can be mashed with a wooden spoon; pass them through the sieve, return them to the saucepan, adding pepper, salt, and a good piece of dripping. Let them simmer for a few minutes, and then serve. 24. Rice Soup. Boil a small teacupful of rice in a quart of water for an hour, add salt and pepper. Five minutes before you take it off, stir in one egg well beaten, and a little parsley chopped fine. Note.—This recipe I have placed under the heading of soups, but it is very nice as a luncheon dish ; it must not be too liquid, and the parsley ought to float on the top, which gives it a pretty appearance. 25. Sopa de Cheiros (Portuguese Herb Soup). Brown a large Spanish onion, and two or three raw tomatoes ; add as much hot water as you require soup. Tie up a few sprigs of common thyme and knotted marjoram, and throw them into the soup with pepper and salt to taste. Break up some pieces of bread into a tureen (not quite half full), and grate some cheese over the bread. Pour the soup over it, take out the herbs, and sift some more grated cheese on the top. Cover up the tureen for a few minutes while the bread is soaking, and then serve. Note.—This delicious soup is very quickly made ; ten minutes boiling will suffice to flavour it beautifully. It must be served very hot.