ECONOMICAL COOKERY. 42 of vanille, and place the jelly in a mould. Make the day before it is wanted. 3. Chocolate Jelly. Dissolve an ounce packet of Nelson’s opaque gelatine in half a pint of milk ; let it stand a few hours ; take two ounces of grated chocolate and a quarter of a pound of sugar, and mix into a smooth paste with some milk ; place the gelatine with another half-pint of milk on the fire, and when nearly boiling add the chocolate and sugar ; let all boil together, stirring one way all the time for ten minutes ; take off the pan, add a teaspoonful of essence of vanille, and put the mixture into a mould. Make this the day before it is wanted. 4. Orange Jelly. One ounce of Nelson’s gelatine dissolved overnight in half a pint of cold water : place it in a saucepan with some lemon-peel cut thin and half a pound of loaf-sugar, and another half-pint of water ; let it boil for ten minutes ; strain half a pint of orange- juice (rather more), and the juice of one lemon (the juice is not to go to the fire at all), add to the fruit-juice the gelatine, etc., stir well for a few minutes, then place in a mould until next day. Note.—It takes about twelve oranges for a pint of juice : the more sour they are the better. This is a most economical and delicious recipe. 5. Lemon Jelly. Proceed as above, adding rather more sugar, half a pint more water, and all the peel off two lemons. Squeeze the juice of the two lemons (or three if they be small), add it to the boiled ingredients, which must be strained through a sieve ; place in a mould to turn out next day. Note.—Tins is a most simple and cheap dish, and always a favourite. 6. Lemon Sponge. Dissolve a one-ounce packet of Nelson’s gelatine into a pint and a half of water ; let it stand some hours ; then put it on to boil with the rind of two lemons, the juice of three, and three- quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar ; boil altogether for ten minutes, then put it in a basin till it is nearly set; whisk the whites of two eggs into a stiff froth, add it to the set lemon, and beat it