81 BLOOD the muscle-cells. Capillaries are often surrounded by a fine network of nerve-filaments. Sensory nerves are represent- ed by fibers that begin in the intima and adventitia, some- times in special nerve-beginnings. Blood. Blood is a red fluid that consists of blood-cells floating in plasma. It is a mesoblastic tissue in which the former represent the cellular elements, whilst the latter corresponds to the intercellular substance. Plasma is a clear, straw-col- ored fluid that contains fat globules from the chyle and fine colorless granules called blood-dust. In sections it appears as a granular coagulum. Blood-cells are of two kinds— red and white. Red cells (erythrocytes) are concavo-convex, circular, non-nucleated disks, 7j4 microns in diameter. In every cubic millimeter of blood are found 5,000,000 (average). Seen under the microscope, they are pale greenish-yellow in color. A hollow rubber ball from which the air has been expelled by indenting one hemisphere into the other with the finger tips represents their shape. If spread thickly, they adhere into rouleaux, lying upon one another as coins do. If allowed to dry, they become crenated from shrinking. Structurally, they are composed of a delicate, spongy, proto- plasmic stroma that contains hemoglobin. It is well to remember the diameter of red cells, since it is often used as a standard of measurement in micrometry. White cells (leucocytes) are irregularly round or oval, nucleated cells from one to three times the size of a red cell. In every cubic millimeter of blood are found 7,500 (average). They are not confined to the blood, which they enter from the lymph-vascular system, but are found, be it recalled, in connective tissue as wandering cells. According to their nuclear characteristics, they may be assorted into the fol- lowing classes:— (1) Small lymphocytes, whose nucleus is proportion- ately large and deeply staining, and whose cytoplasm is scanty, inconspicuous, and arranged like a ring around the nucleus. They are about the size of a red cell, and form