24 DEVELOPMENT ficulty, and in but few is it so clearly exemplified as in the Amphioxus. The telolecithal eggs of Amphibians, when floated on water, present the darkly-pigmented pole uppermost, since the vegetative pole, composed of yolk-cells, is the heavier. In these eggs gastrulation may be readily observed, the yolk- cells being extruded through the blastopore as the yolk-plug. Gastrulation in the higher mammals is most atypical and has not been established beyond peradventure. Seen from the surface, the blastocyst at this stage ex- hibits two areas—embryonic and extra-embryonic. The em- bryonic area corresponds to the site of the embryonic spot, and is determined by the connection retained between the inner cell-mass and the trophoblast during the transforma- tion of the morula into the blastocyst. The extra-embryonic area comprises the remainder of the wall of the blastocyst, and therefore corresponds to the trophoblast. From being round the embryonic area soon becomes pear-shaped, the. blunter end forming the cephalic pole, and the more pointed end the caudal pole. The pear-shaped embryonic area is now termed the embryonic shield. This, by transmitted light, ap- pears as a dark, central field surrounded by a lighter ring, the area pellucida. Since the former is the seat of more active cell-proliferation, it naturally cuts off more light than the latter. Some of the ectoblastic cells near the caudal pole of the embryonic shield thicken to form the embryonic crescent, and from this clump of cells the primitive streak develops. Primitive Streak. The primitive streak is a linear shading of the embry- onic shield extending from the embryonic crescent at the caudal pole forward toward the center. It is produced by proliferation of ectoblastic cells resulting in a keel-shaped thickening. Although but transient, yet it determines the long axis of the embryo. It becomes deeply indented by a furrow, the primitive groove. Near the center of the em- bryonic shield the primitive streak ends in an ectoblastic thickening—the node of Hensen. At this node, the three