THE BONES 274 tal sutures. One or several of them may occupy the place of the superior angle of the occipital, and one large pair has been known to form the whole of the occipital above the mid- dle curved lines. One may be present in the anterior fonta- nelle, forming the anterosuperior angle of the parietal. A small one may lie in the lesser wing of the sphenoid, and one or more very small ones in the suture between the sphenoid and ethmoid. They are seldom seen in the face, but their presence has been noted around the lacrimal, and at the ex- tremity of the sphenomaxillary fissure, where they may form an independent nodule wedged in between the greater wing of the sphenoid, the malar, and the maxilla. In their devel- opment and structure they resemble the other cranial bones. The epipteric bone, which belongs in the category of ossa sutarum, is a scale-like ossification often seen between the anteroinferior angle of the parietal and the greater wing of the sphenoid, near the pterion. Humphrey says of ossa sutarum:—“They are evidently stop-gaps developed in the membranous covering of the brain when the extension of the regular osseous nuclei is likely, for some reason, to be insufficient to cover in the cranial cavity.” Skeleton as a Whole. The average adult human skeleton presents a surface of about 12,500 square centimeters, less than half of which receives attachment of muscles. The term skeleton (dried body) includes the bony seg- ments, their cartilages and ligaments. It supports the softer tissues and protects organs. In Vertebrata the skeleton may be divided thus :—- (1) Exoskeleton, which includes bony plates devel- oped in the skin. Teeth, nails, hairs, and feathers probably also belong in this category (2) Endoskeleton, which is supportive and supplied with levers. (3) Splanchnoskeleton, which is probably represented in man by the cartilaginous framework of the larynx, trachea, and bronchi. True bony plates in the sclerotic are found in some Birds and Fishes. An os cordis occurs in the