196 THE BONES The tenth thoracic has an entire facet on each side above, but no demi-facet below. The transverse process usually shows no costal facet. If present, it is very small. The eleventh thoracic has a large body that approaches the lumbar type. The costal facets, large and complete, are situated on the pedicles. The pedicles are thick and strong. The spinous process is short and almost horizontal. The transverse processes are short and devoid of costal facets. They show an indefinite subdivision into three parts. The twelfth thoracic is transitional, and foreshadows the characters of a lumbar vertebra. Its inferior articular processes show convex, outwardly-turned facets. Its trans- verse processes are short and tripartite, presenting superior, inferior, and external tubercles which correspond to the mammillary, accessory, and costal processes of the lumbar vertebrae. They are devoid of costal facets. The pedicle has one complete facet for the head of the twelfth rib. Lumbar Vertebrae. A lumbar vertebra is distinguished thus. The body is large, and kidney-shaped, with the greatest diameter trans- verse, flattened above and below, and somewhat deeper be- fore than behind. The pedicles, strong and directed back- ward, spring from the upper part of the body, thereby allow- ing the inferior intervertebral notches considerable depth. The laminae are broad and short. The vertebral foramen is triangular with rounded angles, and is intermediate in size between that of a cervical and that of a thoracic segment. The spinous process, thick, broad, and somewhat quadrilat- eral, projects horizontally backward. It is thicker below than above, and terminates in a rough border posteriorly. The articular processes are stout and strong. The superior facets are concave and face backward and inward, whilst the inferior are slightly concave and face forward and outward. The superior processes, less closely approximated than the inferior, clasp the inferior processes of the superincumbent segment. The costal processes, long and slender, compress- ed from before backward, and pointing outward and some- what backward, are situated in front of the articular proc-