160 THE BONES third metacarpal, and on the inner is a single concave facet for the fifth metacarpal. The shaft gives origin to three in- terossei, and shows the nutrient foramen on its outer side. The fifth metacarpal presents a saddle-shaped carpal facet for the unciform; a semilunar facet on the outer side of the base for the fourth metacarpal; and a prominent tub- ercle on the inner side for the extensor carpi ulnaris. The palmar surface of the base is rough for ligaments and for part of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The posterior surface of the shaft shows an oblique line that subdivides it into an outer, concave area for the fourth dorsal interosseous, and an in- ner, smooth area that is covered by the extensor tendons of the least finger. The palmar surface of the shaft gives origin externally to the third interosseous, and internally to the opponens digiti minimi, and the nutrient foramen is on its outer side. The opposed position of the first metacarpal, so conspic- uous in man, is found only in Monkeys and Lemurs. In the Chameleon the three outer metacarpals are opposed as strongly as possible to the two inner. In the Horse there is but a single metacarpal, the third, and it is strikingly long in this animal as well as in the Giraffe. In the Elephant the metacarpal bones are short. The metacarpals are an- chylosed together in all Birds except the extinct Archeop- teryx. Phalanges. The phalanges (anything set in array), or finger-bones, number fourteen, of which three are distributed to each fin- ger and two to the thumb. They are disposed in three rows, a superior, a middle, and an inferior. A superior phalanx presents a shaft that is flat on the palmar surface and convex on the posterior. To the rough borders on the palmar surface are attached the sheaths of the flexor tendons. The base shows a concave, oval facet for the metacarpal, whilst the inferior extremity is occupied by a trochlear facet that is grooved in the center and raised on each side for the base of the middle phalanx. A middle phalanx, of which there are four, is shorter than a superior and shows at its base a double concavity sep-