NERVOUS TISSUES 73 and (in modified form) in the olfactory mucous membrane. Multipolar nerve-cells possess one axone and many den- drites, and are widely distributed. Either process of a nerve-cell (axone of type I or, if the nerve-cell belong to spinal or other sensory peripheral gan- glia, the dendrite) may be prolonged as the axis-cylinder of a nerve fiber. This axis-cylinder consists of prolongations of the neurofibrillae of the nerve-cell, here the axis-fibrillae, which are embedded in the soft, semifluid neuroplasm. The axis-cylinder is invested by the thick medullary sheath, and this, in turn, is enclosed by the thin neurilemma. The medullary sheath consists of myelin, which is fatty, semifluid, highly refracting and white when fresh, and neurokeratin, the supporting network. That the myelin is fatty is proven by its affinity for perosmic acid, and if it be dissolved by boiling in ether or alcohol, there is left the neurokeratin network, which resembles keratin in that it resists tryptic digestion. The medullary sheath acts as an insulator, the irritability of the nerve increasing with myelination. It is interrupted at regular intervals by annu- lar constrictions, the nodes of Ranvier, where, owing to the absence of the myelin, the neurilemma is separated from the axis-cylinder by the reduced neurokeratin network only. The nerve-fiber is thus divided into internodal segments, each of which lies between two nodes of Ranvier. These nodes may hold a nutritive relation to the axis-cylinder, for through them nutritive juices could more readily reach the center of the nerve-fiber. Stained by perosmic acid, the medullary sheath appears black; but if unstained, then fun- nel-shaped, oblique lines are seen running to the axis-cylin- der, thereby dividing each internodal segment into a number of smaller Schmidt-Lantermann segments. These lines afford support to the axis-cylinder and myelin. Each inter- nodal segment contains a neurilemma-cell, which has an oval nucleus and a small amount of cytoplasm. Such cells are semilunar on cross-section. The neurilemma is a fine, homo- geneous, elastic membrane that encloses the medullary sheath. Such is the structure of a medullated nerve-fiber. This variety is found in the cerebrospinal nerves. Those of the brain and spinal cord, as well as the optic and acoustic