MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 76 PERIPHERAL NERVE-EXTREMITIES. Although it seem rather academical, yet the author deems it prudent to distinguish between motor nerve-end- ings and sensory nerve-beginnings,—a distinction justified functionally. As a motor nerve approaches striated muscle, it divides and subdivides and comes into close relation with the mus- cle-fibers. Here the neurilemma joins the sarcolemma and the terminal thread of the axis-cylinder continues into the sarcous substance and breaks up, to terminate in the motor- plate. As a rule, each muscle-fiber is supplied with one motor-plate. Where the nerve-fiber penetrates the muscle-fiber there is usually evident an elevation which, first observed by Doyere in the muscles of Insects, is called Doyere’s hillock. In Amphibians, the branches of the end-arborizations of the axis-cylinders tend to be straight and simple; in Reptiles, Birds, and mammals, on the contrary, they are S-shaped. In non-striated muscle, the gray ramus terminates in minute, varicose dilatations on the muscle-cells. The sensory fibers of a cutaneous nerve begin usually as little varicose enlargements, the end-knobs between the epithelial cells of the skin or mucous membrane, where they take up the tactile or thermal impulses. From the end- knob to the basement membrane the fibril is non-medul- lated. Beyond this, however, it assumes its medullary sheath. In the deeper layers of the epidermis, certain sensory nerves begin in a meniscus (of Merkel), which partly sur- rounds an epithelial cell like a ball in a cup. Examples of such neuro-epithelium are seen in gustatory, visual and auditory cells. Bulbous corpuscles (of Krause) are spherical or oval bodies found from one to four in a square millimeter in highly-sensitive parts, such as the conjunctiva, lips, mouth, glans penis, and clitoris. In them certain sensory nerves begin as a labyrinth of nonmedullated dendrites, but acquire their medullary sheath on leaving the corpuscle. Cylindri- cal corpuscles (of Krause) are found in the corium, in the