MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 118 stripes, which are perpendicular to the free, convex surface of the kidney. The light stripes are termed medullary rays (pyramids of Ferrein), since they are prolongations upward of the radially-striated pyramids of the medulla. They are composed of bundles of parallel uriniferous tubules. The dark stripes are each termed the labyrinth, because of the labyrinthine windings of the uriniferous tubules it contains. Sprinkled throughout the labyrinth are renal corpuscles (Malpighian bodies), which appear as red points. The^nedulla displays about a dozen cone-like pyramids, whose apices, the papillae, project into the renal sinus, and whose bases are at the junction of the cortex and medulla. Each pyramid exhibits, like the cortex, alternate light and dark stripes, the light stripes representing uriniferous tubules and the dark stripes representing blood-vessels. In the architectural features described above, urinifer- ous tubules and blood-vessels have been repeatedly mention- ed. To restore order out of chaos we shall compare the pat- tern of the kidney to that of a simple gland, and to facilitate study of its finer structure we shall consider its function. In the fetus the kidney which, in its entirety, corre- sponds to the lobe, is subdivided into lobules, which are sep- arated by interlobular septa prolonged from the fibrous cap- sule. Sometime after birth the lobules fuse together and the interlobular septa are obliterated. In the matured kid- ney one may consider as representing a lobule the pyramidal mass formed by each medullary pyramid plus the area of cortex adjoining the base of the latter. Following out this scheme, the renal columns and their blood-vessels stand in lieu of the interlobular septa and vessels. But the essential parts of a multicellular gland are a fundus and a duct. In the kidney the fundus is represented by an invaginated cap- sule (of Bowman), while the tortuous uriniferous tubule leading from this corresponds to an elongated body of a gland. The duct is represented by the excretory tubule. In a simple gland, the fundus is surrounded by a basket- like capillary network. In the kidney, this network is spe- cialized into a ball of blood-vessels, the glomerulus, which invaginates the capsule. The uriniferous tubules, how- ever, like the ducts of a gland, are surrounded by capillary networks. The study of the finer structure of the kidney