MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 54 broke with a weight of 4,040 grammes, and before breaking its length had increased 65%. Concerning its development, there are likewise two views, of which the second is gen- erally accepted:— a. Independent theory, according to which the fibers first appear as rows of hyaline granules which fuse and form a network. b. Intracellular theory, which regards the fibrils as originating in the peripheral zone of the cell, just as white fibrous tissue arises. Tendon consists of parallel bundles of white fibrous tis- sue and a minimum amount of yellow elastic tis- sue. The individual fibrillae are united by cement- substance into primary bundles, and these, into sec- ondary bundles. The latter are bound together into the tendon itself by septa from the connective- tissue envelope. Viewed by polarized light, each primary bundle displays a series of brilliant colorings. Tendon-cells, flat and quadrilateral, are arranged in rows between the pri- mary bundles. They occupy stellate clefts that are parts of the juice-spaces by which the tendon is nourished. They are difficult to find. In some of the lower animals, as Mol- lusca, tendon-fibrillae are larger than in Mammalia. In Terebratula they are very large and assembled in strong bundles, which present to the naked eye a very beautiful silvery aspect. In some Birds the tendons are more or less ossified, as encounters at table with the drumstick of a tur- key testify. Adipose tissue is composed of fat-cells and areolar tis- sue. A fat-cell is a connective-tissue element that is dis- tended by a drop of oil. The nucleus and cytoplasm are crowded toward the periphery, so that the fat-cell resembles a signet-ring. Animal fat exists as oil, lard, tallow, and spermaceti. Vegetable fats, including castor, croton, lin- seed, and palm oil and cocoa butter are familiar to everyone. They, likewise, are produced by and stored up in the cells. Fat is well-distributed throughout the body and bears a rela- tion to organs and tissues as excelsior to the contents of a packing-box: it fills in. It is absent within the cranium, in the eyelids, penis and scrotum, labia minora, and lungs. It stains black with perosmic acid, red with Sudan III, and