THE BONES 220 (5) Foramen spinosum, a circular aperture external to the hinder end of the foramen ovale, which perforates the spinous process of the sphenoid and transmits the middle meningeal artery and its companion vein, and a recurrent branch from the mandibular division of the fifth cranial nerve. I he orbital surface, smooth and quadrate, contributes to the outer wall of the orbit. Its superior border is serrated for articulation with the horizontal and vertical plates of the frontal. Its internal border contributes to the circumference of the greater wing, and presents near its middle a small, pointed spine, for origin of the lower head of the external rectus. It also forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure. Its inferior border is rounded and constitutes the posterior and external boundary of the sphenomaxillary fis- sure. Its external border is serrated for articulation with the orbital process of the malar. The temporozygomatic surface is divided by the trans- verse pterygoid ridge into the upper, larger temporal sur- face, and the lower, smaller zygomatic surface. The tem- poral surface, which contributes to the temporal fossa, ar- ticulates by its anterior border, which corresponds to the external border of the orbital surface, with the orbital process of the malar; by its superior border, with the frontal bone and anterior inferior angle of the parietal; and by its posterior border, with the squamous portion of the temporal. Its inferior border corresponds to the temporal ridge. The zygomatic surface, which contributes to the zygomatic fossa, is bounded externally by the pterygoid ridge; before, by a rounded ridge; and behind by a serrated edge that ter- minates in the spinous process for articulation with the an- terior border of the petrous portion of the temporal and by a free margin that bounds the foramen lacerum anteriorly. The internal border is fused with the pterygoid process. Three foramina are visible from this aspect, namely,-—fora- men Vesalii, foramen ovale, and foramen spinosum. The sphenoidal spine of the greater wing is situated just behind and to the outer side of the foramen spinosum, and gives at- tachment to the sphenomandibular ligament and partial ori- gin to the tensor palati. The temporal surface gives partial origin to the temporal muscle, and the pterygoid ridge and