STOMACH 103 and at the pylorus are found lymphatic nodules, the lenticu- lar nodes, which are comparable to the solitary nodules in the intestine. The muscularis mucosae is here arranged in an inner circular and an outer longitudinal layer. The submucous coat consists of loosely-disposed fibro- elastic tissue, which supports fat cells, large blood-vessels, lymphatics, and the submucous plexus (of Meissner) of nerves. The muscular coat presents three layers—an innermost oblique, a middle circular, and an outermost longitudinal. At the pylorus the middle layer thickens to form the pyloric sphincter. Between the circular and longitudinal layers is the myenteric plexus (of Auerbach) of nerves, The serous coat consists of a thin layer of fibro-elastic tissue covered by a layer of endothelial cells. It is supplied by the peritoneum. The arteries penetrate the serous and muscular coats to reach the submucous, whence branches extend downward into the muscular coat and upward into the mucous. The latter branches form a capillary network that embraces the gastric glands, whilst a second capillary network is situated directly beneath the epithelium, around the crypts. The veins retrace the course of the arteries, but form a plexus between the tunica propria and the muscularis mucosae. The lymphatics begin peripherally in the tunica mucosa, and pass between the gastric glands to form a network between them and the muscularis mucosae. A second network is formed in the submucous coat, whence larger lymph-vessels pass without the organ. The nerves perforate the serous coat and form the myenteric plexus (of Auerbach) between the circular and longitudinal layers of the muscular coat. The latter is supplied by branches from internodal ganglia in this plexus. Reassembling from the myenteric plexus, the nerves reach the submucous coat and form the submu- cous plexus (of Meissner), from which the muscularis mu- cosae and gastric glands are supplied. The sensory nerves begin in the tunica propria in a subepithelial plexus.