MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 110 addition, a cylindrical lamina of non-striated muscle. The gall-bladder has the same essential construction, but on a larger scale. It has a mucous membrane thrown into rugae, a muscular coat, and an external fibrous coat. The ramifications of the hepatic artery find their way ultimately into the intralobular sinusoids, after supplying* the blood-vessels and connective tissue. Nerves accompany these ramifications, and expend themselves in the non-striat- ed mural musculature of the vessels. Lymphatics surround the vessels with perivascular networks. The above description is necessarily based on diagram- matic outlines. Unfortunately, the student will be per- plexed with a section of the human liver.. No orderly ar- rangement into a compound tubular gland will be seen. The liver-cells are heaped into anastomosing columns, and the arrangement of the latter in lobules is indistinguishable. The central vein is usually distended with blood. The grouping together of branches of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and bile-duct in the interlobular spaces is usually seen. To observe well-defined lobules a section of Hog’s liver should be obtained. The tubular character of the liver and the bile-capillaries may be studied with profit in the liver of an Amphibian. Pancreas. The pancreas, the abdominal salivary gland, is a pure serous tubulo-alveolar gland. It is divided into lobes by the fibro-elastic framework. The lobes are subdivided into lob- ules by septa of this framework. The lobules are made up of groups of alveoli. In keeping with this subdivision, the excretory (pancreatic) duct divides into interlobar ducts, situated between the lobes. These subdivide into interlob- ular ducts, between the lobules. Thus far the description of the pancreas has conformed to the pattern of a simple tubulo-alveolar gland. It now differs, however, in that in- tralobular ducts are wanting. Nevertheless, the interlob- ular ducts are connected directly with the alveoli by inter- mediate ducts, which are sufficiently elongated to compen- sate for the missing intralobular ducts. At the junction of the alveoli and intermediate ducts, the cells of the latter pro^