86 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY -a;single layer of endothelial cells, yet their diameter is larger. Beginning blindly, they traverse the tissues bordering lymph-spaces, but do not communicate directly with the latter, and end by communicating with the lymph-vessels. Lymph-vessels receive the lymph from definite areas of the networks just mentioned and convey it through various lymph nodes until it eventually reaches the subclavian veins via the thoracic duct or the right lymphatic duct. They, too, are arranged in a superficial and deep set. They pos- sess numerous valves. Their caliber does not progressively increase as that of veins, but they are similar to the latter in number of coats and structure, but are thinner. Lymph nodes are dense, grayish-pink, round or oval bodies measurable in millimeters or centimeters, which occur along the course of lymph-vessels. On meeting with a lymph node, a lymph-vessel breaks up into vasa afferentia, which empty their contents into the capillary network within the lymph node. Having percolated through the little filter, the lymph is conveyed onward by a smaller number of vasa efferentia, which leave at the hilum and unite to continue the lymph-vessel. It is now considered incorrect to refer to these structures as “lymph glands/’ since they do not se- crete in the sense that a true gland does. The structure bf a lymph node will be introduced by the structure of lym- phatic tissue in general. Lymphatic tissue consists essentially of reticulum and cells. The former is represented by trabeculae of white fibrous tissue that unite to form a close-meshed network. Upon the trabeculae rest flattened connective-tissue cells. The cells correspond to the lymphocytes, and are about as closely congregated as the red cells in a thick smear of blood. The simplest type of such tissue is found in lymph- atic nodules, which occur in mucous membranes and will be recognized later in the solitary nodules of the digestive tube. Conglomerations of lymphatic follicles go to make up the next simplest type, namely—the tonsils and the ag- gregate nodules (of Peyer) of the ileum. Then come lymph nodes. In structure, lymph nodes show a capsule of white fibrous tissue and, at times, non-striated muscle. Within this capsule, the organ is divisible into the peripheral cortex,