THE BONES 238 JjJLlAMrt l&Hfi • Each maxilla is developed in membrane, in the connec- i'r/ dive tissue about the superior and lateral boundaries of the 'oral cavity of the embryo. This tissue, be it remembered, . I is derived from the maxillary process of the first visceral \ arch, and from the frontonasal process. Ossification begins • fin the seventh fetal week, immediately following that of the clavicle and mandible, and proceeds so rapidly that the num- ber of independent centers is not accurately known, but is presumably five:— (1) Malar, for the bone outside the infraorbital canal. 7. (^) Maxillary, for the bone to the inner side of the in- fraorbital canal, the nasal process, and the wall of the sinus. * (3) Palatine, for the palate process behind the anterior palatine foramen, and the adjoining part o'f the nasal wall. y Nasal, for the bone between the nasal process and canine tooth. (5) Premaxillary, for the independent premaxillary bone, which forms the hard palate in front of the anterior palatine foramen, and lodges the incisor teeth. By the sixth fetal month these centers are well-advanced in union. The sinus appears as a shallow depression on the base at about the fourth month and gradually extends, but does not attain its full growth until after the second dentition. The alve- olar sockets are formed by the downgrowth of two plates from the dental groove, with the subsequent appearance of partitions. The premaxilla is the portion of the upper jaw in front of the anterior palatine foramen, and between the original premaxillary sutures which, readily seen in young skulls, pass obliquely forward and outward from the anterior pala- tine foramen to the interval between the lateral incisor and canine teeth of each side. It includes the entire thickness of the alveolus, the corresponding part of the floor of the nose, and the anterior nasal spine, and contains the sockets of the incisor teeth. In most Vertebrates the premaxilla re- tains its independence. In man and Apes, however, it nor- mally fuses with the true maxilla. Failing such fusion, dou- ble alveolar hare-lip results. The premaxilla of man was first pointed out by the poet, Goethe. The maxilla aborts in the Siren and Myxinoids, is a mere filiform rudiment in the Siluroids, and in the lower