THE BONES 162 it is so curved that while the upper part is nearly vertical, the lower is directed inward. The outer surface of the con- stricted portion shows the acetabulum, a deep cavity for the head of the femur, and the lower expanded portion is perfor- ated by the obturator foramen. At the acetabulum meet the three constituent parts of the bone, namely, the ilium (flank), which runs upward from the acetabulum and forms the prominence of the hip; the ischium (hip), which runs downward from the acetabulum, expands into a large tuber- osity, and curves forward to meet the pubic bone, with which it forms the obturator foramen; and the os pubis (bone over- laid by hairy skin), which extends inward from the aceta- bulum and then downward to meet its fellow of the opposite side. The ilium, whose upper, expanded portion forms the ala (wing) and whose lower, constricted portion forms the body, presents two surfaces and three borders. Of the two surfaces, the external (dorsum), convex be- fore and concave behind, is traversed by three curved lines. The superior gluteal line, the shortest, extends from two inches in front of the posterior superior spine downward and backward to the upper margin of the great sciatic notch. The semilunar area behind this line is rough above for par- tial origin of the gluteus maximus, and smooth and free from muscular attachment below. The middle gluteal line, the longest, extends from an inch behind the anterior superior spine backward and downward to the upper margin of the great sciatic notch. The concave area above this line is for origin of the gluteus medius, and shows a nutrient for- amen near its middle. The inferior gluteal line, the least distinct, extends from the notch just below the anterior su- perior spine backward and downward to the middle of the great sciatic notch. The area between it and the middle gluteal line gives origin to the gluteus minimus, while that between it and the upper margin of the acetabulum is rough for the capsule of the hip-joint and, anteriorly, for partial origin (reflected tendon) of the rectus femoris. The in- ternal surface presents, before, the large, smooth, concave iliac fossa, for origin of the iliacus and interiorly a nutrient foramen; below is the iliopectineal line, a smooth, rounded border that extends from the auricular surface behind to the