75 NERVOUS TISSUES The size of the nerve-trunk bears no definite relation to that of the muscle it supplies. The external rectus oculi is in cross-section 30 times greater than its nerve (VI), and there are 3 nerve-fibers for every 7 muscle-fibers. On the other hand, the tibialis anticus is in cross-section 150 times greater than its nerve, and has 1 nerve-fiber for every 80 muscle-fibers. The breaking weight of a cord of nerve 8 sq.mm, in cross-section is 50.6 lbs. This varies a little with individual nerves, and depends on the amount and arrangement of the connective-tissue sheaths. The sciatic nerve bore 198.2 lbs. without breaking, and the median, 52.8 lbs. And 11 inches of the median nerve with this weight lengthened to 17 inches. A ganglion (knot) is an aggregation of nerve-cells that lies outside of the central nervous system in the course of a peripheral nerve. There are two types of ganglia,—the spinal, and the sympathetic. A spinal ganglion is enveloped by a fibrous capsule, continuous with the epineurium. The nerve-cells are separated by septa of connective tissue from the fibrous capsule, which support blood-vessels. The nerve- fibers break up the centrally disposed nerve-cells into groups. Each ganglion-cell is spherical and unipolar, and is surrounded by a nucleated capsule that is continuous with the neurilemma. Type I cells, which predominate, receive the dendritic process from the periphery, and send an axone centrally. Type II cells are distinguished by pro- cesses that are confined to the ganglion, and break up into numerous branches that surround the nucleated capsules of type I cells. A pericellular network is formed also by end- ings of sympathetic fibers. A sympathetic ganglion is simi- lar in structure to a spinal ganglion, but the cells are smaller and different connections are established by their processes. These will be considered with the sympathetic system. The nerve-fibers are medullated and nonmedullated, and form pericellular plexuses about the ganglion-cells. Nervous tissue has a specific gravity of 1036. A cord of it 8 sq.mm, in cross-section broke with a weight of 50.6 lbs.