108 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY filled with lobules of fat. These epiploic appendages serve the large intestine as the great omentum does the small. The blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves are arranged in the coats of the large intestine as in the small, except for the absence of villi. • Liver. The liver, the largest gland in the body, is of the com- pound tubular type, with certain modifications. The whole organ is composed of lobes; the lobes, of lobules; and the lobules, of nests of cells whose arrangement into columns is determined by the disposition of enclosing sinusoids. It seems unlikely that a student can follow the description of the liver without enquiring, What is the function of the liver? A proper conception of the liver is based upon a good understanding of the trio of vessels—portal vein, hepatic artery, bile-duct. In the first instance, these vessels are always associated together, bound by connective tissue. Mark the peculiarity of the portal vein. It conveys blood from the intestines to the liver, within which it divides into numerous branches. These branches eventually enter one or other lobule and break up into sinusoids. At the center of the lobule a fourth vessel appears: this is the central vein, a radicle of the hepatic vein, which removes the blood from the liver. What is the purpose of this subdivision of the portal vein? It enables the liver-cells to exercise their se- lective action upon the portal blood and extract from it cer- tain substances and subject them to metabolic changes. The hepatic artery is subsidiary since it concerns itself with nutrition of the connective tissue and blood-vessels of the liver. The bile-duct is the sewer of the liver, removing from it certain substances of excretion elaborated by the liver- cells. To facilitate description of the liver we may employ, in simile, a wagon-wheel, which represents a cross-section of a lobule. By approximating three wheels rim-to-rim so as to form a triangular outline with rounded angles, they will enclose between them a triangle with sharp angles. This latter triangle represents an interlobular space which, in the