PALATE BONE 253 The internal surface is convex, projects into the nasal fossa, and forms the floor of the middle meatus. It is rough, pitted, and grooved longitudinally by vessels. The external surface, concave and facing the outer wall of the nasal fossa, overhangs the inferior meatus. The inferior border is free, rounded, and somewhat thickened. The superioxTQXder is attached, arched upward, and thin. Its anterior part articulates with the inferior turbinated crest of the base (q. v. 3) oi the maxilla; its mid- dle part presents three processes; and its posterior part ar- ticulates with the inferior turbinated crest of the palate. Of the three processes that occupy the middle part, the an- terior is the lacrimal process, and articulates with the de- scending process on the inferior border of the lacrimal, thereby contributing to the wall of the nasolacrimal canal; the ethmoidal process is posterior and, projecting upward, articulates with the uncinate process on the internal sur- face (q. v. 4) of the ethmoidal labyrinth; whilst the max- illary process projects downward and outward from the low- er border of the ethmoidal process, hooks over the lower edge of the maxillary hiatus, and fastens the inferior tur- binate to the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The anterior extremity is blunt and flattened. The posterior extremity is elongated and tapering. The inferior turbinate develops in the cartilage that forms the outer wall of the nasal capsule. It ossifies from a single center that appears in the fifth fetal month, and later contracts a union by a horizontal lamella externally with the maxilla. The inferior turbinate is absent in the Porpoise and in Fishes, rudimentary in the Elephant, and cartilaginous in Reptiles. It is represented by a cartilaginous rudiment in Batrachians, and by two or three insignificant ossifica- tions in Birds. It is large and complex in the Badger and in the Sheep. For further observations on the turbinals, see the conclusion of the description of the ethmoid. Palate Bone. The palate is a thin, irregular, paired bone that is wedged in between the maxilla and the pteryg'oid process