MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 122 The arteries enter the kidney through the renal columns and, having traversed the latter as interlobular arteries, course along the junction of the cortex and medulla. Along this line, cortical and medullary branches are given off. The cortical branches supply the vasa afferentia, but some twigs pass directly to the supply of the capsule of the organ. A peculiarity of the renal circulation is that two sets of capillaries are present. One set is within the glomeruli. The other set is formed by the vasa efferentia which, con- veying still arterial blood, break up into the cortical capil- lary-network. This ensheathes the uriniferous tubules, first of the labyrinth, and then of the medullary ray. The medullary branches descend the medulla as arter- iae rectae which surround the collecting tubules and break up into capillary networks. The veins return blood as well from the cortex as from the medulla. Those from the outer part of the cortex con- verge to stellar points as the stellate veins (of Verheyn), which are situated beneath the capsule. These are drained by interlobular veins, which accompany the corresponding arteries. The medulla is drained by venae rectae, which join the interlobular veins. The arteriae rectae plus the venae rectae form the vasa recta, which are responsible for the dark stripes of the medulla. The lymphatics are disposed as superficial and deep vessels. The superficial lymphatics course beneath the cap- sule and empty both into the lymph-vessels outside of the kidney and into the deep lymphatics. The deep lymphatics arise from the lymphatic spaces within the reticulum of the kidney and accompany the blood vessels to the hilum. The nerves accompany the arteries into the kidney and, having supplied the non-striated mural musculature of the blood-vessels, form plexuses around the uriniferous tubules. From these plexuses fibrillae pass between the lining cells of the tubules, where they end. Ureter. The ureter presents three coats—mucous, muscular, and fibrous. The mucous coat is lined by stratified squamous epi-