159 METACARPUS the extensor pollicis longus and brevis. The base presents a saddle-shaped facet for a similar surface on the trapezium and, in lieu of lateral facets, has externally a small tubercle for the reception of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; in- ternally a rough surface for partial origin of the inner head of the flexor pollicis brevis; whilst its margin is rough for the capsule of the carpo-metacarpal joint. The head is less convex than the heads of the other metacarpals, and pre- sents anteriorly two articular eminences for the two sesa- moid bones in the tendon of the flexor pollicis brevis. The outer head of the first dorsal interosseous is attached to the inner lateral margin. The second metacarpal, the longest, shows at its base three facets, of which the outer is small and oval for the trapezium, the middle is hollow for the trapezoid, and the in- ner is an elevated ridge for the os magnum. The posterior surface is rough for the extensor carpi radialis longus and part of the extensor carpi radialis brevis. The palmar sur- face receives the flexor carpi radialis and extends the origin of the adductor pollicis obliquus. The outer side is rough and non-articular, whilst the inner side shows a facet for the third metacarpal. The shaft of this bone attaches three in- terossei, and shows the nutrient foramen on its palmar sur- face. The third metacarpal presents the styloid process, a pyramidal eminence that projects from the radial side and posterior surface of its base upward behind the os magnum. Just below it, on the same surface, is a rough impression for the extensor carpi radialis brevis. The carpal facet is con- cave behind and flat before for the middle facet on the infer- ior surface of the os magnum. On the outer side is a concave facet for the second metacarpal, and on the inner, two small, oval facets for the fourth metacarpal. The palmar surface of the base is rough for the adductor pollicis obliquus, and at times receives part of the flexor carpi radialis. The shaft gives origin to the adductor pollicis transversus and two in- teross£i, and shows the nutrient foramen on its outer side. The fourth metacarpal has a small, quadrilateral base, and presents two carpal facets, an outer and smaller for the os magnum, and an inner, larger, and flat one for the unci- form. On the outer side are two small, oval facets for the