80 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY the choroid, liver, and glomeruli of the kidney the capillaries do not even show individual endothelial cells, but a syncy- tium. It is now evident that the fundamental part of a blood-vessel is the endothelium, and that the other coats are accessory. The sectional area of the capillaries in the body of a well-grown adult has been estimated at 3,000 sq. cm. Sinusoids resemble capillaries in structure, but are formed as subdivisions of a single vessel, therefore being wholly venous or wholly arterial. In man they are found in the liver, as subdivisions of the portal vein. In embryos of higher verebrates temporarily, and in lower vertebrates permanently, sinusoids are found in the mesonephros and musculature of the heart. In veins, while the same three coats may be recognized, yet there is a smaller amount of yellow elastic tissue, the media is poorly and the adventitia strongly developed, and the walls in relation to the size of their lumina much thinner ' than in arteries. Thus it happens that veins collapse more readily than arteries, or, if distended, have a larger lumen than the contracted artery. The intima is poor in yellow elastic tissue. In small veins that receive capillaries this coat alone is present. In certain large veins the intima con- tains muscle-cells. The media is poorly developed, the fibro-elastic constituent predominating over the muscular. It is best developed in the veins of the lower extremities, but poorly developed in those of the upper. The adventitia is the most highly developed coat of veins. It consists of fibro-elastic tissue intermingled with longitudinal bands of muscle. The valves of veins are paired reduplications of the intima. The venous system is more capacious than the arterial in the proportion of 3.5: 1. Vasa vasorum are small nutrient blood-vessels that ramify in the adventitia of arteries and veins over one milli- meter in diameter. Lymphatics often accompany and supply blood-vessels, and in the central nervous system, retina, and bones sur- round them with perivascular lymph-sheaths. Vaso-motor nerves, the gray rami from the sympathetic system, form plexuses in the media and end in relation with