DEVELOPMENT 18 that in the former process the third generation yields the ma- tured ovum, whilst in the latter process the third generation yields the immature spermatid. The matured ovum is thus the equivalent, ontogenetically, of the spermatid directly, and of the spermatic filament indirectly, since the latter is formed from the spermatid by a complicated process of his- togenesis without, however, any alteration of the status of generation or of the number of chromosomes. Furthermore, in the comparison, while all four products of spermato- genesis become full-fledged spermatic filaments, only one of the four products of oogensis becomes a functional ovum. An exceptional amount of space has been devoted to the description of maturation not only because of its funda- mental importance, but also because it has always proven itself a perplexing problem to grasp. Fertilization. Heretofore the spermatic filament and ovum have been considered as individual elements. In fertilization thev wf unify and, losing their identity, give rise to two new cells from which a new being is ultimately formed. In Hydra, certain Worms, and other lowly forms repro- duction may occur by division of the whole organism into two parts, or by separation of a portion of the body from the parent organism. This illustrates non-sexual reproduction. In others, as Phylloxera, Bees, and Water-fleas, the germ- cells are capable of developing without having been fertil- ized, by the process of parthogenesis. In higher forms, however, fertilization is necessary for reproduction. Maturation takes place while the vesicular follicle is en- larging and approaching the surface of the ovary. Arrived here, the vesicular follicle bursts, and the ovum, now ma- tured, is discharged in the process of ovulation. When this is about to occur, the ovary is grasped by the fimbriated ex- tremity of the oviduct, the cilia of which propel the received ovum into the lumen of the oviduct. The outer third of the latter is usually the trysting-place for the ovum and the spermatic filament. The seminal fluid, deposited in the vaginal fornices,