193 CERVICAL VERTEBRAE space vacated by the body, and fuse to form an anterior arch. Irregularly annular, the atlas presents^ an anterior arch, a posterior arch, and two lateral masses. 1 he anterior arch connects the lateral masses in front and contributes about one-fifth to the circumference of the ring. Its anterior surface is convex and rises to form a tubercle, for insertion of the superior oblique portion of the longus colli, and at- tachment of the anterior longitudinal ligament. Its pos- terior surface is concave, and shows a circular facet for the odontoid process of the axis. To its upper and lower borders are attached ligaments that connect the atlas to the occiput above, and to the axis below. The lateral masses are bulky, support the head, and are provided with articular facets above and below. The superior facets, directed upward and inward, are elongated, deeply concave, and converge before: in some specimens they are subdivided by an indentation. They articulate with the occipital condyles. The inferior facets, directed downward and inward, are almost flat and nearly circular. They articulate with the axis. The cavity enclosed by the ring is subdivided into two thus. Two tu- bercles, each of which is situated on the inner circumference of the ring between the superior and inferior facets, are con- nected by the transverse ligament. The smaller, anterior subdivision of the ring accommodates the odontoid process, whilst the larger, posterior corresponds to the vertebral foramen. Each lateral mass contributes one-fifth to the ring. The transverse processes are large, extend outward and downwar TfromTh e Ta ter aTni asses, and project beyond those of lower vertebrae. Their free extremities are non- bifid, but are broad and rough for muscles. The posterior arch connects the lateral masses behind and contributes about two-fifths of the ring. Posteriorly, it presents a tu- bercle, which corresponds to a rudimentary spinous process and affords origin to the rectus capitis posticus minor. Its superior surface presents, at each root of the arch, a deep horizontal groove that corresponds to the superior interver- tebral notch of other vertebrae and lodges the vertebral artery and the suboccipital nerve. In some specimens this groove is converted into a foramen by an ossified oblique atlantal ligament. Its inferior surface shows, in the same situation, a similar but much smaller groove that corre- 13