MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 120 rests upon a basement membrane. Diametrically opposite the stalk the capsule is constricted to form a narrow neck. The uriniferous tubule must now be followed through its winding course. Certain windings are found in the labyrinth, others in the medulla, and still others in the me- dullary ray. The epithelium varies in character through- out the tubule. To systematize the description, it is best to divide the tubule into arbitrary parts, enumerating them according to the course followed by the urine. A practical method of demonstrating their course is to take a soft iron wire and bend it into the shape of a hairpin with wire-for- ceps. Impale upon one end a body, such as a pea, to repre- sent the renal corpuscle. The wire may now be appropri- ately bent either as the description is followed or all at once, using as a guide a diagram in a book. After the entire course of the tubule has been thus imitated, the wire may be placed upon a sheet of paper, upon which has been mapped out in proportionate scale the appropriate parts of the kid- ney in which the various parts of the tubule are lodged. (1) Capsule, already described. Lined by simple squamous epithelium. (2) Proximal convoluted tubule, which leaves the cap- sule at its neck and coniines its windings to the labyrinth. It contributes about one-fifth to the length of the tubule. Lined by simple low columnar epithelium. (3) Spiral tubule, which starts at the junction of the labyrinth and medullary ray and connects the proximal con- voluted tubule with the next segment. It therefore confines itself to the medullary ray. Its diameter gradually dimin- ishes and its cells become lower and lower. Lined by sim- ple columnar epithelium. (4) Loop (of Henle). The de^endingjunb is the nar- rowest part of the entire uriniferous tubule. It starts at the junction of the medullary ray and medulla and connects the spiral tubule with the ascending limb. It confines itself to the medulla. Lined by simple squamous epithelium, the arrangement of which is peculiar. These cells are so placed that a cell on one wall faces the interval between two cells on the opposite wall. This, together with the fact that the cells are short of protoplasm and the nuclei therefore are prominent, lends to the lumen a spiral appearance. The