266 THE BONES occipital, and bounded before by the root of the pterygoid process and greater wing of the sphenoid; behind, by the an- terior border of the petrous portion of the temporal; and internally, by the outer margin of the body of the sphenoid and the basioccipital. In life this foramen is closed below by fibrous tissue. This fibrous tissue is perforated by the Vidian nerve, a meningeal branch of the ascending pharyn- geal artery, and an emissary vein. ' Across the upper aspect of this fibrous tissue, but not perforating it, passes the in- ternal carotid artery and its surrounding network of sym- pathetic nerves. The Vidian canal begins at the anterior wall of the foramen lacerum, whilst the internal carotid fora- men corresponds to its external wall. Canalis musculo- tubarius, which is situated at the apex of the acute angle be- tween the anterior parts of the squamous and petrous por- tions of the temporal. Behind this is the inferior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal presenting, from within outward, a rough quadrilateral area; the external carotid foramen; the aqaeductus cochleae, just internal to the latter at the bottom of a V-shaped depression; the jugular fossa and foramen; the canaliculus auricularis, on the outer wall of the jugular fossa; the canaliculus tympanicus, on the ridge between the external carotid foramen and the jugular fossa; the vaginal process; the styloid process; the stylomastoid foramen; and the auricular fissure. The jugular foramen (foramen lacerum posterius) is situated between the pos- terior border of the petrous portion of the temporal before, and the anterior border of the jugular process of the occipital behind. It is continuous behind and externally with the jugular fossa. Processes of dura mater subdivided the jugu- lar foramen into three compartments. The anterior permits passage of the inferior petrosal sinus; the middle affords egress to the glossopharyngeal (which has a special sheath of dura mater) and to the vagus and accessory nerves (which have a common sheath of dura mater), in order from before backward; whilst the posterior conducts the lateral sinus to the bulb of the internal jugular vein, which occupies the jugular fossa, and also gives passage to some meningeal branches from the occipital and ascending pharyngeal ar- teries. In front of the petrous portion of the temporal there are, from within outward, the foramen ovale, the foramen