MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 56 The character of the intercellular matrix determines three varieties of cartilage,—hyaline, elastic, and fibrous. Hyaline cartilage possesses a matrix that seems homo- geneous and structureless because the refraction-indexes of the cementing ground-substance and of the fibrils are identi- cal. The fibrils are demonstrable, however, by polarized light and by artificial digestion. Now they may be seen run- ning in parallel lines, only exceptionally crossing one an- other. Hyaline cartilage is found temporarily in embryos, in which it forecasts the skeleton except the vault of the cranium, the bones of the face, and most of the mandible. The skeletons of cartilaginous Fishes are composed almost entirely of hyaline cartilage. In the Cuttle-fish the car- tilaginous skeleton is very rudimentary. In Birds, cartilage is scarce. Permanently, it occurs in the Eustachian tube, nose, larnyx, trachea, bronchi, ribs, and in all movable joints and in epiphyses. Physically, this variety is of a bluish opalescent tint, and is firm and tensile. A strip 1 sq. mm. in cross-section bore a weight of 1,440 grammes before it broke. Elastic cartilage possesses a matrix that abounds in net- works of elastic fibers, which may be plainly demonstrated by specific staining reactions. It is found in the pinna, part of the Eustachian tube, the epiglottis, the cuneiform and corniculate cartilages, and in the vocal processes of the aryte- noid cartilages. Physically, it is dull yellowish in color, and is tough and pliable. A strip 1 sq. mm. in cross-section bore a weight of 1,760 grammes before it broke. Fibrocartilage possesses a matrix that is closely akin to dense white fibrous tissue. Its fibrils are arranged in parallel and slightly wavy lines. There is a minimum amount of homogeneous matrix, which is usually reduced to that form- ing the capsules around the cartilage-cells. It is found in the intervertebral disks, the symphyses, sesamoid cartilages, interarticular disks and marginal plates of certain joints, and lines bony grooves for tendons. Physically, it is closely al- lied to tendon, presenting a white, tough tissue that com- bines great strength and pliability. A strip 1 sq. mm. in cross-section bore a weight of 2,300 grammes before it broke. (6) Bone is a dense form of connective tissue whose matrix is impregnated with lime-salts. The proportions are one-third organic material, and two-thirds inorganic. By