62 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY Bones that are forecasted in cartilage develop by a com- bination of two methods—the endochondral and the sub- periosteal. Others, however, arise in membrane by intra- membranous development, which is very similar to the sub- periosteal. Endochondral development consists in replacement of the primary hyaline cartilage by bone. Activities begin at points near the middle of the shaft called centres of ossifica- tion. The cartilage-cells increase in size, but before long shrivel up and die without sharing directly in the production of bone. The intercellular matrix increases in amount and becomes calcified. The lacunae, enlarged by the cartilage- cells, are now called primary areolae. Plugs of osteogenetic tissue from the periosteum make for the center of ossification by absorbing the cartilage-matrix that lies across their path. Arrived at their destination, they break down the capsules of the lacunae and set free the cartilage-cells. The enlarged lacunae thus broken into form secondary areolae, which communicate directly with the primary marrow-cavity that was hewn out by the penetrating osteogenetic plugs. These plugs occupy the primary marrow-cavity as the primary marrow, which consists of blood-vessels and cells, some of which form the future bone-marrow, whilst others, as osteo- blasts, produce bone. Outside the primary marrow-cavity, towards the ends of the shaft, the cartilage exhibits several zones. The furth- est zone shows no changes, and represents resting hyaline cartilage. The intermediate zone shows enlarged cartilage- cells arranged in columns and separated by septa of calcified matrix. The nearest zone, called the zone of calcification, shows the enlarged lacunae flattened against one another, and as the transverse septa between them vanish, these lacunae coalesce as the secondary areolae, which communi- cate directly with the primary marrow-cavity, so that the latter seems to have many irregular cavities leading from it. The vertical septa of calcified cartilage-matrix, which separate the secondary areolae, are left projecting into the primary marrow-cavity, and upon them the osteoblasts lodge and deposit bone-matrix. The osteoblasts progressively surround themselves with bone-matrix, in which they thus