97 TEETH larly beautiful in Cetacea and Pachydermata, and in the Walrus. It may serve the memory by associating the inter- globular spaces and incremental lines of the dentine and the contour lines of the enamel all with faulty calcification. Den- tine is intermediate in density between bone and enamel, as the following table shows:— Inorganic Substance. Organic Substance. Bone 66.6 33.3 Dentine 72 28 Enamel 97 3 It differs from bone, again, in that its cells, the odonto- blasts, are not imprisoned in cavities of the ground-sub- stance as the bone-cells are in lacunae, but remain in the^ pulp. -jl'j jjAjrtnbA**4 Cementum is a layer of modified bone that surrounds ] the root of the tooth, literally “cementing” it to the alveolus. It contains typical lacunae and canaliculi and is penetrated by many uncalcified connective-tissue fibers (of Sharpey). The lacunae are larger than those of bone, and lodge cement- cells. The canaliculi connect neighboring lacunae, and are exceptionally long. The connective-tissue fibers, more numerous than in bone, run perpendicularly to the lamellae. The lamellae are parallel with the surface of the root. Ha- versian canals are, as a rule, absent, but may be found in hyperostoses and in the outer part of the cement of old teeth, especially molars. The inner (dentinal) layer of cementum is almost structureless, and lacks cement-cells. Chemically, cement is almost identical with bone, its inorganic constit- uent being about 0.4 more than that of the latter. The newer terms for the three components of a tooth seem to be very desirable. Substantia adamantina, substan- tia eburnea, and substantia ossea, for enamel, dentine, and cementum, respectively. The author prefers them, but does not feel justified at present in adopting them arbitrarily. The alveolar periosteum functionates both for the ce- mentum and for the alveolus, to both of which it is firmly joined by perforating fibers. It is also continuous with the gum. The pulp is composed of soft, embryonal connective tis- sue which Slipports hinnd-ve.ssels and nerves. In close rela- 7