269 INTERIOR OF SKULL crista galli. Olfactory foramina, which perforate the floor of each olfactory groove. Ethmoidal foramina, anterior and posterior, along the outer edge of the horizontal plate of the ethmoid. Ethmoidal spine of the body of the sphenoid. Transverse ridge, which bounds the optic groove anteriorly, and separates the anterior from the middle cranial fossa cen- trally. Laterally, the floor is strongly marked by fossulae for gyri of the cerebrum, and shows grooves before and at the sides, which lodged branches of the anterior and middle meningeal arteries, respectively. The middle cranial fossa, which in form may be com- pared to the wings of a bird united by the body, differs from the anterior by occupying a lower level and by being deeper. Whereas, in the anterior cranial fossa the center is depressed, in the middle it is elevated, and laterally the inverse prevails. It is bounded before by the transverse ridge in front of the optic groove and by the free borders of the lesser wings of the sphenoid; behind, by the dorsum sellae, and by the line of attachment of the tentorium cerebelli, which extends from each posterior clinoid process along the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal; and externally, by the greater wing of the sphenoid, the squamous portion of the temporal, and by the anteroinferior angle of the parietal. Its floor is formed by the middle third of the superior sur- face of the body and cranial surfaces of the greater wings of the sphenoid, and by the anterior surface of the petrous por- tion of the temporal. The central portion of the fossa shows the following details from before back- ward:—Optic groove, which terminates on each side in the optic foramen. Olivary eminence, the posterior border of the optic groove. Pituitary fossa, which is bounded before by the olivary eminence and middle clinoid processes. Dor- sum sellae, a quadrate plate that bounds the pituitary fossa posteriorly. Posterior clinoid processes, which surmount the upper corners of the dorsum sellae. Carotid groove, on each side of the body of the sphenoid, and overhung by the anterior clinoid processes. This central portion is in direct relation with the interpeduncular space of the brain. Lat- erally, the floor is marked by fossulae for gyri of the cere- brum, and shows grooves that in life conveyed the anterior and posterior branches of the middle meningeal artery from