THE BONES 248 sphenopalatine ganglion to the appropriate foramen of Scarpa. The vomer, at first bilaminar, develops in the membrane that surrounds the vomerine cartilage. About the eighth fetal week a center appears on each side of this membrane, and forms a lamella of bone. These two lamellae unite from below upward until, by the age of puberty, there is but the single vomer. The cartilage, in the meantime, has been absorbed. The vomer is almost absent in Pigeons, but large in Ostriches, and is extremely elongated in Dolphins. It is permanently double in Woodpeckers, usually in Reptiles, always in Batrachians, and occasionally in Fish, as in Lepi- dosteus and Sudis. The alae on the superior border and the groove on the anterior border are evidence of the original bilaminar condition of the palate. Lacrimal Bone. The lacrimal (tear), a thin, delicate, quadrilateral, pair- ed bone about the size of a finger-nail, contributes to the in- ner wall of the orbit and outer wall of the nose, just behind the nasal process of the maxilla. It is sometimes called the os unguis because of its fancied resemblance to a finger-nail, but puts the writer more in mind of a miniature scapula. The smallest of the facial bones, it presents two.surfaces and four borders. The superior border articulates with the hori- zontal plate of the frontal. The posterior border articulates with the anterior margin of the lamina papyracea of the ethmoid. The inferior border articulates behind the crest with the fore-part of the inner margin of the superior sur- face (q. v.) of the maxilla, whilst in front of the crest it is prolonged downward as the descending process to join the lacrimal process of the inferior turbinate. This process also contributes to the wall of the nasolacrimal canal and aids in closure of the maxillary hiatus. The anterior border articu- lates with the posterior border of the nasal process of the maxilla. The external surface is subdivided by the vertical posterior lacrimal crest into an anterior, smaller portion, and a posterior, larger portion. The anterior portion is deeply grooved by the lacrimal sulcus which, in conjunction with