175 TIBIA of the condyles, points upward, and presents at its summit two compressed tubercles whose -surfaces are continuous with those of the articular facets. In front of the spine is a rough area for attachment of the semilunar cartilages and anterior crucial ligament. The popliteal notch, situated be- hind the spine, separates the posterior surfaces of the tuber- osities, and gives attachment to the posterior crucial liga- ment and to part of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The shaft, thick and prismoid above, narrows as it de- scends, and gradually expands toward its inferior extremity. It presents three borders and as many surfaces. Of the three borders, the anterior (shin), sharp and prominent in its upper two-thirds and smooth and rounded in its lower third, begins at the tubercle, curves outward above and inward below, and terminates at the anterior mar- gin of the internal malleolus. It is subcutaneous through- out, and gives attachment to the deep fascia. The internal, smooth and rounded above and below and more prominent in the middle, extends from the posterior part of the internal condyle to the posterior margin of the internal malleolus, and gives attachment above, for about three inches, to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and in the middle third, to the soleus. The external (interosseous), thin and not so well defined, begins above in front of the facet for the fibula, and bifurcates to enclose a triangular area below: to it, as well as to the triangular area, is attached the interos- seous membrane. Of the three surfaces, the internal, situated between the internal and anterior borders, is broad above, where it re- ceives the insertions of the sartorius, gracilis, and semiten- dinosus, and is subcutaneous in the remainder of its course. The external, situated between the external and anterior borders, presents, in its upper two-thirds, a shallow groove for the origin of the tibialis anticus, and below is convex and covered by the extensor tendons and anterior tibial vessels and nerve. The posterior, situated between the internal and external borders, is crossed above by the oblique line, which extends from the fibular facet on the external condyle down- ward and inward to meet the internal border at the junction of its upper and middle thirds. To the triangular area above the line is attached the insertion of the popliteus; the line