240 THE BONES (4) Orbital margin, sharp, curved, and prominent, which forms the upper boundary of the orbital circumfer- ence, and separates the vertical from the horizontal plate. (5) Supraorbital foramen, situated at the junction of the inner and middle thirds of the orbital margin, which transmits the corresponding vessels and nerve. When not a foramen, it is a notch. (6) External angular process, the outer extremity of the orbital margin, strong, well-marked, and serrated for articulation with the frontal process of the malar. (7) Internal angular process, the inner extremity of the orbital margin, not so well-marked as the external, and serrated for articulation with the lacrimal. (8) Temporal line, which passes from the upper border of the external angular process upward and forks out into the superior curved line and temporal ridge, described on the external surface (q. v. 4, 5) of the parietal. (9) Frontal (metopicf suture, situated in the mid-line. It indicates the line of fusion in early life of the sym- metrical halves of the bone. In the adult it is usually oblit- erated, except at its lower part, where it may be traced as a slightly elevated ridge. (10) Concave area, to the outer side of the temporal line, which forms the anterior part of the temporal fossa and gives partial origin to the temporal. The internal surface presents:— (1) Sagittal sulcus, a vertical groove in the mid-line which lodges the first part of the superior sagittal sinus. It is continuous with that of the parietal bones behind. Its edges afford attachment to the falx cerebri, and converge until they unite below to form a ridge, the frontal crest. (2) Notch, at the termination of the frontal crest, which is converted into the foramen cecum by articulation with the alae of the ethmoid. This foramen has been described with the horizontal plate (q. v. 2) of the ethmoid. (3) Fossulae made by the gyri of the cerebrum. (4) Grooves that lodged branches of the anterior and middle meningeal arteries. (5) Foveolae, small irregular pits along the sagittal sulcus which lodge arachnoideal granulations (Pacchionian bodies).