ULNA 149 gives origin in its upper two-thirds to the flexor digitorum profundus and in the lower third is subcutaneous; and the posterior, broad and concave above and narrow and convex below, shows above the oblique line which runs from the posterior extremity of the lesser sigmoid cavity down to the posterior border and affords partial insertion to the supin- ator and marks off an upper, smaller, triangular area for the insertion of the anconeus and a lower, larger area which is divided by a vertical line, to which is attached deep fascia and the flexor carpi ulnaris, into an inner, smooth portion that is covered by the extensor carpi ulnaris and an outer, rougher portion that gives origin from above downward to the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor pollicis longus and extensor indicis. The inferior extremity is small, and consists of the head and the styloid process, which are separated below by a groove for the interarticular fibrocartilage. The head, larger, more rounded, and external, presents two articular facets, of which the lower is small and oval and articulates with the superior surface of the triangular fibrocartilage, which excludes the ulna from the wrist-joint, and the ex- ternal, narrow and convex, articulates with the sigmoid cavity of the radius. The styloid process, smaller, more projecting, and internal, springs from the inner and hinder part of the ulna, descends lower than the head, terminates in a rounded summit to which is attached the internal lateral ligament, and is grooved behind for the passage of the ten- don of the extensor carpi ulnaris. The ulna develops from a primary center for the shaft and epiphyses for the extremities. The epiphysis for the superior extremity appears about the tenth year and unites with the shaft about the sixteenth. The epiphysis for the lower extremity appears about the sixth year and unites with the shaft about the twenty-first. The epiphyseal line between the superior or olecranon epiphysis and the shaft lies considerably above the constricted portion of the greater sigmoid cavity. The ulna may be larger and more important than the radius, forming the largest part of the length of the wing, as in Birds, e. g. the Eagle. On the other hand it may be much smaller and more or less abortive, as in Ruminants and