79 BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM of yellow elastic tissue that demarcates the intima from the next coat. The media, the thickest coat, is composed of circularly-disposed bundles of non-striated muscle-cells, in- terspersed with strands of white fibrous and yellow elastic connective tissue. The latter is condensed externally into a thin external elastic membrane, which demarcates the media from the outermost coat. The adventitia, the strong- est coat, is composed of bundles of white fibrous tissue in- termingled with yellow elastic fibers, and supports vasa vas- orum and perivascular lymph-channels. In the arteries within the skull, the media is devoid of yellow elastic tissue. In the aorta and in other arteries of larger caliber the coats, while uniformly thicker, are not so sharply defined. In the intima, the subendothelial layer, while thicker, is more diffused, so that the internal elastic membrane is not so conspicuous. On the other hand, the yellow elastic tis- sue in this coat now assumes the form of a fenestrated mem- brane. The media is enlarged chiefly through increase of its fibro-elastic tissue, which here surpasses the muscular • tissue in amount. The external elastic membrane is also less conspicuous, if indeed not wholly wanting. The adven- titia may exhibit longitudinal strands of muscle next the media. At the commencement of the aorta and pulmonary artery are found strands of striated muscle similar to that of the heart. Longitudinal strips of aorta 1cm. in breadth broke with a weight of 14.3 lbs.; of carotid, 9% lbs.; and of radial, 8.2“ lbs. In arterioles of small caliber the coats become dimin- ished, the intima at the expense of its subendothelial layer, the endothelium abutting against the internal elastic lamina. The media is reduced to a single layer of muscle-cells, and the adventitia to a few fibro-elastic strands. In precapillary arterioles the intima is represented by the endothelium only, and the media by a thin, discontinu- ous layer of circularly-disposed muscle-cells. On longitud- inal section, the nuclei of the groups of muscle-cells" form right angles with those of the endothelial cells. The ad- ventitia is greatly thinned out. In capillaries there remains a single layer only of endo- thelial cells, muscle-cells having entirely disappeared. In