MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY .68 in the mesentery of Plagiostomata; and in the genito-rectal muscle of mammals. The non-striated muscles of Inverte- brata are allied genetically to the striated muscles of Verte- brata. Striated muscle, more highly specialized and more widely distributed than non-striated, is composed of an ag- gregation of structural units called muscle-fibers, each of which represents a greatly elongated multinucleated muscle-cell. These muscle-fibers are surrounded and held together by thin areolar tissue,—the endomysium. A num- ber of these muscle-fibers are grouped to form a primary bundle, each of which is invested by perimysium, continuous with the endomysium. A number of these primary bundles are grouped to form secondary bundles. The arrangement of the latter determines fine or coarse graining of a given muscle. The entire muscle is enclosed by a connective- tissue envelope, the epimysium, which not only separates one muscle from another, but sends partitions in between the secondary bundles. In these intermuscular septa run .blood-vessels and nerves. Each muscle-fiber consists of the sarcolemma and the enclosed sarcous substance. The sarcolemma is a clear, homogeneous, elastic sheath that, as a closed sac, invests the muscle-fiber and separates it from the surrounding connective tissue. It so closely hugs the sarcous substance that it cannot be made out, but on macerating the tissue in water, the osmosis so separates the sarcolemma that it can plainly be seen. The sarcous substance consists of sarcoplasm, its least specialized part, and of contractile fibrillae, the more impor- tant and more highly specialized part. The spaces between the latter are filled in by sarcoplasm. To illustrate this relation, place a number of parallel rods in a test-tube to represent the fibrillae, and fill the tube with water in imita- tion of the sarcoplasm. The nucleus, which is embedded in the sarcoplasm immediately beneath the sarcolemma, has undergone multiple division, so that each muscle-fiber is a multinucleated cell (syncytium). The appearance of the contractile fibrillae ofifers one of the most strikingly beautiful pictures in microscopic anat- omy,—a fact that lends interest to an otherwise complicated