THE FEMUR 171 ridges of which the external (gluteal), very rough, extends upward to the base of the great trochanter and gives pat tial insertion to the gluteus maximus; the middle, indistinct, continues to the base of the small trochanter and gives pai- tial insertion to the iliacus; and the internal becomes con- tinuous with the spiral line and receives part of the pectin- eus. Traced downward, the linea aspera divides into two diverging ridges that enclose the popliteal space. 1 he outer ridge is better marked and terminates at the summit of the external condyle; whilst the inner ridge, indistinct and smooth above where it is in relation with the femoral ves- sels, terminates below at the summit of the internal condyle as the adductor tubercle, which receives the tendon of the adductor magnus. To the linea aspera, to its outer pro- longation above, and to its inner prolongation below, is at- tached the insertion of the adductor magnus; to the inner lip and to its inner prolongations above and below is at- tached the origin of the vastus internus; and to the outer lip and its outer prolongation above, that of the vastus ex- ternus. Between the insertion of the adductor magnus and the origin of the vastus internus are inserted the iliacus and pectineus above, and the adductors brevis and longus below; whilst between the insertion of the adductor magnus and the origin of the vastus externus the gluteus maximus in- serts above, and the short head of the biceps arises below. Below the center of the linea aspera is the nutrient foramen. The inferior extremity, larger than the superior, pre- sents two rounded eminences, the condyles (knuckle), which join before to form the trochlea, and are separated behind by the intercondylar notch. The external condyle, broader than its fellow and more prominent before, presents three surfaces. The outer surface is marked, just behind its cen- ter, by the outer tuberosity, to which is attached the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, whilst below this emi- nence is the popliteal groove, which gives origin to the pop- liteus before, and behind lodges the tendon of this muscle when the knee is flexed. The inner surface corresponds to the outer boundary of the intercondylar notch, and affords attachment behind to the anterior crucial ligament. The inferior surface is convex and articular, and just above its posterior extremity is a rough impression for origin of the