164 THE BONES The body, somewhat triangular in shape, shows three surfaces and three borders. The external surface forms two-fifths of the acetabulum and, between the latter and the tuberosity, shows a groove that accommodates the ten- don of the obturator externus. The internal surface con- tributes to the lateral boundary of the true pelvis, affords partial origin to the obturator internus, and is separated from the iliac fossa by the iliopectineal line. The posterior surface, broad and quadrilateral, receives externally the cap- sule of the hip-joint, and below the level of the acetabulum shows a groove continuous with that described on the ex- ternal surface. Of the three borders, the external forms the sharp margin of the acetabulum, furnishes attachment to the cotyloid ligament, and separates the posterior from the external surface. The internal border is thin and bounds the obturator foramen externally. The posterior border completes, with that of the ilium, the bony margin of the great sciatic notch; just below this is the spine of the isch- ium, whose outer and inner surfaces give origin, respectively, to the gemellus superior, and to the coccygeus and levator ani, and whose tip receives the lesser sacrosciatic ligament; and below the spine is the small sciatic notch, which is marked by low ridges for the ribbed tendon of the obturator internus. The tuberosity connects the ramus to the body and pre- sents three surfaces and three borders. The external sur- face, rough and quadrilateral, gives partial origin to the quadratus femoris behind, partial origin to the obturator externus before, and below, to part of the adductor magnus. The internal surface forms part of the outer wall of the true pelvis, and gives partial origin to the transversus perinei and erector penis. The posterior surface is subdivided by an oblique ridge into an upper, outer impression for origin of the semimembranosus, and a lower, inner for the common tendon of origin of the long head of the biceps and of the semitendinosus. Of the three borders, the external gives partial origin to the quadratus femoris; the internal is sharp, and helps bound the obturator foramen; and the inferior re- ceives the falciform process of the great sacrosciatic liga- ment. The ramus is the flattened bar of bone that runs upward