255 PALATE BONE (1) Depression, broad and shallow, which contributes to the inferior meatus. (2) Inferior turbinated crest, a rough, horizontal ridge which articulates with the posterior part of the superior border of the inferior turbinate. (3) Depression, broad and shallow, which contributes to the middle meatus. (4) Superior turbinated crest, less prominent than the inferior, for articulation with the middle turbinate. (5) Groove, narrow and horizontal, which contributes to the superior meatus. Of the borders, the inferior fuses with the horizontal plate almost at right angles. The an- terior border, thin and irregular, presents, opposite the in- ferior turbinated crest, the maxillary process, a pointed pro- jecting lamina that has been referred to with the external surface. The posterior border presents a deep groove, whose edges are serrated for articulation with the vaginal plate of the internal plate (q. v. 3) of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. Below, this border expands into a pyra- midal process, the tuberosity of the palate, which is received into the pterygoid notch between the lower parts of the pterygoid plates of the sphenoid, and contributes the lowest part of the pterygoid fossa. The tuberosity articulates with the tuberosity of the maxilla, and affords partial origin to the superior constrictor. The superior border presents the orbital process before, the sphenoidal process behind, and the sphenopalatine notch between. The orbital process, somewhat pyramidal in shape and containing a sinus, surmounts the fore part of the vertical plate, to which it is connected by a constricted neck, and pre- sents five surfaces, of which the first two mentioned are non-articular. The superior surface, triangular, concave, and smooth, and facing upward and outward, contributes to the hinder part of the floor of the orbit. The external sur- face, oblong, smooth, and directed outward, faces the spheno- maxillary and zygomatic fossae. It is separated from the superior surface by a smooth, rounded border that helps bound the sphenomaxillary fissure. The anterior surface, continuous with the external surface of the vertical plate, is oblong, and rough for articulation with the posterior part of the inner margin of the superior surface (q. v.) of the