GLANDS 91 bers of these are seen in the intestines as intestinal glands (of Lieberkuehn). If entwined upon itself like a snake, it is termed a coil gland, examples of which are the sweat glands. A compound tubular gland differs from a simple tubular in that its fundus and the fundal part of its duct are divided. A simple type,of this is seen in the uterine glands. A more complex, convoluted type is found in the kidney. A simple alveolar gland resembles a flask, as its name implies (alvelous, a small, rounded vessel). It differs from a simple tubular gland in that its fundus is dilated. Such a gland may be unbranched or branched. Unbranched simple alveolar glands are not found in man, but, for example, in Frog’s skin. They also occur, in modified form, in small sebaceous glands of higher animals. Branched simple alveolar glands are represented by the large sebaceous and tarsal (Meibomian) glands. A compound alveolar gland is made up of many alveolar systems. An alveolar system consists of a branched simple alveolar gland that has many alveoli. Since the fundal part of the duct is subdivided in this as in the compound tubular type, many ducts open into a main duct. This form is best seen in the lung. A tubulo-alveolar gland is classified as a modified com- pound tubular gland, and is distinguished from the com- pound alveolar type by its narrower terminal alveoli. The picture presented by the latter, as they lie clinging to their ducts, recalls vividly that of a bunch of grapes, so that the term “racemose’1 (racemus, a bunch of grapes) may be fit- tingly applied to tubulo-alveolar glands. Primary lobules are composed of those alveoli that are tributary to a common excretory duct ; secondary lobules are composed of a number of primary lobules; whilst lobes are composed of a number of secondary lobules, and unite to form the whole gland. As to the ducts, a number of alveoli empty into an intermediate duct, which is in relation with a primary lobule; several in- termediate ducts unite to form an intralobular duct, which is in relation with a secondary lobule; the intralobular ducts empty into the interlobular, which are between the lobules; the interlobular ducts empty into the interlobar, which are between the lobes; whilst the interlobar ducts converge to the common excretory duct of the gland. While the epi-