THE BONES 188 single facet for the base of the fifth metatarsal. Interiorly, the base receives a slip from the tendon of the tibialis posti- cus, and gives partial origin to the adductor hallucis ob- liquus. The shaft gives origin to three interossei (two dor- sal and one plantar), and presents a nutrient foramen on its outer side. The fifth metatarsal possesses a base that is broadened externally by a prominent tuberosity, which receives, be- hind, the tendon of the peroneus brevis; above, that of the peroneus tertius; whilst below it provides an origin for the flexor brevis digiti minimi. At the posterior aspect of its base is a triangular facet for the similar facet at the outer part of the anterior surface of the cuboid; and at the inner aspect, a semi-oval facet for the base of the fourth meta- tarsal. The upper aspect of the base shares with that of the tuberosity the tendon of the peroneus tertius, whilst the lower aspect shows a shallow groove that lodges the tendon of the abductor digiti minimi. The head is small and faces outward. The shaft, unlike that of the others, is compressed from above downward and gives origin to two interossei. It presents a nutrient foramen on its inner aspect. The metatarsus develops from primary centers that ap- pear before birth. The bases and shafts of the outer four are formed by these centers, whilst the heads develop from secondary centers that appear between the second and fourth years and join the shaft by the eighteenth. On the other hand, the head and shaft of the first metatarsal are de- rived from the primary center, whilst the base is formed by a secondary center that appears about the second or third year and fuses with the shaft about the eighteenth. There- fore, as is the case with the thumb, it is uncertain whether the great toe possesses three phalanges and no metatarsal, or one metatarsal and two phalanges. The first metatarsal probably represents a phalanx, since there are only two regular phalanges in the great toe. In Primates other than man it diverges widely from the line of the others. This occurs also in some Marsupials, as Pha- langista. The number of metatarsals is quite variable, and it has been mentioned that in the Horse and Cheropus there is but one. They are anchylosed together at their proximal ends in the Three-toed Sloth. They increase in size from