TEMPORAL BONE 211 to the masseter. Its anterior extremity, oblique and ser- rated, dovetails with the zygomatic process of the malar. Posteriorly the three roots connect this process to the tem- poral bone. The anterior root, continuous with the inferior border, turns inward at the preglenoid tubercle, to which is attached the temporomandibular ligament of the lower jaw, and then gradually broadens out as the articular eminence. The middle root begins at the preglenoid tubercle and arches backward for about half-an-inch to terminate at the post- glenoid tubercle. The posterior root continues the superior border backward for about an inch and a quarter and then bends upward and backward as the supramastoid crest, which soon becomes confluent with the temporal ridge— the limit of the temporal fossa posteriorly. Behind the ar- ticular eminence is the glenoid (cavity-like) fossa, which is divided into two parts by a cleft. The anterior part, which belongs to the squamous portion, is smooth and articular for the condyle of the mandible. The cleft is the Glaserian fissure, which lodges the processus gracilis of the malleus in the fetus, and transmits the tympanic branch of the in- ternal maxillary artery. At its inner end is a subdivision, the canal of Huguier, which transmits the chorda tympani nerve. The posterior part, which belongs to the petrous portion, lodges a portion of the parotid gland. Finally, the border is curved, thin, and sharp, and bevelled at the expense of its inner table except before, where it is thick, stout, and bevelled at the expense of its outer table. It is serrated, and articulates with the sphenoid before, the parie- tal above, and joins the mastoid portion behind to form the parietal notch. The petrous portion is a very dense pyramid that pro- jects obliquely toward the center of the base of the skull, and presents three surfaces, as many borders, a base, and an apex. The anterior surface assists in the formation of the floor of the middle cranial fossa. From apex to base it shows:— (1) Internal carotid foramen, from which emerges the internal carotid artery with its surrounding sympathetic plexus. (2) Trigeminal depression, just above the carotid canal, for lodgment of the Gasserian ganglion.