SACRUM 197 esses, and are homologous with the ribs. 1 he transverse processes are extremely rudimentary, and are represented solely by two minute tubercles. Of these, the mammillary tubercle corresponds to the superior tubercle of the trans- verse process of the twelfth thoracic, and surmounts the pos- terior margin of each superior articular process. I he acces- sory tubercle corresponds to the inferior tubercle of the transverse process of the twelfth thoracic, and to the trans- verse processes of the remaining thoracic segments, and rep- resents the tip of an abortive lumbar transverse process. It is situated behind the base of each costal process. The fifth lumbar is massive. Its body is markedly thicker before than behind. Its pedicles are stout and flattened from above downward. Its laminae project into the verte- bral foramen. Its spinous process is small. Its inferior ar- ticular processes are more widely separated than the su- perior. Its costal processes spring from both the body and pedicles, and are short and stout. Sacrum. The sacrum (sacred bone) is a large, curved triangular bone formed by the fusion of five vertebrae which diminish in size from above downward. It is the keystone of the pel- vis. It presents an anterior and a posterior surface, two lat- eral surfaces, a base, and an apex. The anterior surface is concave, and is crossed in its middle by four transverse ridges, which represent the ossi- fied intervertebral disks. Laterally, these ridges terminate at the anterior sacral foramina, which correspond to the in- tervertebral foramina of other regions, and transmit the anterior primary divisions of the first four sacral nerves. These foramina are separated by stout bars that unite ex- ternally to form the lateral mass. The bars represent the costal processes. Each lateral mass is grooved for the sacral nerves, and rough opposite the second, third, and fourth segments for origin of the pyriformis. The posterior surface, convex, narrower, and rougher than the anterior, presents in the mid-line four eminences that represent the abortive spinous processes. The laminae are fused on each side of the spinous processes to form a