173 PATELLA The supremacy in size of man’s femur over the other parts of his skeleton is not shared by the femur of most other vertebrates. As the longest bone of the lower extremity the femur of man is distinguished from that of all Birds, and from that of almost all other Mammals. In the Great Ant- eater and in certain Apes, however, it markedly exceeds the tibia in length. In absolute length the femur of man ex- ceeds that of almost all other animals, only the largest beasts forming an exception in this respect. On the whole, the femur is a substantially constant bone as to its form and. structure. It is very rudimentary in some fin Whales and in some Reptiles, as Lialis Burtonii, Boa, and Stenostoma. Patella. The patella (shallow dish) or knee-cap, is a flat, tri- angular sesamoid bone that overlies the front of the knee- joint in the tendon of the quadriceps femoris. It presents two surfaces, three borders, and an apex. Of the surfaces, the anterior, convex, perforated by nu- trient foramina, and marked by numerous longitudinal striae, is covered, in the recent state, by fibers from the ten- don of the quadriceps femoris in transit to the ligamentum patellae, and is separated from the skin by a bursa. The posterior, oval and articular, is divided by a vertical ridge, which corresponds to the median groove on the trochlea of the femur, into an outer, larger facet for the external con- dyle, and an inner, smaller facet for the internal. Below the articular surface is a rough depression for the ligamentum patellae, which, above, rests upon a mass of fat. Of the borders, the superior (base), broad and thick, slopes from behind downward and forward, and furnishes insertion to the rectus and crureus. The two lateral borders are thinner, converge to the apex below, and afford attach- ment to the vasti. The apex, directed downward, is pointed, and gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae. The patella, like the pisiform bone, is a sesamoid (like sesame-seed) bone that, at birth, is cartilaginous, but de- velops an ossific center about the third year, and is com- pletely ossified by puberty.