203 RIBS than in any other Mammal. In the Howling' Monkeys the spines are trifid. A true body for the atlas is wanting in all Vertebrata above the Ichthyopsida, but is present in the highest member of this group, the Frog. With its advent, however, the power of rotation on the axis is lost. 1 he atlas is anchylosed to the axis in the Dolphin, and with all the other cervical vertebrae in the Right Whale. In the Stur- geon it is fused with the skull. The odontoid process is ' not fused with the body of the axis, but remains free as the odontoid bone in the Duck-billed Platypus and in many Reptiles, as Crocodiles, Chelonians, and Lizards. The tho- racic vertebrae are two in number in Azara’s Armadillo, twenty in the Elephant, and twenty-four in the Two-toed Sloth. In Tortoises and Turtles the spinous processes ex- pand at their apices into wide plates that articulate by suture with each other and with similarly expanded ribs to form the carapace. The lumbar vertebrae number two in the Monotremes, three in the Two-toed Sloth, four in Apes, and nine in the Slow Lemur. The sacral vertebrae are coalesced in Vertebrata above the Ichthyopsida which have fully developed limbs. The coccygeal vertebrae have been considered with the coccyx. RIBS. The ribs are of morphological interest in that they rep- resent persisting bars of intersegmental connective tissue, which are interposed between myotonies that retain their independence as the intercostal muscles. A typical rib pre- sents a head, a neck, a tubercle, a shaft, and a sternal extrem- ity. The head, situated on the vertebral end of the bone, has two oblique demifacets separated by a ridge. The upper demifacet is small and articulates with the lower demifacet of the body of the vertebra above. The ridge affords at- tachment to the interarticular ligament. The lower demi- facet is larger and articulates with the upper demifacet on the body of the vertebra below it, and in numerical corre- spondence with it. The neck, flattened from before backward, extends from