218 THE BONES base of the skull into the sphenomaxillary fossa. It is bounded above by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid; externally, by the vaginal plate of the pterygoid process; and internally by the ala of the vomer. The posterior surface shows a sectioned surface of cancellous bone, where the sphenoid has been sawn from the occipital. When in situ, this surface is connected with the basilar process of the occipital, in young subjects by cartil- age, and in older ones by bone. The dorsum sellae, clivus, and posterior clinoid processes, described with the superior surface, are also visible from this aspect. Each lateral surface shows:— (1) Junction, between the greater wing and the body. (2) Lingula, a slender ridge of bone that projects back- ward from the junction just mentioned. ■ (3) Carotid groove, whose outer lip corresponds be- hind to the lingula. It lodges the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus. (4) Middle clinoid process, visible from this aspect, but already described with the superior surface. Each lesser wing, which forms the posterior part of the anterior cranial fossa, springs by two roots from the upper, outer, and fore-part of the body of the sphenoid, and pro- jects horizontally outward as a flattened triangular plate that tapers rapidly to a sharp apex. The superior root, broad and compressed, is continuous with the fore-part of the superior surface of the body. The inferior root, short and round, springs from the body at the outer end of the olivary eminence. The optic foramen is situated between the two roots, and transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. The anterior margin is serrated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the frontal. The posterior margin is free, smooth, and rounded, and terminates inter- nally in a recurved angle that forms the anterior clinoid process, already described with the superior surface of the body. This margin separates the anterior from the middle cranial fossa, and is received into the Sylvian fissure of the cerebrum. The superior surface is smooth, and is marked by the orbital gyri of the frontal lobe of the cerebrum. The inferior surface is in relation with the orbital cavity, and