BRONCHI 113 which, near the submucosa and especially in the lower part of the trachea, form a distinct, dense, longitudinal sheet that has been compared with the muscularis mucosae of the in- testines. The submucous coat is composed of loose fibro-elastic tissue which supports blood- and lymph-vessels and nerves. It contains fat-cells and glands. These tracheal glands are of the mucous tubulo-alveolar type, and their ducts reach the surface through the mucous coat. Here exists a corre- lation that explains the ciliated character of the surface-epi- thelium. The mucus secreted by the goblet-cells and trach- eal glands is prevented from gravitating into the lungs by the cilia, which sweep it toward the mouth. The fibrous coat contains the cartilaginous framework of the trachea. The tracheal cartilages comprise a series of about 18 hyaline C-shaped members, whose free ends face the esophagus behind. The intervals between these ends and between the cartilages themselves are bridged over by the fibrous coat, which here contains non-striated muscle. The muscle-cells are disposed both transversely and longi- tudinally, and among them are found many yellow elastic fibers. The tracheal cartilages form about three-fourths of a circle. The perichondrium covering in the cartilages must not be overlooked. Bronchi. The bronchi resemble the trachea in structure as far as the hilum of the lung. Within the lung, however, the three coats undergo diminution and lose some of their constitu- ents. The best method of describing these changes seems to be to take up the three coats seriatim and follow them to the terminal bronchioles. The mucous coat displays stratified ciliated columnar epithelium as far as the smaller bronchi. Within the smaller bronchi the stratified ciliated columnar epithelium becomes simple ciliated columnar. This brings us to the terminal bronchioles, whose diameter averages 0.4 mm. In the prox- imal part of the terminal bronchioles the simple ciliated col- umnar epithelium changes to low cuboidal epithelium which 8