MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 74 nerves, are devoid of a neurilemma, a substitute being offered by condensed neuroglia. Nonmedullated nerve-fibers are characterized by the absence of the medullary sheath, the axis-cylinders being clothed by the neurilemma alone. Such fibers are poorly insulated, and are found in the gray rami of the sympathetic system, in the olfactory nerves, and in cer- tain tactile corpuscles. The gray rami derive a delicate sheath from the capsule that surrounds the ganglion cell. Medullated nerve-fibers occur in Vertebrata only. What nerves are found in Invertebrata are non-medullated. Neuroglia (nerve-glue) is the supporting framework of the central nervous system, and represents connective tissue of ectoblastic origin. It consists of glia-cells and their processes, the glia-fibers. Ependymal cells are glia-cells that border the central canal of the spinal cord and ventricles of the brain. They are pyramidal in shape and surmounted by cilia. Astrocytes are glia-cells situated elsewhere, and phy- logenetically are younger than the ependymal cells, from which they derive origin. As their name implies, they are stellate in outline and, with their processes, resemble a spider. Glia-fibers usually become separated from the glia- cells and constitute a dense feltwork. Such condensations form glia-capsules for the nerve-cells, replace the neuri- lemma of medullated nerve-fibers in the brain and spinal cord by neurogliar sheaths, and form the substantia gela- tinosa centralis. A nerve-trunk is made up of several funiculi, each of which represents a bundle of nerve-fibers. Each nerve-trunk is surrounded by fibro-elastic epineurium, with its blood- and lymph-vessels; each funiculus, by a sheath called peri- neurium, which not only encloses perineurial lymph-spaces, but also sends septa of endoneurium between the nerve- fibers. Each nerve-fiber is enclosed in a sheath (of Henle), which invests the neurilemma. On cross-section of a nerve- trunk, each medullated nerve-fiber shows a central dot that represents the axis-cylinder, surrounded, from within out- ward, by the medullary sheath, the neurilemma (with its semilunar neurilemma-cell), and the sheath (of Henle). Cross-section of non-medullated fibers shows conspicuously the absence of the medullary sheath, so that the small axis- cylinders are very closely assembled.