SKELETON AS A WHOLE 275 Bos*Taurus and in other Ruminants. A bone is present in the tongue of certain Birds. An os penis exists in the Wal- rus, many Dogs, and other animals. The os cloacae of Lacertilia and marsupial bones are included in the splanch- noskeleton. Below Vertebrata skeletons do not exist, but are rep- resented by bars of calcareous material and other sub- stances. The fundamental feature of the endoskeleton of Verte- brata is bilateral symmetry in relation to the axis. The highest type of endoskeleton is reached in the human being. The endoskeleton is divided into:— (1) Axial, which encloses two cavities, the neural and the visceral, and consists of the skull and spine, the ribs, sternum, and hyoid bone. (2) Appendicular, which includes the upper and lower limbs. The Snake has only an axial skeleton, its appendicu- lar skeleton being rudimentary. In the Whale, the anterior extremities are well-developed, whilst the posterior are rudi- mentary. The axis of man differs in some respects from that of other species. His foramen magnum is in the lower, in- ferior part of the skull, and somewhat anterior, and its plane is horizontal. In the Dog it is in the posterior part, and its plane is vertical. The weight of the head is sustained in all Herbivorous Quadrupeds by the well-developed ligamentum nuchae (pack-wax), which in man is rudimentary because his head is balanced on the spine. In man there is a prepon- derance of the upper part of the skeleton. An infant has difficulty in walking because of the relatively large size of its head, the absence of vertebral curves, and the shortness of its lower limbs, so that it is rendered top-heavy from the high position of its center of gravity, which is above the umbilicus. In the adult it is in the pelvic rings. Man is the only erect animal. The upright posture gives rise to modi- fications, such as primary curves: note that the pelvis and ribs curve anteriorly. Changes are also effected in the di- ameters of the body for, comparing man to other animals, in him the chest becomes compressed anteroposteriorly and expanded laterally, thus throwing the arms apart, and in- creasing their range of motion. In animals the chest is nar-