95 TEETH sense of taste is very acute, there is a whitish area about one centimeter long on each side of the posterior part of the tongue: in this are many foliate (leaf-like) papillae separat- ed by furrows and containing taste-buds. In man this area is rudimentary, being represented by only a few small, trans- verse ridges. All three kinds of papillae show secondary papillae, which involve the core but do not appear on the surface. These papillae may readily be studied by reflecting the image of the tongue on a mirror. Below the site of the circumvallate papillae there is an accumulation of lymphatic tissue termed the lingual tonsil. '-'O * C r -7 < Teeth. The teeth may be regarded as hardened papillae of the mucous membrane of the mouth, just as the cutaneous ar- mor of Placoid fishes is hardened papillae of skin. Each presents a crown, which projects above the gums; a root (or roots), which is buried in the alveolus of the jaw; and a neck, which connects the crown with the root and is covered by the gum. The center of a tooth is hollowed out by the pulp- cavity, which is filled with pulp,. A tooth is composed of enamel, dentine, and cementum. Enamel, the hardest of all animal tissues and a deriva- tive of the ectoblast, is made up of enamel prisms. These are hexagonal rods arranged usually in parallel rows, and are bound together by a small amount of cement-substance. They run from the dentine, where they are thinner, radially to the free surface, where they are thicker, and are slightly wavy in their course. Examination of a vertical median sec- tion of the enamel with reflected light shows that the ob- liquely- and transversely-cut enamel prisms reflect light in such fashion as to form alternating light and dark bands,— the prism-stripes (of Schreger). Examination of an oblique section of the enamel with transmitted light shows can tour lines (of__Retziusj running around the tooth. They appear as brown, parallel lines, and are due to pauses in calcification of some of the enamel prisms. They cross the latter oblique- ly. At birth the enamel is covered by the very thin, struc- tureless enamel-cuticle (membrane of Nasmyth), which is soon worn away by mechanical contact. It is a legacy of the