63 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE become isolated as bone-cells, and the spaces they occupy are the primary lacunae. Thus, the whole primary marrow-cavity is gradually lined by bone, which is arranged as a network of bony trabe- culae enclosing bone-cells, whilst of the original hyaline cartilage, there remain only the thinned vertical septa, which soon disappear. The cartilage is thus gradually replaced by spongy bone. Osteoclasts now attack some of the bony trabeculae and absorb them, with the result that the inter- vening marrow-spaces become enlarged. The remaining bony trabeculae, however, increase in thickness by incre- ments of new lamellae, and form the primary central spongy bone. The latter remains as cancellous bone wherever this variety is found, namely, at the extremities of long bones and in the middle of short and of flat bones (diploe). Else- where the central spongy bone undergoes absorption, so that the middle of long bones is finally occupied by a large space, the central marrow-cavity. Subperiosteal development contributes thickness to the shaft of the bone, and furnishes an enclosure for the central marrow-cavity—the legacy of endochondral development. The osteoblasts from the inner layer of the periosteum group themselves about their companion fibrillae from the same source, and deposit bone-matrix upon them. They are caught and isolated in this bone-matrix as bone-cells. The resulting bony trabeculae unite to form the peripheral spongy bone. Hardly is this process completed when osteo- clasts partially undo the work of the osteoblasts by reducing the bony trabeculae to extremely thin dimensions. This, however, is necessarily accompanied by enlargement of the primary marrow-cavities, which now become the Haversian spaces. Compact bone is formed by reconstruction of the thinned bony trabeculae by osteoblasts—a process accom- panied by narrowing of the Haversian spaces. The osteo- blasts lodge upon the thinned bony trabeculae and deposit concentric lamellae of bone, gradually narrowing the Haver- sian space down to the Haversian canal. These Haversian lamellae and the Haversian canal form an Haversian sys- tem. What trabeculae of the peripheral spongy bone remain are represented by the interstitial lamellae of the matured bone.