42 DEVELOPMENT (2) From 100 to 200mm., the age in days—the vertex- breech length in millimeters. Changes in Form of the Fetus. The ante-natal life of a human may be divided into three stages—that of the blastocyst, that of the embryo, and that of the fetus. I. The Stage of the Blastocyst.—This stage occupies the first two weeks, or the time between fecundation and the •differentiation of the germ-layers. In it fertilization, seg- mentation, and the formation of the blastocyst are com- pleted, and the formation of the neural canal, notochord, and mesoblastic somites is begun. At the end of this stage the blastocyst measures 8.5mm. by 6.5mm., and the embry- onic shield 1.54mm. II. The Stage of the Embryo.—This occupies from the second to the fifth week. During this period the ovum assumes well-marked characteristics of the embryo, and, at the close, all the embryological structures are formed. The axis-curvature is most pronounced about the twenty- third day and forms somewhat more than a complete circle. After this, by increased growth of the head and heart a gradual unfolding occurs about the twenty-sixth day, dur- ing which unfolding four flexures may be recognized:—a cephalic, a cervical, a dorsal, and a sacral, and by the twenty- eighth day the full-bloom embryological form is assumed. At the end of this stage the embryo measures, from neck to breech, about 12mm. III. The Stage of the Fetus.—From the fifth week to birth. From now on growth has to do only with the forma- tion and perfection of permanent structures. By the sixth week the human fetus may be differentiated from the fetus of other species by the relatively enormous development of the head end. By the eighth week the permanent organs are all present, though not perfected. This is the period of great- est relative growth. By the fourth month the sex of the fetus can be recognized. In the fifth month fetal movements appear. The sixth month is the period of greatest absolute growth, and is the earliest month that a child is viable.