207 STERNUM side. There are 9 pairs of ribs in the bottle-nosed Whale; 18 in the horse; 19 in the Elephant; and 24 in the Two-toed Sloth. Snakes are well provided with ribs, and since limbs are rudimentary, they use the tips of the ribs for progres- sion. Abdominal ribs in man are wanting, but are prob- ably represented by the lineae transversae of the recti ab- dominis. In the Nilotic Crocodile seven pairs of false ribs are developed as superficial ossifications of the lineae trans- versae. Sternum. The sternum (breast-bone) is a flat, narrow plate of bone situated in the anterior wall of the thorax with an oblique inclination from above downward and forward. The sternum has been likened to a dagger (t), since it is com- posed of three pieces, the manubrium (handle), the gladiolus (blade), and the ensiform (point of the blade). The manubrium, the broadest and thickest piece, is tri- angular with the base above, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The anterior surface, convex transversely, and concave vertically, is smooth and affords origin on each side to the pectoralis major and insertion to the sternal head of the sternomastoid. The posterior surface, concave and smooth, gives origin on each side to the sternohyoid above, and to the sternothyroid below. The superior border pre- sents in the middle the suprasternal notch, to which fibers of the interclavicular ligament are attached, and on each side an area for partial insertion of the sternal head of the sternomastoid. The inferior border, thick and short, pre- sents an oval, rough border for articulation with the gladi- olus. The junction of these two pieces, termed Ludwig’s angle, is marked by a transverse ridge which corresponds to the attachment on each side of the second costal cartilage. Each lateral border is marked in its upper corner by an oval facet for the clavicle, and just below this a depression for the first costal cartilage. At the lower corner is a demifacet for the second costal cartilage. The gladiolus, longer, narrower and thinner than the manubrium, and broader below than above, presents two surfaces and four borders. The anterior surface is fiat and