134 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY consists of a single row of columnar cells which clothe the corium, covering the peaks of the papillae and lining the valleys between them. They are implanted in the corium by little tooth-like roots, just as grass is implanted in the earth. The overlying cells of this stratum are first full and polyhedral and then flattened. The cells are all bound to- gether by protoplasmic bolts which represent extensions of intracellular fibrillae from one cell to another spanning, in their course, the intercellular lymph-spaces. They there- fore correspond to “prickle-cells,” described previously (vide Epithelium). It is within this stratum that the distinguish- ing pigment of various races is lodged. (2) Stratum granulosum, which is composed of several layers of horizontally-flattened cells. The nuclei are sur- rounded by granules of eleidin. (3) Stratum lucidum, which appears as a thin, clear, homogeneous layer, but in reality consists of several layers of flattened cells whose outlines are scarcely perceptible. This stratum is present in certain localities only. (4) Stratum corneum, which is composed of several layers of flattened, non-nucleated scale-like cells that repre- sent the oldest of the epidermis. The cells next the air are constantly being shed, or are removed by mechanical con- tact. The stratum corneum is the part of the epidermis that is raised by a blister, as in a superficial burn. It is traversed by the shafts of hairs and the ducts of sweat glands whose openings on the free surface correspond to the “pores” of the skin. Occasionally the ducts of sebac- eous glands also pass through this stratum. Keratinization is the process by which the cells are rendered horny. APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. 1: ' . ... Hair. Every hair is composed of two parts—shaft, which pro- jects above the surface, and root, which is buried in the skin. The lowest part of the root is knobbed, and is termed the bulb. Invaginating this from below is a globular pro- jection of corium, the hair-papilla. The root is imbedded in fthe hair-follicle.