THE BONES 208 crossed by three transverse lines which indicate the lines of union of its four component parts. It affords partial origin on each side to the pectoralis major. The posterior surface, somewhat concave, shows less distinctly the three lines, and gives origin below, on each side, to the triangularis sterni. The superior border presents an oval surface for articulation with the manubrium. The inferior border is narrow, and articulates with the ensiform. Each lateral border presents, at its upper corner, a demifacet which, with that on the glad- iolus, forms an entire facet for the second costal cartilage; opposite the transverse lines are entire facets for the third, fourth and fifth costal cartilages; below the lowermost line is an entire facet for the sixth costal cartilage; and at the lower corner is a demifacet for part of the seventh costal cartilage. Occasionally the gladiolus is perforated at the lowermost transverse line by the sternal foramen. The ensiform is the thin, elongated piece that projects downward between the seventh costal cartilages. Its extent of ossification varies directly with age. Its anterior surface gives partial origin to the rectus abdominis, and attachment to the chondroxyphoid ligament. Its posterior surface gives partial origin to the diaphragm and to the triangularis sterni. Each lateral border receives the aponeurosis of the abdominal musculature and presents, at its upper corner, a demifacet which, with that at the lower corner of the glad- iolus, forms an entire facet for the seventh costal cartilage. Above, it articulates with the gladiolus, whilst below, its tip is continuous with the linea alba. The sternum is developed from the fusion in the mid- line of two cartilaginous bands to which are attached the first eight costal cartilages. These bands begin to ossify about the sixth month of fetal life. The manubrium ossifies from a single center that appears about the sixth month of fetal life. The gladiolus ossifies from a center for the first segment that appears at the seventh month, a center for each of the second and third segments at the eighth month, and a center for the fourth segment in the first year. In the ensiform ossification begins in the sixth year or later. The second, third, and fourth segments of the gladiolus unite about puberty. The first segment joins the second about the twenty-fifth year. The manubrium unites with the