158 THE BONES Metacarpus. The metacarpus (beyond the wrist) consists of five “long bones in miniature” which, leaving the carpus, diverge slightly from each other, form the skeleton of the palm, and support the fingers. A typical metacarpal presents a shaft and two extremities. The shaft is prismatic and curved with the convexity backward. Of the three surfaces, the two lateral constitute the palmar, whilst the third is posterior. The lateral sur- faces are concave for the interossei, and are separated in the middle of the shaft by a prominent ridge. The posterior sur- face shows in its lower half a large, flat, triangular area with the base below and apex above, covered by the extensor ten dons of the fingers, and two lateral, sloping areas, near the upper extremity, for the dorsal interossei. The tubercles on each side of the posterior surface of the lower extremity re- ceive the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints, and from these tubercles ascend two lines which, con- verging, bound the triangular area and meet to form a ridge that separates the lateral, sloping areas. A nutrient foramen is situated on each palmar surface. The base (superior ex- tremity) is quadrilateral, broader behind than before, articu- lates above with the carpus and on each side with the ad- jacent metacarpal bones, and is rough before and behind for ligaments. The head (inferior extremity) presents a large, convex articular surface, encroaching more upon the palmar surface than upon the posterior, for articulation with the su- perior phalanx. The palmar surface is grooved for the flexor tendons, and the posterior is flat for the extensor. Each lat- eral surface shows a prominent tubercle behind, and a fossa before, both of which receive the lateral ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The first metacarpal, the shortest and widest, diverges from the carpus to greater extent than the others. The palmar surface faces inward, and is subdivided by a ridge into an outer portion that receives the opponens pollicis, and an inner and smaller that is in relation with the interosseous primus volaris and shows the nutrient foramen. The pos- terior surface, broad and flat, is covered by the tendons of