LIVER 109 liver, is filled in by connective tissue with a branch of the portal vein, of the hepatic artery, and of the bile-duct. This connective tissue is called collectively the capsule of Glisson •—a misleading term often wrongly applied to the fibrous capsule surrounding the entire liver. The tires of the three wheels illustrate the relation of this connective tissue to the periphery of the individual lobules. In the liver of the Hog this relation is shown with diagrammatic clearness, but in man it is poorly defined, owing to scanty development of the connective tissue here. The rim of the wheel represents a branch of the portal vein surrounding the lobule. The spokes represent the sinusoids into which this branch breaks. The hub represents the central vein, which receives portal blood from the sinusoids, and the axle represents the rela- tion of the central vein to the whole lobule, of which the wheel is but a cross-slice. Emerging from the lobule, the central vein terminates in a vessel that runs at right angles to it—the sublobular vein. The sublobular veins unite to form the hepatic veins, and these pour their blood into the in- ferior vena cava. The wedge-shaped spaces bounded on the sides by two spokes and at the base by part of the rim are filled in by liver-cells, which, in the entire lobule, are arranged in col- umns, but in cross-section appear as little nests. Thediver- cells are held together by a reticulum contributed by the interlobular connective tissue. The liver-cells are poly- gonal elements, devoid of cell-wall, and possessing granular protoplasm. On cross-section they are arranged in groups of about half a dozen, and so that at least one side of their polygonal outline borders on one of the sinusoids. The remaining sides are in apposition with other cells, but be- tween them are bile-capillaries, which receive the excretion of each cell and conduct it to the periphery of the lobule, emptying it into the interlobular bile-ducts. Intermediary between the bile-capillaries and the interlobular bile-ducts are excretory channels. The walls of the bile -capillaries are formed by the cytoplasm of the liver-cells, since they cor- respond to lumina of a simplified compound tubular gland. The excretory channels are lined by low cuboidal cell's, and the interlobular bile-ducts consist of a fibro-elastic tunic lined by cylindrical cells. The larger bile-ducts have, in