239 FRONTAL BONE forms in general is relatively much smaller than in man. In the latter, the bone gives much character to the face. It acquires enormous size in Cetaceans. While stationary in man, in Parrots the maxilla is movable, possessing a broad, transverse articulation with the frontal. In Birds, the max- illa and premaxilla are prolonged forward, and when cov- ered with the appropriate horny material, constitute the upper half of the beak. In the Porcupine and some other Rodents the infraorbital foramen may be enlarged into an enormous aperture, which transmits part of the masseter. In the Elephant the premaxillary suture is visible. And in the Three-toed Sloth and in Serpents the premaxilla is per- manently separated from the true maxilla. Here there ex- ists normally that occasional abnormal arrest of develop- ment in man termed alveolar hare-lip. In the Narwhal a sharp spiral tusk springs from the left premaxilla, and cor- responds to the left incisor tooth. The power of this tusk is emphasized by its having been found buried to a depth of ten or twelve inches in the timbers of ships. Frontal Bone. The frontal (forehead), somewhat resembling a cockle- shell, forms the fore part of the cranium. It consists of a vertical plate and a horizontal plate. The vertical plate, which arches upward and backward above the orbits, is the larger portion, and presents two sur- faces and a border. The external surface shows:— (1) Frontal eminence, a convexity on each side of the mid-line about an inch and a quarter above the orbital mar- gin. Very prominent in young bones and in case of well- marked cerebral development, it indicates, as does the pari- etal eminence, the original site of the centers from which the bone ossifies. (2) Superciliary arch, below the frontal eminence and separated from it by a transverse sulcus. Forming a marked projection above the orbital margin, it overlies a pneumatic space, the frontal sinus, and gives origin to the corrugator supercilii, and partial origin to the orbicularis palpebrarum. (3) Glabella (smooth), a flat, smooth, triangular sur- face between the two superciliary arches.