27 MESOBLASTIC SOMITES Mesoblastic Somites. The mesoblast on each side of the notochord thickens by a dorsal upgrowth to occupy the spaces left by the upris- ing of the medullary folds. Thus, there are formed two pyramidal bars of mesoblast, one on each side of the neural canal, which, together, constitute the paraxial mesoblast. This extends longitudinally from the head-end to the tail- end and, as its name implies, on each side of the axis of the embryo. The mesoblast then gradually thins off laterally as the lateral mesoblast (lateral plates). The paraxial mesoblast is soon divided, by a series of transverse constrictions, into block-like masses, the meso- blastic somites. The first pair is formed in the region of the hind-brain, corresponding to the future site of the junction between the head and trunk. From here they are produced in succession from before backward. While thus confined to the trunk area, cephalic somites are theoretically present. Longitudinal grooves encroach upon the junction between the paraxial and lateral mesoblast to such an extent that connection is retained only by a contracted strand of cells, the intermediate mesoblast (intermediate cell-mass). This is eventually separated from the larger blocks of the somites and, as the excretory ducts of the Wolffian body are after- ward laid down in it, it receives the name nephrotome. The lateral mesoblast extends outward as two layers, the parietal layer and the visceral layer, which enclose the celom (body-cavity). The parietal layer associates itself with the ectoblast to form the somatopleure, whilst the vis- ceral layer joins with the entoblast to form the splanchno- pleure. To put it more simply, the parietal layer grows over the amniotic sac, and the visceral layer grows over the vitel- line sac. These processes will be made clearer when the fetal membranes are discussed. In lower mammals the lateral mesoblast is split into its two layers by the formation within its substance of a cav- ity, from the union of a series of cleft-like spaces. In Pri- mates (an order now limited, as Hubrecht recently proposed, so as to include only man, Apes and Tarsius), however, the lateral mesoblast extends almost from the first in two layers.