53 CONNECTIVE-TISSUE SUBSTANCE The peripheral zone of cytoplasm undergoes longitudinal striation and is shed, whilst the nuclear zone remains sta- tionary. The shedded fibrils of themselves have the power of growing and, as they increase, the cells are pushed farther apart. Yellow elastic tissue is highly extensible, so that the structures it enters into may adapt themselves to changing conditions. It may be arranged in plates, the fenestrated membranes, in the walls of large blood-vessels; or as a con- tinuous elastic sheet, as the posterior limiting membrane of the cornea. In all the vertebrate classes yellow elastic tissue is found in the same localities as in man, and in a few particular situ- ations besides, as in the ligaments of the Cat’s claw, in the wing-membranes of mammals, and in the folds of the wing- membrane and in the lung-sacs of Birds. The wing-mem- brane of the Eagle is quite as elastic as caoutchouc. A speci- men of ligamentum nuchae from a Giraffe measured, before detached, 6 feet 2 inches in length. When detached, how- ever, it immediately contracted to 4 feet. A specimen of aorta from a Whale of over 50 feet in length had a diameter of 12 inches, and the elastic coat was 1^4 inches thick. In Invertebrata yellow elastic tissue is infrequently met with. The valves of Conchiferous Mullusca are opened by elastic tissue whenever the adductor muscle relaxes. In the Oyster the elastic tissue is placed within the hinge, thus separating the shells by its expansive power. In the Cockle, on the contrary, it is external to the hinge, the same object being attained by the contraction of the hinge-ligament. In the Vegetable Kingdom elastic tissue is represented by fiber. That this is elastic is strikingly shown on the testa of the seeds of plants, as of Salvia pratensis. By macerat- ing a particle of the testa in water, the walls of the cells soften, and within each the spiral fiber, released from close captivity, uncoils and pushes the cell-wall before it (like a Jack-in-a-Box), and what was at first a brown, shapeless ob- ject, is transformed into a mass of beautiful spiral cells. Caoutchouc is not, as might be supposed, composed of yel- low elastic tissue. It is the concrete milky juice of Ficus elastica. A band of yellow elastic tissue 1 sq. mm. in cross-section