12 DEVELOPMENT splits longitudinally into two, there now being 24 pairs (i. e. 48 in all), one chromosome of each pair going to each daughter-cell, so that each daughter-cell thus receives 24 chromosomes, the constant number. From this it is evident that the chromatin plays the most important part in mitosis. For descriptive purposes, mitosis may be divided into four stages:— (1) Prophase, in which the cell undergoes changes pre- paratory to cleavage of the chromosomes. (2) Metaphase, in which cleavage of the chromosomes and equal division of the chromosomes occur. It is evident that this is the most important stage of the process. (3) Anaphase, in which the nuclei of the daughter-cells are formed by reapportionment of the chromatin. (4) Telophase, in which the nuclei pass through the prophase, but in inverse order, and then return to a state of rest until the new cells in their turn undergo mitosis. In this stage the cytoplasm divides, completing the new cells. Having emphasized the salient features of mitosis, the details of each stage may now be discussed. Prophase (Stage of Preparation). Although the factors concerned in this stage must be considered seriatim, yet the mind must grasp them as progressing simultaneously. The parts most actively concerned in the prophase are the nuclear constituents and the centrosome, which undergo changes resulting in the mitotic figure. This consists of the chro- matin filaments, which stain intensely, and of the achromatic figure, which stains very lightly. The chromatin increases in staining intensity, and from being reticular, arranges itself in a densely convoluted thread, or it may be several threads closely intertwined, forming the close skein. This thickens still more, shortens, and unravels into the loose skein. The latter partitions transversely into a number of V-shaped seg- ments, the chromosomes. During this time the nuclear mem- brane and nucleolus are disappearing and the chromatin fila- ments lie free within the karyoplasm, which is now continu- ous with the cytoplasm. The centrosome, in the meantime, has divided into two, each of which surrounds itself with a halo, and from each radiate delicate rays, thus forming two asters. These radiate with the centrosomes in a direction tangential to the nucleus