MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 72 Nervous Tissues. Nervous tissue is composed of neurones, the morpho- logical units, and of neuroglia, the suppporting tissue. A neurone includes a nerve-cell and its processes, the axone and the dendrites. A nerve-cell is a large element whose shape varies with its situation. In the brain it is pyra- midal; in the cerebellum, flask-shaped; in the spinal cord, stellate; and in ganglia, round. A true cell membrane is not present. The nucleus is large and vesicular, possesses a nucleolar membrane, usually a large nucleolus, but only a small amount of chromatin. The cytoplasm consists of ground substance in which are embedded neurofibrillae, and chromatophilic and pigment granules. The chromatophilic granules are grouped to form Nissl bodies, which invade the dendrites but not the axone, and whose function is undeter- mined. The axone, of which there is only one, leaves the nerve-cell at the implantation cone, an elevation that is free from Nissl bodies. It is slender and not as distinct as the dendrites. Type I axone is long and becomes the axis- cylinder of a nerve-fiber. Type II axone is short and usually within a millimeter breaks up into terminal neuropodia which never leave the gray matter. The dendrites leave the nerve cell and soon branch dichotomously into the terminal knobbed telodendria. The latter come into contact with processes of another cell, but do not fuse with them. The nerve-cells are classified according to the number of their processes (there being always but one axone) into unipolar, bipolar and multipolar. Unipolar nerve-cells are infrequent, being found in the nervous system of inverte- brates, and in the sympathetic ganglia of Amphibians. In these the axis-cylinder divides dichotomously close to the nerve-cell into two nerve-fibers, of which one runs peripher- ally and the other centrally. The process thus resembles the letter T. The unipolar cells found in the spinal ganglia of adult mammalia are bipolar in the embryonal state, but the two primary processes fuse to form one in the adult. Bipolar nerve-cells, from opposite poles of which pass the dendrite and axone, are found in the retina, in the spiral ganglion of the acoustic nerve, in spinal ganglia of Fishes,