172 THE BONES outer head of the gastrocnemius, and above this is an area for origin of the plantaris. The internal condyle, longer, narrower, and lower than its fellow, likewise presents three surfaces. The inner surface presents the inner tuberosity, which is more prominent than the outer, and to which is attached the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The outer surface corresponds to the inner boundary of the in- tercondylar notch, and affords attachment before to the pos- terior crucial ligament. The inferior surface is convex and ‘articular, and just above its posterior extremity arises the inner head of the gastrocnemius. The trochlea, formed by the union of the condyles before, is smooth for articulation with the patella, and presents a median groove and a con- vexity on each side, that on the outer side being broader, more projecting, and reaching a higher level. The intercon- dylar notch, bounded before by a rough, perforated area, laterally by the opposed surfaces of the condyles, and above by an elevation to which is attached the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, lodges the crucial ligaments. Prolonged upward from the condyles are the external supracondylar ridge, which joins the outer lip of the linea aspera and fur- nishes origin to the short head of the biceps, and the internal supracondylar ridge, which joins the inner lip of the linea aspera and receives the adductor magnus; the internal ridge begins at the adductor tubercle. These ridges enclose the popliteal space, a triangular area that is covered by the pop- liteal vessels. The femur develops from a primary center for the shaft. The superior extremity develops from an epiphysis for the head that appears in the first year and fuses with the shaft by the nineteenth; one for the great trochanter that appears in the second year and fuses with the shaft and neck by the nineteenth; and one for the small trochanter that appears about the twelfth year and fuses with the shaft by the eighteenth. The inferior extremity develops from an epiphysis which appears before birth and joins the shaft by the twenty-first year. This, though the first to ossify, is the last to join the shaft. It is the most important epi- physis for the longitudinal growth of the shaft, and its line of fusion with the latter passes through the adductor tuber- cle.