192 THE BONES from before backward and concave from side to side, and presents a projecting lip on each side. The inferior surface is concave from before backward and convex from side to side, and is rounded off on each side for the projecting lip of the vertebra upon which it rests. The anterior surface is prolonged downward so as to overlap the upper part of the body below. The posterior surface is placed on a higher level than the anterior. The pedicles point outward and backward, and spring from the body midway between the superior and inferior borders, thereby equalizing the depth of the superior and inferior intervertebral notches; the inferior, however, is the broader. The laminae are long, narrow, and slender. The vertebral foramen is triangular with rounded angles, and very large. The spinous process is short and bifid at its extremity. The articular processes are oval, almost flat, and oblique, so that the superior face backward and upward, and the inferior, forward and downward. The transverse proc- esses, situated in front of the articular processes and on the outer side of the pedicles, are deeply channelled above for the passage of a spinal nerve, and are bifid at their free extremi- ties. At their bases they are pierced by a foramen. This, the costotransverse foramen, peculiar to a cervical vertebra, is formed internally by the pedicle; behind by the transverse process (which corresponds to that of a thoracic vertebra); before by the costal process (which is, morphologically, a rudimentary rib); and externally by a bar of bone that con- nects the transverse and costal processes. At the extremity of the costal process is the anterior tubercle, and at that of the transverse process is the posterior tubercle. The anterior tubercle of the sixth cervical vertebra is large and prominent, and is called the carotid tubercle because of its close relation to the carotid artery, which may be readily compressed against it. The costotransverse foramina are present in the upper six cervical vertebrae, and form a broken tunnel that is occupied by the vertebral vessels and sympathetic nerves. The atlas (able: a simile, since it supports a globe,— the head) is devoid both of body and of spinous process. The fate of the body is readily'explained: It IiaTl5econTeulFt'ached from the atlas, but has fused with the body of the axis, whose odontoid process it forms. The pedicles span the