DEVELOPMENT 38 in the third month of pregnancy, and results from the union of the chorion frondosum with the decidua placentalis. When fully formed it is discoidal and measures seven inches in diameter by two inches in thickness. It is usually at- tached to the uterus at the upper part of the posterior wall, near one of the oviducts. At times it attaches lower down, and extends partly or wholly over the mouth of the uterus, in which situation it is known as placenta previa. The maternal blood reaches the maternal blood-spaces through the dilated and elongated terminal branches of the uterine and ovarian arteries. After leaving the wall of the uterus, these branches penetrate the basal plate, a layer of condensed connective-tissue that intervenes be- tween the maternal blood-spaces and the area of separa- tion of the placenta. They enter the placental septa, which are processes prolonged from the basal plate into the pla- centa. They then pour their blood directly into the matern- al blood-spaces. Here the arterial blood bathes the chor- ionic villi and yields to the fetal blood its oxygen and sub- stances of nutrition. To reach the fetal blood, however, these substances must osmose through the syncytial layer of the trophoblast and the thin walls of the fetal capillaries. From these the maternal blood absorbs carbon dioxide and effete products, and these change it into venous blood. The venous blood is carried from the maternal blood-spaces by vessels which pass through the placental septa into the basal plate. From here large veins carry the blood to the marginal sinus, which is situated at the border of the pla- centa. From the marginal sinus the uterine veins convey the blood-stream into the systemic circulation of the mother. The arterialized blood travels to the fetus through the umbilical vein. Having supplied the fetus with its oxygen and substances of nutrition, the blood collects from the fetus carbon dioxid and effete products, and this venous blood circulates back to the chorionic villi through the umbilical arteries. New chorionic villi are constantly formed throughout the course of pregnancy. • '* i i ' « J k J- ' ' < > • . \ : ; ! '■ . * - 1 . '