190 THE BONES is expanded above to support the nail, and below is rough and of a horseshoe shape for the pulp of the digit. The anterior phalanx of the fifth toe is frequently fused with the middle. The middle phalanges receive, below, the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus, and above, two slips from the com- mon tendon of the extensor digitorum longus and brevis. The phalanges develop from a primary center for the shaft that appears before birth. The bases develop from a secondary center that appears between the fourth and eighth years and fuses with the shaft by the nineteenth. The pri- mary centers for the anterior phalanges appear at the fore parts of these bones. The hallux is more or less opposible in Monkeys, Lemurs, Opossums, and Phalangers. When one digit is wanting it may be the fifth, as in Birds, or the hallux, as in the Hare. The middle is the most constant of all the digits in Vertebrata. The bones forming the three joints of this toe answer to those called the great pastern bone, the little pastern bone, and the coffin bone in the Horse, while the nail in the toe is represented by the hoof. The Horse walks on what corresponds to the middle toe. In the Seal and Pla- tanista gangetica the digits are so bound together in a com- mon sheath that they have little individual movement, though they form an excellent paddle. The number of pha- langes is variable. In the extinct Ichthyosaurus and Plesio- saurus they are much more numerous. In the short-tailed Pangolin the anterior phalanges bifurcate. Animals that walk on their toes, as most Carnivora, are termed digiti- grade. Vertebral Column. The vertebral column of the fetus consists of a series of superimposed segments termed vertebrae (to turn). Of the original thirty-three, the twenty-four upper remain sep- arate; the succeeding five fuse to form the sacrum; and the terminal four unite as the coccyx. Of the upper twenty-four vertebrae, seven are cervical, twelve thoracic, and five lum- bar. A typical vertebra presents, before, a solid body, and be-