244 THE BONES the mental tubercle outward, backward, and upward to be continuous with the anterior border of the ramus. It affords origin to the depressor labii inferioris and depressor anguli oris, and divides this surface of the body into an upper alve- olar part, and a lower basilar part. Into the latter part is in- serted a portion of the platysma. From the alveolar part, as far forward as the first molar, arises a portion of the buc- cinator. The internal surface shows:— (1) Vertical groove in mid-line, narrow, indistinct, and indicative of the symphysis. (2) Genial tubercles, arranged in two pairs, one above the other, on each side ol the lower half of the vertical groove. The upper two give origin to the geniohyoglossi. and the lower two bear a similar relation to the geniohyoids. These tubercles are not always well-defined. (3) Digastric fossa, an oval, rough, shallow depres- sion adjoining the symphysis near the inferior border, for insertion of the anterior belly of the digastric. (4) Mylohyoid line. which extends from the lower part of the symphysis obliquely outward, backward, and up- ward to the ramus. Faint at first but more distinct opposite the molars, it furnishes origin to the corresponding muscle, and at its posterior fifth, to part of the superior constrictor, whilst its posterior extremity gives attachment to the pterygomandibular ligament. (5) Sublingual fossa, a smooth pit just above the fore part of the mylohyoid line, for lodgment of the correspond- ing gland. (6) Submaxillary fossa, a smooth, oblong pit just be- low the hinder part of the mylohyoid line, for lodgment of the corresponding gland. The superior border (alveolar process! is hollowed out into sockets that correspond in number, form, and depth to the roots of the teeth they embrace. For the temporary teeth there are ten sockets, but for the permanent, usually six- teen. Behind the last molar is a space, bounded externally by the oblique line, internally by the mylohyoid ridge, and behind by the ramus. The inferior border, thick and fund- ed, furnishes the base of the triangular mental protuberance before, and behind, at the junction of the body and ramus, is grooved by the facial artery on its way to the face. to.