THE BONES 146 forearm, while its non-articular portion shows the flat, ir- regular, forwardly-curved and smaller external epicondyle, which is continuous with the external supracondylar ridge, and gives origin above to the common tendon of the exten- sor carpi radialis brevis, extensor digitorum communis, ex- tensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, and supinator, below and before to the external lateral ligament, and below and behind to the anconeus. The margins of the coronoid and olecranon fossae furnish attachment to the capsular ligament. The humerus develops from a primary center for the shaft and epiphyses for the extremities. The epiphysis for the superior extremity is formed by coalescence during the seventh year of secondary centers for the head, greater tuber- osity, and lesser tuberosity, and joins the shaft about the twentieth year. The inferior extremity has two epiphyses, of which one, formed by the coalescence of secondary cen- ters for the trochlea, capitellum, and external epicondyle, joins the shaft during the seventeenth year, whilst the other, comprising a secondary center for the internal epicondyle, joins the shaft during the next year. The two humeri may differ somewhat in length without causing any obvious deformity. Where there is no repre- sentative of the hand the humeri are absent. In Snakes there is no trace of fore limb, and therefore no humerus. The lesser tuberosity is as large as or greater than the greater tuberosity in the Two-toed Sloth, the Bat Pteropus, and the Lizard Uromastix. In flying Birds there is a deep cavity beneath the lesser tuberosity through which air enters the air-cavity, the bones being filled with air instead of mar- row and thus rendered lighter. The humerus of the Adju- tant is a mere shell. A bone of this bird thirteen inches long weighed but half an ounce, while a corresponding bone sev- enteen inches long of an Ostrich weighed half a pound. In the Seal, Mole, Beaver and others the deltoid eminence is a very prominent ridge. The condyles are quite rudimentary in the Deer and Hare, but very large in the Mole, Armadil- los, and Echidna. In the Bushman, Gorilla, Tapir, and Dogs the olecranon and coronoid fossae communicate. This occurs sometimes in man. In the Wombat, in many Carni- vora, and rarely in man, there is a supracondyloid foramen