MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 116 The veins assemble from the capillary network and, passing between the lung-units and then the lobules, eventu- ally reach the hilum. The bronchial arteries serve the lungs as the hepatic arteries serve the liver. They nourish the tissues of which the lungs are composed, traveling along the bronchi. Bronchial veins return the blood thus employed. The lymph-vessels begin at the air-cells and follow the blood-vessels to the hilum. The nerves follow the bronchi and end in the fibro-elas- tic tissue between the air-cells. They supply the walls of the three kinds of vessels that are found in the lungs. Thyroid Body. The thyroid body is a compound alveolar gland. It con- sists of two, and sometimes three, lobes which are enclosed in a fibro-elastic capsule. This contributes a fibrous frame- work which subdivides the lobes into lobules. The lobules are made up of alveoli, which are bound together by finer septa of fibrous tissue. The alveoli and the collojd_their cells secrete distinguish the thyroid body from alTother glands. Seen in sections, they appear as rings or ovals beaded by simple columnar epi- thelium and filled by shrunken colloid^ usually pinkish in double stains. A distinct basement membrane is absent, but is substituted for by condensations of the interalveolar stroma. The arteries are exceptionally numerous, and follow the fibrous septa to the alveoli, beneath whose epithelium they break up into close-meshed capillary networks. The veins are equally numerous, and assemble from the capillary net- works. The caliber of the arteries is at the rate of 0.7 sq. mm. of cross-section of lumen to each ccm. of thyroid gland. There is usually 1.3 sq. mm. of venous lumen for each ccm. of a healthy gland. The lymphatics begin in the lymph-spaces surrounding the alveoli, and follow the fibrous septa to the surface. The nerves are numerous in keeping with the large number of vessels whose musculature they supply. Some twigs form close relations with the epithelium.