FORMATION OF GERM LAYERS 23 ates itself between the ectoblast and entoblast in a manner to be described presently. This is the stage of the trilaminar blastocyst. Concerning the origin of the mesoblast, no defi- nite statement can be made. According to some it arises from the entoblast, whilst others dispose of it as having an* obscure origin near the primitive streak (q. v.). From the layers of the trilaminar blastocyst are derived all the tissues of the body. The cells of the ectoblast and entoblast are characterized by being closely packed together, and by having a meagre amount of intercellular substance. The cells of the mesoblast, on the other hand, are more loose- ly arranged, and the amount of intercellular substance is large. Each layer has a definite physiological task to fulfil. The ectoblast is protective, clothing the body as the epi- dermis of the skin. The mesoblast is supportive, forming the great mass of connective tissue. The entoblast is nutritive, forming the gastropulmonary system. These statements are very general when it is considered that from the ectoblast is also derived the entire nervous system; from the meso- blast, such important systems as the muscular, circulatory, and urinary; and from the entoblast, the liver and pancreas. A study of the purest type of blastocyst, that of the Am- phioxus, reveals a simpler development. It might be said here that the Amphioxus serves a most important purpose in the studies of embryology and histology. Its cells are almost diagrammatic in definition. It is the lowest verte- brate known, and is, therefore, the connecting link between Vertebrata and Invertebrata. Its blastula, which is the im- mediate product of segmentation, consists, in the first in- stance, of a hollow sphere containing fluid and lined by but a single layer of cells. At one place it invaginates upon itself so as to resemble a two-layered cup, of which the non-invag- mated layer is the ectoblast, and the invaginated layer the entoblast. These two layers come into apposition, thereby obliterating the blastocele between them. This bilaminar cup is the gastrula, and the cavity of the cup is the archent- eron. The passageway by which the archenteron communi- cates with the exterior is the blastopore. Near the latter, the mesoblast arises from the entoblast. While it is probable that this process of gastrulation occurs more or less exten- sively in all types, in many it is traced with the greatest dif-