THE BONES 176 itself gives partial origin to the soleus, and attachment to the popliteal fascia; and the area below the line gives partial origin to the tibialis posticus externally, and to the flexor digitorum longus internally. The lower third of the poster- ior surface is covered by flexor tendons and by the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Somewhat below the oblique line and bounded internally by a vertical ridge is the nutrient foramen. The inferior extremity, smaller than the upper and quadrilateral in shape, presents five surfaces, and is pro- longed downward, internally, as the internal malleolus. Of the five-surfaces, the inferior, quadrilateral in shape and smooth for the astragalus, is concave from before back- ward, wider before than behind, and narrow internally, where it is continuous with the outer surface of the internal malleolus. The anterior is smooth and rounded above, where it is covered by the extensor tendons, and rough and depressed below, for attachment of the anterior ligament of the ankle-joint. The posterior is rough and marked by two grooves, of which the inner and deeper encroaches on the internal malleolus and accommodates the tendons of the tib- ialis posticus and flexor digitorum longus, and the outer and shallower, that of the flexor hallucis longus. The external presents a triangular, rough depression for the interosseous ligament and, lower down, a facet for the fibula. This tri- angular surface is bounded before and behind by the lower, diverging part of the external border of the shaft, and af- fords attachment to the anterior and posterior ligaments of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. The internal forms the internal malleolus. The outer surface of this process is smooth and concave, and articulates with a small, pyriform facet of the astragalus; its inner surface is rough, convex, and subcutaneous; and its tip gives attachment to fibers of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The tibia develops from a primary center for the shaft, and from an upper epiphysis which appears before birth and joins the shaft by the twenty-first year, and from a lower epiphysis which appears during the second year and joins the shaft in the eighteenth. The upper part of the tubercle is ossified from the upper epiphysis, and the lower part from the shaft.