232 THE BONES ale, where it communicates with the frontal pneumatic space, and terminates below after receiving the openings of the pneumatic spaces as already mentioned. The uncinate pro- cess is an irregular, hook-like lamina that curves down- ward, backward, and somewhat outward from the fore part of the roof of the middle meatus. It bounds the hiatus semilunaris before, helps close in the maxillary antrum, and articulates below with the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinate. The ethmoidal bulla is the conspicuous, rounded bulging of the ethmoidal wall that bounds the hiatus semi- lunaris behind. The ethmoid is developed from cartilage and ossified by three centers. In the fourth month of fetal life a center ap- pears in each labyrinth in the lamina papyracea, and extends into the superior and middle turbinates. Within a year after birth the third center appears and ossifies the vertical plate (including its crista galli) and the mesial part of the horizontal plate. The remainder of the latter plate is ossi- fied by the center for the labyrinth. The three parts coal- esce to form the single ethmoid about the sixth year. The ethmoidal cells are rudimentary in the seventh month fetus, but true bony cells do not develop until the third year. Opin- ions differ as to whether the ethmoidal cells are formed by absorption. Some claim that the walls of these cells are complete at birth. The ethmoid is absent in Serpents. In the Frog it helps form the os en ceinture (girdle-bone), which resembles a dice-box with a vertical partition at one end. The horizon- tal plate is absent in the Porpoise, which probably possesses no sense of smell, but is enormous in the Echidna. In Croc- odiles, Lizards, and osseous Fishes the labyrinths are dis- tinct bones, the prefrontals, and in some Chameleons they are prolonged into two great bony horns that project for- ward from the muzzle. The ethmoidal cells are larger and more complex in the Dog and many other Mammals, but are abortive in the Porpoise. The superior turbinate is fre- quently subdivided, so that an additional upper one is pres- ent, the supreme turbinate. This is often the case in ne- groes, in whom the sense of smell is acute. The uncinate process and ethmoidal bulla represent rudimentary turbin- ates. The superior turbinate, covered, like the upper part