PREFACE The platform upon which this book was written planned to furnish a clear cut, concise and comprehensive description of Human Anatomy. To this end every sentence has been carefully scrutinized, and all superfluous words eliminated. Similes have been introduced wherever possible, for in spite of their homeli- ness their mnemonic value is in our opinion undeniable. Con- ventionalism, therefore, has often been disregarded for the sake of elucidation. The space obtained by condensation of the descriptive text has been devoted to observations on Comparative Anatomy. The consummate perfection of Man is the product of the Mill of Ages, through Phylogenesis and Ontogenesis. Since Darwin has demonstrated our indebtedness to our lowly brethren, the least we can do is to acquaint ourselves with their structure, however humble they are. This perspective adds such interest, instruction, and breadth of view to the study of Human Anatomy that we may be pardoned if the paragraphs on Compara- tive Anatomy have been drawn at too great length. The chapter on Development seeks to deal with this im- portant though intricate subject as succinct^ as possible, but frequently the necessity for explanator}^ details could hardly be ignored. The chapter on Microscopic Anatomy, it is hoped, will fulfil the exactions of Microscopic Pathology, the Ogre that so hideously and mercilessly ravages the beautiful structures formed by it. The chapter on Bones will, indeed, be sorry reading for him who does not have before the other eye the part of the skeleton undergoing description. Osteology is but interpretation of the hieroglyphical trade-marks indelibly impressed upon Bones by the Mill of Ages. The type from which this book has been printed has been selected as that least liable to cause eyestrain. This is in keep- ing with the prophylactic trend of Modern Medicine. We trust that this will compensate for the necessary increase in the number of leaves. The author wishes to bestow upon Mr. Max J. Walter, of the Medical School, unqualified praise for the efficient manner in which he read the proof-sheets and offered suggestions for their betterment. 241 South Thirteenth Street, December 15, igoq.