MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 82 from 20-30% of white cells. They are identical with the lymphoid cells of lymphatic tissue. (2) Large lymphocytes, whose nucleus is proportion- ately small, round or oval, faintly staining, and usually ec- centrically situated, and whose cytoplasm is abundant and non-granular. While they resemble myelocytes, they are smaller and have no neutrophile granules. They may attain a diameter of 20 microns, and form from 4-8% of white cells. (3) Transitional leucocytes, which are distinguished by a horseshoe-shaped nucleus, but in other respects correspond with the large lymphocytes. They are intermediate be tween the lymphocytes and the cells of the next class, with which their relative percentage will be reckoned. (4) Polymorphonuclear leucocytes, whose peculiar nu- cleus is characterized by constrictions, and whose cytoplasm is distinguished by neutrophile granules. They are inter- mediate in size between red cells and transitional leucocytes and, together with the latter, constitute from 60-72% of white cells. As wandering cells, they are the ‘‘track-walk- ers” of the body, rendering bacteria innocuous and removing foreign substances. (5) Eosinophiles, which are polymorphonuclear leu- cocytes that have a special affinity for eosin. This stain re- veals coarse, highly refractive granules in the cytoplasm. Eosinophiles form from 1-2% of the white cells. Basophiles are large lymphocytes whose cytoplasm con- tains fine granules that stain with basic dyes. They are occasionally found in the blood. Myelocytes and mast-cells, which may be recalled as marrow-cells, are seen in the blood in certain pathological conditions. Blood plaques are round or oval, colorless, noil-nucleat- ed protoplasmic structures whose size is about one-third that of a red cell. One cubic millimeter of blood contains 300,000 (average). They are fragments of elongated pseu- dopods of the myeloplaxes of the bone marrow. Hemoglobin, which constitutes 32% of moist red cells and 14% of the blood, lends color to the blood and, func- tionally, is its most important constitutent. Contributed to forming red cells by red marrow, it is disposed of by the liver when old. One molecule of hemoglobin takes up one