66 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY sexual organs, os penis of mammalia. In Invertebrata true bones are never found, but are replaced by calcareous in- crustations composed chiefly of carbonate of lime. In the Vegetable Kingdom structural comparisons of the husks of nuts, as of the Ivory-nut, with bone is both instructive and interesting. Mechanical environments are the chief determining and modifying factors of the growth of bones. Along the lines of pressure, bones become thickened and denser. With unilateral pressure they become curved; with oblique and terminal pressure, twisted. Along the lines of tension, they become elongated and projected. These characters result from hereditary impressions upon bones, and the outcome of ancestral experience is even reflected in the directions in which the primary spicules are formed. Muscular Tissue. In muscle the contractile function of the protoplasm has become predominant, and is its most marked attribute. The sum of these contractions is expressed in motion. Primitive types of muscle may be found in some of the low inverte- brates. Beneath the integument of the Worm, for example, there are musculo-epithelial cells in which nerve fibrils ter- minate. The development of the muscular system is inti- mately associated with that of the nervous system. There are two varieties of muscular tissue—non-striated and striated. Non-striated muscle is involuntary or smooth, in contradistinction to striated, which is voluntary (except the heart-muscle) or striped. An instance of the association of both varieties is the esophagus, of which the upper third contains striated muscle, the middle third both striated and non-striated, and the lower third non-striated. The com- mon origin for both types (except muscle of the sweat-glands and the dilatator pupillae, which is ectoblastic) is the meso- blast, some cells of which elongate and become developed into longitudinal groups of muscle-fibers. The more specific origin of striated muscle will be dealt with later. Non-striated muscle is composed of an aggregation of structural units called fiber-cells, each of which corresponds to a muscle-fiber. Such a cell is spindle-shaped, and contains