234 THE BONES anterointernal corner it presents a depression for origin of the inferior oblique. Its inner margin articulates with the lacrimal bone before, where it presents the lacrimal notch, the beginning of the nasolacrimal canal; with the lamina papyracea of the ethmoid in the middle; and with the orbital process of the palate behind. Its external margin, smooth and rounded, forms the anterior boundary of the spheno- maxillary fissure, and is notched by the beginning of the infraorbital groove. Its anterior margin connects the nasal process internally with the malar process externally. The su- perior surface is channelled in the middle by the infraorbital groove, which conducts the vessels and nerve oTthe same name trom the sphenomaxillary fossa to the face via infra- orbital canal and foramen. The groove deepens as it passes forward and finally becomes closed in to form the canal. The posterior (zygomatic) surface is convex and helps form the zygomatic fossa. It is separated from the anterior sur- face by the malar process, and shows:— (1) Posterior dental canals, whose several apertures are about the center of this surface. They transmit the ves- sels and nerves of the same name to the molar teeth. (2) Tuberosity of maxilla, a rounded eminence at the posteroinferTor angIe”oTTins surface, whose prominence is increased by eruption of the third molar. It is rough for partial origin of the internal pterygoid, and articulates in- ternally with the tuberosity of the palate, with which it forms the posterior palatine canal for the anterior palatine nerve and descending palatine artery. (3) Smooth surface, just above the tuberosity, which forms the anterior wall of the sphenomaxillary fossa. The base (internal surface) largely forms the outer wall of the nose, and shows :— (i) Maxillary hiatus, which leads into the maxillary sinus. It is not nearly so large in the articulated skull, be- ing partially filled in by the maxillary process of the palate, the uncinate process of the ethmoid, the maxillary process of the inferior turbinate, and the descending process of the lacrimal. And in the recent state it is still further re- duced by a fold of nasal mucous membrane until, from ad- mitting a finger-tip in the disarticulated bone, it becomes a small, round aperture of sufficient size, only, to admit a crow-