143 HUMERUS The neck is the slight constriction just internal to the head, and is best marked at the great scapular notch. The coracoid (like a crow’s beak) arises from the upper part of the neck by a broad base, and soon bends at a right angle forward and outward. The superior surface is rough externally for the conoid and trapezoid ligaments; to its outer border is attached the coracoacromial ligament; its in- ner border receives the pectoralis minor before and the cos- tocoracoid ligament behind; and its tip gives common origin to the coracobrachialis and short head of the biceps. The scapula develops from a plate of cartilage in which two primary centers of ossification appear about the end of the second month of fetal life. The body and spine are de- veloped from one primary center, whilst the coracoid forms from the other. The coracoid joins the body about puberty. Secondary centers for the acromion, vertebral border, and inferior angle appear about the sixteenth year and fuse with the rest of the scapula between the twentieth and twenty- fifth years. In Birds the scapula is a long, narrow, sabre-shaped bone, whose coracoid process extends to the sternum, form- ing on each side a buttress that supports the shoulder on the downward stroke of the wing. In Ungulates the coracoid is more rudimentary than in man. In the little Pipistrelle Bat it is long and forked. In Ruminants the coracoid and acrom- ion are absent. In the Two-toed Sloth and in Birds they join each other. In the Dog and Shrew the supraspinous fossa is nearly equal in size to the infraspinous, but in the Lion and and in the Sloth it is larger. In the African Toad Dactyle- thra the two scapulae overlap the one the other. Humerus. The humerus (umerus, the shoulder) or arm-bone con- sists of two extremities connected by a shaft. The superior extremity presents a head, smooth and hemispherical, directed upward, inward, and backward; a neck, obliquely placed, well defined above where it separates the head from the tuberosities and poorly defined below where it passes onto the shaft, and adapted for the attach-