PECULIAR RIBS 205 shaft lies in one plane. The superior surface shows two shallow grooves separated by a rough surface. The groove before is for the subclavian vein. The rough surface (scal- ene tubercle) receives insertion of the scalenus anticus. T he groove behind is for the subclavian artery. Between the tubercle and the groove for the subclavian artery is a rough area for insertion of the scalenus medius, and between this groove and the outer border is an area for origin of the first digitation of the serratus magnus. The inferior surface is flat and smooth and devoid of a subcostal groove. The outer border is convex, thick, and rounded and affords attachment to the external intercostal muscle. The inner border is con- cave, thin, and sharp and receives the attachment of Sib- son’s fascia. The sternal extremity is thick and broad and gives partial attachment to the costocoracoid ligament and subclavius. The second rib is transitional between the first and the third ribs. Although longer, yet its curvature closely cor- responds to that of the first rib, but, unlike the first and like the third, its head is supplied with two facets, and there is an angle and a subcostal groove. Its superior sur- face is marked, near the middle, by a rough and prominent tuberosity for origin of part of the first digitation and the whole of the second digitation of the serratus magnus. Between the tuberosity and the tubercle this surface affords attachment to the scalenus posticus, the serratus posticus superior, the cervicalis ascendens, and the accessorius. Its inferior surface is smooth and concave, and in relation with the parietal pleura. The tenth rib is provided with but one facet on its head. The eleventh rib has but one facet, no neck, no tubercle, but a slight angle, and a shallow subcostal groove. The twelfth rib likewise has but one facet, no neck, no tubercle, and is devoid of an angle and a subcostal groove. To it is attached part of the diaphragm. Each rib develops from a primary center for the shaft, which appears before birth. Epiphyses for the head and tubercle appear from the fifteenth to the eighteenth year, and join the shaft about the twenty-first year.