262 THE BONES The inner wall, narrow and almost vertical, is formed by the external surface of the nasal process of the maxilla, the external surface of the lacrimal, the lamina papyracea of the ethmoid, and by a small part of the lateral surface of the body of the sphenoid. Anteriorly is the lacrimal sulcus, and just behind this is the posterior lacrimal crest. The outer wall is formed by the inner surface of the orbital process of the malar before, and by the orbital sur- face of the greater wing of the sphenoid behind. Posterior- ly, this wall is separated from the roof by the sphenomax- illary fissure, and from the floor, by the sphenoidal fissure. Of the angles, the superoexternal is formed by the junc- tion of the roof and outer wall, and presents the suture be- tween the frontal and the malar before, and the greater wing of the sphenoid behind. The superointernal is formed by the junction of the roof and inner wall, and presents the su- ture between the frontal and the lacrimal before, and the ethmoid behind. The anterior extremity of this angle cor- responds to the dacryon. The anterior and posterior eth- moidal foramina lie in the course of this angle. The infero- external is formed by the junction of the floor and outer wall. The. inferointernal is formed by the junction of the floor and inner wall, and presents the suture between the lacrimal, ethmoid, and palate above, and the maxilla below. The anterior nares lie partly below and partly between the orbits. Their edges are formed below and laterally by the free curved margins of the body and of the nasal pro- cesses of the maxilla; and above and laterally, by the free border of the nasal bones. The osseous septum arises from the anterior nasal spine and passes backward and upward with an inclination, usually, to one or other side. Project- ing into the nasal fossae from their outer walls are the inner surfaces and free borders of the middle and inferior turbi- nates, with their respective meatuses. To study the nasal fossae more completely, it is necessary to make a sagittal section of the skull, but this must be deferred until its nat- ural surfaces have been finished. A horizontal line described around the maxilla at the level of the mid-point between the lower border of the nasal aperture and the edge of the alveolar process indicates the plane of the hard palate. Below this the alveolar process