TESTES 125 The seminiferous tubules, each about two feet in length, are divided into three stages. Toward the periphery they describe convolutions, and are therefore termed tubuli con- torti. Approaching the mediastinum, they unite and straight- en out, thus earning the name tubuli recti. Entering the mediastinum, these unite and break up into a network, appro- priately termed the rete testis. The latter is connected with the coni vasculosi of the epididymis by the ductuli efferentes. The seminiferous tubules are loosely held together by veils of fibrous tissue, in whose bundles are wandering cells and groups of mesoblastic cells, termed interstitial cells. With a pair of dissecting-forceps one of the tubuli contorti may be unraveled to considerable extent. The tubuli contorti correspond to the fundus and body of a simple tubular gland, since they begin blindly and gen- erate spermatic filaments. The tubuli recti and rete testis correspond to ducts, since they convey the spermatic fila- ments from the organ. A cross-section of a tubulus contor- tus shows several layers of cells resting upon a basement membrane. Among these cells two varieties may be dis- tinguished—sustentacular and spermatogenetic. The sus- tentacular cells (of Sertoli) are pyramidal in shape, and extend from the basement membrane toward the center of the tubule serving, as their name indicates, as supports for the developing spermatic filaments. The spermatogenetic cells are classified according to the stage of spermatogenesis they represent. The oldest adjoin the basement membrane, and are termed spermatogonia. Each spermatogone di- vides into two cells, one of which takes the place the sper- matogone occupied before division, whilst the other becomes the primary spermatocyte. This also divides and produces two secondary spermatocytes. These divide and produce four spermatids. The spermatids lodge upon a sustentacu- lar cell, fuse with it, elongate, and thus give rise to a hand- shaped mass termed the spermatoblast. The nucleus of each spermatid elongates, travels toward the proximal end of its cell and forms the head of the spermatic filament. The centrosome forms the middle-piece, and the protoplasm forms the tail. Spermatogenesis now being sufficiently ad- vanced, the spermatic filaments are launched from their ways into the lumen of the seminiferous tubule, where they