35 IMPLANTATION OF THE EMBRYONIC VESICLE The Human Chorion. The chorion forms the wall of the embryonic vesicle, and consists of the somatic layer of mesoblast covered over by trophoblast. From the trophoblastic layer of the chor- ion, villi project at a very early stage. At first uniformly distributed over the surface of the embryonic vesicle, form- ing for it a diffuse placenta, later, those villi in close relation with the umbilical cord hypertrophy, and form the chorion frondosum. The villi not so related atrophy, and this extra- placental portion of the chorion is termed the chorion leve. Into each of the hypertrophied villi grows a core of the somatic mesoblast, and each core carries with it the allantoic blood-vessels. Each chorionic villus, therefore, consists of a covering of trophoblast, a core of mesoblast, and a tuft of allantoic blood-vessels. The outer layer of the trophoblast specializes into the syncytium, a thin layer of cells, possess- ing no distinct cell-walls. In their further development the chorionic villi become considerably branched, penetrate the surrounding maternal tissues, receive the maternal blood- spaces between trabeculae, and rapidly develop intimate re- lations between the allantoic blood-vessels and the maternal blood sinues, thereby aiding to establish the allantoic-placen- tal circulation. At no time is there a direct communication between the allantoic and the placental circulations, however, the syncytium, which always intervenes between them, be- ing sufficiently thin to permit of respirative and nutritive interchanges between the fetus and mother. Implantation of the Embryonic Vesicle. Upon completion of the fundamental embryological processes in the oviduct, the embryonic vesicle, retarded by the plications, but aided by the cilia of the tube, reaches the uterus, in the upper, posterior part of whose wall—usu- ally near a cornu—it implants itself. The contact of the embryonic vesicle causes solution of the. endometrium by corrosion of its epithelium. As it sinks into the mucosa it opens up a few of the capillaries