94 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY often branch. In volume the tongue is about 70 ccm., and contains under the mucous membrane about 250,000 muscle- fibers which, placed side by side, would form a muscle capa- ble of lifting a weight of 220 lbs. Between the muscle- bundles are lingual glands (serous and mucous), fat, and connective-tissue septa. Between the halves of the tongue is the septum linguae. The mucous membrane on the dorsum of the tongue is raised into high papillae, which are better developed in Carnivora than in Herbivora. Everyone is ac- quainted with the roughness characteristic of the Cat's tongue. In man, there are three kinds of papillae,—filiform, fungiform, and circumvallate. Filiform (thread-like) papil- lae are rounded or pointed elevations which consist of a core of tunica propria covered with a thick layer of stratified epi- thelium. The smallest and most numerous of the lingual papillae, they are distributed over the whole upper surface of the tongue, about 500 to 1 sq. cm. Macroscopically they resemble the intestinal villi. Like the lingual spines of ani- mals, which are but modified filiform papillae, they convey and retain morsels of food, and their epithelium serves to protect the tongue. Fungiform (mushroom-shaped) papil- lae differ from the filiform in that they are lower and broader, resembling, in fact, a small mushroom. Situated mostly in front near the margin of the tongue, they are distin- guished by their red color, which is due to their relatively thin epithelial covering and rich blood-supply. Circumval- late papillae resemble the fungiform, but are larger, and are surrounded by a trench, whence their name. Ten (average) in number, they arrange themselves in the shape of a V at the posterior part of the dorsum of the tongue. Lodged in the lateral walls of the circumvallate papillae are taste-buds, which are concerned in perception of the sense of taste. These may be found also.in the wall on the opposite side of the trench. Into the trench'itself open the ducts of numer- ous serous glands. Taste-buds are also found on some of the fungiform papillae, and on the laryngeal surface of the epiglottis. In a six-month fetus they are found in many filiform and in all the fungiform papillae and on both surfaces of the epiglottis but, with the exception of those above mentioned, they are destroyed by leucocytic infiltration. In the Rabbit, whose