THE BONES 198 shallow gutter. They fail to unite in the fifth segment, and leave a gap, the hiatus sacralis. This incompletely-develop- ed fifth pair of laminae forms rounded eminences, the sacral cornua, which bound the hiatus sacralis laterally. The articular processes are represented by a second linear series of small eminences, lying external to the laminae. The first pair, however, is well-developed, and presents large facets for the fifth lumbar segment. Just external to the articular processes are the four posterior sacral foramina, which, smaller than the anterior, transmit the posterior primary di- visions of the first four sacral nerves. The costal processes are represented by five eminences external to the posterior sacral foramina. The first pair is large and conspicuous, and all afford attachment to ligaments and muscles. The sacral groove is the broad channel between the spinous and costal processes, and lodges the origin of the multifidus. The sacral groove is bridged over by the erector spinae, as it takes origin from the spinous processes and lateral mass. The lateral surface, broad above and tapering below, presents in its upper half, before, the auricular surface, which articulates with a similar surface on the ilium. This is bounded posteriorly by rough depressions for the pos- terior sacroiliac ligaments. The lower half of the lateral surface is rough for the great and small sacrosciatic liga- ments, and for partial origin of the gluteus maximus behind and coccygeus before, and terminates at the inferior lateral angle. Just below this angle is a notch, converted into a foramen by the costal process of the first coccygeal segment for transmission of the anterior primary division of the fifth sacral nerve. The base shows, before, the large, oval upper surface of the body, and behind, the vertebral foramen, which is bound- ed behind by the laminae and spinous process. The superior articular processes bound the foramen on each side, and show prominent mammillary tubercles. The intervertebral notches, which lie in front of the superior articular proc- esses, are converted into foramina when in contact with the fifth lumbar segment. Continuous with the body on each side is the ala,—a broad, triangular surface which gives partial origin to the iliacus, supports the psoas, and is continuous with the iliac fossa.