267 INFERIOR REGION OF SKULL spinosum, and the sphenoidal spine, which belong to the greater wing of the sphenoid; and the articular eminence and anterior part of the glenoid fossa, which belong to the squamous portion of the temporal. Behind the anterior part of the glenoid fossa is the Glaserian fissure, at whose inner end is a subdivision, the canal of Huguier. Behind the fis- sure is the posterior part of the glenoid fossa, limited pos- teriorly by the tympanic plate. Above the tympanic plate is the external auditory meatus. The mastoid portion of the temporal, finally, shows the mastoid process, the digas- tric fossa, the occipital groove, the auricular fissure, and the external mastoid foramen. The suboccipital division corresponds to the external surface of the posterior portion of the occipital, showing the external occipital crest, which leads from the hinder edge of the foramen magnum to the external occipital protuberance, and the superior, middle, and inferior curved lines, as well as the areas of bone between them for muscular attachment. To complete the examination of the inferior region of the skull, place in their proper positions the mandible and the atlas. The close relation of the sphenoidal spine to the condyle of the mandible is now evident. The root of the styloid process lies midway between the ramus of the mandi- ble and the mastoid process. Before, the hard palate is con- siderably deepened by the arcade formed by the body of the mandible: in fact, a cup-like space, open behind, is now present. In this space are lodged the tongue and the struc- tures that make up the floor of the mouth. There may now be seen, from before backward, the genial tubercles, the digastric fossa, the mylohyoid line, the sublingual fossa, the submaxillary fossa, the mandibular foramen, the lingula, and the mylohyoid groove. The anterior tubercle of the atlas falls in line with the pharyngeal spine, and lies in a coronal plane passing immediately in front of the external auditory meatus. Laterally, the transverse process corresponds very closely in extent to the under aspect of the jugular process of the occipital, and its extremity is separated by a small interval from the styloid process, but by a larger interval from the apex of the mastoid process. The groove on the superior surface of the transverse process, which accommo- dates the vertebral artery, underlies the condyloid fossa. Be-