90 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY GLANDS. * Glands are classified, according to their form and the shape of their lumen into tubular and alveolar, each of which may be simple or compound. Those that possess the char- acteristics of both varieties are termed tubulo-alveolar glands. The simplest form of gland has already been referred to with the goblet variety of modified epithelium (q. v.), each goblet cell representing a unicellular gland. If ref- erence be made back to the discussion of “glandular epithel- ium,” the statement will be found that a multicellular gland, which is now under consideration, arises as a direct in- growth of the epithelial cells of the adjacent surface, recall- ing, in miniature, the effect produced by thrusting the finger in a mass of dough. Thus there is formed, as it were, a sub- merged glandular surface, which is formed by the free mar- gins of the gland cells that are arranged beside one another. Could such a surface of a gland, rendered complex by count- less subdivisions, be untangled and made plane, quite an ex- tensive area would be covered, and this would serve as an illustration of the enormous secreting capacity of a structure that is encompassed in such small space. The combined output of all the glands in the body, while beyond calcula- tion, would certainly be enormous. It will be seen, then, that glands, though minute and scattered, yet in the aggre- gate form a most powerful and important vassal of the body. The essential parts of a multicellular gland are a fundus and a duct. The fundus (bottom), to use a simile, corre- sponds to the body of a bottle: it is the part that secretes, just as the body of the bottle is the part that holds the fluid, and it is deeply situated. The duct corresponds to the neck of the bottle; it is superficially situated and, like the neck of a bottle, plays the subordinate role of conveying the fluid to the outside. Its lining cells, therefore, do not secrete. A gland, as long as life exists, reminds one of the fabled ever-filling bottle. Glands, in fact, represent bottles in Na- ture's chemical laboratory: they contain sebum, tears, mu- cus, serum, and other substances. A simple tubular gland is like a test-tube. Large num-