MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 124 In the female the epithelium is stratified squamous through- out, since the urethra corresponds to the proximal two-thirds of the prostatic urethra only. The tunica propria is espe- cially rich in yellow elastic fibers, and contains urethral glands (of Littre), which are of the simple branched alveolar type. Additional glands are found between the two layers of the urethra. Crypts are found in the upper wall of the urethra. They are not glands, but pits in the epithelium. The muscular coat consists of non-striated bundles ar- ranged as an inner longitudinal layer and an outer circular layer. This variety of muscle surrounds the prostatic and membranous portions, but disappears in the spongy. The internal urethral orifice is surrounded by the internal vesi- cal sphincter, which is formed by the inner longitudinal lay- er of the bladder. Striated muscle also exists in the urethra, and is found in three places. Surrounding the membranous portion is the compressor urethrae, which contributes to the urethra at the apex of the prostate the external vesical sphincter. Acting upon the spongy portion is the bulbo-cavernosus. Thus, the excretory apparatus of the urinary tract is fairly uniform in character. The epithelium of the ureter is directly continuous with that of the papillary ducts. The tunica propria, also, is continuous with the reticulum that separates the vessels in the medulla. Near the calyces, it contains minute lymphatic-nodules. On the papillae, the outer circular muscular coat of the ureter forms a small sphincter. MALE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. Testes. /;; // Each testis ranks as a compound tubular gland. The entire organ is enclosed within a thick fibro-elastic capsule, the tunica albuginea. Posteriorly this capsule is much thickened, forming the mediastinum testis. From this septa are prolonged into the organ in a radiating fashion, dividing it into pyramdal lobules. The apices of the lobules, there- fore, are at the mediastinum and the bases at the periphery. Each lobule contains several separate seminiferous tubules.