CLASSIFICATION OF VERTEBRATES 31 turned, oxygenated, by the allantoic veins. From being the depository of excreta from the early Wolffian body, the al- lantois has now become an important organ of respiration. The vascular tissue of the allantois penetrates into the villi of the chorion, which are now more extensively developed. These vascularized chorionic villi come into relation with the uterine mucosa with degrees of intimacy varying with the species. In some animals, including man, the true chor- ion and hypertrophied uterine mucosa fuse to form the deciduae, which, with the specialized placenta, are expelled at the termination of labor as the after-birth. It is significant that the three structures formed directly or indirectly by the splanchnopleure with its enclosed cavity of the entodermic sac—namely, the primary gut-tract, the vitelline sac, and the allantois—are all concerned in respira- tion and nutrition. While the vitelline sac and the allantois are only temporary structures, yet the primary gut-tract per- sists and later forms the permanent organ of nutrition and gives rise, secondarily, to the permanent organ or respira- tion. Classification of Vertebrates. Although the fetal membranes are not present in all ver- tebrates, yet in those in which they do exist, they present certain characteristics, so that vertebrates may be classified accordingly. I. Anamnia, in which fetal membranes are absent, e. g.r Fish and Amphibia. II. Amniota, in which fetal membranes, including am- nion, allantois and chorion, are present. A. Sauropsida, or egg-laying animals, e. g. Birds and Reptiles. B. Mammalia, or young-bearing animals. (a) Achoria, in which a distinct chorion never forms, as Monotremes and Marsupials. Such embryos are readily removed, and put into the marsupial pouch. (b) Choriata, in which a chorion is developed, and is provided with villi. (1) Aplacentalia, in which the chorionic villi are uni- formly distributed, and are received merely in little pits in the endometrium, e. g. Hog and Horse.