OS 1NN0MIN ATUM 165 and inward from the tuberosity to join the descending ramus of the pubes. Its external surface is rough for partial origin of the obturator externus, the adductor magnus, and the gracilis. Its internal surface affords partial origin to the obturator interims, and helps form the anterior wall of the true pelvis. The superior border, thin and sharp, forms part of the inner margin of the obturator foramen. The inferior border, thick, rough, and slightly everted, helps form the pelvic outlet, and shows an outer lip, to which is attached Codes’ fascia; an interspace for origin of the transversus perinei behind, and the crus penis vel clitoridis and erector penis vel clitoridis before; and an inner lip for attachment of the inferior triangular ligament. The os pubis forms the anterior part of the os innomin- atum, and consists of a body, a horizontal ramus, and a de- scending ramus. The body, formed by fusion of the rami, is quadrilateral, and presents two surfaces and three borders. The anterior surface faces downward and outward, and is rough for the origin of the adductor longus above, and of the obturator externus, adductor brevis, and part of the gracilis below, from without inward. The posterior surface is smooth, helps form the anterior wall of the true pelvis, and affords partial origin to the levator ani and obturator interims, and attachment to the pubo-prostatic ligaments. Of the borders, the superior, or crest, is rough for attachment of the con- joined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis be- fore, and of the pyramidalis and rectus abdominis behind. The crest ends internally at the angle, to which is attached the internal pillar of the external abdominal ring, and ex- ternally at the spine, to which is attached Poupart’s liga- ment and the external pillar of the external abdominal ring. The internal border, oval and made rough by a series of ridges, forms, with its fellow of the opposite side, the sym- physis pubis, a cartilage alone intervening. Externally the body is continuous with the horizontal, and interiorly with the descending ramus. The horizontal ramus, prismatic in shape, connects the body with the ilium, and presents three surfaces and as many borders. The superior surface, wider externally than internally, is smooth and overlaid by the pectineus. The