60 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY canals, and also by the perforating- fibers. Here and there lymph-spaces separate the fibrous bundles, and communicate with the system of juice-channels within the bone. In grow- ing bones the osteogenetic layer is very conspicuous on account of the numerous embryonal connective-tissue cells,, of which those next the bone are termed osteoblasts. The periosteum, then, assists in the formation of bone, and after- ward in its nutrition, and if extensively torn off during life the subjacent bone is liable to decay. Marrow is the stuffing that occupies the medullary cavity and its extensions, including the spaces of cancellous bone and the larger Haversian canals. In embryos and young individuals all the marrow is red marrow, but later, from fatty infiltration of part of this, yellow marrow appears, so that in the adult marrow of both colors is seen—the one being genetically older than the other. Red marrow is primarily a direct ingrowth and exten- sion of the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum, with its blood-vessels. In the adult it is found in cancellous tissue of the ends of long bones, of the bodies of the vertebrae, the sternum, the ribs, the diploe of the cranium, and the short bones. A specimen of red marrow from diploe contained three-fourths water and one-fourth solids, there being only about one per cent, of fat. It consists of a delicate con- nective-tissue reticulum that supports medullary blood- vessels and enmeshes large numbers of soft, plastic con- nective-tissue elements—the marrow-cells. Of these there are five varieties :— a. Myelocytes, whose nucleus is large, and whose cyto- plasm contains neutrophile granules. While resembling large lymphocytes, they are larger and are distinguished by the character of the granules. b. Eosinophiles, which are polymorphonuclear leuco- cytes that have a special affinity for eosin. This stain reveals coarse, highly refractive granules in the cytoplasm. c. Myeloplaxes (Robin), which are oval, giant cells (specialized myelocytes) with a nucleus that remains single or subdivides. They are capable of assuming an important function, bone-absorption, in which case they become osteoclasts, and occupy spaces termed Howship’s lacunae.