DIGESTIVE TRACT 93 The development of glands has been hinted at pre- viously. Epithelial plugs of ectoblastic or entoblastic origin, according to the site of the glands, grow in from the sur- face and divide and subdivide, in keeping with the variety of gland to be formed. These solid cords become hollow by extension throughout the gland of a lumen from the surface. The basement membranes are formed from condensations of the surrounding mesoblast, and the connective-tissue septa have, of course, the same origin. DIGESTIVE TRACT. The mouth is lined by mucous membrane whose epi- thelium is stratified squamous, and whose tunica propria is elevated into simple papillae. Freely scattered throughout this mucous membrane, in its deeper parts, are numerous mucous glands, which may be grouned as labial, buccal, and molar, and bulbous and cylindrical corpuscles. Each lip is covered externallv by skin, and internally by mucous membrane. On section, the skin shows the epi- dermis, and the corium with its papillae, hair-follicles, and sweat-glands. The mucous membrane shows the epithelium, basement membrane, tunica propria, and submucous tissue, the two latter containing the labial mucous glands. Be- tween the skin and mucous membrane, and contributing the thickness of the lip, is found fatty-areolar tissue, embedded in which are strands of striated muscle in longitudinal and in transverse section, blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. The borders of the lips contain sebaceous glands, and here the papillae are highest, and possess very sensitive bulbous corpuscles. The sensibility of the lips is such that the blades of an aesthesiometer can be separated for only 4 mm. on the margin, 9 on the adjoining skin, and 17.5 on the inner surface. It may be instructive to compare the struc- ture of the lips with that of the eyelids. The tongue is a muscular organ covered with specialized mucous membrane. Its musculature is arranged in verti- cal, transverse, and longitudinal bundles, as is readily seen in sections. Its muscle-fibers offer strikingly beautiful ex- amples of cross-striation. In the Frog, the muscle-fibers