48 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY stomach to the orifice of the anus the columnar epithelium is in a single layer, to promote absorption of food. Protection here is not so necessary. It is also found in certain large ducts and in the male urethra. Stratified columnar epithelium is conspicuous in the nasal fossae, trachea and bronchi, and occurs elsewhere. Ciliated epithelium is a variety of columnar epithelium whose free surface is surmounted by a tuft of from twelve to twenty-four vibrating, hair-like processes, the cilia. These are continuous with intracellular fibrillae, and may be com- pared to the fringe of a curtain. They may be studied by scraping the gill-clefts of an oyster, the cilia of the lining epithelium waving rythmically like a flag in a flying breeze. Their motion is such that propels particles or secretions in one direction. Thus, in the respiratory tract they prevent an undue accumulation of mucus by sweeping the latter to- ward the mouth, from which it is expectorated as phlegm. In the oviduct they carry the ovum toward the uterus, and retard the advancing spermatic filament. In the epididymis, on the other hand, they sweep spermatic filaments from the testis to the vas deferens. They occur elsewhere. They must not be confused with the striations of the cuticular bor- der of certain columnar epithelium, which are stationary. Goblet epithelium consists of mucus-secreting columnar cells, each of which represents a gland in the simplest de- gree. Each, therefore, is a unicellular gland. Such cells are conspicuous in the lower part of the large intestine. The su- perficial part of the cell becomes distended with mucus, elab- orated by the protoplasm, which pushes the nucleus toward the base. The cell now resembles a wine-glass. Overdisten- tion of the cell brings about rupture, and the lubricating mucus bathes the surface and keeps it moist. The cell col- lapses, and repeats this cycle. Pigmented epithelium lends color to the retina and hair, and to the skin of dark races, as the African, Asiatic, Ameri- can, and Oceanic. The particles of pigment are loaded with melanin. Glandular epithelium consists of cells modified for secre- tion of products of use to the economy, or for excretion of products that are useless. Goblet epithelium represents a* unicellular gland, while a multicellular gland arises as a di-