242 THE BONES forms the roof of an orbit. At the anteroexternal corner, and excavating into the inner surface of the external angular process, is the lacrimal fossa, for the corresponding gland. At its anterointernal corner, just wide of the internal angular process, is the trochlear fossa for the trochlea of the superior oblique. The superior surface is convex, and strongly marked by fossulae for gyri of the cerebrum. The posterior border is serrated for articulation with the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid. The frontal sinuses are two irregular pneumatic spaces of variable Txtent, situated chiefly at the junction of the horizontal and vertical plates. Their atria are in front of the ethmoidal notch, on each side of the nasal spine, and, with the bone in situ, communicate with the hiatus semilun- aris of the middle nasal meatus via infundibulum. They are separated from each other by a septum, often eccentric, and are honeycombed by trabeculae. Like other pneumatic spaces in the bones of the skull, they are lined by mucous membrane. Their size cannot be accurately guaged by the height of the superciliary arches. The frontal is developed in membrane, and ossified by two primary centers that appear about the seventh fetal week in the situations ultimately known as the frontal em- inences. From each primary center ossification radiates up- ward and backward for the vertical plate, and inward and backward for the horizontal, and the two halves of the bone articulate along the frontal suture until the sixth year, when this suture is all but extinguished. Secondary centers ap- pear about the twelfth year for the nasal spine, and soon fuse with the rest of the bone. The frontal sinuses are def- initely recognized about the seventh year, though traces of them may be met with by the second. They are prolonga- tions from the hiatus semilunaris upward, outward, and backward over the orbital plates. They reach their maxi- mum size usually by the twentieth year. The anterior surface of the vertical plate gives breadth and height to the forehead. Notice its pronounced back- ward slope in Apes and in many negroes. The superciliary arches reach much greater development in the Gorilla than in man. The frontals may develop great bony processes,—