213 TEMPORAL BONE (4) Jugular fossa, a deep depression that lodges the bulb of the internal jugular vein and helps form the jugular foramen. (5) Canaliculus auricularis, on the outer wall of the jugular fossa, for the auricular branch (Arnold’s nerve) of the vagus. (6) Canaliculus tympanicus, on the ridge between the external carotid foramen and the jugular fossa, for the tym- panic branch (Jacobson’s nerve) of the glossopharyngeal. (7) Jugular surface, a smooth, quadrilateral area be- hind and external to the jugular fossa, for articulation with the jugular process of the occipital. (8) Vaginal process, the lower border of the tympanic plate, which gives partial origin to the tensor palati. It extends from the external carotid foramen backward, and then splits to enclose the styloid process in two laminae. The outer lamina is continuous with the auditory process, and the inner with the jugular process. (9) Styloid process, a pillar-like, tapering projection of bone about an inch long, that springs from, and is en- sheathed by, the vaginal process. It gives origin to the styloglossus, stylopharyngeus, and stylohyoideus, and at- tachment to the stylohyoid and stylomaxillary ligaments. (10) Stylomastoid foramen, just behind the styloid process. It is the external opening of the aquaeductus Fal- lopii, and transmits the facial nerve and the stylomastoid artery. (11) Auricular fissure, situated between the tympanic plate and the mastoid process, through which the auricular branch (Arnold’s nerve) of the vagus escapes. Of the borders, the superior is the longest, is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, gives attachment to the ten- torium cerebelli, and is notched near the apex for the tri- geminal nerve. It separates the anterior from the posterior surface. The posterior border shows from apex to base:— (1) Articular area, rough and serrated, for the basilar process of the occipital. (2) Half-groove, made whole by the apposition of a corresponding one on the occipital bone. The completed groove lodges the inferior petrosal sinus. (3) Aquaeductus cochleae, part of its lower opening.