THE BONES 254 of the sphenoid. Since it is L-shaped, it naturally permits of division into a horizontal plate, and a vertical plate. It also has two processes. The horizontal plate forms the posterior fourth of the hard palate. It is quadrilateral in shape, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The inferior surface, concave and rough, and directed toward the mouth, shows:— (1) Transverse ridge, near the posterior border, for at- tachment of the aponeurosis of the tensor palati. (2) Pterygopalatine groove, at the outer extremity of the transverse ridge, which, by articulation with the tuber- osity of the maxilla, forms a canal, the lower end of the posterior palatine canal, which transmits the anterior pala- tine nerve and descending palatine artery. (3) Accessory posterior palatine canals, whose orifices lie near the pterygopalatine groove, which transmit branches of the posterior palatine nerve and of the descend- ing palatine artery. The superior surface, smooth and concave, forms the hinder part of the floor of the nasal fossa. Of the borders, the internal is thick and upturned and, when articulated with its fellow of the opposite side, forms a continuation back- ward of the nasal crest of the palatal processes of the max- illa. Into this crest is received the hinder part of the infer- ior border of the vomer. The posterior border is free and concave, and by its sharp edge affords attachment to the aponeurosis of the soft palate. At the junction of the pos- terior and internal borders, and completed by the apposition of the two palate bones, is the posterior nasal spine, to which the azygos uvulae is attached. The external border fuses with the vertical plate almost at right angles. The anterior border articulates with the posterior border of the palate process of the maxilla. The vertical plate, broader below than above, presents two surfaces and four borders. The external surface is for the most part rough and irregular where it is in relation with the maxilla, but is smooth behind and above where it forms the inner wall of the sphenomaxillary fossa, and also before, where it presents the maxillary process, which pro- jects forward and helps close in the maxillary hiatus. The internal surface, directed toward the nasal fossa, shows from below upward:—