16 DEVELOPMENT the number of chromosomes in a spermatic filament and in a matured ovum are one-half those of a somatic or primor- dial sexual cell, it follows that a spermatic filament and a ma- tured ovum each possesses twelve chromosomes.Why is such a reduction necessary? If, during fertilization, the sperm- nucleus and the egg-nucleus contributed 24 chromosomes apiece to the segmentation-nucleus, the latter would contain 48 chromosomes, and each of the two blastomeres would have the same number, consequent upon mitosis of the seg- mentation-nucleus. And every cell in the new individual would have twice the number of chromosomes constant for man. Fertilization will be described more fully presently. Before birth, the ovary contains primordial ova, which, in the course of their growth and division, give rise to oogonia. From the oogonia are developed primary oocytes, and by birth all the oogonia have terminated in primary oocytes. These initiate a cycle of two divisions in the course of which reduction of chromosomes occurs, and at the end of which four ova are produced. Of these, one is full and blooming and three are abortive. The primary oocyte divides by mitosis into two sec- ondary oocytes. While both receive an equal apportion- ment of chromatin, one receives nearly all the cytoplasm; the other, therefore, is a small cell, the first polar body. The secondary oocyte repeats the mitosis, giving rise to the ma- tured ovum and the second polar body. The similarity be- tween maturation and spermatogenesis is completed when the first polar body divides, thus making three polar bodies. These, with the matured ovum, correspond to the four spermatids. The three polar bodies have been referred to as abortive ova. They seem to sacrifice themselves so that the fourth division-product, the matured ovum, may gain additional nutritive material and cytoplasm for more robust development. The nucleus of the matured ovum is called the egg-nucleus. At what stage of maturation, and by what mechanism is reduction of the chromosomes brought about? The oogonia contain 24 chromosomes and the secondary oocytes 12 each. Therefore, the reduction must occur in the primary oocytes. The mechanism by which reduction is brought about is termed heterotype mitosis, to comprehend which a