MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 78 I bulb, acquires a medullary sheath, traverses the lamellae that form the opposite pole of the corpuscle, and leaves the latter. These corpuscles are very conspicuous in the mesen- tery and pancreas of the Cat, where they may be seen macro- scopically as pearly bodies two millimeters in length. As they are usually cut obliquely or transversely, it is seldom that the axial fiber will be seen throughout its length. In the skin of the thumb there are about 70 lamellar corpuscles; of the index finger, 105; of the middle finger, 60; in the whole hand, about 500; about the joints of the upper extremity, 530, and about those of the lower, 317. Corpuscles of Golgi-Mazzoni are modifications of those of Vater-Pacini that occur in the subcutaneous tissue of the finger-tips. Their smaller capsules make their inner bulbs relatively larger. Corpuscles of Herbst resemble those of Vater-Pacini but are smaller, and show a row of cubical cells in the inner bulb which have a function similar to that of the meniscus (of Merkel). They are found in the skin and tongues of aquatic Birds, and are familiarly seen in the skin that covers the Duck’s bill. Neuromuscular beginnings have been described with the nerve-supply of striated muscle. Neurotendinous begin- nings are found in the connective tissue between secondary bundles of tendons, near their junction with the muscle. They do not warrant a separate description. They serve to transmit the sensation of tension, being active in connection with co-ordinated movements. BLOOD-VASCULAR SYSTEM. Under this heading will be described the arteries, the capillaries, the veins, and the blood. An artery, such as the brachial, possesses three coats— intima, media, and adventitia. The intima, the most deli- cate coat, is plicated, and presents to the blood-current an endothelial lining, outside of which is a subendothelial layer of fibro-elastic tissue, and outside of this is the internal elas- tic membrane. This, the most conspicuous part of the intima, appears in cross section as a wavy, refractive band