MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 70 ferentiated, and is meant for prolonged work without ready fatigue, as is required by the heart and eye-muscles, and by those of mastication and of respiration. Connection with the tissue into which the mucle-fibers insert, whether tendon, periosteum, perichondrium, or sub- cutaneous tissue, is effected by the sarcolemma. Cardiac muscle, while striated anatomically, is involun- tary physiologically, and hence holds an intermediate rela- tion between non-striated and striated muscle. It might be called involuntary striated muscle. Compared to the mus- cular tissue just described, the mucle-fibers are shorter, undergo partial longitudinal division, and interlock with one another. The sarcolemma is more delicate and, in keep- ing with red muscle, there is relatively more sarcoplasm. On cross-section, the nuclei are centrally-disposed, and sur- rounded by areas of sarcoplasm. The contractile fibrillae tend to be peripherally grouped in radiating manner about the central disks of sarcoplasm. In the latter is found granu- lar, brown pigment, which increases in amount with age. The blood-vessels of striated muscle follow the septa of the epimysium to the muscle-fibers, each of which is sur- rounded by a network of very thin capillaries, which show small dilatations (ampullae), in which the blood may lodge during contraction. Thus, like any organ with a high degree of specialized activity, this variety of muscle has an abund- ant blood-supply. The nerve-supply of striated muscle includes both motor and sensory.fibers. A motor nerve sends its axis-cylinder through the sarcolemma to terminate in the sarcous sub- stance in a muscle-plate. The sensory nerves begin as neu- romuscular fibers in the muscle-spindles, and as neuroten- dinous fibers in the tendon-spindles. Each muscle-spindle consists of from three to ten coarsely striated muscle-fibers, which are surrounded all by an axial sheath of delicate con- nective-tissue. Within these muscle-fibers, which are dis- tinguished by the term intrafusal fibers, the sensory telo- dendria begin in little beads, which become medullated immediately they pierce the axial sheath. Since these nerves convey muscle-sense, they are probably stimulated by pres- sure of the contracting intrafusal fibers. • :h Striated muscle occurs in the muscles of the trunk and