DEVELOPMENT OF TEETH 99 which fuse to form a homogeneous mass. Within the latter appear enamel-processes (of Tomes), which take up most of the homogeneous mass to form enamel-prisms, the part not taken up remaining as the cement-substance. Later on, these enamel-prisms become calcified. The enamel is thus deposited from within outward, and the adamantoblasts are pushed toward the surface until they disappear. The last product of the adamantoblasts does not differentiate into enamel-prisms, but remains as the enamel-cuticle. The dental papilla represents a condensation of the mesoblast, and soon comes into contact with the enamel or- gan. It is the head: the enamel organ is the helmet. Peri- pherally, that is, corresponding to the scalp of the head, the mesoblastic cells of the dental papilla specialize into a row of cylindrical cells—the odontoblasts, These, therefore, lie in apposition with the inner cells of the enamel organ, separated only by a thin, homogeneous membrane, the mem- brana preformativa, which indicates the earliest appearance of dentine. The odontoblasts soon become active and pro- duce dentinal ground-substance, with which the membrana preformativa fuses. This is gradually deposited from with- out inward. Dentinal tubules appear in the ground-sub- stance, and are invaded by the dentinal fibers of the odonto- blasts. The outer part of the dental papilla is thus changed into dentine, whilst the inner part remains undifferentiated as the pulp. Areas imperfectly calcified, be it recalled, ac- count for the interglobular spaces seen in the matured tooth. The dental-sac is a capsule formed around the young- tooth by the mesoblastic connective tissue. It supplies the growing tooth with blood, and later on becomes the alveolar periosteum. The cementum is formed from the alveolar periosteum like subperiosteal bone, the formative elements being termed cementoblasts. Beginning at the neck of the tooth, it grad- ually encloses the root. The permanent teeth are developed in similar manner from secondary enamel organs, which are derived from the epithelium of the attenuated bands that, for a time, connect the enamel organs of the temporary teeth with the surface. 1 6'} £,n<L<.W. Jr tvOv h JL-JLz < i Jtju /v♦vt'V l-Vf.. A /