200 THE BONES vertebral disk that separates it from the sacrum. Its apex is rounded and gives origin to the sphincter ani externus. The number of vertebrae in the coccyx vary from none at all as in the Vampire Bat, two in the Gibbon, and three in the Barbary Ape, up to 270 in the Shark. In Birds the terminal coccygeal vertebrae are anchylosed to form the ploughshare-bone. The coccyx in man corresponds to the tail of other animals. The tail may act as a third hand, as in the pre-eminently arboreal Spider Monkeys, which have the tail prehensile. It may serve in locomotion, as in Tortoises, in which the cervical and coccygeal vertebrae are alone free, the others being immovably united with the ribs and with the carapace. If in man the end of the coccyx projects and is ensheathed in integument, he is said to have a tail. The Pelvis. The pelvis (basin) is formed by the innominate bones, the sacrum, and the coccyx. It is interposed between the vertebral column and the lower extremities. It presents a bony ring, which surrounds a cavity and which is surmount- ed laterally by two alae. The alae correspond to the alae of the ilia. They pro- ject upward, outward, and backward from the upper, lateral border of the bony ring, and their relative position to the latter is possibly comparable to that of the arytenoid cartil- ages to the cricoid. They contribute osseous boundaries to the lateral and posterior walls of the abdominal cavity, in its hypogastric and iliac regions. The cavity is broader above than below, and deeper be- hind than before. It is bounded before by the pubic bones; laterally by the internal surfaces of the bodies and tuberosi- ties of the ischia; and behind by the sacrum and coccyx. It is occupied by the rectum behind; by the bladder before; and by generative organs between, according to the sex. Cer- tain blood-vessels and nerves traverse it, and coils of jejuno- ileum usually lodge within it. Above is the inlet to this cavity; below, the outlet. The inlet is somewhat heart- shaped, and the outlet diamond-shaped. The bony ring is wholly osseous at its upper border