249 NASAL BONE the nasal process of the maxilla, lodges the lacrimal sac, the beginning of the nasolacrimal duct. The crest itself gives partial origin to the tensor tarsi and terminates interiorly in the hook-like lacrimal hamulus, which curves forward to ar- ticulate with the lacrimal tubercle on the superior border of the nasal process (q. v.) of the maxilla, and completes the upper orifice of the nasolacrimal canal. The posterior por- tion is smooth, contributes to the inner wall of the orbit, and is flush with the lamina papyracea of the ethmoid. The internal surface is divided by a vertical groove over against the posterior lacrimal crest into a surface before, which con- tributes to the outer wall of the middle meatus of the nose, and a surface behind, which articulates with the labyrinth of the ethmoid and closes in two of the anterior ethmoidal cells. The lacrimal develops in the membrane around the cartilaginous nasal capsule. It is ossified by a single center that appears about the ninth fetal week, soon after the vertebrae have begun to ossify. The lacrimal is occasionally absent in man. It is nor- mally absent in Batrachians and sometimes in Birds. It is naturally absent in Vertebrates that pass a large part or the whole of their lives in water, and where lacrimation is su- perfluous, as in Seals and Pangolins. In the Elephant and Sirenia it is small, but imperforate. It is sometimes large in Reptiles, as Chelonians. It is of great size in the Hare, Ant- eaters, and Armadillos, and in the Deer is well developed not only in the orbit, but also on the cheek, and presents a pe- culiar fossa destined to receive and shelter a special glandu- lar apparatus. In man and the Apes the lacrimal is confined to the orbit, and the lacrimal hamulus represents the re- mains of the facial part of the lacrimal seen in other animals, even in those so high up in the scale as Lemurs. In man even, the hamulus may reach the orbital margin and enter into the formation of the face. It may exist as a separate piece,—the lesser lacrimal bone. Nasal Bone. The nasal are two small, oblong bones placed side by side in the interval between the nasal processes of the maxil- \