MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 96 enamel organ. It is not dissolved by acids, and on burning yields calcareous, spongy coal. Enamel consists of 97% min- eral salts, and 3% organic substance. In texture it resem- bles aragonite, a translucent, white mineral obtained from Aragon, Spain, which crystallizes in the orthorhombic sys- tem. It dissolves in dilute acids without residue. In the teeth of Europeans it presents flaws, cooking having mini- mized the work for which it was designated. Thickest on the crown of the tooth, it thins toward the neck, and ends along an abrupt line. Dentine (ivory), which contributes the bulk and de- termines the form of the tooth, is composed of ground-sub- stance traversed by dentinal tubules. The latter, homologues of lacunae and canaliculi of bone, are minute canals that de- scribe a wavy course from the pulp-cavity to their termina- tion in the enamel or cementum. They intercommunicate by lateral branches given off during their course, and before ending, subdivide dichotomously. They are occupied bv dentinal fibers, which are processes of the odontoblasts whose cell-bodies lie peripherally in the pulp. The wall of a dentinal tubule is formed by the dentinal sheath (of Neu- mann) which, denser and more resistant than the surround- ing ground-substance, is formed by the dentinal fibers. Seen from the pulp-cavity, the dentinal tubules running in parallel lines produce a coarse striation (lines of Schreger). The ground-substance, like the intercellular matrix of bone, con- sists of fibrils of fibrous tissue joined into bundles and em- bedded in lime-salts. If calcification is incomplete, large, ir- regular spaces of uncalcified ground-substance remain near the outer (enamel) surface of the dentine, and are termed interglobular spaces. Through them the dentinal tubules pass without interruption,—a fact that might be surmised, because the latter are formed by the dentinal fibers. There is always a zone of similar, though smaller, spaces at the junction of the dentinejvvith the cementum, and this receives the name of the.granular layer (of To goes). Arching parallel lines running obliquely to the surface of the dentine and especially distinct in the crown, also indicate deficiencies in calcification, and are termed incremental lines (of Salter). In transverse sections of a tooth, these lines appear as circles like the annular rings in the trunk of a tree. They are singu-