SPHENOID BONE 217 (6) Olivary eminence, the posterior border of the lat- ter. (7) Pituitary fossa (sella turcica, or Turkish saddle) which lodges the circular sinus and the pituitary body. (8) Middle clinoid (bedpost-like) processes, one on each side of the fore-part of the pituitary fossa, for attach- ment of tentorium cerebelli. They may be poorly marked. (9) Dorsum sellae (back of the saddle), a quadrate plate that bounds the pituitary fossa posteriorly. (10) Posterior clinoid processes, one at each upper corner of the latter, for attachment of the tentorium cere- belli. (11) Clivus (slope), the sloping posterior surface of the dorsum sellae, continuous with the basilar process of the oc- cipital bone, upon which rests the pons. The anterior surface shows:— (1) Ethmoidal ridge, which descends vertically in the mid-line and articulates with the vertical plate of the eth- moid. (2) Foramina, one on each side of the latter, which lead into the sphenoidal sinuses. The latter, two in num- ber and separated by a perpendicular partition, have com- pletely excavated the body of the bone, leaving only a thin shell. They communicate through the foramina with the superior meatuses of the nose. They are not developed in young subjects. Their relation to the internal carotid ar- tery, circular sinus and optic nerves must be borne in mind in operations upon this sinus. (3) Serrated edge, at each lateral margin of this sur- face, for articulation with the lamina papyracea of the eth- moid, thus completing the posterior ethmoidal cells. The lower margin is rough and serrated for articulation with the posterior surface of the orbital process of the palate. The inferior surface shows:— (1) Rostrum, a triangular spine in the mid-line that is continuous with the ethmoidal ridge, and is received be- tween the alae of the vomer. (2) Pterygopalatine groove, close to the root of each pterygoid process, converted into a canal when the sphen- oidal process of the palate is in situ. This canal transmits the pterygopalatine vessels and nerve. It leads from the