PECULIARITIES OF THE HUMAN FETAL MEMBRANES 33 rounds directly the exocelom. The mesoblast, which has cloven the amniotic ectoblast, is now cloven in turn by ex* tension into it of the exocelom. By this process the meso- blast above the amniotic cavity is divided into two lamellae, of which one lines the trophoblast in this area, and the other covers over the amniotic ectoblast. The trophoblast with its lining of somatic mesoblast now constitutes the primitive chorion. The wall of the amniotic sac is now complete, and consists of amniotic ectoblast covered over by somatic meso- blast. The mesoblast at the caudal end of the embryo, how- ever, successfully resists, and therefore terminates, the extension of the exocelom at that spot, and this mesoblast remains as a bond of union between the embryo and the primitive chorion. This bond of union is named body- stalk. Into the body-stalk, and completely surrounded by it, grows the allantois, an outpouching from the caudal end of the entoblastic sac. A constriction of the vitelline sac separates an embryonic portion, the primitive gut-tract, from a distal portion, the umbilical vesicle, and then persists as the umbilical duct. It is evident that all the important changes just men- tioned were controlled by the mesoblast. Furthermore, the body-stalk has determined the site of the umbilical cord and of the placenta. Expansion of the amniotic sac compresses the amnion against the primitive chorion, and further en- largement approximates the cephalic portion of the amnion to the caudal, with the necessary result that the body-stalk with the allantois, the umbilical vesicle with its duct, a snared-off portion of the exocelom, and the amniotic folds themselves are all fused together into the umbilical cord. The snared-off portion of exocelom is later obliterated by adhesions of the mesoblast in the cord. Peculiarities of the Human Fetal Membranes. (1) Amnion formed by an early vacuolation of the ecto- blast. (2) Precocious development and extension of the meso- blast and exocelom. (3) Formation of the body-stalk. 3