MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 64 Intermembranous development forms the bones of the vault of the skull and most of the bones of the face—struc- tures, it may be noted, that have little to do with support. As an example of this method, the parietal bone may be con- sidered. The vault of the skull in the young embryo is composed of scalp, dura mater, and an intervening connective-tissue layer in which the membranous bone is formed. From the center of ossification spicules of bone radiate toward the periphery, and unite as a network that condenses more and more to form the bony plate. This process is similar in its details to subperiosteal de- velopment. Osteoblasts from the connective-tissue deposit bone-matrix upon the fibrillae of the same, and enclose themselves in the new tissue as bone-cells. Growth of Bone.—The width of a long bone is governed by subperiosteal development, and the length by the epiphy- sis. As increments of bone are added to the sides of the shaft, the endochondral and some of the compact bone are absorbed until the medullary cavity is of proper diameter. The bone grows in length by successive deposition and en- dochondral ossification of cartilage contributed by the ad- vancing epiphysis, and when the bone has reached its proper length, the epiphysis itself ossifies and unites with the shaft. Over the free surface of the epiphysis, however, the cartilage persists as the articular cartilage of the joint. The epiphy- sis toward which the main medullary artery is directed is the last to appear and the first to unite (except the fibula). Where an epiphysis exists at one end only, the medullary canal runs toward the opposite end. The growth of bones may be demonstrated by the use of madder, a dyeing plant. Since this tinges the most recent deposit of bone red, alternate rings of red and white bone may be produced by successively feeding and withholding madder in the diet. On killing the animal thus treated, these alternate rings will be found both at the circumference of the bone and within the Haversian systems. In this intricate process of substituting bone for carti- lage, Nature contrives to produce a structure that is at once light, strong, and porous. It would not answer to ossify the cartilage directly, for such a structure would be heavier,