268 THE BONES hind, the upper surface of the posterior arch underlies the hinder margin of the foramen magnum. Interior of Skull. The interior of the skull is exposed by removal of the skull-cap. The inferior surface of the latter is concave, and shows fossulae made by gyri of the cerebrum, grooves that lodged branches of the middle meningeal artery, and the sagittal sulcus. On either side of the latter are foveolae, which lodged the arachnoideal granulations, and behind are the internal parietal foramina. This surface is crossed be- fore by the coronal suture, and behind, by the lamdoid suture, whilst running fore and aft is the sagittal suture. The three tables of the cut skull may now be observed,—the outer, compact and tough; the middle (diploe), soft and spongy; and the inner (vitreous), harder and more brittle than the outer. The upper aspect of the base of the skull (floor of the cranial cavity) now invites our attention. It presents three fossae, of which the anterior and middle accommodate the cerebrum, whilst the posterior lodges the cerebellum. The anterior cranial fossa, situated on a higher level than the remainder of the floor, is well defined behind by the sharp, free borders of the lesser wings of the sphenoid, which curve outward, upward, and backward to near the pterion externally. Its floor is formed from before backward, in the mid-line, by the upper surface of the horizontal plate of the ethmoid and the anterior third of the superior surface of the body of the sphenoid; and laterally, by the superior surfaces of the orbital plates of the frontal, and by the same surfaces of the lesser wings of the sphenoid. Depressed centrally and elevated laterally, the floor supports the frontal lobes of the cerebrum. It presents in the mid-line from before back- ward the following details:—Sagittal sulcus, narrow because it begins here. Frontal crest, formed by union of the edges of the sulcus. Foramen cecum, at the termination of the frontal crest. Crista galli, just behind the foramen cecum. Slit, elongated and narrow, on each side of the fore part of the crista galli. Olfactory grooves, one on each side of the