THORACIC VERTEBRAE 195 brae are still more prominent. T he spinous process is thick, almost horizontal, and non-bifid. Its transverse process is massive, and its free extremity shows but a feeble attempt at bifurcation. The costotransverse foramen, frequently in- complete, does not usually transmit the vertebral artery. The costal process, ordinarily very small, may attain a large size and independent existence as a cervical rib. A thoracic vertebra is distinguished thus. The body is heart-shaped, and broad fore and aft and from side to side. It is thicker behind than before, deeply concave behind and convex and prominent before, somewhat constricted before and at the sides, and flat above and below. On each side of the body, near its junction with the arch, are two demi- facets, one above, and one below. In the articulated column the upper facet is in apposition with the lower facet of the superimposed vertebra, the two together forming a complete facet for the head of a rib. The pedicles project backward, and the inferior intervertebral notches are large and very deep. The laminae, broad and thick, in the articulated col- umn overlap each other like tiles on a roof. The spinous process, long and triangular, points obliquely downward and terminates in a slight tubercle. The articular processes are flat and almost vertical. The transverse processes, long and thick, point obliquely backward and outward, and terminate in a clubbed extremity on each side of which is a small oval facet for the tubercle of a rib. The vertebral foramen is al- most circular and comparatively small. The first thoracic, like the seventh cervical, is a transi- tional segment. The bodies of these two vertebrae are simi- lar in dimensions. On each side is a complete facet above for the head of the first rib, and a small, demi-facet below for that of the second rib. The spinous process is thick, long, nearly horizontal, and more prominent than that of the sev- enth cervical (the so-called vertebra prominens). The articular processes present obliquely-directed facets. The ninth thoracic possesses demi-facets above, but none below, as a rule. Thoracic Vertebrae.