SMALL INTESTINE 105 about three-quarters of the circumference of the intestine, and are better marked and more numerous in the upper part of the latter than in the lower. They are not effaced by dis- tention of the gut. The glands occur in two forms—the duodenal glands («pf Brunner) and the intestinal glands (of Lieberkuehn). The former, as their name specifies, are confined to the duo- denum, being representatives here of the pyloric glands of the stomach. The latter, however, are found throughout the intestine, small as well as large. The duodenal glands, like their mates in the stomach, are of the compound tubular type. Unlike them, however, they are confined to the submucous coat, whence their ducts traverse the mucous coat and open either upon the surface or into the intestinal glands. The intestinal glands are of the simple tubular type. Since the duodenal glands have been compared to the pyloric, comparison of the intestinal glands with the fundus glands of the stomach might be of mnemonic value. Resting with their blind extremities upon the muscularis mucosae, the intestinal glands traverse the entire thickness of the tunica propria and open in the valleys between the villi. While the duodenal glands are serous, the intestinal glands secrete succus entericus, a watery fluid rich in enzymes. The lymphatic tissue is located at first in the tunica propria whence it extends secondarily into the submucous coat, and occurs in three forms—diffuse lymphatic tissue, solitary nodules, and aggregate nodules (patches of Peyer). Diffuse lymphatic tissue is found throughout the mucous coat, and abounds in the villi. Solitary nodules are small, round grains about the size of the head of a pin. They represent the simplest form of condensed lymphatic tissue, and may be recalled in the cor- tical nodules of lymph nodes. They are comparable to the lenticular nodes of the stomach. They are found through- out the intestine, small as well as large. Aggregate nodules are, as their name implies, aggre- gations of thirty (average) solitary nodules into oval patches that appear on the inner surface of the gut as a wax seal on an envelope. They are found in the lower half of the small intestine, always on the side opposite the mesentery, and