KIDNEYS 119 concerns itself chiefly with tracing the tortuous windings of the uriniferous tubules, and with the intimate relation be- tween the latter and the blood-vessels. The function of the kidneys is to select and eliminate from the blood certain waste-products. The capsules (of Bowman) abstract water and inorganic salts, and the urini- ferous tubules abstract certain specific constituents, such as urea and uric acid. When it is considered that the kid- neys must filter all the blood in the body and extract from it three pints of urine every 24 hours, the serpentine wind- ings of the uriniferous tubules are readily accounted for. Each tubular tract from capsule to papilla is about 5 inches long, and each excretory duct drains about 850 capsules. Each kidney contains about 500,000 capsules and about 15 miles of tubing. In this way an enormous area of renal par- enchyma is offered to the blood and, with the large numbers of renal corpuscles, the kidneys are enabled efficiently to discharge their important duties. A renal corpuscle (Malpighian body) is a spherical body composed of a glomerulus and a capsule (of Bowman). The. glomerulus represents the termination of an artery which, as the vas afferens, breaks up into a capillary-ball. The cap- illaries composing this ball are united into lobules by deli- cate veils of connective tissue. Emerging from the capil- lary-ball is the vas efferens, containing blood from which water and inorganic salts have been expressed by the capil- laries. The capsule represents the beginning of a urinifer- ous tubule, and encloses the glomerulus in a two-layered sac. The relation of the capsule and its uriniferous tubule to the glomerulus may be illustrated by a rubber tube on the end of which is a bulb. Invagination of the wall of the bulb by a body representing the glomerulus completes the simile. In each instance the fluid from the bulb flushes the tube connected with it. The visceral layer of the capsule clothes the.glomerulus, whilst the parietal layer is separated from the visceral by a crescentic space which is the recepta- cle of the fluid expressed by the capillary-ball. The two layers are continuous through fornices at the stalk of the glomerulus the stalk corresponding to the junction be- tween the vasa afferens et efferens and the capillary-ball. The capsule is lined by simple squamous epithelium, which