224 THE BONES (3) Sagittal sulcus which, with that of the opposite side, forms a channel for the superior sagittal sinus. The elevated edges of this sulcus afford attachment to the falx cerebri, a tense membrane that retains the sinus and sepa- rates the cerebral hemispheres. The internal opening of the parietal foramen is seen here. The imprint of the lateral sinus upon the internal aspect of the posteroinferior angle falls under this group of impressions. (4) Foveolae, small irregular pits along the sagittal sulcus which lodge the arachnoideal granulations (Pacchi- onian bodies). The parietal develops from membrane, and ossifies from a center that appears at a point corresponding to the parietal eminence in the seventh week of fetal life and spreads per- ipherally. Therefore, the angles are last to ossify, and when this occurs the fontanelles are obliterated. ^ A fontanelle (little fountain) is a membranous interval in the skull of the fetus permanently, and in that of the in- fant temporarily, left by unfinished ossification of the four angles of the parietals. They are so named because when one feels the pulsation of the brain through them it resem- bles the welling up of water in a spring. There are six. The anterior is a diamond-shaped space between the rounded angles of the parietals and frontals, and is obliterated by the fourth year. The posterior is a triangular space between the parietals and apex of the occipital, and is obliterated by a month or two after birth. Each anterolateral is situated at the anteroinferior angle of the parietal, and is obliterated by the second or third month after birth. Each posterolat- eral is situated at the posteroinferior angle of the parietal, and is completely obliterated when the child is one year old. The anterior fontanelle is the most important because it is the largest and last to close. It indicates to the accoucheur the position of the head of the child during birth, and acts as a safety valve for the rapidly varying intracranial pressure. It is interesting to note that the margins of each parietal are bevelled on alternate sides, so that the bone cannot be driven in without previous fracture. In Carnivora, conspicu- ous in the Tiger, the temporal muscles are attached to a dense median crest of bone, which represents the temporal ridges coalesced. In Elephants and Owls the outer and in-