179 FIBULA ous, and continuous with the triangular subcutaneous sur- face on the outer side of the shaft. Its internal surface shows, before, a convex triangular facet for part of the astragalus, and behind and below, the digital fossa, in which is fastened the transverse ligament of the inferior tibio-fibular joint and the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The anterior border, thick and rough, gives attachment to the anterior ligament of the inferior tibio- fibular joint and to the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The posterior border is grooved for the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis muscles, and above gives attachment to the posterior liga- ment of the inferior tibio-fibular joint. Its apex is rounded, and affords attachment to the middle fasciculus of the exter- nal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The fibula develops from a primary center for its shaft, which appears before birth. Its superior extremity develops from an epiphysis that appears about the third year and fuses with the shaft about the twenty-second. Its inferior extremity develops from an epiphysis that appears about the second year and fuses with the shaft about the nineteenth. The time of ossification of the lower epiphysis is an excep- tion to the rule that epiphyses which are the first to ossify are the last to unite with the shaft, and also that the epi- physis toward which the nutrient artery is directed is the last to ossify. The fibula of man is in subordination to the tibia. In reviewing the Vertebrata its gradual disappearance is quite remarkable. In the Horse it is reduced to a mere splint at the upper part of the tibia. In its reduced state the fibula may be quite styliform, as in Birds; or it may be developed inferiorly but atrophied at its upper end, as in Bats. In the Ox it is represented only by a small ossification in the place of the external malleolus, but in the Elk, in addition to this, there is a little styliform rudiment of the upper end of the fibula. Its upper end may join the femur, as in Marsupials and Birds, and this end may be produced into a large process like the olecranon of the ulna, as in Cook’s Phalanger, to which piocess even a sesamoid bone may be annexed. In the Armadillos the fibula enters into the formation of the knee-joint.