LYMPHATIC SYSTEM 85 liver and spleen, and the remaining three-eighths in the cap- illaries. The average man has about 4j/2 quarts of blood. Loss of half this amount {2% quarts) usually causes death. When removed from the vessels blood coagulates and di- vides into a blood-clot and serum. Red cells are round in all mammalia except the Camel and Llama, in which they are oval. In the lower vertebrates the red cells are nucleated and oval, being shaped like a melon seed. The smallest red cells are found in the Musk Deer where they are about the size of a human blood plaque, whilst the largest are those of the Amphiuma, which are ten times the size of a human red cell, or thirty times the size of those of the Musk Deer. While in man there are 5,000,000 red cells in one cubic millimeter of blood, in Proteus there are 33,000 and in Capra hircus 19,000,000. The total num- ber of red cells in man has been estimated at 25,000,000,000,- 000, and their collective surface-exposure at 24,000 square feet. In Invertebrata the blood-cells are usually uncolored and resemble the white cells of higher animals. LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Lymph-spaces are ill-defined, irregular clefts lined by endothelioid cells and containing lymph. Present through- out the body, they are most marked in areolar tissue. Their relation to the cells and fibers of the body is such that these are bathed in a sea of lymph. In connective tissue they have already been referred to as “juice-canals,” and again with the blood-vessels as perivascular lymph-spaces. They min- ister to the tissues, serving them with nutrition and remov- ing effete matter. The lymphatic system is a closed (except where it joins the subclavian veins) system of delicate lymph vessels and intercalated lymph nodes. The lymph-vessels contain lymph and lymphocytes, whilst the lymph nodes are composed of lymphatic tissue. Lymphatic capillaries, the beginnings of the lymphatic system, form fine networks of thin-walled, irregularly-cali- bred, non-valvular vessels arranged, usually, in a superficial and deep set. Although, like blood-capillaries, composed of