182 THE BONES tubercle to which is attached the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. The rest of this surface is subcutaneous. The internal supports the lesser process before, and behind a deep hollow that transmits the plantar vessels and nerves and below gives origin to the inner head of the flexor accessorius. The anterior bears the greater process. The posterior, oval, rough, and convex, corresponds to the tuberosity, and presents from above downward:—a smooth area separated from the tendo Achil- lis by a bursa; a rough area for insertion of the tendo Achil- lis and plantaris; and a rough, subcutaneous area which sup- ports the fat and skin of the heel. The greater process, which corresponds to the anterior extremity, presents two surfaces. The anterior is occupied by a saddle-shaped surface for the cuboid. The superior is occupied internally by a facet that supports the head of the astragalus; that in the middle shares in the formation of the sinus pedis; and that externally presents a tubercle for origin of the extensor digitorum brevis. The lesser process (sustentaculum tali), situated at the upper and fore part of the internal surface, is a shelf-like pro- jection that helps support the astragalus. It's superior sur- face is continuous with the facet on the inner part of the su- perior surface of the greater process. Its inferior sur- face is channelled by a groove that lodges the tendon of the flexor hallucis longus. The anterior border is rough for at- tachment of the inferior calcaneoscaphoid ligament. The internal border furnishes partial attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint and to a slip of the tendon of the tibialis posticus. Scaphoid. The scaphoid (boat-like) is oval in shape, flattened from before backward, and situated between the astragalus behind and the three cuneiforms before. Of its surface, the anterior, oblong and convex, is sub- divided by two ridges into three facets for the three cunei- forms. The posterior corresponds to an oval, concave facet for the head of the astragalus. The superior is sharply con- vex and rough for attachment of ligaments. The inferior is