THE BONES 170 linea aspera about two inches below this trochanter. Its upper half corresponds to the anterior intertrochanteric line, and is rough for the iliofemoral ligament, whilst from its lower half arises part of the vastus internus. Behind, the posterior intertrochanteric line starts at the summit of the great trochanter, corresponds to the posterior border of the latter above, and to the external radiating ridge of the small trochanter below. Another line, the linea quadrati, starts near the middle of the posterior intertrochanteric line and runs vertically downward for about two inches along the back part of the shaft; it affords insertion to the quadratus femoris, and partial origin to the adductor magnus. The shaft, nearly cylindrical, arches from above, where it is broader, convex forward and downward to its inferior extremity, where it is also broader and somewhat flattened, from before backward. It presents three surfaces and as many borders. The anterior surface, smooth, convex, and twisted so that its upper part faces forward and slightly outward and its lower fprward and slightly inward, gives origin in its upper three-fourths to the crureus, whilst its lowest fourth is covered by a bursa and by the synovial sac of the knee-joint, and gives partial origin to the subcrureus. The external surface, continuous above with the correspond- ing surface of the great trochanter, and below with that of the external condyle, gives partial origin in its upper three- fourths to the crureus. The internal surface, continuous above with the internal radiating ridge of the small trochan- ter and below with the inner side of the internal condyle, is free from muscular attachment, but is covered by the vastus internus. Of the three borders, the external, round and in- distinct, extends from the anterior inferior angle of the great trochanter to the anterior extremity of the external con- dyle, and faintly separates the anterior from the external surface. The internal, likewise round and indistinct, ex- tends from the spiral line opposite the small trochanter to the anterior extremity of the internal condyle, and faintly separates the anterior from the external surface. The pos- terior corresponds to the linea aspera, a longitudinal crest that projects posteriorly from the middle third of the shaft and presents an outer lip, an interspace, and an inner iip. Traced upward, the three parts diverge and rise into three