256 THE BONES maxilla. The internal surface articulates with the laby- rinth of the ethmoid, whose pneumatic cells it helps close in behind. The posterior surface is small, and articulates with the lower margin of the anterior surface of the body of the sphenoid. The sphenoidal process, smaller and occupying a lower level than the orbital, curves upward, inward, and backward from the hinder part of the vertical plate, and presents three surfaces and two borders. The internal surface contributes to the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and its inner end comes into contact with the ala of the vomer. The external sur- face is also smooth, and contributes to the wall of the sphenomaxillary fossa. The superior surface is in contact with the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid, and completes the pterygopalatine groove seen on the latter sur- face (q. v. 2) of the sphenoid. Of the borders, the anterior forms the posterior boundary of the sphenopalatine notch. The posterior border is the continuation upward of the corre- sponding border of the vertical plate, and articulates with the vaginal plate of the internal plate (q. v. 3) of the ptery- goid process of the sphenoid. The palate develops in the membrane that covers the sides of the oral cavity. It is ossified by a single center that appears about the eighth fetal week in the angle between the horizontal and vertical plates. In the fetus the horizontal plate is larger than the vertical; at birth, both are nearly equal in length; but as the nasal fossae increase in height, the vertical plate is lengthened until it is about twice as long as the horizontal. The palate of man is peculiar in that its vertical height so greatly exceeds its anteroposterior dimension. In Apes its length is already greater in proportion to its height than in man. In the Great Ant-eater this elongation is enor- mously increased. Apropos of the general morphology of the facial bones, Keen has stated that variations in the shape of the face in man and the lower animals depend chiefly on the character of their food and their mode of obtaining it, seeing that the chief function of the facial bones is to provide an apparatus for mastication, and that the maxilla and mandible are fun- damentally endowed with this function. A moment’s