19 FERTILIZATION bathes the cervix of the uterus, to whose cavity it affords the spermatic filaments entrance. Their forward march is re- sisted by the cervical plug of mucus, by the contrary currents of the cilia lining the uterus and oviduct, and by the laby- rinthine path within the latter. The spermatic filaments, however, propelled by their tails at the rate of 2.5 mm. per minute, cover the 10 inches between the upper part of the vagina and the outer third of the oviduct in about 9 hours. Were it not for the obstacles in their path, they could reduce the time to an hour and a half. The spermatic filament and the ovum retain their vitality for about two weeks, so that if they meet within this time, fertilization is possible. It has been estimated that every cubic millimeter of seminal fluid contains about 60,000 spermatic filaments, and that the total number deposited with each ejaculation is near 200,000,000. Of these, only a few reach their goal and only one, the winner of the obstacle-race, finally impregnates the ovum, the rest being barred by a dense membrane that, like a torpedo-net, is thrown out around the ovum directly upon the entrance of one filament. In the Newt, however, poly- spermy is the rule, but of the many spermatic filaments that penetrate the ovum, only one unites with the egg-nucleus, the rest being absorbed by the cytoplasm of the ovum. Immediately the spermatic filament impinges upon the ovum, the latter sends from its periphery the receptive emi- nence, into which the head and middle piece penetrate, the tail, no longer of service, being cast off. In Physa fontinalis, and in the Bat, however, the whole spermatic filament, as a rule, enters the ovum. The middle-piece becomes indistin- guishable by radiations that appear and the head, now the sperm-nucleus, moves toward the center of the ovum. The sperm-nucleus and the egg-nucleus now lie side-by-side. In each the nuclear membrane disappears and the chromatin is arranged as the close skein, then the loose skein, and finally as chromosomes. The 12 chromosomes of each thus form separate groups arranged beside each other, the chro- mosomes not mixing until the segmentation-nucleus has di- vided. There is now formed an achromatic spindle, the asters of which are supplied by the centrosome either of the spermatic filament or of the ovum, or else from one arising de novo, according to different views. About the equatorial