246 THE BONES (3) Condyloid process, which consists of the condyle and neck. The condyle, convex, oblong, and compressed from before backward, is received into the anterior part of the glenoid fossa. At its outer extremity is a tubercle for reception of the temporomandibular ligament. The neck is the constricted support of the condyle, and is slightly exca- vated before, for partial insertion of the external pterygoid. The mandible develops chiefly from membrane, but partly from cartilage. Next to the clavicle, it is the earliest bone to ossify. For each half of the mandible a center appears in the outer and inner parts of the membrane that invests the cartilage of the first visceral arch. The plates ossified by these centers unite and form a groove for reception of the teeth. The anterior end of the cartilage of the first visceral arch ossifies to form the part of each half of the mandible that lies between the mental foramen and the symphysis. The condyle and part of the ramus are formed by ossification of cartilage that has no connection whatever with that of the first visceral arch. The two halves of the body unite at the symphysis during the first year. In the new-born the mandible is very low, possesses no alveolar portion, and the ramus is poorly developed and forms a very obtuse angle with the body. In the adult the alveolar process has risen, the body is stout and deep, and the mental foramen lies be- tween the upper and lower borders. The angle between the body and ramus is nearly a right angle. In the senile the entire mandible is attenuated. With the loss of the teeth the alveolar part is absorbed, and the basilar part alone re- mains. Thus, most of the bone is below the oblique line (q.- v.), the mandibular canal and mandibular foramen ap- proach the upper border, and the angle between the ramus and body is again very obtuse. The mandible may be completely absent, as in the Lam- prey. In Sharks and other forms in which the skull is not osseous, the mandible is represented by cartilage. In the lower animals the two halves of the mandible generally re- main separate throughout life. In Snakes the two halves of the mandible are held together by an elastic* ligament that permits them to be separated considerably, so that a Python, for example, is enabled to swallow its prey entire, though larger than its own body. The chin is peculiar to man. It