MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 108 are more conspicuous toward the end of the ileum. In the intestine of a child there are about 45 aggregate nodules, but they diminish in number and distinctiveness as age advances, and in old age are recognizable as patches of discoloration. The solitary nodules composing them are compressed together, and united by diffuse lymphatic tissue. The ag- gregate nodules distort the intestinal glands and dwarf the villi with which they are in relation. They are to be seen in the mucous coat, invading somewhat the subjacent sub- mucous. It is hoped that the student will take advantage of the opportunity of discerning between a gland and a lymphatic nodule, which is presented by the absolute dis- similarity, both structural and functional, between the intes- tinal glands and the lymphatic nodules, solitary or aggre- gate. The submucous coat, separated from the tunica propria by the muscularis mucosae, is composed of loose bundles of fibro-elastic tissue, which support blood- and lymph-ves- sels and the submucous plexus. Remember that the duo- denal glands are occupants of this coat, and that the lymph- atic nodules overreach into it from the mucous coat. The muscular coat is composed of non-striated muscle arranged in a thicker inner circular and a thinner outer longitudinal layer, between which is a lamina of fibro-elastic tissue containing the myenteric plexus. The serous coat consists of a thin layer of fibro-elastic tissue covered by a layer of endothelial cells. It is supplied by the peritoneum. The blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves are arranged in the coats of the small intestine as in the stomach. There are, however, additional vessels for the villi. Large Intestine. The large intestine presents four coats—mucous, sub- mucous, muscular, and serous. The mucous coat differs from that of the small intestine in that it possesses neither villi nor valvulae conniventes. The muscularis mucosae is irregularly developed, being thin in the colon and thick in the rectum.