THE BONES 226 To one side (usually the right) of this is a wide space termed the torcular Herophili (wine-press of Herophilus), where five venous sinuses meet. (2) Cross, whose center corresponds to the internal occipital protuberance. The superior part of the vertical limb is grooved by the superior sagittal sinus, and the mar- gins of this groove give attachment to the falx cerebri. The inferior part of the vertical limb, termed the internal occipi- tal crest, is sharp for attachment of the falx cerebelli, and lodges the occipital sinus. Each lateral half of the trans- verse limb is deeply grooved by a lateral sinus, and the mar- gins of the groove give attachment to the tentorium cere- belli. (3) Fossae, four in number, formed by the cross. The two upper receive the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, im- prints of whose gyri are visible. The two lower, which are larger, receive the hemispheres of the cerebellum. All are marked by shallow arterial grooves. Of the four borders, the two upper lateral extend on each side from the superior to the inferior angle, dovetail with the parietals, and thus form the lambdoid (like the Greek letter A) suture. The two lower lateral extend on each side from the lateral angle to the jugular process, and dove- tail with the mastoid portions of the temporals. Of the three angles, the superior is acute, and fits in be- tween the posterior borders of the parietals. This point, where the sagittal and lambdoid sutures meet, is termed the lambda. The lateral angles are situated at the outer ends of the transverse limb of the cross, are obtuse, and each is re- ceived into the retiring angle formed by the posterior border of the parietal bone and mastoid portion of the temporal. The basilar portion is situated in a plane perpendicular to that of the posterior portion, and presents two surfaces and three borders. The inferior surface shows:— (1) Condyles, two kidney-shaped, converging proc- esses of bone that depend from the anterior quadrants of the foramen magnum and articulate with the superior facets on the lateral masses of the atlas. Their margins give at- tachment to the capsular ligaments, and on the inner side of each is a prominent tubercle for the check ligament. (2) Posterior condyloid foramen, which leads up-