185 CUNEIFORMS superior part for the cuboid, and at the anterior superior angde a small facet for the inner side of the base of the fourth metatarsal. Elsewhere the bone is rough for an interos- seous ligament. The anterior corresponds to a triangular facet for the base of the third metatarsal. The posterior pre- sents, above, a triangular facet for the outermost facet on the anterior surface of the scaphoid, and below, a rough area for ligaments. Each tarsal bone is developed from a single primary center. The os calcis, however, has a secondary epiphysis for its tuberosity: this appears at the tenth year, and joins the rest of the bone shortly beyond puberty. The number of units in the tarsus may be as many as nine, as in the Salamander; or may be reduced to three, as in Proteus, Bufo bifurcatus, and Lacerta agilis; or perhaps to two, in Ophiodes striatus. The os calcis and scaphoid may become long bones—adding a segment to the limb—as in Tarsius, and in a less degree in Galago and Cheirogaleus. In the Frogs the os calcis and astragalus are similarly elon- gated. The latter bones are represented by a single bone in many Lizards, and in almost all Birds are intimately fused at an early age with the distal end of the tibia. The as- tragalus may be represented by two bones, as in the Sala- mander and other Tailed-Batrachians, or it may anchylose with the scaphoid, as in the Crocodile. The os calcis in Birds is early absorbed into the astragalus. The scaphoid anchyloses with the cuboid in the Ox and Deer. The bones of the inferior row coalesce with the metatarsals in Birds, the Chameleon, and in Bradypus. The internal cuneiform is the largest of the three in the Seals, but in the Ox and Sheep it is totally wanting. The middle cuneiform is an- chylosed with the second metatarsal in the Chameleon and Bradypus. The external cuneiform enormously preponder- ates over the others in the Horse. In Alligator lucius it is coalesced with the other cuneiforms, and in Rana esculentia with the middle cuneiform. In Bufo bifurcatus it is the only distinct representative of the cuneiforms. The cuboid is rep- resented by two bones in some Batrachians, as in Salaman- dra and the Axolotl. It is united with the fourth and fifth metatarsals in the Chameleon and Bradypus.