SPLEEN 87 which is subdivided by trabeculae into compartments, and the central medulla, which is but indistinctly partitioned. These compartments are filled, in the cortex, by masses of lymphatic tissue, the cortical nodules, each of which cor- responds to a simple lymphatic nodule, and in the medulla, by a network of lymphatic tissue, the medullary cords. Be- tween the trabeculae and the masses of lymphatic tissue are the lymph-sinuses, which are crossed by a loose reticulum that supports scattered cells. Through these the lymph, re- ceived from the afferent vessels, percolates slowly enough to take up new lymphocytes until, at the hilum, it is carried off by the efferent lymph-vessels. It may be said, then, that lymph-sinuses represent continuations of the lymph-vessels. Arteries enter the hilum, follow the trabeculae for a dis- tance, and then break up into capillaries both in the medul- lary cords and in the cortical nodules. Veins return the blood from both sets of capillaries and leave the hilum. Such a blood-vascular unit is repeated for every lymphatic-nodule unit in the lymph node. Nerves, chiefly non-medullated, enter the hilum and supply the non-striated muscle of the blood-vessels and of the capsule. The spleen is the largest lymphatic organ in the body, measuring about six by four inches, and is situated in the left hypochondrium. Its capsule, composed of white fibrous and yellow elastic tissue and non-striated muscle, sends trabeculae into the organ to form its framework. These trabeculae subdivide the spleen into sacs, each of which con- tains a splenic lobule. The latter is subdivided by finer pro- cesses of trabeculae into about ten primary compartments. Contained in and supported by this framework is the splenic pulp, which consists of reticulum and enmeshed lympho- cytes, leucocytes, nucleated and non-nucleated red cells, and phagocytes containing skeletons of red cells. The blood- vessels are intimately associated with the structure of the spleen. Coming in through the hilum, the arteries enter the trabeculae and give off a branch to each lobule. Cours- ing through the middle of the lobule, this, in turn, gives off a branch to each primary compartment. Within the latter the lymphatic tissue is arranged in pulp-cords, and in these the branch to the compartment breaks up into ramifications, each of which ends in an ampulla (of Thoma). Around the