m MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY average 100 in 1 sq. mm., and as the area of the mucous coat averages 47,500 sq. mms., there are about 4,750,000 of these glands. The fundus glands rest with their blind extremities upon the muscularis mucosae, and thence traverse the entire thick- ness of the tunica propria until they reach the surface, there- by describing a slightly wavy course. They are divisible, following the same direction, into fundus, body, and neck. Through the neck they communicate with a crypt, which is a constituent of one of the polygonal fields into which the surface of the mucosa is subdivided, and which forms an excretory duct common to several tubules. In the make-up of the fundus glands, two kinds of cells may be distinguished —the chief and the parietal. The chief cells are so named because they are in the majority. Their position is such that they bound the lumen of the gland. They are usually cubical, and contain granules of pepsinogen, which is con- verted in pepsin. The parietal cells, larger and more con- spicuous, but fewer in number than the chief cells, are con- signed to the periphery of the gland. They communicate, however, with the lumen of the gland by means of secretion- capillaries, which pass between the chief cells. They are round or polygonal in shape, and are more numerous near the neck of the gland. From them is probably derived the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice. The pyloric glands are lined by columnar epithelium, and secrete an albuminous fluid. They differ from the fundus glands in that they branch more frequently; describe a more tortuous course; possess wider and deeper excretory ducts; and do not exhibit the two kinds of cells distinguisha- ble in the fundus glands, their cells, instead, being uniform and corresponding to the chief cells. , j Cardiac glands, compound tubular in type, are modifica- tions of fundus glands. Chief cells are the rule, but some few parietal cells are found. These glands occur in the im- mediate vicinity of the cardia. They are also present at both ends of the esophagus. b • Numerous goblet-cells are distributed throughout the epithelium of the stomach. yi The tunica propria is traversed by the gastric glands. It is rich in cells that resemble lymphocytes. At the cardia