THE BONES 212 (3) Hiatus Fallopii, a slit-like opening continued for- ward as a groove for the great superficial petrosal nerve and petrosal branch of the middle meningeal artery. (4) Hiatus accessorius, external to the latter, from which emerges the small superficial petrosal nerve. Both of these hiatuses lead from the aquaeductus Fallopii. (5) Eminentia arcuata, near the center, which overlies the superior semicircular canal. (6) Tegmen tympani (roof of the tympanum), before and external to the latter, a depressed plate of bone that roofs over the tympanum. The posterior surface assists in the formation of the floor of .the posterior cranial fossa, and shows:— (1) Internal auditory meatus, an oblique opening that leads into the internal auditory canal, at the bottom of which is a vertical plate, the lamina cribrosa. The canal transmits the internal auditory artery, the facial nerve, the pars intermedia, and the auditory nerve, and will be de- scribed more in detail with the internal ear. (2) Floccular fossa, best seen in young bones, an ir- regular depression above and external to the internal audi- tory meatus which lodges a process of dura mater, and which may transmit a small vein into the bone. (3) Aquaeductus vestibuli, behind, below, and external to the internal auditory meatus. A narrow fissure over- hung by a thin edge of bone leads into the aquaeductus vesti- buli. The latter contains the ductus endolymphaticus, whose blind extremity, the saccus endolymphaticus, occu- pies the narrow fissure. The inferior surface, rough, and irregular, assists in the formation of the base of the skull. From apex to base it shows:— (1) Rough area, quadrilateral in shape, for origins of the levator palati and tensor tympani. (2) External carotid foramen, which leads into the internal carotid canal. The latter arches upward, forward, and inward to the internal carotid foramen. (3) Aquaeductus cochleae, internal to the external car- otid foramen. A V-shaped depression here leads into the aquaeductus cochleae. The latter will be described more in detail with the internal ear.