MUCOUS MEMBRANE 89 temic veins, whilst peripheral lymph-vessels arise as out buddings from these central. Lymphocytes develop at first in the mesoblast outside of the vessels, and later in the lymph nodes. The latter are at first represented by small, dense areas of lymphocytes in a reticulum, which stand in close relation with terminal blood- and lymph-vessels. The lat- ter multiply and form the sinus-element, which establishes close relations with the lymphatic element just described. The spleen is developed from a condensation of mesoblastic cells, lymphatic in character, in the dorsal mesentery of the stomach. Into the tissue thus formed numerous blood- vessels grow. The thymus is entoblastic in origin, since it develops from the third pharyngeal pouches by two tubular prolongations that fuse in the mid-line, lose their lumina, and proliferate until the organ is formed. MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Mucous membrane, which lines all spaces that com- municate directly or indirectly with the air, consists of epi- thelium and of tunica propria, and is bound to neighboring structures by submucous tissue. The epithelium may be of either the first two varieties (q. v. Epithelial Tissue), in ac- cordance with local requirements. The tunica propria is composed of interlacing bundles of white fibrous and yellow elastic tissue, the stellate cells of which usually occupy inter- fascicular lymph-spaces. The tunica propria frequently rises up into papillae, carrying tufts of blood-vessels and nerves. Between the epithelium and the tunica propria is the basement membrane, which is a condensation of the latter. Between the tunica propria and the submucous tis- sue is the muscularis mucosae, which, when present, consists of a thin strip of non-striated muscle. In the lower ani- mals, certain appendages of mucous membranes are found, as, for example, the horny sheaths of the beaks of Birds; the horny teeth of Cyclostome Fishes; “whalebones” and the spines and plates of the tongue of Birds, Mammalia, and some Amphibia; the spines of the esophagus of Chelonia; the gastric teeth of many Mollusks; and the horny plates of the Bird’s stomach.