222 THE BONES shows above, the anterior orifice of the Vidian canal, and below, a rough margin for the vertical plate of the palate. The sphenoid develops in two separate parts that unite at the eighth month of fetal life. The presphenoid ossifies in cartilage from four centers, of which two give rise to the body in front of the olivary eminence, and the other two, each at the outer border of an optic foramen, give rise to the lesser wings. I he postsphenoid ossifies in cartilage with the exception of the internal pterygoid plates, which ossify in membrane. Two centers appear, each between the fora- mina rotundum et ovale of each side, and these spread out into the greater wings and external pterygoid plates. Two others, each on each side of the sella turcica, give rise to the body behind the olivary eminence. Two more appear for the lingulae. Two nuclei ossify the membrane that forms the internal pterygoid plates. The external pterygoid plate is large and strong in Ruminants, as in the Deer and the Ox, since it gives partial origin to the external pterygoid muscle, which is well-de- veloped in these animals from constant chewing of the cud. Parietal Bone. The parietal (wall) bones, interposed between the frontal before and the occipital behind, form a large portion of the sides and roof of the cranium. They together make the keystone of the arch which spans the brain. Irregu- larly quadrate and concavo-convex in form, each presents four angles, four borders, and two surfaces. Of the angles, the anterosuperior, almost a right angle, helps to form the anterior fontanelle (bregma) in the child. The anteroinferior, an acute angle, is prolonged downward into the angle between the greater wing of the sphenoid and the frontal, and is grooved internally by the anterior branch of the middle meningeal. It corresponds to the pterion (wing), where the frontal, parietal, sphenoid and occipital are closely related. The posterosuperior, an obtuse angle, helps form the posterior fontanelle (lambda) in the child. The posteroinferior, likewise an obtuse angle, fits into the parietal notch of the temporal bone. It is grooved internally by the lateral sinus. At its hinder part is the asterion (star).