36 DEVELOPMENT lying therein, and from this source a blood-clot forms in the wake of the vesicle and keeps it captive where it has sunk. The Endometrium and its Changes in Pregnancy. The normal endometrium measures about 1mm. in thickness, and consists of epithelium, tunica propria, and muscularis mucosae. The epithelium is formed by a single layer of columnar cells which extends down into the glands of the tunica propria. Patches of ciliated epithelium may exist when the uterus is quiescent and between menstrual epochs. The tunica propria is formed of delicate bundles of fibrous tissue intermingled with some elastic fibers ana many leucocytes. It contains numerous slightly wavy tub- ular glands whose deep ends extend into the muscular coat. The muscularis mucosae is so extensively developed that a submucosa is entirely lacking. While the embryonic vesicle is descending the oviduct, the endometrium is preparing for its reception. The epi- thelium atrophies and disappears from the surface of the endometrium and from the glands except at their fundus, where it is retained. The fibrous tissue of the tunica propria increases in amount, and its cells proliferate to form large, round cells, the decidual cells. The parts of the uterine glands nearest the surface of the endometrium elongate, while their middle and proximal parts enlarge. The blood- vessels dilate, so that the endometrium is much increased in vascularity. All these changes cause hypertrophy of the endometrium from its normal thickness of 1mm. to 10 times that size, or 1cm. This hypertrophy is most prominent where the embryonic vesicle has embedded itself, and here two layers may be recognized, an inner compact and an outer spongy. Later on in pregnancy, pressure of the grow- ing fetus upon the greater part of the changed endometrium condenses the compact and spongy layers still more, until their combined thickness is scarcely over 2mm.. By this time all traces of glands in the compact layer have disap- peared, but in the spongy layer the fundi of the glands, though compressed from side to side, yet remain dilated, and it is from these that the endometrium is regenerated after the termination of labor.