METATARSUS 187 first dorsal interosseous and adductor hallucis obliquus, and shows a nutrient foramen near its middle. The base is pro- vided with a large, kidney-shaped facet for the internal cunei- form, and occasionally with a small “pressure” facet ex- ternally for the base of the second metatarsal. Its inferior angle projects backward and outward as a rough tuberosity that receives the tendon of the peroneus longus, whilst in- ternally is a small eminence for a slip from the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The head is channelled interiorly by two grooved facets, separated by a ridge, in which glide the two sesamoid bones of the flexor hallucis brevis. The second metatarsal, the longest of all, is prolonged backward into the recess formed by the cuneiforms. Its shaft gives origin to the first and second dorsal interossei, and shows the nutrient foramen near the middle of its outer surface. The base presents, posteriorly, a triangular facet, for the middle cuneiform; internally, above and behind, a small facet for the internal cuneiform and, below and in front of this, occasionally a “pressure” facet for the base of the first metatarsal; and externally, four facets separated longitudinally by a rough depression, and vertically by a smooth ridge. The two posterior articulate with the ex- ternal cuneiform, and the two anterior, with the base of the third metatarsal. Interiorly, the base receives a slip from the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and gives partial origin to the adductor hallucis obliquus. The third metatarsal presents, at the posterior aspect of its base, a triangular facet for the external cuneiform; at the inner aspect, two small facets for the base of the second metatarsal; and at the outer aspect, a single facet for the base of the fourth metatarsal. Interiorly, the base receives a slip from the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and gives partial origin to the adductor hallucis obliquus. The shaft gives origin to three interossei (two dorsal and one plantar), and presents a nutrient foramen on its outer side. The fourth metatarsal presents, at the posterior aspect of its base, a quadi llateral facet for the similar facet at the inner part of the anterior surface of the cuboid; at the inner aspect, a laige facet that is divided by a ridge into an an- terior part for the base of the third metatarsal, and a pos- terior for the external cuneiform; and at the outer aspect, a