MALAR BONE 251 depth of the frontonasal sulcus, which is obliterated in the hypothetical Greek profile, but deep when large frontal sin- uses coexist with nasal bones that are concave above. In the flattened or tip-tilted nose the lower half of the internal border of each bone is straight or concave, whilst in the aqui- line, this part is convex. In the Orang the nasals almost abort, but in the Porcupine they are enormous, and are the largest of the cranial bones. They may ankylose and form one bone by obliteration of the internasal suture. This oc- curs more frequently in negroes, and is the normal condition in adult Apes, as the Orang, and also in Centetes and Spalax. In the Varanian Lizard there is but a single median ossifica- tion. In Porpoises the nasals do not join each other, and in Fishes they may lie wide apart. Malar Bone. The malar (cheek) is a hard, paired bone that connects the temporal, through its zygomatic process, with the face. It is quadrangular in shape, with the angles directed ver- tically and horizontally, and presents two surfaces and four processes. The external surface is convex and forms the promi- nence of the cheek. It is perforated near its center by the malar foramen, which transmits a branch of the lacrimal artery and the malar branch of the temporomalar nerve from the orbit to the skin of the malar region. It gives origin to the zygomatic major and minor muscles, and anteriorly is covered by part of the orbicularis palpebrarum. The internal surface is concave and contributes to the anterior boundary of the temporal fossa above, and zygomatic fossa below. Somewhat above its center is the aperture of the temporo- malar canal, which transmits the temporal branch of the tem- poromalar nerve. The frontal process is serrated and articulates with the external angular process of the frontal, and to its orbital margin is attached the external palpebral ligament. The zygomatic process, long, narrow, and serrated, dovetails with the anterior extremity of the corresponding process of the squamous portion (q. v.) of the temporal. It gives partial