140 THE BONES tinuous with the posterior border. The inferior surface shows at the narrow sternal end the costal facet for the first costal cartilage; then comes the rough rhomboid impression for the costoclavicular ligament; then in the middle third the subclavian groove, to whose lips are attached the laminae of the costocoracoid membrane, and in which is lodged the subclavius; and broadening beyond this shows in the outer third, the rough conoid tubercle, near the posterior border, from which the rough trapezoid ridge passes obliquely for- ward and outward to near the acromial end. To each of these, respectively, is attached the conoid and the trapezoid constituent of the coracoclavicular ligament. The acromial end, broad and flat, presents the subcu- taneous superior surface, which is continuous with the an- terior surface of the shaft, and an oval facet, to whose cir- cumference is attached the capsule of the acromioclavicular joint, for the acromion. The clavicle is the first bone of the skeleton to ossify. Of the two centers, that for the shaft and acromial end ap- pears about the sixth week, whilst that for the sternal end appears about the nineteenth year and joins the shaft by the twenty-fifth year. The clavicles are responsible for the broad shoulders of Primates. Contrast the narrow shoulders of Carnivora, whose clavicles do not articulate with any bone, but are sus- pended in the muscles, being rudimentary or absent. The clavicles are absent in Cetacea and Ungulata, in many Car- nivora and Rodents. In Birds they are usually anchylosed in the mid-line as the merrythought (wishbone)—an elastic arch that counteracts the mm. pectorales majores, which press the humeri inward on the down-stroke of the wings. Scapula. The scapula (spade) or shoulder blade completes the shoulder girdle posteriorly. Triangular in shape, it presents a ventral surface and a dorsal, from which latter springs the spine, which ends externally in the acromion. From the outer end of the superior border projects the coracoid, whilst below this is the external angle, occupied by the head, which is supported by the neck.