LUNGS 115 from one another by a layer of fibro-elastic tissue which bears blood-vessels. To each lobule is assigned an intra- lobular bronchus and a branch of the pulmonary artery.; These enter the pyramidal lobule slightly to one side of its apex. The intralobular bronchus divides and subdivides until from 50 to 100 terminal bronchioles are formed. The rest of the lobule corresponds to a lung-unit, in forming which each terminal bronchiole opens out into from three to six atria. Each atrium opens out into several air-sacs. Each air-sac, finally, receives numerous air-cells (alveoli), which are blind. There are about 355,000,000 air-cells in a human lung, having an area of 90 square meters of wall. The walls of the atria, air-sacs, and air-cells are similar. Each is composed of epithelium, blood-vessels, and a sup- porting framework of thin fibro-elastic tissue. The epi- thelium resembles endothelium in that its cells are large, flat plates disposed in a single layer. What explains this similarity, and why is the pulmonary epithelium not endo- thelium? The latter question is answered by considering the development of the lungs. They arise as outpouchings from the primitive digestive tube, which is known to be lined by entodermal epithelium, whereas endothelium is mesoblastic in origin. The first question is answered thus. In the fetus, these air-spaces are lined by small, polygonal cells. At birth, as soon as the lungs are distended with air, these small cells are greatly stretched, so that they become the large, flat plates. Some, however, retain always their fetal size, and are found between the overstretched cells. Between the cavities of two adjacent air-cells are two single layers of epithelium, two layers of thin fibro-elastic tissue, and a close-meshed capillary network supported by a few elastic fibers. Between the capillary network and the cavity of each of the two adjacent air-cells, therefore, is a single layer of epithelium and a thin layer of fibro-elastic tissue. Thus, the interchange of gases between the blood and the air is in no way hindered by insurmountable ob- stacles. The intralobular artery accompanies the intralobular bronchus throughout its subdivisions and, at each lung-unit, its assigned branch breaks up into the close-meshed capil- lary network, between two adjacent air-sacs.