107 LARGE INTESTINE The intestinal glands become very large, and are lined almost exclusively with goblet-cells. The lymphatic tissue is not so abundant as in the small intestine. The vermiform appendix, however, is noted for the large amount of lymphatic tissue it contains. The solitary nodules are present throughout the large intestine, and are very conspicuous in the vermiform appen- dix, where they form a thick layer and are often confluent. The aggregate nodules are not represented in the large intestine. The submucous coat differs from that of the duodenum in that it contains no duodenal glands, and from that of the jejuno-ileum in that it does not receive secondary extensions of aggregate nodules, which are absent. It has, however, secondary extensions of solitary nodules, and supports blood- and lymph-vessels and the submucous plexus. The muscular coat is composed of an inner circular lay- er, which is thicker than that in the small intestine, and an outer longitudinal, which is peculiar. Instead of forming a complete cylindrical lamina as in the small intestine, the outer longitudinal coat is broken up into three strong, flat tapes—teniae coli. Beginning at the base of the vermiform appendix, in which organ the outer longitudinal coat is uni- form and not separated into tapes, the teniae, about a quarter of an inch wide and almost equidistant from one another, run along the surface of the colon to the sigmoid flexure. In the latter and in the rectum the tapes are condensed into two. Since their length is five-sixths that of the large in- testine, the tapes are responsible for the sacculations into which the latter is puckered. The sacculation of the laree *- o intestine lias probably arisen coincidently with the consoli- dation of the fecal masses, and the separation of the longi- tudinal coat into teniae is due to the bulging of the haustra thus caused which, by permitting of greater consolidation and storage of fecal matter, intensifies the condition. The serous coat consists of a thin layer of fibro-elastic tissue covered by a layer of endothelial cells. It is supplied by the peritoneum. The latter, however, usually forms an incomplete covering for the large intestine. Attached to the large, intestine are fimbriated tags of the serous coat