126 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY join the fleet of other spermatic filaments and, anchored in the channel, resemble a collection of acicular crystals. They soon heave anchor, pass through the tubuli recti and rete testis into the ductuli efferentes where, caught by the cur- rents of the waving cilia, they are whirled through the tor- tuous epididymis, in which they mature by throwing over- board their superfluous ballast of protoplasm. The simile carried through this description of sperma- togenesis may serve to impress the process upon the mind. The sustentacular cell corresponds to the ways upon which a ship is constructed. When near completion it is launched and enters the channel, to receive its finishing touches later. Spermatogenesis has been referred to in the embryolo- gy. With the exception of the shape of the finished product, it parallels oogenesis. The spermatic filament has been de- scribed with embryology. The character of the epithelium changes between the tubuli contorti and the epididymis. The thick epithelial lin- ing of the tubuli contorti is reduced, in the tubuli recti, to simple columnar epithelium. The rete testis is lined by the same variety, but much flattened so as to resemble simple squamous. Arrived at the epididymis, the epithelium changes into stratified ciliated columnar. Epididymis. ^ The successive parts of the epididymis from the testis to the vas deferens are the globus major, body, and globus minor. The globus major presents the dozen or more duc- tuli efferentes, which connect the rete testis with the tortu- ous coni vasculosi. These join to form the canal of the epididymis, which is twenty feet (average) in length. The change in the character of the epithelium has just been re- ferred to. The canal of the epididymis is lined by stratified ciliated columnar epithelium, the transition, as already noted, oc- curring between the rete testis and the ductuli efferentes. The basement membrane is well-developed, and is surround- ed by a well-marked coat of non-striated muscle. The blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves follow the usual course to the testicular gland.