194 THE BONES sponds to the inferior intervertebral notch of other vertebrae and forms the upper boundary of the intervertebral foramen that gives passage to the second cervical nerve. To both surfaces of the posterior arch are attached ligaments that connect the atlas to the occiput above, and to the axis below. The axis (axle-tree) is the thickest and strongest bone in the cervical region. The body is deeper before than be- hind. Its anterior surface presents a median ridge that in- tervenes between two lateral depressions for insertion of the vertical part of each longus colli. Its superior surface is sur- mounted by the odontoid (tooth-like) process. The odon- t * 1 :ess, the displaced body of the atlas, shows before, an c it for the anterior arch of the atlas; behind, a facet for the transverse ligament of the same bone. Its apex is pointed and affords attachment to the apical odontoid liga- ment. Below the apex, the process expands (crown), and shows on each side a rough area for the lateral odontoid (check) ligaments. At its junction with the body it is con- stricted (neck), so that it cannot slip the noose of the trans- verse ligament. The pedicles are stout and broad. The laminae are thick and prismatic. The spinous process is large, strong, and helmet-shaped, and presents a bifid ex- tremity for muscular attachment. The transverse processes are small and non-bifid. The superior articular facets are oval, slightly convex, directed upward and outward, and noteworthy from being supported by the body and pedicles, and from being in front of the superior intervertebral notches. The inferior articular facets correspond to those of the lower vertebrae. Each superior intervertebral notch is shallow, and passes behind the superior articular facet, as does that of the atlas. The inferior intervertebral notch passes in front of the inferior articular facet, in keeping with those vertebrae below. The seventh cervical, being the lowest member of the cervical series, foreshadows the characters of the thoracic vertebrae, and therefore acts as a transitional vertebra. Its spinous process, surpassing in length that of any segment above it, has been called the vertebra prominens. While this term serves to distinguish it from the other cervical ver- tebrae in the skeleton, it is misleading in the living person, since the spinous processes of the adjacent thoracic verte-