MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 84 erythrocytes. These are large, round, nucleated elements whose cytoplasm, at first devoid of color and granular, later clarifies and acquires hemoglobin. By extrusion of their nuclei from the protoplasm, together with slight decrease in size of the cells, these primary erythrocytes enter the cir- culation now in the form of red cells. While this latter pro- cess takes place to some extent in the heart and blood-vessels throughout the body, it goes on more abundantly where conditions of nutrition are more favorable and where the circulation is more sluggish and therefore permits accumu- lation of the red cells. Such localities are the larger capil- laries of the lower limbs and the capillaries of the subcutan- eous tissues and of the viscera. Certain organs are so much concerned in the early production of red cells that they are termed hematopoietic organs. Such are first the liver, and later the spleen and bone-marrow. After birth the liver and spleen cease producing red cells, this function being entrust- ed to the red marrow alone. Here red cells are seen in all •steps from their colorless, nucleated, formative stage (ery- throblasts, later normoblasts) to their red, non-nucleated, mature condition (erythrocytes). It is in the latter state that they enter the circulation. The development of white cells begins later than that of the red cells. White cells originate as migratory meso- blastic elements outside of the blood-vessels, which they soon enter through their ameboid motion. Later, they are produced by the lymphoid tissue of the body, especially by the lymph-nodes, thymus, spleen, and bone-marrow. The white cells then pass through the stage of lymphocytes, leu- cocytes, and eosinophiles. Blood is a red, opaque, viscid, alkaline fluid with a spe- cific gravity of 1,060 (average). Arterial blood is bright scarlet owing to its greater amount of oxyhemoglobin, whilst venous blood is deep bluish-red. In the Octopus arterial blood is blue and venous blood white. In the Amphioxus blood is colorless. It constitutes about one-twentieth of the body-weight, and is distributed one-fourth to the heart, lungs and great vessels; one-fourth to the liver; one-fourth to the resting muscles; and one-fourth to other structures.. In re- lation with the vascular system there is about one-eighth in the arteries, one-half in the veins, including those of the