225 OCCIPITAL BONE ner tables of the parietals are separated by enormous pneu- matic cells. The great size of the parietals of man is very exceptional, and has direct relation to the monstrous devel- opment of his brain. In many Lizards they are represented by mere bars. Occipital Bone. The occipital (against the head) consists of a posterior portion which contributes to the back of the head, and a basilar portion, which helps form the base. The posterior portion is rhomboidal and somewhat simi- lar to a Gothic arch, and presents two surfaces, four borders^, and three angles. The external surface is convex and shows:— (1) External occipital protuberance, a tubercle situat- ed at about its center, which affords attachment to the liga- mentum nuchae, and corresponds to the inion (occiput). (2) External occipital crest, a median ridge which passes down from the latter to the foramen magnum, and likewise affords attachment to the ligamentum nuchae. (3) Superior curved line, a semicircular ridge that arches outward on each side from the external occipital pro- tuberance and affords attachment to the epicranial aponeu- rosis. The bone above this line is covered by the occipitalis. (4) Middle curved line, below the superior, arches out- ward from the same point to the lateral angle, and affords origin internally to the trapezius, and externally to the oc- cipitalis and part of the sternomastoid. The area between the superior and middle curved lines is covered by the oc- cipitalis. (5) Inferior curved line, a ridge that runs outward from the middle of the external occipital crest to the jugu- lar process. The area between the middle and inferior curved lines affords insertion to the complexus internally, and to the splenius capitis and superior oblique externally. The inferior curved line and the area below it afford insertion to the rectus capitis posticus major et minor. The occipital bone is thin and translucent here. The internal surface is deeply concave and shows:— (1) Internal occipital protuberance, a heaping up of the bone at a point opposite the external occipital protuberance. 15