29 THE PRIMITIVE CHORION The grooves, coalescing, form one continuous furrow, which circumscribes the embryonic area; and the folds unite into the amnion fold, which corresponds to the outer ele- vated edge of the continuous furrow. This groove, approaching the vitelline sac, gradually involves the splanchnopleure in addition to the somato- pleure, and thus constitutes the inverted fold of these two structures which grow in to form, respectively, the wall of the digestive tube and the body-wall, whilst the amnion fold is composed of somatopleure alone. The amnion fold continues to grow dorsally, its edges finally meeting and fusing over the dorsum of the embryo, the line of union being the amniotic suture; the head-fold growing more rapidly than the others, this suture closes first at the head-end and last at the tail-end. After the union of the edges of the fold, its inner layer, consisting of ectoblast and parietal mesoblast, separates from its outer layer to constitute the true amnion, the enclosed space of which is the amniotic cavity; the outer layer, on the other hand, forms the primitive chorion (false amnion or serosa). In consequence of this folding it will readily be seen that there occurs an inversion of layers, so that the amniotic cavity is lined with ectoblast and clothed with parietal mesoblast; but that the primitive chorion, on the contrary, is clothed with ectoblast and lined with parietal mesoblast. Later on, the amniotic sac rapidly expands and in the Chick undergoes rhythmical contractions. It contains a fluid, the liquor amnii, which supports and protects, but does not nurture, the embryo. The Primitive Chorion. As already stated, the primitive chorion consists of an outer ectoblastic layer, and an inner lamella of mesoblastic tissue. Proliferation of the epithelium of the ectoblastic layer causes little bud-like projections to jut forth, and into these the mesoblastic tissue grows, thus forming villi. The primitive chorion early serves as a bond of union between embryo and mother, and later enters into the formation of the placenta.