THE BONES 264 the skull; and behind, by the middle curved line of the occip- ital and by the external occiptal protuberance. It includes most of the vertical plate of the frontal, most of the parie- tals, and the upper third of the occipital. Oval in outline with the broad end behind, it is crossed transversely by the coronal suture, and from before backward by the sagittal, which diverges behind as the lambdoid suture. The parietal foramina and parietal eminences are situated on each side of the sagittal suture. Inferior Region of Skull. The inferior region (base), exclusive of the mandible, extends from the upper incisor teeth before, to the external occipital protuberance behind, and is bounded on each side by the alveolar process of the maxilla, with the incisor, canine, premolar, and first molar teeth, by the arched in- ferior border of the malar process of the maxilla, by the lower border of the zygomatic arch, by the posterior root of the zygomatic process of the temporal, and by a line extend- ing from this to the mastoid process and extremity of the middle curved line of the occipital, and finally by the middle curved line itself. This region may be subdivided into three portions: subfacial, subcranial and suboccipital. The subfacial division includes the hard palate, the alve- olar arch, and the posterior nares. With the skull inverted, the hard palate is situated on a higher plane than the rest, and is bounded before and laterally by the alveolar processes and sixteen teeth. It is formed mainly by the palate pro- cesses of the maxillae, and completed posteriorly by the hor- izontal plates of the palate bones. It presents the following details. Intermaxillary suture, in the mid-line. Anterior palatine foramen, at the fore part of the intermaxillary su- ture, just behind the incisor teeth. Leading into this foramen from above are the foramina of Scarpa and the foramina of Stenson. Transverse palatine suture, between the palate bones and the palate processes of the maxillae. Posterior palatine foramen, and a groove passing forward from it. Tuberosity of palate, behind the posterior palatine foramen, perforated by one or more accessory posterior palatine