BLOOD 83 molecule of oxygen from the air) during inspiration, and forms an unstable compound termed oxyhemoglobin. This is carried by the red cells to the capillaries throughout the body, where it is readily dissociated and gives off free oxygen to the tissues. In exchange, it takes up carbon dioxide, which it yields to the expired air in the lungs. Hemoglobin consists chemically of FeCHONS. On heating with dilute acids, it resolves into hematin (4%) and globin (96%). Hematin is an amorphous, iron-bearing pigment. Hema- toidin is a reduction-product of hemoglobin found in old blood-clots, and appears in the form of rhombic prisms orange-red in color. It is considered identical with bilirubin of the bile. Hemin may be obtained in the form of mahog- any-brown, rhombic plates (Teichman’s crystals) lying singly or crossed to form stars, by adding to dried blood a few grains of table salt, dissolving both in a large drop of glacial acetic acid, and heating until bubbles appear. This is a test for the presence of blood and thus is of forensic sig- nificance, but it does not indicate the source of the blood. The development of blood-vessels begins in the extra- embryonic splanchnic mesoblast (vascular area) surround- ing the vitelline sac, and thence extends toward the embryo. Penetrating the latter, the blood-vessels reach and connect with the already beating heart, so that circulation is at once established. A dorsal aorta is formed on each side of the body, and is continuous in front of the pharynx with the corresponding ventral aorta. These vessels are joined by the vitelline vessels from without. The future vessels of the body are offshoots from these endothelial tubes, at first as solid sprouts, which later become hollow by extension of the lumen of the vessel. Meeting and fusing with similar offshoots from the same or from other vessels, a capillary network is formed. For larger vessels, the media and adventitia are added by the surrounding meso- blast. The earlier blood-cells are of the red varietv and are formed in the vascular area by separation of certain of the mesoblastic elements of the endothelial offshoots, which float in the clear plasma that appears between them as a product of liquefaction. These early cells undergo indirect division, and produce the primary erythrocytes. The development of red cells proceeds from the primary