MAXILLA 233 of the nasal septum, by mucous membrane that contains the peripherally-situated olfactory neurones, is concerned with the sense of smell, and is well developed in the Deer, for the purpose of detecting and avoiding its enemies, as well as in Carnivora, that they may trail their prey. The middle and inferior turbinates, particularly the latter, are covered by mucous membrane that contains large vascular spaces, sim- ilar in structure to the corpora cavernosa of the penis. I his serves the purpose of warming the inspired air. In the Seal, which breathes the icy air of the Arctic regions, each infer- ior turbinate subdivides into a number of plates, so that an area of about 120 square inches of spongy mucous mem- brane in each nostril is available for warming the inspired air. Maxilla. The maxilla (jaw-bone) is a paired bone that forms the center of the facial skeleton. The two unite to form the upper jaw. Each consists of a body and four processes. The body is shaped like a pyramid, whose base largely forms the outer wall of the nose, and whose apex (malar process) corresponds to the prominence of the cheek. It has, in addition, three surfaces, of which the anterior (facial) shows:— (1) Incisive fossa, just above the cutting teeth and in front of tRe canine, for origin of the compressor naris and depressor alae nasi. (2) Canine eminence, a vertical ridge just behind the incisive fossa that corresponds to the socket of the canine tooth. It separates the incisive from the canine fossa. (3) Canine fossa, just behind and above the canine emi- nence, for origin of the levator anguli oris. (4) Infraorbital foramen, just above the canine fossa. It is the external opening of the infraorbital canal, which transmits the infraorbital vessels and nerve. (5) Ridge, overlying the infraorbital foramen, for par- tial origin of the levator labii superioris. It is part of the margin of the orbit. The superior (orbital) surface, smooth and plane, is tri- angular, and contributes to the floor of the orbit. At its