261 ANTERIOR REGION OF SKULL fossa, below the infraorbital foramen. Canine eminence, which separates the incisive from the canine fossa. Pre- molar teeth and sockets of the maxilla, then of the mandible. Mental foramen, in line with the root of the second pre- molar, and midway between the upper and lower borders. Oblique line, which runs backward from the mental tuber- cle. Groove for facial artery. Each orbit (circle) resembles a crypt excavated in the cranium, and accommodates an eyeball with its associated muscles, nerves, vessels, and fat. The orbits are pyramidal in shape, with their bases facing forward and outward and their apices backward and inward, so that their axes, if pro- longed backward, would pass through the optic foramina and meet over the body of the sphenoid. Their inner walls are nearly parallel, but their outer walls diverge so as to be nearly at right angles with each other. In addition to a base, an apex, an inner wall, and an outer wall, each orbit presents a roof, a floor, and four angles. The base is quadrilateral in shape, and is bounded above by the orbital margin of the frontal; internally, by the in- ternal angular process of the frontal and the nasal process of the maxilla; below, by the anterior margin of the superior surface of the body of the maxilla and the maxillary process of the malar; and externally, by the frontal process of the malar and external angular process of the frontal. The apex corresponds to the optic foramen of the lesser wing of the sphenoid. The roof, thin and brittle toward its center, and slightly arched, is formed mainly by the orbital plate of the hori- zontal plate of the frontal, and is completed behind by the inferior surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid. At its anteroexternal corner is the lacrimal fossa for the corre- sponding gland, whilst at its anterointernal corner is the trochlear fossa for the trochlea of the superior oblique. The floor, less extensive than the roof, is formed mainly by the superior surface of the body of the maxilla, and is completed before by the maxillary process of the malar, and behind, by the superior surface of the orbital process of the palate. The infraorbital groove traverses the floor, and disappears in the corresponding canal. At its anterointer- nal corner is a depression for origin of the inferior oblique.