219 SPHENOID BONE overhangs the sphenoidal fissure, which separates it from the greater wing. Each greater wing, arising from the lateral surface of the body in common with the pterygoid process, diverges from the latter and projects outward and upward. It presents three surfaces and a circumference. The cerebral surface is concave, is indented by the gyri of the temporal lobe of the cerebrum, and forms part of the middle cranial fossa. It is in relation with the sphenoidal fissure, and perforated by several foramina:— (1) Sphenoidal fissure (foramen lacerum anterius) is a triangular cleft that separates the lesser from the greater wing and leads from the middle cranial fossa into the orbit. It is bounded above by the lesser wing; below, by the in- ternal margin of the orbital surface of the greater wing; and internally, by the lateral surface of the body of the sphenoid. It transmits the third, fourth, ophthalmic divi- sion of the fifth and sixth cranial nerves, the ophthalmic vein, the orbital branch of the middle meningeal artery, a recurrent dural branch from the lacrimal artery, and some branches from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. (2) Foramen rotundum, a circular aperture that per- forates the anterointernal corner of the cerebral surface and transmits the maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve from the middle cranial to the sphenomaxillary fossa. It is separated from the hinder angle of the sphenoidal fissure by a compressed bar of bone. (3) Foramen ovale, an elongated aperture behind and to the outer side of the foramen rotundum, which transmits the mandibular division of the fifth cranial nerve, the small meningeal artery, and emissary veins from the cavernous sinus to the pterygoid plexus of veins. Its long axis is di- rected forward and inward, and measures nearly a quarter of an inch. It leads from the middle cranial into the zygo- matic fossa. (4) Foramen Vesalii, an inconstant aperture that per- forates the root of the greater wing to the inner side of the anterior end of the foramen ovale, and transmits a small emissary vein from the cavernous sinus to the pterygoid plexus.