258 THE BONES fossa transmit the various branches of this nerve and its ganglion, and the artery as follows:— (1) Foramen rotundum, which conducts the maxillary nerve from the middle cranial fossa. Described more fully with the greater wing (q. v. 2) of the sphenoid. (2) Vidian canal, which conducts the corresponding artery and nerve from the foramen lacerum. Described more fully with the internal plate of the pterygoid process (q. v. 4) of the sphenoid. (3) Posterior palatine canal, which transmits the an- terior palatine nerve and descending palatine artery from the fossa to the groove on the inferior surface of the palate process (q. v.) of the maxilla. (4) Accessory posterior palatine canals, by-paths of the posterior palatine canal, which assist the latter in dis- tributing its contents. See inferior surface of horizontal plate (3) of palate. (5) Pterygopalatine canal, which transmits the cor- responding vessels and nerve from the fossa to the mucous membrane of the nasopharynx. (6) Sphenopalatine foramen, which conducts the naso- palatine artery and nerve from this fossa into the nasal fossa. It is formed by conversion of the corresponding notch between the orbital and sphenoidal processes of the palate by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid. (7) Sphenomaxillary fissure, which transmits the in- fraorbital vessels and nerve, the temporomalar branch of the maxillary nerve, and ascending branches from the sphenopalatine ganglion from the fossa into the orbit, and a communicating vein from the ophthalmic to the pterygoid plexus. It is horizontal in position, and lies between the ex- ternal margin of the superior surface (q. v.) of the body of the maxilla and the inferior border of the orbital surface of the greater wing (q. v.) of the sphenoid. (8) Pterygomaxillary fissure, which transmits the in- ternal maxillary artery from the zygomatic into the spheno- maxillary fossa. It is vertical in position, and descends at right angles from the inner extremity of the sphenomax- illary fissure. (9) Sphenoidal fissure. Not the entire fissure, but Dnly the inferior angle, by means of which this fossa com- municates with the middle cranial fossa.