263 SUPERIOR REGION OF SKULL separates the oral cavity from the face, and above, the maxil- lary sinus occupies the body of the maxilla. Lateral Region of Skull. The lateral region is somewhat triangular in shape, the base being represented by a line extending from the external angular process of the frontal, along the temporal ridge, to the outer extremity of the middle curved line of the occipi- tal. The two sides are represented by lines connecting the extremities of the base with the angle of the mandible. This region may be subdivided into three portions: temporal fossa, mastoid portion, and zygomatic fossa. The temporal fossa, somewhat semilunar, is bounded above and behind by the temporal ridge; before, by the con- cave area on the external surface (q. v. 10) of the vertical plate of the frontal, by the outer surface of the orbital pro- cess of the malar, and by the temporal portion of the tem- porozygomatic surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid; externally, by the inner aspect of the zygomatic arch; whilst below, it is separated from the zygomatic fossa by the ptery- goid ridge. In addition to the bones mentioned, this fossa is formed by the planum temporale of the external surface (q. v. 6) of the parietal, and by the external surface of the squamous portion of the temporal. Concave before, and convex behind, this fossa is occupied by the temporalis, and roofed in by the temporal fascia. The mastoid portion is bounded before by the preglen- oid tubercle; above, by the supramastoid crest on the outer surface of the squamous portion of the temporal, and by the mastoparietal suture; and behind and below, by the masto- occipital suture. It presents, from before backward, the temporomandibular joint, the tympanic plate, the external auditory meatus, the mastoid process, and the mastoid fora- men. The zygomatic fossa has been described previously. Superior Region of Skull. The superior region is bounded before by the parietal eminences ; laterally, by the base-line of the lateral region of