CUNEIFORMS 183 irregular and rough. The internal presents, below, the tuberosity, to the lower part of which is attached most of the tendon of the tibialis posticus and the inferior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. The external, rough and irregular, usually presents a small facet for the cuboid. Cuboid. The cuboid (cube-like) is situated on the outer side of the foot, in front of the os calcis, and behind the fourth and fifth metatarsals. Of its surfaces, the superior is flat, and rough for nu- merous ligaments. The external, the smallest and narrow- est of all six, presents a deep notch that leads into the per- oneal groove. The anterior, irregularly triangular, is divid- ed by a vertical ridge into two facets, an inner and smaller for the base of the fifth metatarsal, and an outer and larger for the base of the fourth. The posterior corresponds to a saddle-shaped facet for the anterior surface of the os calcis. The internal presents, near its middle and upper part, an oval facet for the external cuneiform; just behind this, often confluent with it, is usually a small facet for the scaphoid. The inferior is channelled by a deep groove that transmits the tendon of the peroneus longus. Behind this groove is a prominent ridge for attachment of the long plantar liga- ment. This ridge terminates externally in a tuberosity, which presents a flat facet for the sesamoid bone of the per- oneus longus tendon. Cuneiforms. The cuneiform (wedge-shape) bones are situated be- tween the scaphoid behind, the three innermost metatarsals before, and the cuboid externally. Posteriorly, their ends lie in the same transverse line, but before, the external and the internal project farther forward than the middle, and form the sides of a deep recess which receives the base of the second metatarsal. The internal is the largest, the mid- dle is the smallest, and the external is intermediate in size. The apex of the internal cuneiform is directed upward, whilst the apices of the other two point downward.