52 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY itself to the muscle. White fibrous tissue predominates in the cornea and in tendon. In the latter the elastic element is reduced to a minimum: hence, tendons maintain a definite length. This tissue is compact and strong. Yellow elastic tissue predominates in some ligaments, as ligamenta flava, ligamentum nuchae, and in the girdle-ligament which sup- ports the belly-wall of large Pachydermata, as the Elephant and Rhinocerous. Yellow Elastic Tissue. Composed of a network of thicker fibrils embedded in the bundles of white fibrous tissue. Each fibril is wavy. Bright yellow in bulk. Yielding and elastic. Affinity for orcein stain. Yields elastin on boiling. Dissolved by trypsin but re- sists pepsin. In acetic acid, undergoes no change. White fibrous tissue varies in density from areolar tis- sue, whose fibers are loose and delicate, to fascia, whose fibers are closely felted. A peculiar form of white fibrous tissue occurs in the membrana putaminis, which lines the shell of the eggs of Birds and Reptiles. It consists of several layers of fibers, which interlace and produce a series of spaces large enough for the transmission of gases. The sur- face of white fibrous tissue has a pearly sheen. Its strength is shown by the fact that a cord 1 sq. mm. in cross-section bore a weight of 8,940 grammes before it broke. Concern- ing its development, there are two views, of which the sec- ond is generally accepted:— a. Extracellular theory (Virchow), which regards these fibers as originating entirely outside of the cell, as an indif- ferent mass (syncytium) which changes by a pseudo-coagu- lat'ive process into fibers. bo b. Intracellular theory (Flemming), according to which the cytoplasm of the cells is directly converted into fibers. White Fibrous Tissue. Composed of bundles of fine, flexuous fibrils embed- ded in a semifluid ground- substance. Silvery-white in fresh state. Firm and non-tensile. Affinity for Weigert’s stain. Yields gelatin on boiling. Dissolved by pepsin but re- sists trypsin. In acetic acid, swells up and becomes indistinct.