THE BONES 150 Bats. Hence, the proportionate size of this bone has no rela- tion to flight. In Birds it is dotted externally by a line of small tubercles where the winged feathers are attached. In swift-flying Birds, as the Frigate and Albatross, the ulna and radius are very long, whilst in non-flying Birds, as the Great Auk, Ostrich, and Cassowary, they are very short. In some Bats there is a sesamoid bone at the end of the olecranon, bringing to mind the patella at the knee. In Ruminants the ulna and radius form a single concavity for the reception of the humerus. In Bats the distal part of the ulna aborts. It often articulates with the carpus directly. Radius. The radius (spoke of a wheel), the outer and shorter of the two forearm-bones, is prismatic, smaller above where it articulates with the capitellum and ulna, and broader be- low where it articulates with the carpus and with the ulna. It presents a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity presents a head, neck, and bicipi- tal tuberosity. The head, disk-shaped, with a smooth ver- tical margin, is depressed on its summit for articulation with the capitellum, and is surrounded by a convex circum- ference, which is broad internally for articulation with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and narrow elsewhere for the orbicular ligament. The neck is the short, constricted portion that supports the head, joins it to the shaft, is sur- rounded by the orbicular ligament above, and below and ex- ternally receives part of the supinator. The bicipital tuber- osity is a rough, oval eminence situated below the neck and on the anterointernal surface of the bone, and composed of a posterior, rough portion which receives the tendon of the biceps, and an anterior, smooth portion which lodges a bursa between that tendon and the bone. The shaft, prismatic and with the convexity directed outward and backward, presents three borders and as many surfaces. Of the three borders, the anterior begins at the lower part of the bicipital tuberosity, forms in the upper third the