THORAX AS A WHOLE 209 gladiolus about middle age, and rarely the ensiform unites with the gladiolus. A sternum may exist without ribs, as in the Batrachians, and ribs may exist without a sternum, as in Fishes and Ser- pents. In nearly all the Flying Birds a huge keel is devel- oped along the mid-line of the sternum to increase the sur- face of origin of the pectoral muscles, by which they man- ipulate their wings. In Non-flying Birds the keel is absent. In Bats, the Mole, and Armadillos the manubrium develops a strong median keel for muscular attachment. In the long- tailed Pangolin the ensiform is enormously produced into two elongated horns, far exceeding all the rest of the stern- um in size. In the Wild Swan and Guinea Fowl the sternum is tunnelled, and contains a long, winding trachea and the inferior larynx. Thorax as a Whole. The thorax is an osseo-cartilaginous cage which en- closes and protects the chief organs of the pulmonary and cardio-vascular systems. It is shaped like a slightly flat- tened bushel-basket. The anterior wall, shorter than the posterior, is formed by the sternum and costal cartilages. It is slightly convex, and slopes from above downward and for- ward. The lateral walls are formed by the ribs from the angles to the costal cartilages. They are convex. The pos- terior wall is formed by the thoracic vertebrae and by the ribs as far outward as their angles. It is convex from above downward. The forward bulging of the bodies of the ver- tebrae diminishes the antero-posterior diameter of the thorax in the mid-line, but the backward sweep of the ribs from the vertebrae partially compensates for this. The superior aperture is formed by the superior border of the sternum before, by the first rib on each side, and by the first thoracic vertebra behind. Its plane slopes obliquely downward and forward, seeing that its anterior boundary is on a level with the third thoracic vertebra. It transmits the windpipe, the gullet, the great blood-vessels and nerves at the root of the neck, the apices of the lungs, and three muscles on each side. The inferior aperture is formed by the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh costal cartilages (whose divergence 14