FIBULA 177 The tibia of man is peculiarly shaped in relation to his erect posture. Its length compared with the femur is less than in any other Primate. Compared with the fibula, it shows a predominance of size, like that of the radius over the ulna. In Ruminants and the Horse the tibia is the only long bone of the leg, the fibula being only very slightly de- veloped. The tibia and fibula are anchylosed at their ends in the Armadillos and often in the Seals. They are anchy- losed below only in Tarsius, the Rabbit, Adjutant, and Os- trich ; and above only in the Cape Ant-eater. They are com- pletely fused together in the Prog. Fibula. The fibula (a clasp), or peroneal bone, rudimentary in man, presents a slender shaft and two enlarged extremities. The superior extremity (head) is of irregular rounded form. Its upper surface is marked externally by a rough eminence for the biceps tendon and the long external lateral ligament of the knee-joint; and internally by a flat, oval facet for articulation with the external condyle of the tibia. To the margin of this facet is attached the capsule of the su- perior tibio-fibular joint. Posteriorly, the superior extrem- ity rises to form the styloid process, to which is attached the short external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Before, the superior extremity presents a tubercle for partial origin of the peroneus longus, and adjoining this is an area for the anterior ligament of the superior tibio-fibular joint. Behind, the superior extremity presents a tubercle for partial origin of the soleus, and for attachment of the posterior ligament of the superior tibio-fibular joint. The shaft presents four borders and as many surfaces. Of the four borders, the anteroexternal begins above and in front of the superior extremity, runs vertically down- ward to below the middle of the bone, curves slightly out- ward, and bifurcates to enclose the triangular subcutaneous surface just above the outer surface of the external malleolus. To this border is attached an intermuscular septum that in- tervenes between the extensors anteriorly, and the peroneus longus and brevis externally. The anterointernal (inter- osseous) begins just below the superior extremity close to 12