271 NASAL FOSSAE occipital. This fossa lodges the cerebellum, pons, and bulb, and is roofed in by the tentorium cerebelli. It communi- cates with the general cranial cavity through the incisura tentorii, a triangular opening between the dorsum sellae and the anterior free edge of the tentorium. The floor of this fossa, which is not marked by foveolae as the anterior and middle cranial fossae are, shows the following details: Clivus, on the dorsum sellae of the sphenoid, which is con- tinued as the basilar groove to the foramen magnum. Fora- men magnum, which pierces the floor of this fossa. Anterior condyloid foramen, in front of a transverse line passing through the center of the foramen magnum. Jugular fora- men, which has been fully described with the inferior re- gion of the skull. Posterior condyloid foramen, behind the jugular foramen and close to the margin of the foramen mag- num : it is inconstant. Petrosquamous suture, which conducts the inferior petrosal sinus to the jugular foramen. Sigmoid fossa, whose floor shows the inconstant internal mastoid foramen. Internal occipital crest, which connects the inter- nal occipital protuberance with the hinder edge of the fora- men magnum. Inferior occipital fossae, which are separated by the internal occipital crest. Groove for lateral sinus, which surmounts each inferior occipital fossa. Groove for occipital sinus, occupying the internal occipital crest. In- ternal auditory meatus, about a quarter of an inch above and to the outer side of the fore part of the jugular foramen. Floccular fossa, an irregular depression above and to the outer side of the internal auditory meatus, and best marked in young bones. Aquaeductus vestibuli, whose slit-like ori- fice is seen behind, below, and to the outer side of the in- ternal auditory meatus. Nasal Fossae. The nasal fossae are to be exposed by sawing the skull longitudinally on one side of the nasal septum : one-half now displays the nasal septum in situ, whilst on the other may be studied the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The anterior "and posterior nares have been studied with the anterior and in- ferior region of the skull, respectively. Each nasal fossa