THE BONES 236 articulation with the maxillary process of the malar. Its anterior and posterior surfaces, continuous with correspond- ing surfaces on the body, meet interiorly in an arched bor- der. This fuses with the alveolar process opposite the first molar tooth, and separates the anterior surface of the body from the posterior. From it, part of the masseter derives origin. The alveolar process projects from the inferior surface of the body below the level of the palate process. Thick and crescentic in shape and spongy in texture, it is hollowed out into sockets which correspond in number, form, and depth to the roots of the teeth they embrace. For the tem- porary teeth there are five sockets in each process, but for the permanent, usually eight. When any or all of the per- manent teeth are shed, the socket or sockets become ab- sorbed, so that it is possible for the alveolar process to dis- appear. In this case the maxilla again approaches the in- fantile condition, in which the antero-posterior is greater than the vertical diameter. From the outer surface of the alveolar process, behind the first molar, the buccinator takes partial origin. The palate process, slightly arched from before back- ward and thicker before than behind, projects horizontally inward from the junction of the body and alveolar process and, with its fellow of the opposite side, forms the anterior three-fourths of the hard palate, the posterior fourth being completed by the palate bone. It presents two surfaces and two borders. The superior surface, smooth and concave, helps form the floor of the nasal fossa. The inferior surface, vaulted and uneven, is rough and pitted for the glands of the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth, and is chan- nelled externally by a groove that passes forward from the posterior palatine foramen and conveys from the latter the anterior palatine nerve and descending palatine artery to the palate and gum. When the two palate processes are artic- ulated, one sees:— (1) Intermaxillary suture, in the mid-line. The ap- proximated mesial borders project into a ridge superiorly, the nasal crest, which receives the lower border of the vomer in a groove. In front of the vomer the nasal crest rises