227 OCCIPITAL BONE ward, forward, and outward from the bottom of a depres- sion behind each condyle, and transmits the posterior condy- loid emissary vein from the lateral sinus to the vertebral veins. This foramen and its vein are very inconstant. The depression itself is the condyloid fossa, which receives the hinder edge of the superior facet of the atlas during exten- sion of the head. (3) Anterior condyloid foramen, which perforates the base of each condyle on its fore and outer aspect, and passes upward, backward, and inward. It transmits the hypoglos- sal nerve, a meningeal branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery, and the anterior condyloid emissary vein, which communicates with the inferior petrosal sinus and the ver- tebral vein. It is sometimes double. (4) Jugular process, a quadrate projection that juts transversely outward from the hinder end of the condyle. Its anterior border forms the posterior component of the jugular foramen. Its upper surface is grooved by the lateral sinus, and shows the inner opening of the posterior condy- loid foramen. Its lower surface affords insertion to the rec- tus capitis lateralis, and attachment to the lateral occipito- atlantal ligament. Its outer surface is rough, and articulates with the jugular surface on the posterior border of the petrous portion of the temporal. (5) Pharyngeal spine, situated mesially on the inferior surface of the basilar portion, which affords insertion to the superior constrictor and attachment to a fibrous band that joins the pharyngeal aponeurosis. Just before this spine there is frequently the shallow scaphoid fossa, which orig- inally received the primitive anterior extremity of the fore- gut. (6) Impressions, on each side of the pharyngeal spine, rough for insertions of the rectus capitis anticus major et minor. The superior surface shows the basilar groove, continu- ous with the clivus of the dorsum sellae of the sphenoid, and upon this rests the bulb. Of the three borders, the anterior shows a sectional sur- face of cancellous bone, where the occipital has been sawn from the sphenoid. When in situ, this surface is connected with the posterior surface of the body of the sphenoid, in