FORMATION OF GERM LAYERS 2k A holoblastic ovum is one in which the entire ovum with all the yolk is included in the process of segmentation. When equal, it occurs in homolecithal ova. The human egg, there- fore, is a homolecithal holoblastic ovum. The eggs of the Amphioxus present the simplest and purest type of complete equal segmentation. When unequal, it occurs in moderately telolecithal ova. Here the formative cells at the animal pole multiply more rapidly than the cells at the vegetative pole, the latter being retarded by the accumulation of the yolk. In this form the animal pole is above and the vegetative pole below, this position being due to the heavier weight of the deutoplasm over the ooplasm. A meroblastic ovum is one in which only part of the ovum is included in the process of segmentation. Partial discoidal segmentation occurs in telolecithal ova in which the vegetative pole is bulky. The inertia of this deutoplasm retards division at the vegetative pole, so that it is only with- in the limited extent of the animal pole that active prolifera- tion occurs. Partial superficial segmentation occurs in cen- trolecithal ova, in which the peripheral ooplasm alone seg- ments. Formation of Germ Layers. % Certain cells of the morula divide more rapidly, take a superficial position, and come to cover and enclose the re- mainder. There is thus early distinguished a peripheral layer and a central mass. Some of the cells in the latter grad- ually vacuolate, forming within the morula a cavity termed the blastocele, which is occupied by prolymph. This vacuolization represents a belated formation of yolk, and the blastocele is equivalent to the yolk-mass of an ovum such as the reptilian. The blastocele gradually in- creases in size until the morula, from being a solid sphere, becomes a vesicle whose wall, the peripheral layer, is com- posed of but a single thickness of cells. The morula, thus modified, has become the blastocyst (blastodermic vesicle). The blastocyst is composed of trophoblast and an inner cell-mass. The trophoblast represents the single peripheral layer of cells that forms its wall. The trophoblast (nourish-