DEVELOPMENT 22 ing layer), while taking no part in the building up of the em - bryo, yet forms a bond of union between the latter and the maternal tissues, thus nourishing the embryo, as its name impli es. The inner cell-mass is that part of the central mass of the morula that has been spared liquefaction. Attached to the inner surface of the trophoblast at one spot, the embryonic spot, it projects as a rounded knob of cells into the cavity of the blastocyst. From it are eventually derived the embryo, yolk-sac, and amnion. The blastocyst is l-120th. of an inch in diameter. Within a short space of time the blastocyst increases to l-25th. of an inch in diameter, so quickly that the trophoblast is flattened out from rapid stretching. The tropho- blastic cells directly overlying the inner cell-mass are termed cells of Rauber. From the pressure consequent upon the rapid proliferation of its cells, as well as from the great ex- pansion of the trophoblast, the inner cell-mass erupts through the overlying cells of Rauber, causing them to dis- appear. The inner cell-mass in this way reaches the surface and its margins, which correspond with those of the em- bryonic spot formed by it, are continuous with the tropho- blast. The wall of the blastocyst at this stage, then, is formed by trophoblast except at the embryonic spot, where it is formed by the inner cell-mass. From the part of the inner cell-mass next the cavity of the blastocyst, a layer of cells is split off to form the ento- blast. (The suffix “blast” is a designation for a formative cell, and is used in many combinations with a prefix denoting the structure which it produces). This forms a small, closed sac, the vitelline sac, which is separated from the tropho- blastic wall by a space, made larger by the rapid expansion of the latter. The remainder of the inner cell-mass, which is left after splitting off of the entoblast, is termed ectoblast. Vacuola- tion of the core of the ectoblast gives rise to the amniotic cavity. The ectoblast roofing in this cavity is termed amni- otic ectoblast, whilst that forming its floor is the embryonic ectoblast, since it participates in the formation of the em- bryo. This is the stage of the bilaminar blastocyst. In Coelenterata, differentiation does not pass beyond this stage. A third layer, the mesoblast, soon appears and insinu-