181 OS CALCIS overlies a corresponding groove on the os calcis with which, when these two bones are articulated, it forms the sinus pedis, which lodges the interosseous calcaneoastragaloid ligament; the posterior facet is for that on the body of the os calcis; the anterior facet is for that on the lesser process of the os calcis. The neck, which connects the head with the body, passes forward and inward from the inner part of the anterior sur- face of the body, Above, it is perforated by vascular for- amina, and is rough for ligaments. At the lower and inner corner it presents a facet that rests upon the inferior cal- caneoscaphoid ligament. The head presents, anteriorly, a convex facet for the scaphoid, and interiorly an elongated, convex facet for that on the greater process of the os calcis. Os Calcis. t The os calcis (heel-bone), the largest and strongest bone of the foot, is irregularly cuboidal, elongated with its long axis directed forward and outward, flattened from side to side, and expanded posteriorly to form the heel. It is composed of a body, a greater process, and a lesser process. The body presents six surfaces. The superior shows from before backward:—a groove that forms the floor of the sinus pedis; an oblong, convex facet for the body of the as- tragalus; and a rough, convex area that is in relation with a mass of fat placed in front of the tendo Achillis. The in- ferior presents from before backward:—-a rough, rounded eminence for the short plantar ligament; a rough surface for the long plantar ligament and the outer head of the flexor accessorius; and two tubercles, of which the outer gives partial origin to the abductor digiti minimi, and the inner, to the abductor hallucis, flexor digitorum brevis, and some a uctoi digiti minimi. The external shows, just below the outer end of the sinus pedis, the peroneal spine, which separates a groove above and before for the tendon of the peroneus brevis from a groove below and be- hind for that of the peroneus longus. Limiting the latter groove posteriorly, and near the centre of this surface, is a