PARIETAL BONE 223 Of the borders, the anterior, bevelled at the expense of the outer table above and of the inner below, dovetails with the frontal to form the coronal suture. The superior, the longest, dovetails with the opposite parietal, with which it forms the sagittal suture. The posterior dovetails with the occipital, forming the lamboid suture. The inferior is divid- ed into three parts:—the anterior, thin and pointed, is over- lapped by the tip of the greater wing of the sphenoid; the middle, bevelled, like the anterior, at the expense of its outer table, and arched, is overlapped by the squamous portion .of the temporal; and the posterior, thick and serrated, dove- tails with the mastoid portion of the temporal. Of the two surfacesTthe external, convex and smooth, presents:— (1) Parietal eminence, an elevation near its center that marks the position of the primary ossific center and often corresponds to the point of maximum width of the head. (2) Parietal foramen, near the sagittal suture and about one inch from the posterosuperior angle, which trans- mits the parietal emissary vein from the superior sagittal sinus to the scalp and occasionally a small branch of the occipital artery. This foramen may be absent. (3) Obelion (a spit), the point on the sagittal suture between the parietal foramina. (4) Superior curved line, which crosses this surface just below its middle, more or less parallel to the inferior border, and affords attachment to the temporal fascia. (5) Temporal ridge, a half-inch or less below the su- perior curved line, defines the attachment of the temporal muscle. Between the line and the ridge the bone is more (6) Temporal fossa, below the temporal ridge, for polished than elsewhere, and is covered by the scalp, partial origin of the temporal muscle. Not the whole fossa, but the contribution of the parietal bone to its floor, a dis- tinction made by the term planum temporale. The internal surface, deeply concave, shows four kinds of impressions:— (1) Fossulae made by the gyri of the cerebrum. (2) Grooves that lodged branches of the middle men- ingeal artery.