71 MUSCULAR TISSUE limbs, and in those associated with the eye, middle ear, tongue, pharynx, larynx, upper half of the esophagus, dia- phragm, and in parts of the rectum and genital organs. That striated muscle is not always controlled by the will is shown in the case of the diaphragm, and in muscles of some of the lower animals. Cardiac muscle, of course, is peculiar unto itself. Muscle-fibers of this variety are found widely dis- tributed in Vertebrata. Thus, it occurs in the skin (cutane- ous muscles) of mammalia, Birds, Snakes, and Tailless Ba- trachians, in the tactile hairs of mammals, in the lymph- hearts of many Birds and Amphibia; in the auriculo-ventric- ular valve of the right side in Birds; upon the inferior vena cava of the Seal, close above the diaphragm; in the interior of the eye of Birds; around the poison gland of Snakes; in the contractile organ of the pharynx of the Carp; in the eso- phagus of the plagiostome Fishes; in the stomach of Cobitis fossilis; in the intestine of Tinea chrysitis; in the anal glands of mammals; and around Cowpers glands of mammals. In Invertebrata, all muscles belong in this category. Muscle-fibers have been found in the human sartorius with a length of eight inches. A band of muscle 1 sq. cm. in cross-section, taken from a well-nourished adult immedi- ately after death, was able to bear without rupture a weight of 14 kilogrammes; but a similar band from a child broke with a weight of 6 kilogrammes, and from an old woman with 4. In human muscle, a weight of 9 kilogrammes pre- vents contraction of a fascicle 1 sq. cm. in cross-section. Striated muscle is developed from the myoblasts of the muscle-plates of the myotonies of the mesoblastic somites. These cells, at first round, soon elongate into mononuclear spindle-cells. Coincident with the elongation of the latter into muscle-fibers, the nucleus subdivides, so that the muscle- fibers become multinucleated. Somewhat later, striations appear in the periphery, the center of the muscle-fiber re- maining undifferentiated and containing the nuclei. Still later, central striation appears also, and the nuclei migrate until, in muscle of the pale type, they are found only beneath the sarcolemma.