MANDIBLE 243 bony cores which, with their corneous sheaths, form the horns of animals such as Oxen, Sheep, and Antelopes. The nasal spine is one of the distinguishing features of the frontal of man. The frontal suture persists—the bone thus retain- ing its primitive double condition—in about eight per cent, of adult Europeans, and often in other mammals. In Pithecia the frontal develops a median ridge. The frontal sinuses are well-developed in Owls, Giraffes, and Elephants. In the last, the pneumatic spaces involve the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones, often separating the outer and inner tables to the extent of a foot. This affords additional lever- age for the muscles that raise the massive head, and inci- dentally lighten the latter. In the great extinct Sloths these spaces were developed to such an extent that practically a double skull was formed. This served to protect the brain from the falling trees uprooted by these animals in quest of their food. Mandible. The mandible (chewing-bone), or lower jaw, of horse- shoe shape with the extremities upturned, is the largest, strongest, and only movable bone of the face. It consists of a body and two rami. The body, approximately paraboloid, presents two sur- faces and two borders. The external surface shows:— (1) Symphysis, a faint median ridge which indicates the line of fusion in early life of the two symmetrical halves of the bone. Below, this broadens out into a prominent tri- angular eminence, the mental protuberance (chin). The lowermost part of the latter is depressed in the center: this emphasizes the inferior angles, which are termed the mental tubercles. (2) Incisor fossa, a depression adjoining the sym- physis just below the incisor teeth, which gives origin to the levator menti and part of the orbicularis oris. (3) Mental foramen, situated in line with the root of the second premolar, and midway between the upper and lower borders, which transmits the mental nerve and ves- sels from the termination of the mandibular canal to their distribution in the skin nearby. .'Ef ff-J; a { (4) Oblique line, a faint, elevated ridge that runs from Iff) * * I (jv