88 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY pulp-cords are venous spaces, the radicles of the veins. With- in the primary compartment the latter unite to form a single vein, which enters a trabecula and passes toward the hilum. At the proximal part of each lobule, the lobular artery shows within its adventitia a heaping-up of lymphatic tissue, the splenic nodule (of Malpighi). Each splenic nodule appears as a grayish speck 1mm. in diameter, and all told there are about 5,000 in the human spleen. In the Guinea Pig, on the other hand, the lymphatic sheath of the arteries is continu- ous. Lymph-vessels are found in the capsule and trabecu- lae. The nerves, derived from the right vagus and celiac plexus, are chiefly non-medullated, and accompany and sup- ply the blood-vessels. The thymus, found in the fetus and in the child up to puberty, is located in the lower part of the neck and just be- neath the upper part of the sternum. It is surrounded by a capsule, from which septa penetrate the organ and subdi- vide it into lobes. The latter, in turn, are subdivided into lobules, in which may be distinguished a dark cortical sub- stance, and a light medullary substance. The former con- sists of reticulum which supports crowds of lymphocytes and some eosinophiles. The medullary substance also con- sists of reticulum which supports, in addition to lympho- cytes and eosinophiles, leucocytes and multinuclear giant cells. The thymus is distinguished by the presence, in its medullary substance only, of thymic corpuscles (of Hassall). These are rounded bodies whose periphery shows concentri- cally-arranged semilunar cells, and whose center contains albuminous, granular substance, which is probably nuclear and cellular detritus. The arteries enter the lobules through the septa and, at the junction of the cortical and medullary substances, break up into a fine capillary network, from which branches proceed to both zones of the lobule. The veins that drain the cortical substance are situated between the lobules, whilst those that drain the medullary substance are situated therein. The lymphatics, also, are found be- tween the lobules, and accompany the blood-vessels. The nerves, derived chiefly from the sympathetic gangliated cords, but also from the vagi, terminate on the blood-vessels. As to development, central lymph-vessels arise from the fusion of a series of spaces in relation with the primitive sys-