13 SPERMATIC FILAMENT through arcs of 90 degrees toward opposite poles of the cell, and the rays, prolonged, meet to form an achromatic figure, the amphiaster (double star). This amphiaster is composed of the two asters and the intervening nuclear spindle formed by the prolonged rays. Metaphase (Stage of Cleavage). The chromosomes un- dergo longitudinal cleavage. This is the most important stage in mitosis. By it the number of chromosomes is dou- bled and the amount of chromatin split into halves, each of which goes to each daughter-cell, irrespective of any in- equality in size of the latter. Anaphase (Stage of Separation). The chromosomes ar- range themselves about the equator of the achromatic spin- dle, forming the equatorial plate. Guided by the rays of the achromatic spindle, each of a pair of chromosomes travels toward an opposite pole of the latter, the receding ends of the chromosomes being joined by the connecting filaments. Telophase (Stage of Reconstruction). The nuclear con- stituents pass through the stages of the prophase in inverse order. The loose skein is formed, then the close skein, and the nuclear membrane and nucleolus reappear. The proto- plasm constricts at right angles to the achromatic spindle and the cell divides. Into each new cell goes half of the nuclear spindle, including an aster and a centrosome. Soon afterward the nuclear spindle vanishes. The two new cells are now complete and pass into a state of rest until they, in turn, undergo mitosis. It will be again emphatically stated that exactly one- half the amount of chromatin in the mother-cell goes to each daughter-cell, irrespective of any marked inequality in size of the latter. A syncytium is a multinucleated mass of protoplasm formed in instances of division of the nuclei without cleavage of the protoplasm. Spermatic Filament. The spermatic filament is a product of the seminiferous tubules of the testis, and presents a head, a middle-piece, and a tail. The head contains the chromatin. The middle-piece