235 MAXILLA quill. It is through this diminished aperture that the max- illary sinus communicates with the middle meatus. (2) Lacrimal groove, immediately in front of the max- illary hiatus, which passes from the lacrimal notch on the inner margin of the superior surface of the body downward, backward, and outward to the inferior meatus. It is con- verted into the nasolacrimal canal by the lacrimal and infer- ior turbinate. This canal lodges the nasolacrimal duct, which conveys tears from the eye to the nose. (3) Inferior turbinated crest, which ridges horizontally the smootli surface in front of the lacrimal groove, and af- fords attachment to the anterior part of the superior border of the inferior turbinate. The area above this crest extends on to the nasal process and forms the wall of the atrium of the middle meatus. The area below belongs to the outer wall of the inferior meatus. The apex ^corresponds to the malar process. The nasal process ascends nearly perpendicularly from the upper and fore part of the body, in a line with the canine eminence, and presents two surfaces and three borders. The external surface, concave and smooth, is continuous with the anterior surface of the body, and gives partial origin to the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, orbicularis palpe- brarum, and attachment to the internal palpebral liga- ment. The internal surface contributes to the wall of the atrium of the middle meatus, and is crossed obliquely from below upward and backward by the superior turbinated crest, which articulates with the middle turbinate. The anterior border articulates by a serrated edge with the ex- ternal border of the nasal. The posteriory border articulates with the lacrimal, and deepens the lacrimal groove. The superior border articulates with the frontal. The lacrimal tubercle is situated on a ridge, the anterior lacrimal crest, that connects the anterior margin of the superior surface of the body with the posterior border of the nasal process, and helps bound the nasolacrimal canal externally. It ar- ticulates with the lacrimal hamulus. The malar process, triangular in shape, corresponds to the apex of the pyramidal body of the maxilla. Above, it is continuous with the superior surface of the body, but in- stead of being smooth, it is rough, and its edges serrated, for