THE BONES 230 (3) Slit, elongated and narrow, on each side of the fore part of the crista galli, for passage of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve. (4) Olfactory grooves, one on each side of the crista galli, for lodgment of the olfactory bulbs. (5) Olfactory foramina, perforating the floor of each groove. About twenty on each side, they transmit the ax- ones of the olfactory cells to the olfactory bulb. Arranged so as to resemble a sieve, they confer the term “cribriform” upon this plate. They are arranged in three rows, of which the outer leads to grooves upon the inner surface of the su- perior turbinate; the middle, the smallest, leads to the under surface of the horizontal plate; and the inner, the largest, is continuous with grooves upon the vertical plate. (6) Ethmoidal notches, anterior and posterior, along the outer edges of the horizontal plate. When articulated with the horizontal plate of the frontal, these are converted into foramina. The latter will be described with the former. (7) Triangular notch, behind, which articulates with the ethmoidal spine of the body of the sphenoid. The vertical plate is a thin sheet of bone most of which forms the upper third of the nasal septum. It is continu- ous with the crista galli, so that the two plates intersect each other at right angles. Its anterosuperior border ar- ticulates with the nasal spine of the frontal, and median crest formed by the nasals. Its anteroinferior border unites with the septal cartilage of the nose. Its posterosuperior border articulates with the ethmoidal ridge of the body of the sphenoid. Its posteroinferior border articulates with the anterior border of the vomer. Its surfaces, right and left, are channelled above by short, shallow grooves that lead to the inner row of olfactory foramina. This plate is usually deflected to one or other side. Seen in cross-section, it is shaped like a dagger (t), of which the handle corre- sponds to the crista galli, the guard to the horizontal plate, and the blade to the remainder of the vertical plate. The labyrinths depend from the horizontal plate like saddle-bags from a saddle. Each is honeycombed by num- erous irregular pneumatic cells, whose walls are of papery bone and lined by mucous membrane continuous with that of the nose. These ethmoidal cells, situated between the