SCAPULA 141 The body, in addition to the two surfaces, shows three borders and three angles, and is thin and translucent. The ventral surface exhibits the concave subscapular fossa for the subscapularis, and is crossed from within upward and outward by oblique ridges for the tendinous intersections of that muscle. Near the vertebral border is a ridge which, to- gether with the small flat surfaces into which it expands at the superior and inferior angles, affords attachment to the serratus magnus. The dorsal surface, concavo-convex, is di- vided by the spine into a small upper supraspinous fossa for the supraspinatus, and a larger lower infraspinous fossa for the infraspinatus. These fossae communicate around the outer border of the spine through the great scapular notch, which transmits the suprascapular vessels and nerve. The infraspinous fossa is limited exterally by a ridge which de- scends from the head and affords attachment for the infra- spinatus fascia. External to this ridge, between it and the axillary border, is a surface of bone of which the upper nar- row two-thirds give origin to the teres minor, and the broader oval lower third to the teres major. A ridge between these areas affords attachment to an aponeurosis that sepa- rates the two muscles. The spine, a triangular shelf that crosses obliquely the inner four-fifths of the upper part of the dorsal surface, begins at the vertebral borders as a smooth triangular surface, and, increasing in height, turns forward into the acromion. The dorsal subcutaneous bor- der of the spine is limited above by a lip, to which is attached the trapezius, and below by one from which the deltoid takes origin. The concave external border of the spine con- nects the under surface of the acromion with the neck. A nutrient foramen is seen near the middle of the inferior sur- face of the spine. 1 he acromion (summit of the shoulder) is a broad cres- centic process that projects outward and forward over the head. It resembles the acromial end of the clavicle. Obliquely flattened, its superior surface is rough and sub- cutaneous, and continuous with the dorsal subcutaneous border of the spine; its inferior surface is smooth and con- cave and continuous with the superior surface and external border of the spine; its external border is thick, convex and tubei culated for partial origin of the deltoid, and is continu-