265 INFERIOR REGION OF SKULL canals. Transverse ridge, leading inward from the tuber- osity, for aponeurosis of tensor palati. Posterior nasal spine, which projects backward from the center of the pos- terior border of the hard palate. Posterior nares (choanae), behind and above the hard palate, and separated from each other by the vomer. Each aperture measures about an inch vertically, and a half-inch transversely, and is bounded ex- ternally by the internal plate of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid; below, by the horizontal plate of the palate; inter- nally, by the vomer; and above, by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid, by an ala of the vomer, and by a por- tion of the sphenoidal process of the palate. Pterygopalatine canal, between the ala of the vomer and the root of the ptery- goid process. Pterygoid process, whose base is perforated by the Vidian canal. Between the plates of the pterygoid process are seen the scaphoid fossa above, and the ptery- goid fossa below, whilst at the extremity of the internal plate is the hamular process. Outside of the external plate is the zygomatic fossa. The subcranial division is bounded before by a line that connects the two preglenoid tubercles, and behind, by a line drawn transversely across the posterior margin of the for- amen magnum. It is separated from the zygomatic fossa by a line drawn from the posterior margin of the external plate of the pterygoid process to the sphenoidal spine. It is formed by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid and basioccipital, by the hinder part of the greater wing of the sphenoid, by the petrous portion and part of the squa- mous portion of the temporal, and by the basilar portion of the occipital. It presents the following details. Pharyngeal spine, situated mesially on the inferior surface of the basi- occipital. Foramen magnum, behind the basioccipital. Occi- pital condyles, on each side of the foramen magnum. Ante- rior condyloid foramen, which perforates the base of each occiptal condyle on its fore and outer aspect. Condyloid fossa, behind each occipital condyle. Posterior condyloid foramen, which leads upward, forward, and outward from the bottom of the condyloid fossa. Jugular process, a quad- rate projection that juts transversely outward from the hinder end of the occipital condyle. Foramen lacerum, a somewhat triangular aperture on either side of the basi-