152 THE BONES wrist-joint; the external presents the styloid process, a blunt, pyramidal projection to whose base is attached the brachio- radialis and whose apex receives the external lateral liga- ment of the wrist-joint, whilst its outer surface is marked by two shallow furrows which lodge the tendons of the ex- tensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor pollicis brevis; and the posterior is rough and convex and marked by three ridges and three intervening grooves. To the ridges is at- tached the posterior annular ligament, which thus converts the grooves into tunnels. The outermost tunnel, broad and shallow, and subdivided by a low ridge, lodges the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longus externally and that of the extensor carpi radialis brevis internally; the middle groove, narrow and deep, lodges the tendon of the extensor pollicis longus; while the innermost groove is broad and shallow for the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis and ex- tensor indicis proprius; and a groove next the ulna for the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti. The radius develops from a primary center for the shaft and epiphyses for the extremities. The epiphysis for the superior extremity appears about the sixth year and unites with the shaft about the nineteenth. The epiphysis for the lower extremity appears about the second year and unites with the shaft aboutdhe twenty-first. The radius isdmmovably united with the ulna in Rum- inants and in Sirenia. In the Frog and Camel the radius is the solitary apparent representative of the bones of the fore- arm, which are completely fused together. In the Zebra the ulna is represented by an olecranon adhering to the back of the radius, but in the Elephant the ulna is very large and the radius small. Pronation is the constant and only rela- tion of the bones of the forearm in the Dog, Elephant, and in hoofed beasts generally. It is readily seen that in Bats and Birds pronation and supination would be fatal to flight. Carpus. The carpus (wrist) contains eight bones arranged in two rows. Enumerated from without inward, those of the superior row are the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, and