THE BONES 270 the outer side of the foramen spinosum. Certain foramina may be seen from before backward. Sphenoidal fissure, a triangular cleft that separates the lesser from the greater wing of the sphenoid and leads into the orbit. Foramen ro- tundum, just behind the hinder angle of the sphenoidal fis- sure. Foramen ovale, behind and to the outer side of the foramen rotundum. Foramen Vesalii, internal to the an- terior end of the foramen ovale, but inconstant. Foramen spinosum, external to the hinder end of the foramen ovale. Foramen lacerum, fully described with the inferior region of the skull. On the anterior surface of the petrous portion 3f the temporal, follow from within outward. Internal carotid foramen, which corresponds to the external wall of the foramen lacerum. Trigeminal depression, near the apex. Hiatus Fallopii, a slit-like opening. Hiatus accessorius, ex- ternal to the hiatus Fallopii. Eminentia arcuata, near the centre of this surface. Tegmen tympani, before and external to the eminentia arcuata. With the dura mater in situ, the trigeminal depression is converted into a foramen that is traversed by the trigeminal nerve. The anterior and middle clinoid processes may join to form a foramen for the internal carotid artery. The grooves for the middle meningeal arteries may be converted into canals for a short distance, especially in old skulls. The posterior cranial fossa is the largest and deepest of the three, and occupies the lowest level. It is separated from the middle cranial fossa by the dorsum sellae and by the line of attachment of the tentorium cerebelli, which extends from each posterior clinoid process along the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal, and is limited externally and behind by the further attachment of the tentorium to the posteroinferior angle of the parietal, to the upper margin of the groove for the lateral sinus, and to the internal occipital protuberance. Its floor is formed by the posterior surface of the petrous portion and internal surface of the mastoid por- tion of the temporal, and by the posterior third of the su- perior surface of the body of the sphenoid and basilar por- tion of the occipital, which are wedged in between the tem- porals. Part of the outer wall is contributed by the pos- teroinferior angle of the parietal, whilst behind, the floor and posterior wall are completed by the posterior portion of the