133 SKIN chiefly of connective tissue containing small ducts and un- developed acini. Alveoli distended during lactation may be confused with lung-tissue. SKIN. The skin (cutis) consists of the epidermis, an ecto- blastic epithelium, and the corium, a mesoblastic connective tissue. The corium presents two layers, the stratum papillare, which is superficial, and the stratum reticulare, which is deep. Both layers are composed of fibro-elastic tissue and interstitial cells, but differ in compactness. The stratum reticulare, consists of fibrous bundles arranged, as implied by the name, in a loose network in whose meshes are hair follicles, glands, vessels, nerves, and some fat. It blends imperceptibly with the underlying subcutaneous tissue and the overlying papillary layer. The stratum papillare is dis- tinguished by the finer and denser interlacement of its con- nective-tissue network, and by the presence of papillae. These are finger-like elevations of fibro-elastic tissue con- taining loops of capillaries (vascular papillae), or tactile corpuscles (nervous papillae). Of varying size, they are received into corresponding depressions of the epidermis. On the palms of the hands and soles of the feet they form curved ridges, those in the thumb being used often for the identification of criminals. Each ridge consists of two par- allel rows of papillae, between which the ducts of sweat glands pass in transit to the surface. The subcutaneous tissue consists of interlacing fibro- elastic strands which bind the skin to underlying structures. It is the depository of fat, which may be highly developed (panniculus adiposus) as in the neck and abdomen, or en- tirely absent, as in the eyelids, penis, scrotum, and labia minora. Sometimes bundles of non-striated muscle are found within it. The epidermis consists of stratified squamous epitheli- um arranged in four layers. Enumerated from the corium to the air these are:— (1) Stratum germinativum (rete Malpighi), which is composed of a varying number of layers. The deepest layer