MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY 114 possesses neither cilia nor goblet-cells. In the distal part of the terminal bronchioles the low cuboidal epithelium changes to simple squamous epithelium. The tunica propria loses more and more of its yellow elastic tissue, but acquires a lamina of non-striated muscle, which corresponds in posi- tion to muscularis mucosae of the intestines. Eventually the tunica propria is reduced to a delicate layer of fibro-elas- tic tissue with thin bundles of non-striated muscle. Lymph- atic nodules are more marked in the tunica propria of the bronchi than in that of the trachea. The submucous coat gradually loses its mucous glands until, in smaller bronchi 1 mm. in diameter, mucous glands are absent. The fibrous coat gradually loses its cartilaginous frame- work. From being C-shaped, the cartilages become semi- circles, and these break up into irregular plates which dis- appear in smaller bronchi 1 mm. in diameter. Since mu- cous glands extend only this far, it may be put that they occur as far only as the cartilage extends. With the disap- pearance of the cartilage, the non-striated muscle broadens out into a continuous lamina, which extends as far only as the terminal bronchioles. Lungs. Each lung corresponds in structure to a compound alve- olar gland, and therefore is made up of many alveolar sys- tems. Referring back to the description of glands, it is found that a simple alveolar gland resembles a flask, and that it may be branched. An alveolar system consists of a branched simple alveolar gland that has many alveoli. Since the fundal part of the duct is subdivided, many ducts open into a main duct. Each lung, then, conforms to this definition. The glandular tissue is represented by the parenchyma of the lung, and the excretory ducts by the terminal bronchioles. Each lung is divided into lobes; each lobe is subdivided into lobules; and each lobule is made up of lung-units. The lobes belong in the domain of macroscopic anat- omy. There are three in. the right lung and two in the left. The lobules are pyramidal in shape, and are separated