59 CONNECTIVE-TISSUE SUBSTANCE the holes through which they passed. They were appro- priately termed “nails'’ by Gagliardi. They are absent in the Haversian systems. Haversian canals are tunnels prolonged from the me- dullary cavity through compact bone, and are occupied by medullary blood-vessels. Tributary to the latter are the perivascular lymph-spaces, the canaliculi, and the lacunae —a canal-system that provides liberally for nutrition of the bone. Volkmann’s canals are channels prolonged from the sur- face of the bone inward through the periosteal lamellae, and are occupied by periosteal blood-vessels. The latter anas- tomose with the medullary blood-vessels in the Haversian canals—a circumstance that adds to the nutrition of the bone. Bone-cells are small, stellate elements that occupy the lacunae, and send delicate processes out into the canaliculi. The intercellular matrix of bone is composed of fibrils of fibrous tissue that are joined into bundles by homogeneous interfibrillar cement substance. The bundles, united by interfascicular cement substance, run parallel to one an- other and make up the lamellae. The fibrous bundles of adjacent Haversian lamellae usually cross each other at right angles. This is readily seen by examination in polar- ized light with crossed Nicol’s prisms. Bundles cut longi- tudinally are doubly refractive (anisotropic), whilst those that run concentrically around the Haversian canal are singly refractive (isotropic). The periosteum is a connective-tissue sheath that in- vests bone everywhere except at the insertion of strong ten- dons, and where covered with cartilage. Like perichon- drium, it consists of two layers:— a. Outer fibrous layer, composed of dense, white fibrous tissue which affords attachment to tendons, aponeu- roses, ligaments and, at times, to the muscular fibers them- selves, and supports blood-vessels and nerves. b. Inner fibro-elastic layer, in which the elastic tissue predominates, but next the bone is a layer of fibrous tissue that abounds in flat cells which represent the remains of the osteogenetic layer. This layer is bound to the bone by plugs of periosteum that convey blood-vessels into Volkmann’s /