201 VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE only, while its walls and lower border are completed by lig- aments and membranes. Its upper margin (brim) is formed by the pubic crests before; by the iliopectineal lines later- ally; and by the anterior margin of the base of the sacrum behind. Its walls are formed by the pubic bones and obtu- rator membranes before; by the ischia and sacrosciatic liga- ments laterally; and by the sacrum and coccyx behind. Its lower margin is formed by the subpubic ligament and rami of the pubic bones and ischia before; by the tuberosities of the ischia laterally; and by the great sacrosciatic ligaments and tip of the coccyx behind. A transverse line between the two tuberosities subdivides this diamond-shaped lower mar- gin into two triangles:—an anterior urethral triangle, and a posterior anal triangle. The pelvis of the Kangaroo is extremely narrow, neces- sitating the birth of the young when they are only about an inch and a quarter long. They are then almost shapeless, and are next placed in a pouch on the abdomen of the mother, with the nipple firmly fixed in their mouth. Vertebral Column as a Whole. The formation of the vertebral column by the sclero- tomes streaming around the primitive neural canal suggests the double function of this column. It forms a primary base of support for the body above the pelvis, and acts as a host for the shelter of the spinal cord and its membranes. Thus, it supports the head above, the thorax and indirectly the up- per extremities laterally, whilst below it is, in turn, support- ed by the pelvis, through whose agency it transmits its bur- den to the lower extremities. The average length of the vertebral column is twenty- eight inches, to which the cervical vertebrae contribute five inches, the thoracic eleven, the lumbar seven, and the sacral and coccygeal five. V iewed from before, the bodies of the vertebrae broaden from the axis to the first thoracic, then narrow to the fourth thoracic, broaden again from the fourth thoracic to the base of the sacrum, and finally narrow from the base of the sac- rum to the tip of the coccyx.