THE BONES 214 (4) Jugular fossa, the anterior component of the jug- ular foramen. (5) Jugular surface for the jugular process of the occi- pital. These last three features are more extensive on the inferior surface, where they were described. (6) Groove for the sigmoid portion of the lateral sinus. The anterior border is the shortest and shows from apex toward base:— (1) Irregular edge, the posterior boundary of the fora- men lacerum. (2) Rough area for the spinous process of the sphen- oid. (3) Attached part continuous with the squamous por- tion. This line of fusion corresponds to the petrosquamous suture, indications of which may persist. (4) Canalis musculotubarius, at the apex of the acute angle between the anterior parts of the squamous and pe- trous portions. It resembles a double-barrelled shotgun, the partition between the barrels being the processus coch- leariformis. The upper canal (“musculo”) lodges the ten- sor tympani. The lower canal (“tubarius”) is larger, and corresponds to the bony part of the Eustachian tube. The base of the petrous portion is annectant above for the internal surfaces of the squamous and mastoid portions. It is exposed below, where, with the tympanic plate, it forms the bony part of the external auditory meatus. The tym- panic plate forms the anterior wall, floor, and part of the posterior wall of this meatus, while the remainder of the pos- terior wall and roof are formed by the squamous portion. The auditory process is the broad, rough margin of the tympanic plate, and gives attachment to the pinna. The suprameatal spine is a low ledge of bone between the meatus and the supramastoid crest. The apex occupies most of the interval between the posterior border of the greater wing of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital. The rest of this interval corresponds to the foramen lacerum. Opening into the lat- ter is the internal carotid foramen, the termination of the internal carotid canal. The internal structure of the petrous portion will be described with the ear.