OS 1NN0M1N ATUM 1G1 arated by a ridge for the trochlear facet on the inferior ex- tremity of the superior phalanx. The posterior surface of the base is marked by a prominence for the tendon of the extensor digitorum communis. The palmar surface of the shaft shows a rough area on each side for the tendon of the flexor digitorum sublimis. The inferior extremity presents a trochlear facet for the base of the inferior phalanx. An inferior phalanx is comparatively small. Its base is similar to that of a middle phalanx and shows on its palmar surface a rough area for the tendon of the flexor digitorum profundus. The inferior extremity is rough and of a horse- shoe-shape for the pulp of the finger. Each carpal bone develops from a single center. Each metacarpal bone and phalanx develops from a primary cen- ter for the shaft, which appears near the middle of the shaft in all except the inferior phalanges, where it appears at the inferior extremity of the cartilage, and from a secondary epi- physial center which, in the four inner metacarpal bones, caps the inferior extremity, whilst in the first metacarpal and in all the phalanges, it caps the superior extremity. Be- cause of this similarity in ossification between the first meta- carpal and the phalanges, it is uncertain whether the thumb possesses three phalanges and no metacarpal, or one meta- carpal and two phalanges. The digits vary in number from one, as in the Horse, to five, as in man and some other animals. In Ichthyosauria extra marginal bones give the appearance of more digits. In Bats there are four digits which are enormously elongated to form the framework for the wing. The hook at the top of the wing is the thumb-nail. The third digit of Globioce- phalus contains fourteen phalanges. When a digit is want- ing it is generally the pollex, as in Spider Monkeys, but it may be the fifth, as in Pterodactyles. Os Innominatum. The os innominatum (un-named bone, since it resem- bles no known object), or haunch-bone, is constricted in the middle and expanded above, where it forms part of the ab- dominal wall, and below, where it helps form the true pelvis; 11