KIDNEYS 121 ascending limb is longer than the descending, and its epi- thelium is broader. It extends from the turn of the loop through the medulla into the labyrinth, in which it crosses the stalk of its renal corpuscle. After arching over the lat- ter, it joins the next segment. Lined by cubical epithelium. (5) Distal convoluted tubule, which extends from the ascending" limb to the next segment. It confines itself to the labyrinth, lying in the arch described by the proximal convoluted tubule. Its lumen is wider than that of the lat- ter, and its path not so tortuous. Lined by cuboidal epi- thelium. (6) Connecting tubule, which is narrower than the pre- ceding tubule, and takes a short, arching course, in which it passes from the labyrinth into the medullary ray. It unites with other connecting tubules to form the next segment. Lined by low cuboidal epithelium. (7) Collecting tubule, whose diameter is progressively augmented by other connecting tubules as it traverses the medullary ray and medulla. Approaching the papilla, it broadens out into the papillary duct, which empties at the apex of the papilla into a ureteral calyx. Lined by simple low columnar epithelium. (8) Papillary ducts, each of which receives 20 (aver- age) larger collecting tubules, and of which there are 15 (average) for each papilla. Estimation of the number of renal corpuscles for which each papilla is agent is thus possible. Lined by simple columnar epithelium. Thus, the only parts of the uriniferous tubule in the medullary ray are the spiral and the collecting tubules. The reticulum which supports the uriniferous tubules and blood-vessels is scanty in the cortex, more abundant in the medulla, and most abundant in the papillae. It is in- timately connected with the adventitia of blood-vessels. On section, a renal corpuscle appears very rich in nu- clei. These are contributed by the cells of the visceral layer of the capsule, by the cells of the capillaries of the glomer- ulus, and by the cells of the connective tissue that binds the lobules of the glomerulus together, and the latter to the capsule. Cross-section of the medulla shows a medley of collecting tubules, limbs of the loop, and blood-vessels, all bound together by the reticulum.