32 DEVELOPMENT (2) Placentalia, in which a placental area is developed. (a) Multiple form (cotyledons), in Ruminants, e. g. Sheep, Cow. (b) Zonular form, in Carnivora, e. g. Dog, Cat. (c) Discoidal form, e. g. Rodents, Apes, man (Pri- mates). The Human Fetal Membranes. The human amniotic cavity appears very early as a small chink which rapidly enlarges into a cavity by pushing the embryo away from the trophoblast. The embryo at this stage consists of an inner cell mass occupying the em- bryonic area of the blastocyst. The wall of the blastocyst is composed of a layer of ectoblastic cells known as the trophoblast (nutrient layer), so designated because it soon thickens in order early to establish nutritional relations be- tween the embryo and the mother in advance of the forma- tion of the placenta. The inner cell mass soon divides into ectoblast and entoblast, and the distinction between the embryonic (formative) ectoblast and the amniotic ectoblast should now be apparent. It is between these two ectoblasts that the amniotic cavity appears. The roof of the latter, therefore, is formed by the amniotic ectoblast, and the floor by the embryonic ectoblast. Thus, in man the amniotic cavity is, from the beginning, a closed sac. The mesoblast now develops, and by its rapid growth brings about most important changes in the blastocyst. It separates from the amniotic ectoblast a layer of cells as a covering for the amniotic cavity; it also grows around the entoblastic sac and lines the trophoblast, the space between these two laminae constituting the exocelom. The blasto- cyst now consists of three sheets of cells and three cavities. The latter include the amniotic cavity, the cavity of the vitelline (entoblastic) sac, and the exocelom. The ecto- blastic sheet includes the amniotic ectoblast, and the embry- onic ectoblast. The mesoblast surrounds the three cavities, but is separated from the amniotic cavity by the amniotic ectoblast above and by the embryonic ectoblast below; from the cavity of the vitelline sac by the entoblast; while it sur-