245 MANDIBLE The ramus is thinner than the body and quadrilateral, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The external surface, is flat, marked by ridges below, and affords insertion to the masseter. To the ridges are attached tendinous bun- dles of that muscle. The internal surface presents :— (1) Mandibular foramen, a large aperture near the middle, which leads into the mandibular canal. The latter traverses the bone nearly to the symphysis, and terminates at the mental foramen. It conducts the inferior dental branch of the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve, and corresponding vessels for supply of the lower teeth and skin over the fore part of the mandible. (2) Lingula, a pointed scale of bone that overhangs the mandibular foramen before, and gives attachment to the sphenomandibular ligament, which descends from the sphenoidal spine. (3) JV^tohyoyd groove^ which extends from the mandi- bular foramen obliquely downward and forward for about an inch to lose itself in the submaxillary fossa. It gives transit to the corresponding nerve and vessels. The nerve supplies the mylohyoid muscle and anterior belly of the digastric. In the embryo, this groove lodges the cartilage (Meckel’s) of the first visceral arch. (4) Rough area, behind and below the mylohyoid groove, for insertion of the internal pterygoid. Of the borders the anterior, thinner above than below, is continuous with the oblique line. The posterior is thick, smooth, and rounded, and in relation with the parotid gland. The inferior is thick, straight, and continuous with the in- ferior border of the body. At its junction with the posterior border is the angle, which affords partial insertion to the masseter without, the internal pterygoid within, and the stylomandibular ligament between. The superior border pre- sents from before backward:— (1) Coronoid (crown-like) process, a thin, flattened, triangular beak of bone that affords insertion by its margins and inner surface to the temporal, whilst its outer surface receives part of the temporal and part of the masseter. (2) Mandibular notch, a deep, semilunar concavity left by the rising up of the coronoid process before, and con- dyloid process behind. It transmits the masseteric nerve and vessels. \