221 SPHENOID BONE zygomatic surface give origin to the upper head of the ex- ternal pterygoid. The circumference of the greater wing has been de- scribed step by step above. Each pterygoid process descends vertically from the junction of the body and greater wing, and consists of two plates. The internal plate, narrower and longer, shows:— (1) Hamular process, the hook-like, outwardly-curv- ing lower extremity, around which turns the tendon of the tensor palati, and which gives partial origin to the superior constrictor. (2) Inner surface, smooth, and forms the outer boun- dary of the choana. (3) Vaginal plate, the inward extension of the in- ternal plate on to the inferior surface of the body, which ar- ticulates wit]} the ala of the vomer and the sphenoidal proc- ess of the palate. (4) Vidian canal, which perforates the base of the in- ternal plate just below the lingula, and transmits the Vidian artery and nerve between the foramen lacerum and the sphenomaxillary fossa. (5) Scaphoid fossa, on the posterior surface just be- low the Vidian canal, for partial origin of the tensor palati. (6) Pterygoid tubercle, at the inner end of the round- ed margin that separates the Vidian canal from the scaphoid fossa. The external plate, thin and expanded, passes obliquely backward and outward. Its outer surface forms part of the inner wall of the zygomatic fossa, and gives origin to the lower head of the external pterygoid. Its inner surface gives partial origin to the internal pterygoid, and forms the outer wall of the pterygoid fossa. The pterygoid fossa is the space formed by the divergence of the external from the internal plate, and lodges the internal pterygoid and tensor palati. It is bounded before by the junction of the anterior borders of the two plates. The pterygoid notch is an angu- lar gap between the lower parts of the pterygoid plates, and is occupied, with the bone in situ, by the tuberosity of the palate. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process forms, at its broad base, the posterior wall of the sphenomaxillary fossa, where it supports the sphenopalatine ganglion. It