252 THE BONES origin to the masseter. The maxillary process contributes to the inferior margin of the orbit, and presents a rough, tri- angular surface that articulates with the malar process of the maxilla. The orbital process projects backward at right angles from the orbital margin, separating the orbit from the temporal and zygomatic fossae, and articulates by its pos- terior border with the external border of the great wing of the sphenoid. The orbital surface displays a single or double temporomalar foramen, the entrance of the temporomalar canal, which conveys the temporomalar branch of the maxil- lary division of the trigeminal nerve and two small branches of the lacrimal artery. If not already double, the canal soon bifurcates, one tube conducting the temporal branch ob- liquely upward and outward through the orbital process to the temporal fossa, whence it distributes itself to the skin of the anterior temporal region. The other tube conducts the malar branch below the orbital margin to the malar fora- men on the external surface (q. v.). The malar develops in membrane. It is ossified by three centers, one for the zygomatic and two for the orbital por- tion, which appear about the eighth fetal week and fuse about the fifth fetal month. The malar is absent in some mammals, as Centetes and Manis, also in Batrachians, Serpents, and generally in Fishes. In Birds it is only a delicate spicule that helps form the zy- goma. In the Porpoise the malar is double, consisting of an orbital and a malar portion which are ossified by separate centers. This bipartite condition occurs in the Japanese in seven per cent, of all skulls, and hence it has been termed os Japonicum. The malar plays an important part in the con- figuration of the face. Thus, the high cheek-bones of the North American Indian are well-known to all. Inferior Turbinate. The inferior turbinate (scroll-shaped), a paired bone, is a shell-like lamina that depends from the lower part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and curls downward so as to separate the middle nasal meatus from the inferior. The su- perior and middle turbinates form part of the ethmoid and even the inferior may be regarded as a detached part of the labyrinth of the ethmoid. Each inferior turbinate presents two surfaces, two borders, and two^extremities.