DEVELOPMENT 10 is resolvable chemically into nuclein (i. e. nucleinic acid Others become highly specialized, making possible the special senses. If not compressed, a cell remains round or slightly oval, as instanced by the embryonal mesoblastic cell, and by the blood-cells. -• The Cell as a Whole. A cell is a nucleated mass of protoplasm. The nucleus is the most important constituent of a cell and is its dynamic force. Nucleated cells are capable of actively functionating and of reproducing others of their kind. A cell that has lost its nucleus, such as the red blood cell, can functionate only passively, in this instance as an oxygen carrier, and cannot reproduce others. It is, moreover, not so longeval as a nucleated cell. The cell as a whole consists of semifluid protoplasm, which may or may not be enclosed within a cell-wall. That part of the protoplasm exclusive of the nucleus is the cytoplasm. This shows an outer, less highly specialized zone, the exoplasm, and an inner, more highly specialized zone, the endoplasm. That part of the protoplasm allotted to the nucleus is distinguished by the term karyoplasm. Cytoplasm consists of a network that resembles a cross- section of sponge, appearing honeycombed, and therefore earns the name spongioplasm. Contained within the com- partments of this network is a more fluid substance, the hyaloplasm. Cytoplasm may be granular, vesicular, or reticular, according to its appearance under the microscope. It may contain extraneous substances of secretion or of excretion, or present accidentally, and these are included within the term metaplasm. Karyoplasm, more highly specialized than protoplasm, shows essentially a similar construction. Enclosed within the nuclear membrane, karyoplasm consists of nuclear fibers and nuclear matrix. The nuclear fibers are formed by a network of fine, non-staining threads, the linin, and these threads, with bead-like thickenings at their nodal points, constitute chromatin. The latter, so named in re- cognition of the strong affinity of its beads for certain dyes,