130 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY A vesicular follicle, sectioned, shows from without in- ward :— (1) Theca, with its outer fibrous layer and inner cellu- lar layer. (2) Membrana propria, between the theca and the folli- cular epithelium^ (3) Stratum granulosum, formed by the non-liquefied outer cells of the follicular epithelium. (4) Liquor folliculi, into which the ovum projects like a peninsula. (5) Discus proligerus, a ring of cells around the ovum contributed by the stratum granulosum. At one point, cor- responding to the neck of the peninsula, the cells of the dis- cus proligerus are continuous with those of the stratum granulosum. (6) Corona radiata, composed of those cells of the dis- cus proligerus that lie next the zona radiata of the ovum. They are radially-arranged around the latter, and lie vertical to its surface. (7) Zona radiata, the protecting envelope formed early by the follicular epithelium. It is striated by micropyles, kJjlooJl which are minute pores occupied by processes of the cells of the corona radiata. (8) Ovum, the structure of which has been described (vide Embryology). The corpus luteum is the altered structure that remains after the rupture of the vesicular follicle and coincident es- cape of the ovum. The space formerly occupied by the ovum and liquor folliculi becomes filled with blood-clot. The inner cellular layer of the theca proliferates and produces lutein cells. These are polyhedral in shape, and exhibit yel- low pigment (lutein). These cells invade the clot, which is finally absorbed. The stratum granulosum disappears en- tirely. The lutein cells and intercellular strands of con- nective tissue bearing capillaries now occupy the cavity of the corpus luteum. The lutein cells soon disappear and the connective tissue becomes hyaline. The corpus luteum is now more appropriately termed the corpus albicans. This eventually disappears entirely. The blood-vessels are distributed as would be expected. The arteries enter the hilum and supply branches to the me-