MORPHOLOGY OF CARPUS 157 phoid, semilunar, and cuneiform form only one bone in the Bat. The pisiform is not a true carpal, but only an acces- sory sesamoid, and is therefore inconstant. Thus, it is often absent, in many Cetacea, the Sirenia, Birds, and many Reptiles, and all Batrachians; while it is very small in Bats, Seals, and others. In the Carnivora it is much larger and relatively longer than in man. The cuneiform is much longer in the Crocodile. It is united with the semilunar in the Salamander and Triton, and an instance of this has been found in both wrists of a Soudanese negro. The os centrale is an extra carpal interposed between the superior and in- ferior rows in many Vertebrates, as the Orang Utan, Ba- boon, other Monkeys and Reptiles. It is a dismemberment of the scaphoid, as is shown by the form of the latter in Emys europea. And again, in the Mammalia the scaphoid occasionally ossifies from two centers. In the Chamelion the os centrale is singularly conspicuous. In man it is a small, independent cartilage distinct in the second fetal month but invisible by the fourth. Occasionally, however, it becomes developed into a distinct ossicle placed on the dorsum of the carpus between the scaphoid and os magnum and the trapezoid. The radial sesamoid is a tenth separate carpal bone present in some animals and occasionally in the human hand. When not separate it corresponds to the tu- berosity of the scaphoid. The bones of the inferior row of the carpus are not as constant in number or development as those of the superior row. In the Chamelion they coalesce with the metacarpals. The trapezium is an important bone in man owing to the high specialization of the thumb with which it is connected. It is quite rudimentary in Cheropus, and absent in the Horse, Sheep, Pig, Dolphin, Salamander and others. The trapezoid is indistinct in Birds and in Crocodiles, and in the Three-toed Sloth it is coalesced wth the os magnum. In Birds the os magnum is abortive. The unciform is represented by two distinct bones in Chelonia, Chelydra, and Salamandra. In the Dugong all the carpal bones are anchylosed into three bones, the inferior row being in one piece. In Birds, as in other animals, they are diminished in number according to the disappearance of the digits which each usually sup- ports.