250 THE BONES lae, where they form, by their junction, the bridge of the nose. Thicker and narrower above and thinner and broader below, each presents two surfaces and four borders. The superior border, thick and serrated, dovetails with the inner part of the nasal notch on the inferior surface of the horizontal plate (cp v. 1) of the frontal. The inferior border, thin and sharp, runs obliquely downward, outward, and backward, and offers attachment to the lateral nasal cartilage. It is notched near the middle for passage of the anterior nasal branch of the nasal nerve to the skin of the fore part and tip of the nose. The external border is serrated and bevelled to fit on to the anterior border of the nasal process (q. v.) of the maxilla. The internal border, thicker above than below, articulates in the mid-line with the cor- responding border of the opposite nasal, thus forming the internasal suture. These contiguous borders are prolonged backward into a vertical crest that contributes to the bony septum of the nose and articulates from above downward with the nasal process on the inferior surface (cp v. 2) of the horizontal plate of the frontal, the nasal spine on the under surface of the nasal process, the anterosuperior border of the vertical plate of the ethmoid, and finally with the tri- angular septal cartilage of the nose. The external surface, constricted just above its middle, is perforated near its center by a foramen that transmits a tributary to the facial vein. It is covered by the pyramidalis, compressor nasi, and part of the orbicularis palpebrarum. The internal surface is covered by mucous membrane, forms the fore part of the roof of the nose, and is traversed by a longitudinal groove that accommodates the anterior nasal branch of the nasal nerve, which branch emerges through the notch referred to on the inferior border. Each nasal develops in the membrane covering the fore part of the cartilaginous nasal capsule. It is ossified by a single center that appears about the eighth fetal week in this membrane. The length, breadth, and degree of inclination of the nasals determine the shape of the nose. This varies greatly in different races, being, as a rule, large and prominent in Caucasians, and flat, reduced in size, and depressed in Mon- golians and negroes. The shape is also modified by the