104 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY Small Intestine. The small intestine presents four coats—mucous, sub- mucous, muscular, and serous. The mucous coat is covered with simple columnar epi- thelium, whose cells show a striated cuticular border next the free surface. Many of the cells are goblet-cells, and wandering leucocytes roam through the epithelium. The tunica propria is traversed by the intestinal glands. It is rich in cells that resemble lymphocytes. The muscularis mucosae is here arranged in an inner circular and an outer longitudinal layer. The mucous coat has two kinds of inequalities, the pur- pose of which is, like the foldings of a radiator, to increase the area of the surface. These are the villi, which involve the epithelium and tunica propria alone, and the valvulae conniventes, which involve the entire thickness of the mu- cous coat. The latter are best marked in the upper portion of the small intestine. The villi are projections of the tunica propria over which rides the epithelium. They put one in mind, though in min- iature, of the filiform papillae of the tongue, and resemble the pile of velvet. There are about 16 villi in each square mm. of the upper half of the small intestine, and about 9 per square mm. in the remainder, so that altogether there are about 4,000,000 villi in the small intestine. The core, which corresponds to the tunica propria, is composed of reticular tissue supporting blood-'and lymph-vessels. Traversing the center of the villus is an absorbent, a lymph-vessel, whose wall consists of a single layer of endothelium. This is sur- rounded by a longitudinal layer of non-striated muscle, con- tractions of which shorten the villus and express the contents of the absorbent. The absorbent is screened by a rich capil- lary network. The valvulae conniventes are transverse annular cor- rugations of the mucous coat and underlying submucous coat. They may be compared to the corrugated metallic covering of a washing-board. Sand sprinkled over the wet- ted surface of the washing-board would represent the rela- tion of the villi to the valvulae conniventes. They extend