THE BONES 184 The internal cuneiform presents six surfaces. The anterior corresponds to a kidney-shaped facet for the base of the first metatarsal. The posterior shows a concave, pyriform facet, which meets the innermost facet on the anterior surface of the scaphoid. The internal, subcutane- ous and rough for ligaments, is crossed by an oblique groove for the tendon of the tibialis anticus, in transit to its inser- tion into an oval facet below. The external presents along its superior and posterior borders an L-shaped facet for the middle cuneiform behind, and the inner side of the base of the second metatarsal before; elsewhere it is rough for liga- ments and for a slip from the tendon of the peroneus longus. The superior corresponds to the apex of the wedge, and is rough for ligaments. The inferior is rough, and is marked behind by an eminence for part of the tendon of the tibialis posticus, whilst before, it gives attachment to part of the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The middle cuneiform also presents six surfaces. The internal presents along its superior and posterior borders an L-shaped facet that articulates with the corresponding facet on the external surface of the internal cuneiform. The external shows, behind, a vertical facet for the external cuneiform. The anterior shows a triangular facet for the base of the second metatarsal. The posterior, broader than the anterior, corresponds to a triangular, concave facet for the middle facet on the anterior surface of the scaphoid. The superior is quadrilateral, broader behind than before, and rough for ligaments. The inferior is sharp and rough for ligaments and for a slip from the tendon of the tibialis posti- cus. The external cuneiform, like the others, has six sur faces. The superior is oblong and rough for ligaments. The inferior is a rounded margin that is rough for the attach- ment of ligaments and of a slip from the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and for partial origin of the flexor hallucis brevis. The internal has, behind, a vertical facet for the middle cuneiform, and before, two small facets, one above the other and separated by a depression, for the outer side of the base of the second metatarsal. The middle of this surface is occupied by a rough depression for an interosseous ligament. The external has a round facet at its posterior