THE BONES 260 Anterior Region of Skull. The anterior region comprises the forehead, the face, and the orbital and nasal fossae. It is bounded above by the convexity of the frontal bone; below, by the chin; and on each side by the malar bone and anterior border of the ramus of the mandible. The forehead is limited on each side by the anterior ex- tremities of the temporal lines; above, by the frontal em- inences; and below, by the upper margins of the orbit and root of the nose. In the middle of the anterior region the following fea- tures may be noted from above downward. Frontal suture, or remains of same. Glabella, between the superciliary arches. Frontonasal and frontomaxillary sutures, at the root of the nose. Nasion, the midpoint of the frontonasal suture. Internasal suture, which descends from the nasion and bisects the bridge of the nose. Nasomaxillary suture, which limits each nasal bone externally. Anterior nares, the entrances into the nasal fossae which, together, form a pyriform aperture whose tapering end is above and whose broad end is below. Anterior nasal spine, which projects forward from the lower boundary of the anterior nares. Intermaxillary suture, which descends from the anterior nasal spine. Incisive fossa, on each side of the intermax- illary suture. Incisor teeth and sockets of the maxilla, then of the mandible. Symphysis of the mandible. Mental protuberance, into which the symphysis broadens below. Mental tubercles, one at each inferior angle of the mental protuberance. Incisive fossa on each side of symphysis. On each side of the anterior region the following fea- tures may be noted from above downward. Superciliary arch, separated from the frontal eminence by a transverse sulcus. Orbital margin, at the junction of the inner and middle thirds of which is the supraorbital foramen. Exter- nal angular process, the outer extremity of the orbital mar- gin. Internal angular process, the inner extremity of the orbital margin. Orbit, outside of which is the external surface of the malar, corresponding to the prominence of the cheek. Ridge, which forms part of orbital margin. In- fraorbital foramen, which lies under the ridge. Canine