THE BONES 178 the inner side of the anteroexternal border, which it parallels above, and below bifurcates to enclose a rough triangular area just above the articular facet on the inner surface of the external malleolus. To this border is attached the interos- seous membrane, which intervenes between the extensors before, and the flexors behind. The posterointernal begins at the inner side of the superior extremity, and terminates by joining the anterointernal border in the lowest fourth of the shaft. To it is attached an aponeurosis that separates the tibialis posticus from the soleus above and the flexor hal- lucis longus below. The posteroexternal, prominent and spiral, begins at the base of the styloid process and termi- nates in the posterior border of the external malleolus. To it is attached an aponeurosis that separates the peronei exter- nally from the flexors behind. Of the four surfaces, the anterior, corresponding to the interspace between the anteroexternal and anterointernal borders, and very narrow above and broader and grooved be- low, affords origin from above downward to the extensor digitorum longus, the extensor hallucis longus, and the per- oneus tertius. The external, situated between the antero- external and posteroexternal borders, is twisted so that it faces outward above and backward below, where it is contin- uous with the posterior border of the external malleolus. Much broader than the anterior, it gives origin to the peron- eus longus in its upper two-thirds, and to the peroneus brevis in its lower two-thirds. The internal, situated between the anterointernal and posterointernal borders, is narrow above and below and broadest in its middle, directed inward, and gives partial origin to the tibialis posticus. The posterior, situated between the posteroexternal and posterointernal borders, and twisted so as to face backward above and in- ward below, is continuous with the triangular rough area above the articular facet of the external malleolus. In its upper third it gives partial origin to the soleus, and in its low- er two-thirds to the flexor hallucis longus. Near its middle is the nutrient foramen. The inferior extremity corresponds to the external mal- leolus. It is pyramidal, somewhat compressed laterally, and is longer, more prominent, and descends lower than the in- ternal malleolus. Its external surface is convex, subcutane-