65 DEVELOPMENT OF BONE weaker, and poorly nourished. The cartilage acts as a loom that is gradually destroyed as the process of weaving ad- vances. The spongy bone, where temporary, acts as a scaf- folding upon which the superstructure of compact bone is built. The warp and woof of an Haversian system resem- bles, in cross-section, that of a spider-web. The concentric threads correspond to the Haversian lamellae; the radiating cross-threads to the perforating fibers; and the imprisoned insects to the bone-cells. The space surrounded by the in- nermost circle of thread corresponds to the Haversian canal. The manner in which the bone-cells bury themselves in the fabric of the bone is similar to the embedding of bricks in mortar. In studying bone-development, it must be appre- hended that the several processes are going on simultan- eously: the sequence is only that necessary for description. In the history of vertebrate animals, the membranous is the primitive method of bone-formation, and as the earliest bones were scale-like ossifications in the integument, so all bones thus formed are called dermal or membrane bones. Calcification and afterward ossification of cartilage subse- quently appeared, and then subperiosteal ossification—the latest form to appear being endochondral ossification. In man, the bones, from their solidity and inflexibility, serve as supports to the softer organs or for their more se- cure inclosure, and hence constitute an entoskeleton. They also perform special functions: the auditory ossicles, for example, conduct the sonorous vibrations, and the bony labyrinth is concerned with equilibration. To these may be added the functions of the marrow. In Vertebrata, bone is more extensively distributed than in man. It exists as dermal plates in the skin of the Armadillo, Tortoises, Liz- ards, and Fishes, and hence constitutes an exoskeleton. In the organs of other animals it forms a splanchnoskeleton. Thus, the bone in the diaphragm of the Camel, Llama and Porcupine, and ossified tendons of Birds; in the sclerotic coat of the eye of Birds, Chelonians, and Saurians; in the nose, the proboscis of the Pig and Mole, and os prenasale of the Sloth; in the tongue, os entoglossum of Fishes and Birds; in the heart, the cardiac bone of Ruminants and Pachydermata; in the respiratory organs, the laryngeal, tracheal, and bronchial bones of many Birds; and in the