229 ETHMOID BONE curved lines of the human occiput are feeble representatives of, for example, the enormous lambdoidal ridge of the Go- rilla. In the Ox, horns spring from this ridge. The prom- inence of the external occipital protuberance and external occipital crest in Quadrupeds varies directly as the extent of the development of the ligamentum nuchae which supports the head, and is usually in propor- tion to the weight of the head and its appendages. This is illustrated in the head of the Deer, Tiger, and Ele- phant. The os incae is often distinct in Rodents. The basilar portion is unfavorably influenced in its development by aquatic habit. Thus, it is absent in Batrachians, rudi- mentary in some of the Cetacea, and often imperfectly ossi- fied in Seals. But one occipital condyle is present in Birds and Reptiles. The outer and inner tables of the occipital bone of the Elephant are separated by large pneumatic cells. The foramen magnum is situated somewhat behind the mid- dle in negroes, approaching its posterior position in the Anthropoid Ape. Ethmoid Bone. The ethmoid (sieve-like), cubical in form, light and del- icate in texture, is situated at the anterior part of the base of the cranium, and contributes to the floor of the anterior cranial fossa. It presents a horizontal plate, a vertical plate, and two labyrinths. The horizontal plate (cribriform plate) connects the labyrinths with the vertical plate like the cross limb of a T. It presents:— (1) Crista galli (cock’s comb), a smooth, thick, trian- gular crest, highest before and sloping behind, which is a continuation of the vertical plate above the horizontal, and to which is attached, behind, the falx cerebri. The anterior border of the crista galli is flattened transversely, as though by a mallet, into two alae, which are received into corre- sponding depressions in the frontal. (2) Foramen cecum, a blind canal formed by articula- tion of the alae with the frontal, which lodges a process of falx cerebri. When not blind but patent, it transmits an emissary vein from the superior sagittal sinus to the nose.