174 THE BONES The patella may be absent in man’s own class, as in the Wombat. It is wanting in Frogs and in Tortoises. In Bats and Seals it is very small. In the Grebe it is extraor- dinarily large and elongated. In the Ostrich it is irregular in shape, being represented by two superimposed ossifica- tions. Tibia. The tibia (shin) or shin-bone, the second largest and longest bone in the skeleton, is prismoid in shape and ex- panded above and somewhat enlarged below, and presents a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity comprises two tuberosities, the spine, and the tubercle. The internal tuberosity presents on its superior surface an oval, concave facet for the internal condyle of the femur. The periphery of this facet is over- laid by the internal semilunar cartilage, which is attached to the margin of the tuberosity by the coronary ligaments. Its lateral surface is convex, rough, and prominent, and fur- nishes attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Its posterior surface shows a deep, transverse groove for partial insertion of the semimembranosus. The external tuberosity presents on its superior surface a nearly circular, almost fiat facet for the external condyle of the femur. The periphery of this facet is overlaid by the ex- ternal semilunar cartilage, which is attached to the margin of the tuberosity by the coronary ligaments. Behind, the facet encroaches slightly on the posterior surface. Its lat- eral surface is convex and rough and, at its junction with the anterior surface, presents a rough eminence to which is attached the iliotibial band. Just below this eminence are inserted the extensor digitorum longus and biceps femoris. Its posterior surface presents a flat, nearly circular facet for the fibula. The anterior surfaces of both tuberosities are continuous with each other over a flattened, triangular area that is perforated by nutrient foramina. The tubercle is a large, oblong eminence, whose lower part is rough for at- tachment of the ligamentum patellae, and whose upper part is smooth for a bursa that separates this ligament from the bone. The spine is situated between the superior surfaces