231 ETHMOID BONE external and internal surfaces of each labyrinth, are ar- ranged in two sets—an anterior and a posterior, the walls of which have been broken before, above, behind, and below during disarticulation. With the bone in situ, however, the cells are all enclosed except where they communicate with the nasal fossae. The two sets often intercommuni- cate. The ethmoidal cells are closed before, by the lacrimal and nasal process of the maxilla; above by the horizontal plate of the frontal; behind, by the body of the sphenoid in the upper part, and by the orbital process of the palate in the lower part; and below, by the orbital surface of the max- illa. These constitute the four articular surfaces of each cuboidal labyrinth. Of the two non-articular surfaces, the external (lamina papyracea) contributes to the inner wall of the orbit, and closes the ethmoidal cells externally. The internal surface, more extensive and less regular than the external, contrib- utes materially to the outer wall of the nasal fossa, and closes the ethmoidal cells internally. It presents from above and behind downward and forward:— (1) Superior turbinate, a scroll of thin bone channelled by grooves that lead to the outer row of olfactory foramina. (2) Superior meatus, a narrow, oblique fissure between the superior and middle turbinates, into which open the sphenoidal and posterior ethmoidal pneumatic cells. The sphenoidal pneumatic cell communicates with the superior meatus through the sphenoethmoidal recess. (3) Middle turbinate, a thin lamella of bone that de- scends from the under and fore part of the horizontal plate, and terminates in a thickened, free convoluted border. Ir is nearly twice the length of the superior. It articulates with the superior turbinated crest on the internal surface of the vertical plate of the palate. (4) Middle meatus, bounded above by the outwardly- curved middle turbinate, and below by the inferior turbinate, which is a separate bone. Into this meatus open, via hiatus semilunaris, the frontal and anterior ethmoidal pneumatic spaces, and, with the bone in situ, the maxillary sinus. The hiatus semilunaris is the crescentic cleft that is bounded be- fore by the uncinate process and behind by the ethmoidal bulla. It begins above at the infundibulum, or ostium front-