PERIPHERAL NERVE-EXTREMITIES 77 mucous membrane of the mouth, and in the connective tis- sue of muscles and tendons. In them the dendrite begins in a minute knob, and passes without branching to the periph- ery of the corpuscle, where it acquires its medullary sheath. Genital corpuscles (of Krause) are large, oval bodies situ- ated deeply in the corium of the glans penis, clitoris, and parts adjacent to the genitalia. In them the dendrites of as many as ten nerve-fibers begin in minute knobs, from which proceed naked dendrites in confusion toward the periph- ery, where they acquire their medullary sheath. They have a thick, lamellated capsule. Tactile corpuscles (of Meissner) are large, irregularly oval bodies that are particularly numerous in the finger- tips, there being about twenty to the square millimeter here. They are also found in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet and other sensitive localities. They are surrounded by a thin, nucleated, connective-tissue capsule. The enclosed dendrites begin in a rich network of varicose telodendria which wind spirally about the corpuscle and, near the base of the latter, perforate the capsule and acquire their medul- lary sheath. Ruffini’s corpuscles are large, elongated bodies, not dis- similar to those of Meissner, that are found in and near the corium of the fingers and toes. They are surrounded by thin, connective-tissue capsules. The dendritic telodendria begin in minute knobs and, after forming a varicose net- work, assemble in larger branches which leave the capsule. They acquire their medullary sheath before leaving the cor- puscle. Lamellar corpuscles (of Vater-Pacini) are large, ellip- tical, highly-specialized bodies that are found in the palms and soles, and in most serous membranes. They are charac- terized by a prominent capsule made up of from forty to sixty concentric lamellae, interspersed among which are endothelial cells whose spindle-shaped nuclei are plainly seen. Between the lamellae there is clear, serous fluid. The dendrite begins near one pole of the corpuscle in the semi- fluid inner bulb, which occupies the axis of the body, in minute knobs, and passes as several telodendria toward the opposite end of the inner bulb. The telodendria soon be- come one axial fiber which, at the opposite end of the inner