THE BONES 168 greatest size in the Elephant and Mastodon. The iliopecti- neal eminence is rudimentary in man, but in Bats is a very elongated spine, and in the Kangaroo is quite prominent. The prominent development of the spine of the ischium is absolutely peculiar to man. The tuberosity of the ischium in man is relatively small and inconspicuous. In the highest Apes it is much larger, and in the Gibbons and other monk- eys of the old world it is not only very large, but everted and flattened with a rough surface for the attachment of a thick- ened skin, or callosity. The pubes in Birds are long and bent post-axially. In all Marsupials except the Tasmanian Wolf, and in the Monotremes the internal pillars of the ex- ternal abdominal rings are ossified. These ossifications constitute the marsupial bones, and are movably articulated with the brim of the pelvis. The Femur. The femur (thigh) or thigh-bone is the largest and longest bone of the skeleton, its proportion exceeding one- fourth the height of the entire body. It consists of a shaft and two extremities. The superior extremity presents a head, a neck, and two trochanters. The head forms a hemisphere, and is di- rected upward, inward, and forward into the acetabulum, which accommodates it. Somewhat below and behind the center is a little fossa for the ligamentum teres. The neck is a stout, pyramidal process of bone, which joins the head to the shaft and forms, with the latter, an angle of 130 de- grees. It is flattened from before backward, slightly con- stricted at its middle, and broader at its junction with the shaft than at that with the head. Its anterior surface lies in the same plane as the front aspect of the shaft, and is perfor- ated by numerous nutrient foramina. The posterior surface, smooth and concave, gives attachment to the capsule of the hip-joint at the junction between its outer and middle thirds. The superior border, short and thick, is perforated by large nutrient foramina, and terminates at the great trochanter. The inferior border, longer, narrower, and smoother than the superior, curves downward and backward to terminate