DEVELOPMENT OF BONE 61 d. Mast-cells (Ehrlich), irregularly oval cells whose nucleus is fairly large and whose cytoplasm contains large granules. They stain reddish with dahlia-violet. They will be recalled as a variety of wandering cells of connective- tissue. e. Red blood-cells, which are seen in all steps from their colorless, nucleated, formative stage (erythroblasts, later normoblasts) to their red non-nucleated, mature con- dition (erythrocytes). It must not be overlooked that red marrow is the great blood-forming organ of the body. Yellow marrow is red marrow infiltrated with fat-cells. It is the most purely fatty tissue in the body, a specimen from the humerus of an Ox, containing 96% of fat. It occu- pies the shafts of long bones. The blood-vessels of bone are arranged in two systems: a. Periosteal system, whose arteries, after ramifying in the periosteum, enter the bone through Volkmann’s canals and, reaching the Haversian canals, anastomose with branches of the next system. b. Medullary system, in which a medullary artery enters the bone through the medullary canal and, reaching the mar- row, breaks up into a rich network of vessels that anasto- moses with the vessels of the periosteal system. Through the very delicate, thin-walled capillaries thus formed, the blood is brought into intimate association with the marrow. The veins leave the bone through:— a. The medullary canal. b. Independent foramina in the cancellous tissue. Following the arteries are perivascular lymphatics and nerves. Lamellar corpuscles are found in the periosteum. Development of Bone. Bone develops relatively late in embryonic life, after the muscles, nerves, vessels, and many of the organs have been formed. At this stage the skeleton (with certain excep- tions) is cartilaginous, and is the prototype of the matured bony skeleton. The bones ossify in respective order of their importance and function. Thus, the clavicle, mandible, and the ribs ossify early because sucking and breathing are the first requirements of the new-born.