58 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY rebound. Arab children make excellent bows with the ribs of Camels. Bone-tissue is either compact or cancellous. Cancellous (lattice-work) bone resembles the skeleton of a sponge, and is found at the extremities of long bones and in the middle of short and of flat bones (diploe). Its spaces are direct extensions of the general medullary cavity. It has neither Haversian nor lamellar systems. Compact bone is dense and firm, and forms the shafts of long bones and the shells of short and of flat bones. A thin cross-section of the com- pact shaft of a decalcified bone, ground to transparency and examined, exhibits a lamellar arrangement. a. Circumferential lamellae, comprising periosteal la- mellae and endosteal lamellae. b. Haversian lamellae, disposed concentrically about Haversian canals. c. Interstitial lamellae, packed in between adjacent Haversian systems. An Haversian system consists of from eight to fifteen Haversian lamellae disposed concentrically around one Ha- versian canal. They resemble a transverse section of a branch of a tree. Between the lamellae are the lacunae, small oval spaces that belong to the general canal system of bone. It has been estimated that the lacunae average in number 910 to the square millimeter. Adjacent lacunae of an Haversian system communicate with one another and with the Haversian canal by canaliculi, which are minute, radiating tubules that traverse the Haversian lamellae. Thus is formed a network of intercommunicating “juice-canals,” which permeates the entire bone. If a lacuna represents the body of an insect, the canaliculi represent its legs. Ha- versian systems are absent in cancellous bone. The terms “lamella” and “lacuna” are diminutives of “plate” and “lake,” respectively. The perforating fibers (Sharpey) are bundles of con- nective tissue that pass from the periosteum, from which they arise, diagonally through several sets of lamellae, which they rivet together just as bolts rivet boiler-plates. They abound in the periosteal lamellae, as may be surmised from their origin. By separating the lamellae of a decalcified bone, some of the perforating fibers may be withdrawn from