MUSCULAR TISSUE 69 maze of details. Their arrangement is responsible for the cross-striation that distinguishes this variety of muscle* Highly magnified, the muscle-fibers thus show alternating light and dark transverse bands. The broad, dark bands, the transverse disks, are doubly refracting or anisotropic (i. e* appear light in polarized light with crossed Nicol’s prisms), and are always designated by the letter Q (Querscheibe). The light band, which is singly refracting or isotropic (i. e*: appears dark in polarized light with crossed Nicol’s prisms), is situated at either end of the dark band, bearing a relation to the latter that bread of a sandwich bears to the inter- posed meat. It is bisected by a narrow, dark band, the intermediate disk (Krause's membrane), which is always designated by the letter Z (Zwischenscheibe). The trans- verse disk is crossed in its middle by a delicate band, the median disk (Hensen). Regarding the significance of these striae many theories have been advanced, of which those of Krause, Rollet, and Heidenhain are the most plausible. The last is the most widely accepted. Heidenhain’s theory takes it that where the intermediate and median disks are pierced by the con-> tractible fibrillae, there a brace is given to each individual fibrilla, thus allowing contraction with uniformity and greater strength. The contractile fibrillae arrange themselves in each muscle-fiber in groups, the muscle-columns (sarcostyles). On cross-section, these muscle-columns are called fields of Cohnheim, which are separated by the clear lines of the . sarcolemma. While the individual contractile fibrillae proL duce the stippling of Cohnheim's fields, yet it is almost im- possible to see these fibrillae dissociated any further, or, in other words, in their isolated state. Striated muscle varies in color and in contractility. Ordinarily it is of the pale type, which is the more highly differentiated and responds more rapidly to stimuli, though at the expense of rapid fatigue. Here the nucleus lies on the periphery of the mucle-fiber, just beneath the sarco- lemma. Red muscles have special histological character- istics. Owing to the thinner fibrils, there is relatively more sarcoplasm, and the nucleus lies not only peripherally, but also within the muscle-fiber. This type is less highly difi