98 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY tion with the dentine are odontoblasts, cylindrical cells that send processes into the dentinal tubules as. the dentinal fibers. Having produced the dentine, these cells remain in the periphery of the pulp, and do not encase themselves in the ground-substance as do bone-cells. Development of Teeth. ^ The teeth are formed partly by the (epithelium of the oral mucous membrane (ectoblastic constituent), and partly by the underlying connective tissue (mesoblastic constitu- ent). The former is responsible for the ejiameljorgan, and the latter for the dental papilla. About the seventh Fetafweek the epithelium over the jaw grows horizontally into the underlying mesoblast as the dental ledge. In the third month localized thickenings of this epithelium appear on the labial side of this ledge, thus differentiating the anlages of the individual temporary teeth. These anlages correspond to the enamel organs. At the same time, the mesoblastic connective tissue thickens in ser- ies with the enamel organs, and these thickenings correspond to the dental papillae. The further construction of the teeth depends upon intimate relations established between the enamel organs and the dental papillae, and upon changes within the interior of each. The enamel organ sinks deeper into the mesoblast until it is connected with the surface-epithelium by an attenuated band only: this soon disappears. In its growth, the enamel organ becomes helmet-shaped, clothing the dental papilla like a helmet clothes a head. It soon differentiates into three layers of cells—the outer, middle, and inner. The outer layer, which is nearest the surface, is composed of flat- tened cells, and is continuous with the inner layer at the margin of the helmet. The middle layer imbibes fluid and becomes so edematous and wide-meshed that the epithelial cells are compressed into stellate shapes. Hence the name enamel-pulp is applied to the middle layer. The latter grad- ually disappears. The inner layer is composed of high ada- mantoblasts, which are united by cement-substance. The inner parts of these cells differentiate into cuticular zones,