67 MUSCULAR TISSUE an oval, rod-shaped nucleus, embedded near its center. The cytoplasm exhibits longitudinally disposed contractile fibril- lae, which may be regarded as differentiations in one di- rection of the primitive network of the cytoplasm. They are more marked at the periphery than where they surround the nucleus. Each fiber-cell is surrounded by a faint, hya- line sheath—the boundary zone. These cells, whether associated in groups or in sheets, are held together by very delicate connective-tissue partitions. They may be disso- ciated for individual study, however, by macerating fresh tissue in 20% nitric acid. In cross-section the fiber-cells ap- pear as polygonal or round areas of unequal size, because the section cuts through different parts of the tapering cells. The smaller areas contain no nucleus, because they are sec- tions of the small ends of the spindle-shaped cells. Between the groups of fiber-cells are found blood-vessels and nerves embedded in connective-tissue. Non-striated muscle may be diagnosed by the parallel arrangement of its structural units, with which the nuclei correspond, and by the proto- plasmic appearance of muscle substance as compared with fibrous connective tissue. The nerve-supply of non-striated muscle is derived from the sympathetic system, a non-medullated fiber of which is applied to each fiber-cell, about which its fine fibrillae ter- minate in free ends. Non-striated muscle forms, in general, the musculature of the viscera. It thus allows hollow organs a certain de- gree of dilatability. It develops around the larger lymphatic and blood-vessels; around the intestinal canal and the prin- cipal gland ducts opening into it; around the large respira- tory tubes; around the bladder and ureters, the uterus and ducts of the genital system; and, finally, in connection with the hairs, in the capsule of the spleen, and in other minor places. The largest fiber-cells are found in the pregnant uterus. In Vertebrata, the distribution of non-striated muscle is, in some instances, peculiar. It is found in the skin of Birds, as the muscles of the quill feathers; in the Orang, as in men, in arrectores pili; in the iris of Amphibia; in the bell- shaped campanula of osseous Fishes; in the gizzard of Birds; in the swimming bladder of Fishes; in the lungs of the Fro^*