THE BONES 186 Metatarsus. The metatarsus (beyond the tarsus) consists of five "long bones in miniature” which, leaving the tarsus, extend forward almost parallel with each other to their anterior ex- tremities, which support the toes. A typical metatarsal pre- sents a shaft and two extremities. The shaft, prismatic in shape and compressed from side to side, gradually tapers from base to head and presents three borders and as many surfaces. Of the three borders, the two lateral are sharp and begin on each side of the su- perior surface of the base, converge toward the middle of the shaft, and diverge toward the head to terminate in the cor- responding lateral tubercles. The inferior, thick and round- ed, extends from the inferior surface of the base toward the head, near which it bifurcates into two limbs that termi- nate in the articular eminences on the inferior surface of the head. Of the three surfaces, the superior, narrow in the mid- dle and wider fore and aft, is covered by extensor tendons. The two lateral, more extensive than the superior, are con- tinuous with each other around the inferior border, and give origin to interossei. The base (posterior extremity) is wedge-shaped, articulates behind with the tarsus and on each side with the adjacent metatarsal bones, and is rough above and below for ligaments. The head (anterior extrem- ity) presents a convex articular surface, encroaching more upon the inferior than the superior aspect, for articulation with the posterior phalanx. On each side is a depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for the lateral ligaments of the metatarso-phalangeal joint. The inferior surface of the head is grooved for the passage of flexor tendons, and is bounded on each side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. The first metatarsal is the shortest, thickest, and most massive of all. The shaft, strong and markedly prismatic, tapers rapidly toward the head. Its superior surface, smooth, broad, and convex, faces upward and inward. Its inferior is concave from behind forward, and is covered by the flexor hallucis longus and brevis. Its external lateral, nearly ver- tical and broader behind than before, is in relation with the