THE FEMUR 169 at the small trochanter. The great trochanter (roll) is a broad and thick, quadrilateral eminence that surmounts the junction between the neck and the shaft, and presents two surfaces and four borders. The external surface, rough and convex, is continuous with the corresponding surface of the shaft, and is subdivided by a diagonal line that runs down- ward and forward, into an upper triangular area, rough and covered by the gluteus medius, and a lower triangular area, smoother and covered by a bursa under the gluteus maxi- mus. The diagonal line itself receives the insertion of the gluteus medius. The internal surface, less extensive than the external, presents at its upper and hinder part the deep digital fossa for the tendon of the obturator externus, and above and in front of this, an impression for the tendons of the obturator interims and the gemellus superior and in- ferior. The superior border, thick, free, and irregular, is marked near ifs center by an oval impression for the tendon of the pyriformis. The inferior border corresponds to the junction between the base of the great trochanter and the external surface of the shaft, and shows a ridge for partial origin of the vastus externus. The anterior border, broad and irregular, receives, externally, the tendon of the gluteus minimus, and presents, at its upper part, the tubercle of the femur, which is the meeting-point of five muscles, namely— the superior gemellus, the obturator internus, the inferior gemellus, the vastus externus, and the gluteus minimus. The posterior border, thick, rounded, and forming part of the posterior intertrochanteric line, bounds the digital fossa be- hind. The small trochanter is a blunt, conical projection at the lower and hinder part of the base of the neck, where the latter joins the shaft. Its apex is rough for reception of the tendon of the iliopsoas, and from its base radiate three ridges, of which the internal is continuous with the inferior border of the neck; the external, with the posterior inter- trochanteric line; and the inferior, with the middle division of the linea aspera. The iliacus fibers of the iliopsoas ex- tend below the small trochanter to gain additional insertion into the shaft. The spiral line starts at the tubercle of the femur, runs obliquely downward and inward, winds around the inner side of the shaft below the small trochanter, and joins the