MAXILLA 237 into the incisor crest, which juts forth anteriorly into a pointed projection, the anterior nasal spine. (2) Anterior palatine foramen, at the fore part of the intermaxillary suture, just behind the incisor teeth. Lead- ing into this foramen from above are four smaller foramina. Of these, two (foramina of Scarpa) are situated in the line of the intermaxillary suture, one behind the other. The anterior transmits the left nasopalatine nerve, and the pos- terior the right. These relations are similar to those of the vagi nerves to the surfaces of the stomach, since after ro- tation of that organ the left vagus lies anterior, and the right posterior. The remaining two foramina (of Stenson) are situated on either side of the intermaxillary suture, and lead to the corresponding nasal fossae. Their relation to the first two foramina is such, that a line connecting them would intersect at right angles a line connecting the first two. They transmit some terminal branches of the de- scending palatine arteries from the mouth to the nasal fos- sae, and lodge recesses of the nasal mucous membrane and remnants of Jacobson’s organ. The posterior border is ser- rated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the pal- ate. The mesial borders have been considered under (1). The maxillary sinus lies within the body of the bone, and is of corresponding pyramidal form. It is the largest of the pneumatic cells in the bones of the head, accommodat- ing a musket-ball with ease. Its inner wall is incomplete, and was described with the base of the pyramidal body (q. v. 1). It is lined by an extension of the nasal mucous mem- brane, and its opening into the middle meatus is at a higher level than its floor. Interiorly, it overlies the sockets of a variable number of teeth, but is usually confined in extent to the teeth of the true maxilla. Its remaining walls corre- spond to those that form the three surfaces of the body. Its anterior wall is traversed by a canal that leads the anterior superior dental nerve from the infraorbital canal to the in- cisor and canine teeth. Its outer wall conducts the middle superior dental nerve from the infraorbital groove to the premolars. The posterior dental canals have been described with the posterior surface of the body (q. v. 1). The angles and corners of the maxillary sinus are frequently groined by narrow ridges of bone.