50 MICROSCOPIC ANATOMY spinal cord, which are strictly ectoblastic in origin, are per- vaded with connective tissue carried in from the mesoblastic pia mater by the penetrating blood-vessels. Connective tis- sue is of utility to the organism according to its composition ■—sometimes as a solid unyielding substance; sometimes as a soft support for vessels, nerves, and lymph-nodes; and, at times, as a yielding tissue that fills up spaces and facilitates changes of position. It is found in all Vertebrata in about the same condition as in man. Rare in Invertebrata, when found it consists of isolated cells and intercellular substance, as in the mantle of Bivalves. It consists of cells, white fibers, elastic fibers, intercellular spaces, and fluid. The cells of connective tissue (excepting, of course, endothelium) are insignificant in number, but sufficient are provided for nurture and reproduction of the intercellular substance. Profuse in young connective tissue, they are sparse in old, since they are diminished in size and more widely separated, thus becoming relatively inconspicuous. The intercellular substance, on the other hand, com- poses the bulk of connective tissue, and the older the latter becomes, the more the former predominates. It is directly or indirectly dependent upon the cells for nutrition. In connective tissue there is a disposition to stellate clefts, whose ramifications unite to form a network of inter- communicating “juice-canals/’ which conduct nutrient tis- sue-juices. These clefts are not, as ordinarily conceived, the beginnings of lymph-vessels. Compare them to the stomata of endothelium. The cellular elements are of two varieties:— (1) Fixed (connective-tissue cells proper), which, pri- marily flattened, stellate protoplasmic plates with branched processes, later become the inconspicuous spindle cells of adult areolar tissue, with only a thin envelope of protoplasm. They are named, according to the tissue in which they lie, fat-cell, cartilage-cell, bone-cell, etc. These fixed cells may absorb oil and form fat-cells, which accumulate throughout the body, except in the eyelids and scrotum. Other cells take up pigment, and are found in the skin and around blood- vessels. (2) Wandering (migratory), which, as leucocytes, come from the circulation and have the power of passing