THE BONES 204 the head to the tubercle. Its anterior surface, flat and smooth, is in relation with the parietal pleura. Its posterior surface is rough for attachment of the middle costotrans- verse ligament, and is perforated by vascular foramina. This surface is in relation with the transverse process of the cor- responding vertebra. Its superior border shows a rough crest for attachment of the anterior costotransverse liga- ment. Its inferior border is rounded. The tubercle, situated behind the junction of the neck with the shaft, presents an upper, outer, rough part for the posterior costotransverse ligament, and a lower, inner facet for articulation with the tip of the transverse process. The shaft, thin, flat, and strongly curved, presents two surfaces and two borders. The external surface, convex and smooth, shows, about two inches from the tubercle, the angle, for reception of a tendon of the iliocostalis. The area between the tubercle and angle receives part of the longissi- mus dorsi. Near the sternal extremity this surface presents an abrupt curve, indicated by an oblique line: this is the anterior angle, and affords insertion to part of the serratus magnus. The internal surface, concave and smooth, is in relation with the parietal pleura. The superior border, thick and rounded, affords attachment to the external and internal intercostals. The inferior border presents the subcostal groove, which accommodates the intercostal vessels and nerve. The outer lip of this groove corresponds to the in- ferior border of the rib, extends to the tubercle, and serves for attachment of the external intercostal. The inner lip is rounded, extends to the head, and affords attachment to the internal intercostal. The groove is perforated by vascular foramina. The sternal extremity is cupped for the reception of the costal cartilage. Peculiar Ribs. The first rib is the broadest, flattest, shortest, and most curved of the ribs. Its head is small, rounded, and provided with but one facet for articulation with the body of the first thoracic vertebra. Its neck is narrow and rounded. Its tubercle is large and prominent. An angle is lacking. Its