55 CONNECTIVE-TISSUE SUBSTANCE blue with cyanin. Adipose tissue may be referred to as fatty-areolar tissue. (5) Cartilage (gristle) is composed of cells and a modi- fied intercellular matrix of connective-tissue bundles that are closely cemented together, thus giving great strength. It is the most compact form of connective tissue without in- organic salts, and thus forms a transition between connec- tive tissue and bone. When fresh it is firm and translucent, and consists chemically of collagen, chondro-mucoid, chon- droitin sulphuric acid, and albumoid. A good specimen of simple cartilage may be obtained from the ear of the mouse. Cartilage-cells are lodged in groups of two or more in lacunae, interfascicular clefts homologous with the stellate spaces of tendon. Each lacuna is bounded by a capsule, a spe- cial wall of the surrounding matrix. Since the cells produce matrix in concentric layers, it follows that the capsule corre- sponds to the most recently-formed matrix. This is the process of interstitial growth, and occurs mainly in young cartilage. The largest cartilage cells are found in the Ele- phant. The perichondrium is a membrane that envelops the entire cartilage, and consists chiefly of white fibrous tissue and but slightly of yellow elastic. It contains vessels and nerves and presents two layers:— a. Outer fibrous layer, composed of dense fibro-elastic tissue. b. Inner chondrogenetic layer, which is looser and con- tains numerous undifferentiated connective-tissue cells ar- ranged in rows parallel with the surface. As its name im- plies, this inner stratum produces layer after layer of per- ipheral cartilage. This is the process of appositional growth. The undifferentiated cells become cartilage-cells by growth and division, so that the young generations of cartilage-cells are at the periphery and the old in the center of the cartilage. The older the cells the more separated they become by the gradual increase of the matrix. In old age the more central parts of the cartilage undergo asbestos change, with its lus- trous white appearance, and also calcification and ossifica- tion. Not only does this layer produce cartilage, but it re- pairs it.