135 HAIR The hair—shaft and root—consists from without in- wards of three parts:—cuticle, cortex, and medulla. The cuticle is composed of a layer of horny cells, imbricated like fish-scales. The cortex is made up of spindle-shaped, horny epithelial cells, longitudinally arranged. It forms most of the hair. The medulla is the pithy core of the hair, and con- sists of polyhedral cells that contain air, fat, and pigment. The hair-follicle represents an invagination of the skin —epidermis and corium—into the subcutaneous tissue, and it is advantageous to recall the layers of the skin and recog- nize them in their modified form as the description proceeds. Each follicle is composed of the theca, outer root-sheath, and inner root-sheath. The theca, derived from the corium, con- sists of a fibrous sheath of outer longitudinal loose, middle circular compact, and inner hyaline connective-tissue fibrils. The last corresponds to and is continuous with the basement membrane of the corium of the skin. The outer root-sheath is representative of the stratum germinativum, the single layer of columnar cells lying in apposition with the inner hyaline layer of the theca. It is from this sheath, as might be surmised, that the hair receives its tissue and growth. The inner root-sheath is composed of three layers—outer (Henle’s), middle (Huxley’s), and inner (cuticle). The outer layer presents a single row of nucleated, cubical cells. The middle layer shows a single or double row of nucleated, polyhedral cells. It forms two-thirds of the inner sheath. The inner layer is a thin cuticle that consists of a single layer of flattened, imbricated, horny cells. It thus resembles and lies against the hair-cuticle, with whose scales its own scales interlock. Associated with the hair-follicles are sebaceous glands and non-striated muscle-bundles—arrectores pilorum. The former lie just below the junction of the shaft of the hair with its root, and serve for lubrication. The latter arise from the corium and, passing downward.and inward, insert into the deep part of the hair-follicle. Both of these are situated on that side of the follicle toward which the hair inclines. Contraction of these muscles produces '‘goose- flesh;” in fact, they “make one’s hair stand on end.” The fetal hairs (lanugo) are shed soon after birth, and replaced by the permanent pelage. There are over 350,000