167 OS 1NN0MIN ATUM chiefly by the ischium, is very thin, lodges a cushion of fat, and is depressed below the level of the articular portion. Near its center is attached the ligamentum teres. The obturator foramen, oval in shape, is formed above and before by the os pubis, and below and behind by the ischium. It is bounded by a sharp margin, except above and behind, where the inferior surface of the horizontal ramus of the os pubis is channelled by the obturator groove. To this margin is attached the obturator membrane, which con- verts the groove into a foramen that transmits the obturator vessels and nerve. From the inner surface of the margin the obturator interims takes partial origin, whilst from the outer, the obturator externus. The great sciatic notch is converted into a foramen by the lesser sacrosciatic ligament, and transmits the pyri- formis, the gluteal vessels and superior and inferior gluteal nerves; the sciatic vessels, the great and small sciatic nerves, the internal pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerves to the obturator interims and quadratus femoris. The small sciatic notch is converted into a foramen by the greater sacrosciatic ligament, and transmits the tendon of the obturator interims, the nerve to that muscle, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. The os innominatum develops from an oval plate of cartilage in which primary centers appear for the ilium, the ischium and the os pubis. At birth these three bones are separated by a triradiate cartilage whose three limbs meet at the floor of the acetabulum. About the twelfth year a •• secondary center appears in the latter cartilage, the ossifica- tion of which unites the three bones into the os innomin- atum by the sixteenth year. Close on to puberty, four addi- tional secondary centers appear for the crest of the ilium, the anterior inferior spine, the crest of the os pubis, and the tuberosity of the ischium, and join the rest of the bone by about the twenty-second year. The innominate bone in man is one of the most distinc- tive of his skeleton. The fusion of its three constituent parts is a character man shares with his own class and with Birds. In some of the lower animals these parts remain distinct throughout life. The ilium is a broad and flat bone in man and in the Elephant, Sloth, and Gorilla, and attains its