202 THE BONES Viewed from the side, the vertebral column presents four curves, of which two are primary and two secondary. The two primary curves are directed concave-forward, and involve the thoracic and sacral regions. They appear early in fetal life, and result from the conformation of the bodies of the vertebrae. The two secondary curves are directed concave-backward, and involve the cervical and lumbar re- gions. They appear after birth, to compensate for the pri- mary curves, and reflect the shape of the intervertebral disks. Viewed from behind, three series of interrupted ridges are seen. The middle ridge is formed by the spinous pro- cesses, which are short, bifid and horizontal in the cervical region; oblique above, nearly vertical in the middle, and hori- zontal below in the thoracic; and horizontal in the lumbar and sacral regions. The lateral ridges are formed by the articular processes in the cervical, lumbar and sacral re- gions, and by the transverse processes in the thoracic. The three ridges bound two gutters—the vertebral grooves, which lodge the deep retrovertebral musculature. The vertebral canal is wide and triangular in the cervi- cal and lumbar regions (where most motion occurs) and nar- row and round in the thoracic and flattened in the sacral (where least motion occurs). The vertebrae are developed from the sclerotomes. Three primary centers appear, one for most of the body and one on each side for the arch. Five secondary centers ap- pear at puberty and unite to form two epiphyseal plates which fuse with the rest of the bone by the twenty-fifth year. In man the soft centers of the intervertebral disks rep- resent the remains of the notochord. The latter persists throughout life in Fishes, as the Sturgeon, Lepidosiren, Lamprey, and Amphioxus. The number of cervical ver- tebrae in man’s class is, as a rule, seven, irrespective of the length of the neck. The short neck of the Porpoise and the long neck of the Giraffe each contain seven. The Two- toed Sloth and the Manatee, however, have but six, while the Three-toed Sloth has nine. In Sauropsidians the num- ber is greater, the Swan having twenty-five. In Batrach- ians there is but one vertebra that may be called cervical. The bifid spines of man extend further down the backbone