FRONTAL BONE 241 The border forms a little more than a semicircle, and dovetails with the parietals at the coronal suture. For this purpose, it is thick, strongly serrated, and bevelled at the expense of the inner table above, and of the outer table lat- erally. Inferiorly, the border is continued into a triangular rough area, which articulates with the superior border of the greater wing of the sphenoid. The horizontal plate consists of a medial ethmoidal notch and two lateral, somewhat triangular, orbital plates. Its^nferior surface shows:— (1) Nasal notch, a rough, serrated semilunar surface between the internal angular process, which articulates on each side internally with the nasal bone, and externally with the nasal process of the maxilla. (2) Nasal process, a projection that extends from the center of the nasal' notch downward and forward beneath the nasal bones, which it supports. (3) Nasal spine, a long, pointed process that separates two grooves on the under surface of the nasal process. The spine contributes to the nasal septum, articulating with the crest of the nasal bones before, and the vertical plate of the ethmoid behind. Each groove contributes to the roof of a nasal fossa. The junction of the frontal and nasal bone is termed the nasion. (4) Ethmoidal notch, a quadrilateral gap in the mid- line that, m the articulated skull, is plugged by the horizon- tal plate of the ethmoid. The margins of this notch are broad, and excavated by demi-cells which, when opposed to corresponding labyrinthine demi-cells on the upper surface of the ethmoid, complete the ethmoidal cells. (5) Grooves, anterior and posterior, which cross the margins of the ethmoidal notch transversely, and are con- verted into canals by articulation with the horizontal plate (q. v. 6) of the ethmoid. The anterior ethmoidal canal transmits the corresponding vessels and the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve from the orbit into the anterior cranial fossa. The posterior eth- moidal canal transmits the corresponding vessels, and the small spheno-ethmoidal nerve (of Luschka). (6) Orbital plates, which are separated by the eth- moidal notch. Each is smooth, concave, and triangular, and 16