228 THE BONES young subjects by cartilage, and in older ones by bone. Each lateral surface presents from before backward:— (1) Articular area, rough and serrated, for articula- tion with a similar area on the posterior border of the petrous portion of the temporal. (2) Smooth area, the inner component of the jugular foramen, continuous with the anterior border of the jugular process. (3) Jugular process, already described with the infer- ior surface (q. v. 4). The foramen magnum is the opening through which the posterior cranial fossa and the spinal canal communicate. Oval in shape, and with its long axis in the sagittal plane, it encroaches upon the basilar portion of the occipital be- fore, and the posterior portion behind, whilst its greatest transverse diameter corresponds to the junction of these two portions. It is of practical use in that it indicates the junction between the spinal cord and bulb. It transmits the bulb with its membranes, the accessory nerves, the ver- tebral arteries, the anterior and posterior spinal vessels, and the occipitoaxial ligaments. Around the edge of the foramen magnum the dura mater of the brain and cord are firmly attached. The occipital is ossified by seven centers. The pos- • terior portion is ossified from four, one appearing at the bottom of each fossa about the eighth week of fetal life. Of these, the upper two are deposited in membrane, the lower two in cartilage, and the four parts coalesce rapidly near the future occipital protuberance. Now and then the upper two join across the mid-line and form a bone that remains permanently isolated. This is the interparietal bone, or os incae, so called because of its frequency in the Inca tribe of Peruvian Indians. The basilar portion is ossified by three centers—one for the basilar process, and one for each of the condyles. The derivatives of the four upper centers unite about the fourth year; those of the three lower about the fifth; and the two parts thus formed join as the single occipital bone about the sixth year. The posterior portion of the occipital of man is rela- tively large. But in the Cetacea as well as in the Elephant its relative as well as absolute size is enormous. The faint