17 MATURATION OF OVUM thorough understanding of the ordinary homotype mitosis is absolutely essential, and it would be well to review the latter, described a few pages back. In the prophase of heterotype mitosis the close skein of chromatin withdraws to one side of the nucleus, a condi- tion termed synapsis. During this synapsis the 24 chro- mosomes fuse so as to form 12 pairs. In the metaphase, in- stead of cleaving longitudinally as in homotype mitosis, the two parts of each pair separate, one part of each pair attach- ing itself to the threads of the achromatic spindle, by which it is drawn to one secondary oocyte, whilst the other part is drawn in like manner to the other secondary oocyte. Each part consequently represents a whole chromosome. There- fore, from the 12 fused pairs, 24 single chromosomes are dis- tributed to both secondary oocytes-—12 to each. While the drawing of 12 whole chromosomes along the threads of each half of the achromatic spindle to each sec- ondary oocyte seems the natural course for the completion of reduction, and while it would simplify matters were it so, yet a further complication of heterotpye mitosis must be described to complete this subject. It would be permissible, even preferable, however, to conclude with the above inter- pretation rather than misconceive the following course oi events. As the 12 whole chromosomes travel along the threads of each half of the achromatic spindle toward each secondary oocyte, they undergo cleavage so that each secondary oocyte receives 24 half-chromosomes instead of 12 whole ones. Even so, the result is the same, since the 24 half-chromo- somes are distributed by their secondary oocyte to the ma- tured ovum (or second polar body) directly without further cleavage, so that finally either of the two cells mentioned gets 12 of the 24 half-chromosomes. In other words, the longitudinal cleavage that should have occurred in the meta- phase of the secondary oocyte actually takes place in the 12 whole chromosomes during their transit between the equa- tor of the achromatic spindle of the primary oocyte and the nucleus of the respective secondary oocyte. Therefore, there can be no complete reconstruction of the nucleus of a sec- ondary oocyte. Comparing maturation with spermatogenesis, it is seen 2