247 VOMER is most distinct in Caucasians, faintly marked in negroes, and absent in Apes with one exception,—the Siamese Gib- bon. The mandibular foramen may be very capacious and funnel-shaped, as in the Dolphin. In the Crocodile the angle projects far backward. The ramus is absent in the Great Ant-eater and in Cetaceans, and is very low in most Rodents, particularly in the Porcupine. The coronoid process, there- fore, is rudimentary in Rodents, but in the Dog is well- developed and rises far above the condyle. This, like the median parietal ridge of the Canine, is in keeping with the voluminous temporal muscle in this class. The condyle varies in shape according to the type of animal, whether Carnivor- ous, Ruminant, or Rodent. With a little thought, the shape of the condyle in these respective types may be approxi- mately conjectured, but will be described with the tem- poromandibular joint. Vomer. The vomer (ploughshare) is a thin, delicate, irregularly quadrilateral plate of bone that is placed mesially in the lower and hinder part of the nasal septum. It presents two surfaces and four borders. The superior border, the thick- est part of the bone, slopes from beliind upward and forward and articulates with the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid. It is expanded laterally into alae, two everted lips that receive in the groove between them the rostrum of the sphenoid. The alae are overlapped and retained by the vaginal plates of the internal plates (q. v. 3) of the pterygoid processes of the sphenoid, and come into contact with the sphenoidal processes of the palates. The inferior border is horizontal and lies in the groove formed by the nasal crest of the maxillae and of the palate bones. The anterior border, the longest, slopes obliquely from above downward and for- ward, is ankylosed to the vertical plate of the ethmoid in its upper half, and is grooved in its lower half for reception of the septal cartilage of the nose. The posterior border, which slopes from behind downward and forward, forms the free posterior margin of the nasal septum, and separates the choanae. Each lateral surface is smooth, covered in the re- cent state by nasal mucous membrane, and traversed bv‘ a groove that conducts the nasopalatine nerve from the \