166 THE BONES inferior surface is deeply grooved for the obturator vessels and nerve. The internal surface is smooth, forms part of the anterior wall of the true pelvis, and gives partial origin to the obturator internus. Of the borders, the superior cor- responds to the pubic constituent of the iliopectineal line and gives origin to the pectineus; the external corresponds to the obturator crest, which extends from the pubic spine to the acetabular notch; and the inferior forms the upper margin of the obturator foramen. The outer end of the horizontal ramus forms one-fifth of the acetabulum, and is surmounted by the iliopubic eminence, which indicates the junction between the ilium and os pubis and receives the inconstant psoas parvus. The descending ramus is a flattened bar of bone that runs downward and outward to become continuous with the ramus of the ischium. Its external surface is rough for partial origin of the obturator externus, adductor magnus, adductor brevis, and gracilis, from without inward. Its internal surface is smooth, and gives partial origin to the obturator internus and compressor urethrae. The external border, thin and sharp, contributes to the circumference of the obturator foramen, and affords attachment to the obtu- rator membrane. The internal border, similar to the infer- ior border of the pubic ramus, is thick and rough, and shows an outer lip, to which is attached Codes’ fascia; an inter- space; and an inner lip for attachment of the inferior tri- angular ligament. The acetabulum (a small cup) is a large, circular cavity that accommodates the head of the femur, and is formed by contributions of one-fifth from the os pubis, and two- fifths each from the ischium and ilium. Its floor is formed by an articular and a non-articular portion. The articular portion, broad above and narrower below, is horseshoe- shaped, the deficiency being below at the acetabular notch, which, in the recent state, is converted into the acetabular foramen by the transverse ligament bridging across it. To the outer rim of this articular portion are attached the cotyloid ligament and capsule of the hip-joint, while to its inner rim is attached the synovial membrane. The non- articular portion is rough, and continuous with the upper, outer margin of the obturator foramen. Its floor, formed