SALIVARY CALCULUS. 969 and saliva continues to ooze tlirougli the openings. The irrita- tion caused by repeated attacks of inflammation, and the con- tinued loss of saliva, exhaust the patient. The cause may be overlooked, especially if the sufferer is otherwise of delicate con- stitution. In the submaxillary region the tumour caused by the concretion may be mistaken for a glandular tumour, and an opera- tion proposed to excise it. This vpould be a very serious error if acted on, for between the supposed tumour and the skin, there is of course a great depth of parts, including the submaxillary gland, and the facial artery and vein. A little attention to the history of the case, and a careful examination from the mouth, would lead to a correct diagnosis. The remedy is comparatively simple. The concretion is fixed by pressure from below by an assistant, so as to render it prominent towards the mouth, and a free incision is made from the mouth through the mucous membrane directly upon the concretion, which is then easily turned out with the scoop of a director, or seized and extracted by a pair of polypus forceps. There is little thickness of parts, no vessel of any size need be divided, no external wound is left, and little or no after- treatment is required. Inflammation of the Tongue.—Glossitis may be excited by various causes, but the affection is sometimes apparently de- pendent on epidemic influences, and then assumes a very formidable character, and demands prompt and decided treatment. The organ becomes swollen, has a tense or brawny feeling to the touch, and is of a dark brown colour, with a sense of burn- \^ ing heat and pain, and the mucous mem- ^x, brane of the cheeks and lips is swollen. The swelling increases with great rapidity, and in some cases which I have seen, when the disease was preva- lent here, the tongue swelled so rapidly as to separate the teeth and nearly fiU the mouth in less than twenty-four hours from the in- vasion of the attack. There is a considerable amount of fever