AMPUTATION OF ARM. 795 all amputations. It may be effected with almost equal success by the old circular or the modified circular method, or by aiitero-posterior or lateral flaps. In performing the circular operation (Plate xxxvi. Figs. 6 and 7), the integument should be well drawn up by an assistant. The operator should then bend his right knee, place his hand and wrist well round the arm, and begin his incision in such a position that, by rising and cutting simultaneously, he can cause the cutting edge of the knife to traverse the circumference of the arm at one sweep. The skin, fat, and fascia, so cut, should then be retracted by the assistant, and the muscular and other textures cut through to the bone by a second circular cut. These should in their turn be drawn upwards, the muscles immediately surrounding the bone projected, and the edge of the knife applied obliquely, so as to convert the projection into a hollow cone. The soft parts are then held back so as to allow the bone to be sawn as high as exjjosed. Thus, when the soft parts are restored to their position, they form a hollow cone, of which the section of the bone forms the apex. When healed, the result is a well- covered and very useful stump. The antero-posterior or lateral- flap method is performed by means of transfixion (Plate xxxvi. Fig. 8). The soft parts should be grasped and pinched up by the left hand of the operator, so as to enable him to transfix with the blade of the knife close to the bone. He should then cut downwards and outwards through the muscles and skin, making a well-proportioned and neatly-rounded flap. After that has been effected, he should re-insert the knife half-an-iuch below the former point of transfixion, close to the bone on the opposite side, and make a second flap to correspond exactly with the first. The flaps should be well retracted, and the bone cleared and cut at a point at least an inch and a half above the angles of the incisions, and the bone sawn through there. All further retraction must then be avoided, lest the periosteum be dragged up from off the divided bone. Many surgical authorities seem to consider it a matter of indifference whether this amputation be performed by antero-posterior or lateral 3 G