AMPUTATION OF THUMB. 787 point at which we contemplate dividing the bone, and is carried down along the middle line of bone till it reaches the web of the finger, where it diverges to form the V-incision, as in amputation at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The extensor tendon is cut across, and the metacarpal bone cleared from the soft parts attached to its sides. Its section is then accomplished by Liston's bone-pliers. They should be applied perpendi- cularly, with their smooth surface towards the part to be left. When the bone is divided, the end is raised by means of a hook or forceps, and with the point of the bistoury cutting upon the bone, we clear its palmar surface with the least possible interference with the structures in that region, dividing the flexor tendons as we cut out at the web between the fingers. Thus the palm is scarcely touched, and a comparatively superfi- cial wound results. Formerly, when the metacarpal saw was used, the whole thickness of the palm was necessarily divided to permit of section of the bone. When the little finger is the subject of this operation, the incision is made on the ulnar side of the hand to avoid deformity, not on the back. Disar- ticulation of the fingers at the carpo-metacarpal joint should never be performed if we can leave even the small portion of the metacarpal bone, because, by opening any one of the articula- tions here, there is communication with the whole range, and inflammation of these irregular articxilations is very apt to occur, and serious consequences, both local and general, may follow. In some cases, as for malignant tumours of a metacarpal bone, we may be obliged to disarticulate. In removal of the little finger, with its metacarpal bone, the incision of the soft parts is made along the ulnar aspect of the bone ; and in disarticulating, the knife passed between it and the fourth metacarpal bone, should have its edge turned towards, and be made to cut upon that meta- carpal bone, as the articulation is oblique, and division of the strong interosseoiTS ligament is most readily effected in this way, and disarticulation is then easily accomplished. Amputation of the Thumb.—Ampxitation of the distal