INJURIES OF HEAD. 894 depressed, or tlie removal of comminuted fragments of bone, whether performed with the trepan or other instruments. The instruments required for the operation are not very- numerous. The old trepan and trephining cases iised to contain a great array of instruments, many of which are now never used : such were the rasparatory, for scraping off the peri- cranium ; the perforator, for boring a hole to insert the centre- pin of the trephine and the lenticular. The last-mentioned instrument, however, may occasionally be useful; at least I can conceive a case where it might smooth off an irregular edge, but I have never used it myself Certainly it should not be used in every case to smooth the edge of the trephine wound, as used to be done, as that is likely to do harm by unneces- sarily separating the dura mater by the button at the end of the instrument. The instruments really necessary are—the trephines of different sizes, so arranged that they can be fitted to the handle of the trepan or trephine as required ; trephine forceps fitted for removing the circle of bone cut by the trephine ; an elevator ; a *' Hey's saw bone-pliers; the lenticular ; a small brush to clear the teeth of tlie trephine during the operation ; a thin flat probe of wood or quill to examine the depth of different parts of the circle during the operation, and the usual apparatus of bistouries, sharp and probe pointed ; dissecting and artery forceps, sponges, lint, etc. The operation is modified by the nature of the causes requir- ing its performance, and as the simplest example of trepanning or trephining is perforation of the cranium for the purpose of evacuating blood or purulent matter, T shall first show you the Tnethod of procedure in such cases. The operation consists essentially of three stages :— 1st. The incision of the scalp and pericranium. 2d. Section of the bone with the trepan or trephine. 3d. Evacuation of the extravasated blood or pus. In cases of depressed fracture, the 3d stage consists in elevating the depressed, and removing the loose fragments of bone. In operating for evacuation of blood or pus, the line of