78G OPERATIONS. on the opposite side to wliere lie began liis incision. This latter method, though simple and rapidly effected, requires practice, to avoid cross-cutting in rounding the end of the bone to cut outwards. By whatever method the finger has been amputated, care should be taken to preserve the parallelism of the conti- guous fingers ; and for this purpose I always introduce an elon- gated pad of lint between the fingers, extending from the points to the articulation of the middle with the proximal phalanx. This prevents their being dragged too closely together, and so impair- ing the usefulness of the hand. The less dressing over the incision, the better. The mere cartilaginous head of the metacarpal bone may be removed without injury, as some think this facilitates the heal- ing of the wound, although, for my own part, I think it better to leave it on. But unless disease or injury compel us, on no account should the broad portion of the metacarpal bone beyond the head be removed in the case of the middle or ring fingers. It is sometimes advised as leaving a neater hand; but it is quite inadmissible on such a plea. That portion of the bone forms the keystone of the metacarpal arch, and its removal permits the other metacarpal bones to fall inwards, and so the usefulness of the hand is impaired. In the case of the little or forefinger, which are placed laterally, the objection does not exist, and the oblique section of their metacarpal bones beyond the articulation obviates deformity. In the case of the forefinger, the usefulness of the hand is increased rather than impaired by the procedure, as then the middle-finger takes the place of the forefinger in relation to the thumb, more easily than when the projection of the meta- carpal bone is present. The method of removing the end of the metacarpal bone of the forefinger is shown in Plate xxxv. Tig. 2. The incision of the soft parts is similar to that already described, only placed to the side, so that the cicatrix may be less observ- able. The section of the bone is best effected by the oblique cutting bone-pliers. In amputation of a finger, along with a portion of its meta- carpal bone, the incision is commenced half-an-iuch above the