INJURIES OF HEAD. 874 we wish to avoid their use in head cases. In several instances of watchfulness, restlessness, and delirium, I have found excellent results follow the use of bromide of potassium in large doses and I prefer it to opium in such cases. In the later stages of the diseased action, when we have muttering delirium, slight paralysis, or a tendency to coma, and in which the originally contracted pupils have become dilated, and do not answer readily to tlie stimulus of light—in other words, when we have reason to suspect effusion either of serum or lymph—the use of a blister to the nape of the neck, or over the scalp, produces often very marked benefit, and it should be applied before the symptoms have made much progress. Mercurials may also be of use in this stage, to promote absorption of any plastic effusion. The diet requires to be carefully attended to. At first it should be strictly antiphlogistic, but in the later stages we often require to give stimiilants and animal soup to support the patient; and, in most cases, when the more urgent symptoms have been subdued and the tongue become tolerably clean, tlie exhibition of quinine as a tonic will be found of great service in promoting convalescence, and relieving the peculiar nervous headache which is generally present. The quinine should be given in small doses at first, combined with dilute nitric or nitro-muriatic acid, and the dose gradually increased up to three or four grains twice or thrice a day. When the symptoms arise which indicate that the inflamma-. tory action has terminated in suppuration within the cranium, we must consider whether we can by perforation of the cranium reach and evacuate the pus. I have already pointed out the two conditions which, in my opinion, form the best guides as to the locality of the purulent collection, when situated between the bone and the dura mater. When we have either the puffy tumour or the unhealthy wound and bare bone at the site of injury, or even when there is tenderness of the scalp at one point, as evidenced by the effect of pressure, and when the symptoms are evidently progressing unfavourably, I think our plain duty is to give the patient what little chance