OPERA TIONS. 748 point of suture, and one suture more unites the reflected portion of the long flap to its unreflected portion. Thus the transverse line of union is bounded at each end by a short lateral line at right angles to it." Before investigating the merits of this method, we may observe that amputation by a long anterior and a short posterior flap is not a new operation. In 1765 Mr. O'Halloran of Limerick recommended, and carefully described, such a method for amputation of the thigh. His directions are as follow :— " With a straight knife commence your flap incision at about three inches more anteriorly (lower down ?) than where the bone is to be sawn through, supposing an adult, and so in proportion to the age of the patient and the size of the limb. Let the incision be continued in an oblique direction till you reach the bone, then, with the same, or a common amputation-knife, make your circular sweep, commencing from the side of your flap, directly to the bone." Mr. O'Halloran, however, had peculiar views as to dressing his stumj)s. He inserted a piece of lint between the bone and the flap, dressing the surfaces sepa- rately for ten or twelve days before approximating them. In 1848 this method of amputation was revived in France by M. Sedillot, and also by M. Baudens; the former surgeon, even in his mode of dressing, closely following O'Halloran, by directing a piece of lint or other digestive to be interposed between the bone and the flap for some days. On consideration it will be seen that the anterior flap, recommended by Mr. O'Halloran, is far too short. For, taking the thigh as nearly a circle, and 12 inches as an average circumference, the flap would be less by 1 inch than the diameter of the limb, or the surface which it has to cover. This, along with the peculiar mode of dressing the stump, was probably the cause of the operation falling into disuse. Mr. Teale's method of amputation possesses the great advan- tage of having the end of the bone completely covered by the sound tissue of the anterior flap, whilst the cicatrix is placed high up on the posterior aspect of the stump. It, however, has certain disadvantages. The excessive length and square