REGIONAL SURGERY. 950 result of mere local irritation, and in tliese the cure was cor- respondingly speedy and complete. You will understand from what I have just said that attention to the constitution generally forms the principal part of the treatment, which must be conducted on the general principles already laid down. The local treatment consists in the direct application of nitric acid to the sore, to destroy the diseased parts, and arrest the action. This should be followed by the use of Condy's fluid diluted with distilled water, and at a later period lotions of sulphate of copper, or chloride of zinc, may be required to assist the healing process. Patients are often anxious that the opening in the septum should be closed, and are disappointed when they find it does not close under the treatment ; but they should be made to understand that the object is to arrest the spreading of the disease, and that contraction or closure of the ulcerated aperture cannot be expected. Plastic operations, or rather attempts at them, uniformly fail, from the sloughing of any flap introduced, the secretion of the nostril interfering with union ; besides, paring the edges of such an ulcer is almost sure to re-excite the local ulceration. When lecturing on the subject of lupus, I adverted to the plastic operations which we sometimes have recourse to, with a view of restoring the nose, and remedying deformity. I did so then, warning you against performing such operations until a considerable period had elapsed after cicatrisation of the ulcer- ated surface. Even after a lapse of time, such cases are liable to recurrence of unhealthy action, and our plastic operations may be unsuccessful. Still, in many such cases, when the disease has been healed for some time, and the patient's general health restored, or in cases where the nose or portions of it have been lost from injury, we have recourse to operative measures to remedy the deformity. When I was a student, Ehinoplastic Operations were very fashionable, and very great favourites withMr.Liston. The method he pursued, and which was then generally practised, was a modifi- cation of the native Indian plan, represented in the accompanying