674 OPERA TIONS. middle of the space which separates the tendons of the supinator radii longus and the flexor carpi radialis muscles must be made to divide the skin, and the aponeurosis must be divided to the same extent as the skin. This done, the artery, with its accom- panying veins, is seen ; the insulation must be carefully effected, so as not to w^ound the veins, and the ligature applied. It may be mentioned, however, that the rupture of a single vein, or its ligature, if it be small, does not occasion any real danger. In order to tie the Ulnar Artery at its upper part, the forearm must be extended and laid upon its dorsal surface. The surgeon, placed either to the inner or outer side of the limb, searches for the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is readily known at its inferior pari; by feeling for the pisiform bone to which it is attached. This done, he must trace from below upward the fur- row which separates the tendon from that of the flexor digitorum sublimis, and thus proceeding towards the internal condyle of the humerus, the direction is indicated in which the incision must be made. The surgeon, after having determined the edge of the flexor carpi ulnaris, makes an incision of the skin with the bistoury, parallel to that edge ; he then searches for the first intermuscular space which can be found proceeding from the ulnar to the radial side of the arm. If the skin be very movable, this is easily distinguished, so that, if the first incision be badly directed, it can be corrected by means of the mobility of the skin. We could not, however, avail ourselves of this resource had the skin, aponeurosis, and a certain portion of the muscular fibre, been cut at the same time. Having found the intermuscular line which is formed by the contact of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and of the flexor digitorum sublimis, the aponeurosis which imites them must be divided, and those muscles forcibly separated from each other. In order to facilitate the opening of the wound, it is recommended that the hand be slightly flexed upon the forearm, and the forearm upon the arm. In following the external surface of the flexor carpi ulnaris from within outward, we see upon the same plane first the ulnar nerve, the internal vein, and then the artery with