848 AMPUTATION. I have said as to the causes wliicli influence the mortality of the greater primary; amputations. First, we have the case of a poor girl, caught by machinery ; her thigh crushed, the perinseum lacerated, and then brought into the hospital from a very considerable distance, the ampu- tation requiring to be performed through the trochanters. Next, we have the case of the man E , who had one leg torn off, and the other crushed and mutilated by a railway truck, who had lost much blood and lain exposed, no one could exactly say how long, but at least an hour and a half, in one of the coldest nights of last winter, and both of whose thighs required to be amputated immediately. The third fatal case, that of John Eeilly, was one where the amount of injury was less than in either of the former, it being a compound fracture extending into the knee-joint, caused by a railway waggon passing over the leg; this man was brought from a distance, and had lost some blood, though not, I believe, a large amoimt, before reaching the hospital. Although much depressed at first, he went on very favourably till the end of the third week, when symptoms of pyaemia set in rather suddenly and destroyed him. But here, as in all cases of railway accident, I suspect the general shock is much greater than it appears, and tells ultimately on the consti- tution. I have noticed that even the less severe compound frac- tures so caused not unfrequently terminate fatally by pyaemia, after seeming to progress favourably for two or three weeks. A circumstance connected with this very case seems to show how severe the shock may be without any very extensive local injury. It happened that the young man who succeeded Eeilly in his post at the railway met with a similar accident about eight days afterwards, and was also sent to be under my care. On admis- sion he was pale and collapsed ; he had stimulants administered, and when I saw him, six hours after the accident, he had re- vived ; and as I found he had sviffered a compound fracture into the knee-joint, I had him removed into the operating-room for the purpose of amputating the limb ; but as he was about to be lifted from the basket, 1 observed his face very pale, and on feel-