INJURIES OF HEAD. 920 was immediately brought to the hospital, when there was found to be a scalp wound about half-an-inch in front of the posterior superior angle of the left parietal bone, three quarters of an inch to the left of the longi- tudinal sinus. On introduction of the finger, a considerable depression of bone was detected, a portion being driven in and unpacted. His pulse was of a good strength, and up to that time he had suffered from no head symp- toms. He was jaut under the influence of chloroform, and the operation for trephining resorted to. Several impacted portions of bone were , removed ; the dura mater was seemingly intact, except at one point. There was considerable venous haemorrhage, which, however, soon ceased. One or two silver sutures introduced to keep flaps of skin in contact, the head shaved, and cold applied. On the following day his bowels were fully opened by means of jalap and calomel, and he was apparently going on favourably, till the evening of the fifth day, when his pulse rose from 85 to 140, and he began to complain of considerable pain in the head Six leeches were applied behind the ears, and a saline aperient adminis- tered. Following day, feverish symptoms still continuing, a blister was applied to nape of neck. Pupils slightly dilated, but readily contract on application of light. On the seventh day there was a distinct rigor ; wound looking healthy. Complained of complete loss of power of the right side on the ninth day. Head symptoms more intense ; ordered small doses of calomel: portion of dura mater now began to look sloughy ; patient be- came rapidly worse ; pulse ranging from 130 to 140 ; answered questions incoherently ; was very violent at times ; breathing stertorous ; and died comatose on the thirteenth day. Post-mortem appearance.—Dura mater sloughy at parts ; pus effused over the surface of the brain, and an abscess at base of brain on left side. 3. J. T., while following a runaway horse, received a kick on the forehead. He had been drinking previously to the accident, and when admitted to the hospital, half-an-hour afterwards, was in a somewhat excited state, and his pu^^ils were dilated. There was a compound fracture, with depression a little above the right superciliary ridge. Mr. Spence, being sent for, immediately trephined, and found much splintering of the inner table, with slight abrasion of the dura matter. The head was ordered to be shaved and cold applied, while low diet and perfect quietness were enjoined. For six days after the ofteration the patient progressed most favourably. The wound looked well ; there was no headache or flushing of the face, and his pulse averaged 72. On the 7th day, after a restless night, his pulse rose to 86. He was ordered six leeches behind the ears, antimony in doses of a twentieth of a grain, and a saline aperient. Feverish symptoms continued to increase in severity during the two following days. He complained of intense headache ; his pupils were dilated, and there was a wild expression of countenance, with slight delirium. On the tenth day, the pulse fell to 40, and, after several violent convulsive seizures, he died comatose. After death there was found to be pus infiltrated into the meshes of the pia mater all over the surface of the brain. 4. A— P'—, aged 17, residing at Walltower, near Penicuik. WhUst engaged with some of his fellow-workmen at a game of quoits, he stepped forward to mark the position of the quoits, thinking all had been tlirown. Just as he was stooping he was struck on the left side of the head; he