693 LIGA TURK OF POSTERIOR TIBIAL. words, exactly between, and in close relation to, both these vessels, so that it forms an unerring guide in the deep part of the wound, by which we may reach either vessel. The vessels and nerve are separated from the soleus by a layer of thin but strong fascia, which binds them to the deeper muscles. Then they are covered by the soleus and gastrocnemius muscles, fascia, and skin. Lower down, where the muscles of the calf of the leg have terminated in the tendo achillis, the posterior tibial is covered merely by the skin, superficial and deep fascia, ^ and its course can be readily recognised by its pulsations. The plan of operation which is very generally advised for tying the posterior tibial in the upper part of its course, is by means of a long incision through the integuments corresponding to the external or fibular border of the tibia, next dividing the fascia, and drawing outwards the inner margin of the gastroc- nemius, and then either detaching the tibial origin of the soleus from the bone, or dividing its fibres from the surface towards the artery. I consider that such a plan is not well suited to effect the pur- pose in the living, and that the direct plan recommended by the late Mr. Guthrie is much better, as enabling us to reach the vessel more directly, and really with less disturbance or dissection of parts ; whilst, if it happens that the peroneal is the vessel re- quiring to be tied, that can be effected without any alteration of the original incision. I have twice had occasion to tie the posterior tibial—once at the middle, and once at the upper part of the leg ; and from my experience in these cases, I have no hesitation in recommending the mesial or direct operation. In the former of these cases the vessel required to be secured in a lacerated wound, and hence the direct operation consisted merely in enlarging the original wound and tying the vessel. In the latter the operation was undertaken to secure the posterior tibial at its highest point on account of an arterial erectile tumour, apparently directly connected with it. In that case the posterior tibial was found to be very small, and its ligature produced no effect on the pulsation of the tumour ; but, having taken the