G80 OPERA TIONS. divided, to the extent of two inches, at the lower outer part of the wound. The fascia transversalis is thus exposed, and must be divided with great caution lest we wound the peritoneum. Perhaps the best method of doing this is to raise a small portion in the dissecting forceps, and apply the edge of the knife, held horizontally, so as to cut out a small portion. This enables the surgeon gently to separate the edges of the opening in the fascia, and enlarge the opening with a probe-pointed bistoury, the edge of the bistoury being directed outwards. By the small opening thus made, the operator enters his forefinger and carefully separates the peritoneum from the transversalis fascia muscle, in the line of his incision, and then slits up the internal oblique and transversalis muscles to such an extent as may be necessary to enable him to reach the vessel. He next pushes the peri- toneum aside and inwards from the iliac fossa, so as to expose the artery. An assistant, whose hands have been previously dipped in warm water, holds aside the sac of the peritoneum and contained viscera, so as to keep them out of the way of the operator, but this must be done with great care. If necessary, the outer margin of the wound may be held aside by a curved metallic spatula, but in general the vessels are readily seen. The fine cellular sheath should be opened over the fore part of the artery, and the circumference of the vessel cleared, so far as is required to pass the armed aneurism needle. The point of the needle should be passed from within outwards, so as to avoid injuring the vein. "When the point appears at the outer side of the artery, the ligature is seized with the dissecting for- ceps, the aneurism needle withdrawn, and the vessel tied. Before closing the wound all clots should be removed, and any bleeding points secured. In closing the incision, the sutures should be placed deeply, to prevent the risk of protrusion, and to obtain union of the deep as well as of the superficial parts of the incision, and thus obviate weakness of the abdominal parietes. In pass- ing the sutures with this view care must of course be taken to avoid puncture of the peritoneum with the needle. When the operation is completed, a large fiat compress of lint is placed over