909 TUMOURS OF SCALP. monly met with. The general characters of their growth I have formerly described. In this region they usually exist in num- bers, scattered over the head, and varying in bulk from the size of a barley-corn to that of an orange. The cysts are thick and distinct from the scalp-texture, and so loosely connected that they are readily pulled out, unless pressure or wrong treatment has caused inflammatory adhesions between them and the sur- rounding tissues. If not interfered with, they may attain a large size, but if they inflame and suppurate, or give way, un- healthy action takes place, the scalp becomes thickened and irritable, the cyst of the tumour throws out fungous projections, and exudes a horribly foetid discharge, and the lymphatic glands at the back of the neck and ears become painful and enlarged. Altogether the case assumes an appearance of malignancy, and these cases are frequently spoken of as degeneration of a simple into a malignant growth. There is, however, no true malignancy. The tumour becomes irritable, and degenerates locally, but if the original tumour was a simple encysted one, there will be no con- stitutional taint, nor any contra-indication to its removal; and so soon as that is done, the enlarged lymphatics will disappear, and the wound heal and leave a healthy cicatrix. The Treatment of encysted tumors in the scalp is in general very simple. If the growth is not larger than a small walnut, we transfix its base with a long narrow bistoury, and cut out, dividing the cyst and scalp, and then seizing the cyst with a pair of dis- secting forceps, draw it from its loose cellular connections. In larger cysts, when we require to remove a portion of skin, or when we want to avoid opening the cyst, to prevent its contents getting amongst the hair, we may cut upon the tumour, expose the cyst, and turn it out whole, with very great ease. In cases where the tumour has suppurated, the cyst may be partly adherent, and at other parts very friable, so that we cannot remove it as a whole. Then we remove as much as we can with the dissecting forceps, clear away the contents, and touch any adherent portions with nitrate of silver or other caustic, and apply warm-water dressing. In cases where we have removed the cyst entire in the usual