889 WOUND OF THE VENOUS SINUSES. position for some days, and under strict antiphlogistic treatment. He made a good recovery, and there was no more bleeding. In this case I was apprehensive lest the blood, prevented from escaping externally, might lead to intra-cranial extravasation and compression, and I had the patient carefully watched, determining to trephine in case of these conditions arising, but no occasion for interference occurred. Probably the attachments of the dura mater had not been separated by the force causing the injury. In the other cases the injuries of the sinus were merely punctures, and though the jet of venous blood was forcible, there was nothing like alarming haemorrhage. In re- gard to the risk of trepanning over the sinus or close to it, I believe that unless the fractured bone has injured it, if due care be taken in using the trephine, the sinus may escape being wounded. I have twice trephined over the sinus, and in both cases the bone was removed without the upper membrane closing the sinus being opened. In cases where there are sharp shelving points of the internal table of the skull, the movement of the trephine in working it may cause injury to the siniis. Although this complication is neither so much dreaded as formerly, nor should prevent the surgeon interfering in cases re- quiring operation for removal of fragments of bone, which must, if left, prove dangerous, still, as I have said, it is a serious complication, and apart from the risk of haemorrhage, may lead to fatal phlebitis. In the case of the lad I have mentioned, who had fracture of the vertex, the head symptoms were mixed up with those of phlebitis, and when examined after death, the large sinuses presented fibrinous clots and broken down unhealthy matter exactly similar to what I found in a case in which I re- quired to tie the internal jugular vein in a suicidal wound high in the neck, where the patient died undoubtedly from phlebitic pyaemia, so that the more prominent danger— haemorrhage—is not the only or even the greatest risk of this complication.