636 OPERA TIONS. extreme led to tlie opposite—the neglect or disuse of prelimi- nary treatment. An operation, however slight or simple it may appear to the surgeon, must always be to the patient a source of great anxiety and distress. When, therefore, an operation is decided on, the less unnecessary delay and suspense the better, as the patient in the interval is liable to become nervous, de- pressed, and less fitted for the ordeal. Whilst, however, pro- longed preparation is to be avoided, a certain period of delay is necessary in most cases of operation, except in those cases where it is required for the results of injury or other urgent causes. Thus, in the case of patients who are brought from a distance, or those admitted into hospital, it is advisable that some days should elapse before they are submitted to operation, not only that a period of rest may be afforded, but also that the surgeon may have an opportunity of carefully examining the state of the patient, and conducting the preparatory treatment accordingly. In all cases a careful examination of the chest should be made, and the state of the abdominal viscera should as far as possible be ascertained. The condition of the tongue, skin, pulse, alvine excretions, and urine, requires to be care- fully attended to. If the skin be hot and dry, the tongue foul, and the secretions unhealthy or diminished, or if irritative fever be present, the operation should be delayed till these conditions have disappeared. Eapidity of pulse, and debility arising from hectic depending on the disease which requires the operation, form no reasons for delay, but rather indicate the necessity for the operation being performed to remove the cause of the hectic. In cases where the urine is albuminous, we should test it fre- quently, and at different periods of the day, to ascertain whether the condition is temporary or persistent, and delay operating until we have thoroughly investigated whether there be any ex- tensive organic disease of the kidneys or not. When there is much lumbar pain, urine scanty, coagulable, and accompanied by oedema, the condition is a contra-indication to operation ; but by dry cupping and cataplasms over the lumbar region, and the use of diaphoretics, mild diluent drinks, and gentle purgatives, this