CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 927 of blood below the scalp, it was by no means easy to ascertain whether the depression felt was really a fracture, or the soft pitting in the centre of the hard clotted blood, while the history of the case, as one of concussion, gradually merging into com- pression after reaction, seemed to point to extravasated blood as the compressing cause ; and the occasional convulsions and sub- sultus tendinum led me to suspect laceration of the cerebral sub- stance. Still, as I felt pretty sure of the feeling of fracture, I determined to incise the scalp to make quite sure, and if I found one, to operate, as, though the other conditions might be present, still a depressed fracture would of itself be sufficient to cause compression, and its removal would give a chance for life. The incision revealed a largely comminuted and depressed fracture, the chief depression being very deep. Several pieces were removed, and the edges of the bone were elevated ; there was no blood between the bone and dura mater. The result of the post-mortem examination proved the existence of the other lesions I had dreaded from the history of the case, and were sufficient to account for the fatal result. Still, the propriety of operating in such a case is obvious, as affording the patient a chance, should the depressed fracture be the principal lesion ; whilst of course we can have no positive certainty as to the existence of other lesions, though we may prognosticate them from the symptoms. The possibility of serious injury of the head remaining latent for a considerable time is well seen in the case of D. L., who, although he had sustained an extensive fracture of the skull, accompanied by laceration of the brain-substance, showed no marked cerebral symptoms for several hours after the acci- dent. On admission, the patient was apparently suffering from slight concussion, wliich soon passed off, and no alarming symp- toms manifested themselves until the following morning, when he was seized with convulsions and subsequent coma. The development of these symptoms, and the period of their occur- rence, pointed to extravasation of blood as their cause; while the site of the external injury rendered it not improbable that