939 EPIPHORA. The lint is removed from the wound in a few hours after the operation, and cold-water dressing applied. Extirpation of the Contents of the Orbit is a coarser and more bloody operation. The operator begins by dividing the outer canthus of the eyelids to get room for his after-pro- ceedings : he next passes a needle, armed with a strong thread, through the cornea, that the thread may be used to fix and draw forward the eyeball. The eyelids being separated, the surgeon cuts the conjunctiva round the margins of the orbit, passes his knife backwards along the orbital plate of the frontal bone, taking care to keep its point directed downwards, and sweeps the blade of the bistoury rapidly round the orbit, the eye being drawn forward at the same time to put the textures on the stretch. If the optic nerve has been completely divided, the con- tents of the orbit are at once removed, or a touch of tlie knife completes the operation. A sponge is thrust into the orbit to control the bleeding until the surgeon is prepared to seize and secure the divided branches of the ophthalmic artery ; a dossil of lint will generally require to be placed in the cavity to control venous bleeding or deep oozing from the central artery of the retina in the optic nerve. The eyelids are then closed and secured with compress and bandage, as in the former operation. The com- press and the lint in the orbit are removed after some hours, and cold-water dressing applied over the eyelids. In both these operations an opiate should be given to allay pain, and obtain perfect quiet to prevent bad consequences. Obstruction of the Nasal Duct, leading to distension and disease of the lachrymal sac, frequently requires surgical inter- ference, and the kind of interference will depend on the nature of the obstruction, and the stage of the diseased condition we have to treat. The earlier symptoms of this obstruction are the trickling of the tears over the cheek, and dryness of the nostril of the affected side. The flow of tears over the cheek—Epiphora, or Stillicidium Lachrymarum—may have other causes, such as 3 Q