654 OPERA TIONS. taclied, so as to be thrown backwards in the form of the tiap marked out by the incisions. The internal jugnlar vein and the root of the right common carotid artery, covered by the deep fascia, are now brought partially into view. The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles should be cut across, so as to expose the deeper parts more fully. The head should be drawn somewhat back, as this allows the innominate artery to be drawn up into the neck, while the left vena innominata, which covers the artery, being fixed by its relations to the right vena innominata and superior vena cava lower down, can scarcely be dragged above the sternum into the right side of the neck. A little deeper dissection is then made, and the artery cleared from the surrounding textures. In doing this great care must be taken to avoid the right pleura, which lies below and to the right side of the vessel. The needle is then passed below it, still taking care to avoid injuring the pleura. The operator should gently trace the surface of the vessel till he distinctly feels its bifurcation, so as to make sure that the artery exposed is the innominate and not the lower part of the carotid, or in case of any irregularity. In performing the operation on the subject before my class, on one occasion, and inculcating the same precautions as I do now, I could not feel the bifurcation. I therefore desisted from farther interference, and had the subject injected. The preparation is now on the table, and you will perceive that there is no innominate trunk. The right subclavian arises from the left side of the arch of the aorta, passes between the oesophagus and vertebrae, and so ar- rives at the right side of the neck. "Wlien there is any diffi- culty in reaching the innominate, you will find it by tracing the right carotid down to its origin, the simplest and surest method of reaching the trunk common to it and the right subclavian. The Common Caeotid Aktery has been so repeatedly tied for aneurism, erectile tumours, and other causes, that no one would now hesitate to tie it from any fear of the effects which the operation may have on the cerebral circulation. Although the anatomical relations of the right and left