CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 823 not produce the desired effect. Fortunately, however, this caused no great delay, for my knife had opened the joint in passing across the limb ; and by grasping the upper broken fragment of the bone, so as to project the head, I completed the disarticulation, and cut as large a posterior flap as I could obtain from the uninjured parts. Some vessels on the posterior flap were first secured, and then the great vessels in the anterior flap,— the vein being included in a ligature. I then removed some contused and doubtful-looking portions of muscle. After all bleeding had been arrested, the flaps were bronglit together with sutures ; and considering the nature of the parts from which the flaps were formed, they fitted tolerably well. The stump was then dressed, and the patient placed in bed, hot bottles applied, and some stimulus given, as lie was very weak. He lost very little blood during the operation, as I ascertained by carefully collecting the blood from the stone floor, when it was found to amount to less than half a small teacupful ; and altogether, with what was in the sponges, to abont five ounces at most. After waiting till the little patient had completely rallied from the chloroform, and had got an opiate administered, I left him in the charge of Dr. Smith, who remained witb him all night, and to whom I am indebted for the following report of the progress of the case :— Examination of Limb after Removal.—On examination of the limb after removal, the femur, from the large trochanter downwards for about two inches, was found to be broken into numerous fragments, the ragged edges of which were embedded in the surrounding soft parts. The muscles and other structures were much bruised and torn, but there was no direct injury to the large vessels or nerves. Progress of Case.—Atli September. During the night patient was very restless and delirious. Pulse 134, weak. A little brandy and water was administered at intervals, but was vomited. No reactionary hsemorrhage of any consequence. Vespere.—Still restless, with delirium. Pulse 130. To have opiate with a few drops tine. mur. ferr. bth. Restless night. Pulse 130, very weak and thready. Svinken aspect of countenance. Beef-tea, brandy, and milk given in small quan- tities frequently. Qth. Rather better. Slept a little. Less delirium. Pulse 108, stronger. Wound has healthy appearance, except at the bruised part of the flap, which looks sloughy. Ith. Pulse 108. Sloughing action extending slightly on posterior flap. Foetid sero-purulent discharge. Chloride of soda lotion. Opiate. &th. Pulse 90. No delirium. Line of demarcation formed, showing slough, rather exceeding a square inch in extent. Purulent discharge copious and less foetid. Qth. All the stitches removed, and the flaps brought together as well as possible by strips of plaster. Pulse 100. I'S.th, Sloughs separated. An attack of diarrhoea. Slight delirium. Opiate. lAth. Pulse 108. Diarrhoea less. Stump looking healthy. Diet for tbe most part milk, beef-tea, wine, with a little brandy. IQth. Doing well. 2Qth. Pulse has risen to 120. Had a restless night with delirium