840 AMPUTATION. spaces, and externally the fascia covering the axillary vess'els and nerves. The fragment of the humerus was drawn upwards and outwards by the deltoid, and the lower fibres of the great pectoral which were entire, were tightly stretched across the lower border of the large wound, and gave it the appearance of a deep dissection. Although, from the nature of the injury, and the state of the patient, I had almost no hopes of his recovery, I thought it right to give him the only chance—viz. by amputation at the shoulder-joint. A small quantity of spirits and water having been given, chloroform was then administered. About a drachm was poured upon some lint and applied to his nostrils by Dr. Thomson. He inhaled it readily, and scarcely a minute had elapsed ere it took effect: the fibres of the exposed muscles were first seen in violent action, and the face became suffused, the breathing became stertorous, the fibres of the muscles assumed a slight tremulous motion, and then became perfectly still; his pulse fell in fre- quency, but was firm ; the full effect of the chloroform was obtained in three minutes. Mr. Falconer compressing the axillary artery between his fingers, above the lesser pectoral, I proceeded to amputate by forming my flap from the outer and back part of the shoulder, where the integument and muscles appeared sound, saving as much skin as possible. From the short lever remaining, I had anticipated considerable difiiculty in disarti- ciilating the head of the humerus ; but in this I was agreeably disap- pointed, for, owing to the complete relaxation of the muscles induced by the chloroform, I was enabled to disarticulate it rapidly and with the most perfect ease. The insertion of the lower fibres of the great j^ectoral, and the other soft parts on the inner side of the humerus were divided, and the fragment of tlie limb removed. The posterior circumflex and two other vessels were tied, and next the axillary at the point where my inci- sion had divided it : perceiving, however, that this point was close to the origin of some large branches, and fearing, moreover, lest it might have suffered from the injury, I laid bare the vessel higher up, beneath the lower margin of the pectoralis minor, and tied it there also ; after re- moving carefully all doubtful-looking portions of muscle and skin, the flap was brought forward and found to cover the wound much better than I expected ; it was secured by several points of suture, supported by com- presses placed posteriorly at the lower part to prevent dragging, some warm-water dressing was placed over the surface anteriorly, and the whole secured by a split cloth bandage. During the whole of the proceedings, which occupied about a quarter of an hour, the patient remained perfectly tranquil, and only became conscious after the dressing had been completed ; a little wine and water were then given. He stated that he had felt no pain, and indeed knew nothing of the operation, but now felt much easier and revived ; his pulse was at this time 68, and pretty firm. I left him in charge of Mr. Fal- coner, desiring that he should have an opiate draught. According to Mr. Falconer's report, the pulse gradually rose, and at three p.m. was 84 in the minute. There was considerable thirst, and he complained of darting pain in the wound, also of slight nausea, which, however, soon left him. In the evening he was less thirsty ; the pulse continued the same, and he