INJURIES OF HEAD. 896 teeth, of the saw, I again resume the section of the bone; from time to time removing the trephine to clear its teeth, and also to ascertain the depth of section at different parts of the circle. In operating on the living, you must proceed very deliberately, and that is one reason I prefer the trephine to the trepan, as the ease with which the latter is worked is very apt to make the operator careless and lead to accidents. You will notice that I am now sawing with only one-half of the circle of the trephine, and using the instrument unevenly as it were. The reason is, that I found with the quill probe that my section was much deeper at the upper segment of the circle than at the lower. The form of the cranium leads to this. Again we must keep in mind the unequal thickness and hardness of the cranial bones, and carefully examine the section every now and then, and accommodate the pressure on the saw accordingly, elevating the teeth of the saw from that part of the circle where the section is deepest, and working more on those parts where the section is shallow. I now feel that the section is almost complete, and that if I used the trepan forceps or elevator I might remove it with a very little force, but that would leave an irregular margin, and might lead to irritation of the dura mater, so I continue to use the saw very lightly at the undivided part of the circle till I feel the bone loose, and then with the forceps I simply lift out the circle of bone. On the living, the blood or pus, if present between the bone and dura mater, would now be exposed, and the evacuation being effected, the scalp wound is closed, and dressed as I have recom- mended when speaking of fungus cerebri, or simply with tepid water lint laid over the part. When the operation is required in cases of fracture of the cranium, our operative procedure is modified by the nature of the injury. In many cases the use of the trepliine is not re- quired. In largely comminuted fractures, for example, by getting out one fragment with the dissecting forceps, or raising an edge with the elevator, we gain room to elevate or extract other frag- ments. In other cases, by using the Hey's saw to cut across the base of some angular portion of the bone, which is sharply de-