771 GANGRENE OF STUMP. injured parts and loss of blood. I think that the circumstances alluded to are obviously in accordance with what we might expect when we consider the effects of such injuries as those entailing a necessity for amputation. By the first shock of the injury the patient is as it were stunned, the sensorial functions are disturbed, and his general feelings benumbed, so that pain is seldom complained of; but as he revives and becomes excited, his nervous sensibility becomes exalted, disturbance in this con- dition causes excessive pain, gives rise to shivering and a feeling of sinking, and produces a marked effect on the pulse. This I have observed in the cases in which I accompanied the patients to town, and I therefore have come to regard removal of cases requiring amputation as of very doubtful propriety. But whilst I draw your special attention to this, there are various other conditions which are obviously causes of danger in cases which are brought even from a short distance. The patients may be exhausted by exposure, loss of blood, and prolonged suffering, as happened in some instances where the accident occurred during the night, and the sufferers remained imdiscovered for many hours during an inclement wintry night. Gangrene of the stump is not, according to my experience, frequent in cases of primary amputation. I have met with only three cases in my own practice. Two of these occurred after am- putation at the upper third of the thigh, for severe railway injury, and in both there had been great loss of blood previous to the patient having been brought into the hospital. In one the gan- grene attacked the surface of the stump on the second day after the operation, and proved rapidly fatal. In the other patient the gangrene was partial, arising apparently in some deep muscles which had suffered injury above the point of amputation. A considerable part of the wound had healed on one side of the stump when foetid discharge began to take place. Arterial haemorrhage occurred, and on opening up the stump to arrest the bleeding, the sloughy state of the deep part of the wound was noticed : the sloughing had opened into the femoral arteiy about an inch and a half above the point where it had been tied in