REGIONAL SURGERY. 984 ments of the temporal muscle. Then the jaw is turned outwards, and readily disarticulated. There is not much risk of wounding the maxillary artery if we open the joint in front, and keep the edge of the knife close to the bone. This is the plan T usually adopt, but as regards its results, it seems questionable whether the two scars caused by the old method, or the effects of this plan, leave the worst kind of de- formity. There is no scar left in this method, but there is often complete paralysis of the face, from the trunk of the portio dura being divided in the operation, which it was not in the old method. The only way to remedy this evil is to make the incision along tlie base, and merely curve it up slightly over the angle of the jaw in raising the flap, and then dissect very close to the bone, so as to avoid the trunk of the portio dura. This renders the dis- articulation more difficult, but then there is no loss of nervous power or expression, there is less inequality in the two sides of the face, and no twisting of the features. In cases where the tumour is very large, however, we can scarcely do this, for tlien we require to make a very free incision to enable us to disarticu- late easily and safely. After securing the bleeding vessels, the line of incision is accurately closed by points of silver suture. The patient should be desired to lie on the opposite side, to pre- vent the saliva or discharge resting in contact with the wound. Some details require to be specially attended to. In making our first incisions, the facial artery should be ligatured if possible before being divided, for it bleeds very profusely, and may give a great deal of trouble. Of late, in excising either the lower or upper jaw, I have used acupressure on the facial artery below the jaw to command the bleeding from it, both during and after the operation, with great advantage. The teeth corresponding to the point of section of the jaw should be extracted before the operation. The flap must be dissected up very rapidly, and the edge of the knife kept directed towards and close to the bone. The bone is cleared a little external to the symphysis, and sawn through there. We should not attempt to divide the bone with cutting pliers too soon. The saw should