OPERA TIONS. 798 and the operator divides the capsule and capsular tendons, disarticulates, and then places his knife on the inner side of the bone (Plate xxxvii. Fig. 4) and cuts the anterior flap. If the right limb is to be removed, the knife is introduced from under the point of the acromion, passed over the head of the humerus, and brought out at the posterior margin of the axilla to form the posterior flap. The vessels are commanded and the operation completed as already described. This plan of operating is that generally adopted; for although the deltoid flap makes an excellent covering, and admits of great facility in disarticulation, yet the amount of exposed cut surface and the double line of cicatrix contrast un- favourably with the single central linear scar left by the double- flap method. Moreover, the great length of tissue required in the deltoid flap cannot often be obtained in cases requiring amputation at the shoulder. As regards the method by double flap, if we look at the result of such an amputation when recently performed, especially if executed by cutting the textures from without inwards, nothing can look better ;—the two flaps joining neatly in their central line, and sufiiciently full to give roundness and to fill up the space under the acromioii. But if we look at such a stump some time after the healing process has been effected, the form of the stump will be found much altered, not merely from atrophy of texture common to all stumps, but from retraction of the muscular constituents of the flaps. The fibres of the pectoralis major retracting towards the sternum, and those of the latissimus dorsi and teres major towards the scapula and spine, cause a separation, especially at the lower part of the line of union, and give rise to the formation of a deep ugly hollow under the acromion, as seen in the adjoining woodcut (Fig. 1). In 1856, from a perusal of Professor Langenbeck's and M. Eaudens' memoirs on excision of the shoulder for gunshot wounds, I was induced to adopt the method of excision by a single linear incision made down upon the head and neck of the humerus, beginning immediately external to the cora-