893 FUNGUS CEREBRI. begins to be exhausted. After all, however, the very nature of the case gives but small chance of ultimate recovery. Here, as in many other diseases, our chance of success lies in prevention. In cases of fracture in which portions of bone have been removed, or in cases where the operation of trephining has been performed, I have long been in the habit of using a modification of the repressive treatment advised by Sir Charles Bell. His plan, as applied to the trepan opening, was to fold a piece of lint several times, and mark it with the crown of the trephine with which the opening had been made. The lint was then cut to the shape and size of the circle, and the compress, so prepared was placed over and within the opening of the bone, and retained by a bandage, the object being to prevent the dura mater from being bulged into the aperture. Such a compress, how- ever, gave rise to great irritation from direct pressure, and was unnecessarily powerful. After trephining, or removing frag- ments of fractured bone, the head having been previously shaved, I lay down the scalp close to the opening; and over the scalp and aperture I lay a portion of thin gutta percha tissue. Over this I place a flat piece of sponge, larger than the opening, wrung out of water, covering it with a layer of gutta percha; the edges of the upper and under layers of the gutta percha beyond the sponge are touched with chloroform, which makes them adhere, and then this light elastic compress is secured by a bandage or broad strip of adhesive plaster. This local treat- ment I have found most useful, as at once a clean and simple dressing, and as tending to repress the bulging upwards of the brain and dura mater against the margins of the aperture in the cranium. It should be combined with strict antiphlogistic treatment, purgation, and non-stimulating diet at first. The operation of Trepan or Trephining, strictly speaking, means the perforation of the cranium with the special instru- ments, the trepan or trephine ; but the term. Operation of Trepan, is now very generally used to denote all operations on the cranium having for their object its perforation—the elevation of