963 CLEFT PALATE. sented by a sliort oval slit in the vault of the mouth, bounded both anteriorly and posteriorly by sound parts. Various explana- tions of its origin have been advanced. Some refer it so far back as to make its commencement coeval with the closure of the first visceral arch in the embryo. Others date it from arrested de- velopment at a later period ; vs^hile a third theory attributes it to separation of the still imperfect parts by causes distending the fcetal head. The Ojperationfor Split Palate cannot be shown properly on the dead subject unless the malformation be present. When the soft palate alone is involved, the operation required is compa- ratively simple. What we have to do is to pare the edges of the slit in the palate, and bring them in contact by points of suture. The danger is that the tension may cause the sutures to ulcerate out. Moreover, the constant irritation of the part by saliva and foreign substances in the mouth, and the attempts of the patient to swallow, are apt to break up the newly-united edges, and render the after- treatment rather troublesome. Still the operation for the soft palate is compara- tively a simple one. Various methods have been proposed to relieve the tension. Sir William Fergusson proposes to divide the muscles which render the palate tense, and also to divide the muscular fibres contained in the pillars of the fauces, the palato- glossiis, and palato-pliaryngeus. This ren- ders the tension somewhat less, but the in- jury done by interference with the soft textures, and the division of the muscular fibres, may lead to suppuration, and so defeat the object we have in view. In bringing the edges of the wound together, we should use silver instead of silk sutures, as silk creates more irritation than the silver wire. In putting in the sutures, I leave a consider- able space between the points where the needle is inserted and the free margin, so that there may be a considerable thickness of texture intervening. Fiye or six sutures should be inserted Fig. 21.