OPERA TIONS. 810 rate so that tlie line becomes almost transverse from side to side. The operation is performed as follows :—The surgeon ascertains the position of the scaphoid bone, by feeling its projection towards the plantar surface of the foot, and if operating on the right foot places his forefinger iipon that point, whilst his thumb rests about three-fourths of an inch behind the projection of the fifth metatarsal bone. He makes a gently curved incision, the convexity towards the toes, across the dorsmn of the foot, about an inch and a half in front of the joint, and separates the skin- flap with a few touches of his knife, whilst the assistant retracts it. He next forms the plantar flap, by cutting from without inwards, and then opens the joint from its external aspect, and completes the operation by disarticulating; or he may, after forming the dorsal flap, disarticulate by depressing the foot for- cibly, and cutting up on the joint, and then pass the blade of his knife beneath the bones, and cut out the plantar flap, as repre- sented in Hey's amputation in Plate xxxix. Fig. 7 ; but, as I have already said, I prefer shaping and cutting the plantar flap from without, before disarticulating. Chopart's operation is one which I never perform now. I used to perform it before amputation at the ankle was intro- duced ; but, though much preferable to amputation through the leg, it never left a very useful stump, and I consider it far infe- rior to amputation at the ankle. The gastrocnemius and soleus muscles having nothing to counteract them, draw up the heel; and hence the patient does not rest on the heel but on the fore part of the stump. Again, if the amputation be performed for disease of the tarsus, we leave the two bones which should of all others be removed, as being likely to partake of diseased action, and subsequently require another operation for their removal. If you ever do this operation, I would advise you to divide the tendo Achillis at the same time. You would thus equalise the balance between the muscles on the front and back, until adhesion of the divided tendons of the leg had taken place, and so you might prevent retraction of the heel.