OPERA TIONS. 650 of the anatomy of the parts, in so far as these have essential bear- ings on the operative procedure ; whether as affording guides to the vessels to be tied, at different stages of the operation, as en- abling us to avoid injury to important structures, or as facilitating the deligation of the artery. When speaking of operations in general, I stated that the operative manipulations would be better understood when speak- ing of special operations. I shall now, therefore, state what I consider are the points to be principally attended to in operations for ligature of arteries. The great object in view is to expose the artery to be tied, with the least possible disturbance of parts, more especially of those parts immediately surrounding the vessel, so as to avoid the risk of secondary haemorrhage. This object is best accom- plished by cutting down directly from the surfa.ce towards the vessel, avoiding as far as possible all lateral dissection or separa- tion of the superimposed textures. The superficial incisions should be free, so as to diminish the depth of the wound, and, with a few exceptional cases, this free division of the super- imposed textures should be applied to the deeper fasciae and structures covering the sheath. If this principle be not attended to, the wound becomes more and more contracted as the operator proceeds deeply, till at last, and at the most important stage of the operation, he will find himself working in a deep hole, in which his manipulations are confined, and the textures only im- perfectly seen or felt. By attending to the rule of free division, the oozing of blood gets vent externally, the parts are fully ex- posed, and their position rendered less deep. Even as regards the sheath of the artery itself, opening it somewhat freely, or cutting out an oval portion of it on its superficial aspect, will entail no danger, if the operator is only careful not to separate it largely in clearing the circumference of the artery for passing the ligature. During the incisions all bleeding vessels should be twisted or tied, to avoid the blood infiltrating the textures in the wound. In opening the sheath of the artery, the surgeon should carefully raise a portion in his dissecting forceps, and then either