653 LIGA TURK OF IN NOMINA TE. The Innominate Artery, though deeply seated, is not so com- plicated in its relations, but that it can be readily reached and tied. The vessel is very short—not much more than about an inch and three-quarters in length. It arises from the right side of the arch of the aorta, and passes obliquely upwards as far as the right sterno-clavicular articulation, where it ends by dividing into the right subclavian and the right carotid arteries. It is sometimes called the brachio-cephalic artery, from the dis- tribution of its terminal branches. In its upward course the artery rests for some little distance on the trachea, and is covered by the first bone of the sternum, and by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. In this substernal region the artery is crossed by the vena innominata of the left side, which is formed by the junction of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins. Higher up in the cervical region the vena innominata does not cover it. The artery then passes into the lower part of the cervical region, and a small portion of it can be seen by separat- ing the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. The vessel here lies very deeply, though the textures between it and the surface are not numerous. These are the skin and fascia, with the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a quantity of loose cellular tissue. It is this part of the vessel that we reach by tracing downwards from the right carotid artery. Its surface corresponds to a quantity of loose cellular tissue and glands, in which lie several large veins returning from the thyroid body. These thyroid veins form a sort of network over the upper part of the space in which the artery lies. The innominate artery is also related to the right vena innominata— the vein being to the right side of the artery, and in close con- tact with the right side of the vessel is the right pleura. 0])e,ration.—An incision, about two inches long, is made over the inner part of the clavicle, towards the sterno-clavicular articu- lation, and another, two and a half or three inches in length, along the internal margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, at its lower part, to meet the former, where it terminates at the sternum. The skin, fascia, and inner attachment of the sterno-mastoid are then de-