816 OPERA TIONS. The method of a long anterior skin flap proposed by Mr. Teale I do not consider to be well suited to the leg. I have tried it in one or two cases, but its result is not equal to the long posterior flap, and there is a greater risk of the tibia caus- ing ulceration ; and the long thin flap is liable to suffer from "Vvant of vascular supply. Amputation at the Knee-joint, when we have an oppor- tunity of performing it, in proper cases, should always be done in preference to amputating higher up. The difficulty is, that from the great bulk of the articular surface of the femur, we can seldom, in cases of injury, obtain a sufficiency of soft parts for a covering. The operation is performed by cutting a long and broad anterior flap of skin, beginning below the tuberosity of the tibia, and dissecting it up, removing the patella. Next, we divide the integuments on the posterior part of the limb, a little higher up, and when the skin is retracted for about two inches, the remaining soft parts in the popliteal space are divided obliquely towards the posterior surface of the joint. Then the knee is forcibly bent, the ligamentum patellfe, lateral, crucial, and posterior ligaments, divided, and disarticulation of the leg completed, the vessels secured, and the flaps adjusted and retained by sutures. When considering the general subject of amputation, I took Amputation of the Thigh as the example of the different methods of operating; and hence, as these have been already fully described, as regards the principles on which they are per- formed, I need do no more than very briefly describe the manual procedure adopted in the principal methods. Amputation by double flaps, formed by transfixion.—The flaps should always be anterior and posterior, and are formed thus :— The operator stands on the inner side of the right and the outer side of the left limb, so as to command the bone whilst sawing it. An assistant, standing on the opposite side, places the palm of his hand against the posterior part of the thigh, at the part to