672 OPERA TIONS. brachial, so as to command tlie circulation. In most cases these means will succeed ; but when they prove inefficient, or when the coats of the artery slough, then we must tie the brachial in the middle of the arm, which is safer than tying both radial and idnar arteries, from the free anastomoses of these vessels, and we must also apply a moderate amount of compression on the wounded point. Operation.—The brachial artery is very easily reached, and can generally be felt in the living subject; but we should not trust to the feeling of pulsation only, as we are apt to be misled. The best guide to the position of the artery is the inner margin of the biceps, the arm being extended. The median nerve passes obliquely from without inwards and downwards, crossing the vessels, so that it lies upon the artery about the middle of the arm. It must be gently drawn aside, the vessel cleared from the venre comites, and the needle then passed below the artery. When we cut down on the artery at the middle of the arm, if we find a large vessel, without seeing the nerve, it is probable that the artery has divided into its two terminal branches, higher up than usual, and the other branch sliould be looked for in its normal relation to the median nerve. The brachial artery may require to be tied at the bend of the elbow in cases of false aneurism. A tourniquet is applied at the upper part of the arm, so as to prevent all bleeding ; and an incision is made into the sac of the aneurism, and its contents turned out, and the vessel tied above and below the wounded point—as already described at page 559 (Plate xxv. Figs. 1 and 2). The Arteeies of the Forearm seldom require to be tied ex- cept for the immediate or secondary effects of wounds. In such cases the wound should always form part of our incision, as, otherwise, the wounded part of the vessel may not be reached except by unnecessary dissection. But whilst this will modify the procedure for ligature of the vessels in different cases, 1 think it right to indicate some general rules for the performance of ligature of the radial and idnar arteries.