AMPUTATION AT SHOULDER-JOINT. 797 Amputation at the Shoulder-Joint may be performed by various methods. The two which have hitherto been generally adopted are—amputation by a large deltoid flap, and that by two lateral flaps. Amputation hy a large Deltoid Flap consists in cutting, either by transfixion or from without inwards, a large flap, including nearly the whole of the deltoid muscle, the arm being some- what abducted to enable the surgeon to grasp and cut the flap more easily. The flap is then raised towards its scapular attach- ments, so as to expose the joint (Plate xxxvii. Fig. 1). The assistant then pushes the arm forcibly across the body, so as to render prominent the head and tuberosities of the humerus. The surgeon cuts directly upon the tense capsule and tendons of the capsular muscles, so as to open the articulation; rotating the arm outwards and inwards to divide thoroughly any resisting fibres of the external rotator or subscapularis tendons, turns out the head of the bone from its socket, and passes the knife on the inner side of the bone to divide the soft textures in the axilla, and form a short flap to meet the deltoid. As the surgeon cuts out, the assistant grasps the lower flap between his fingers and thumb, so as to command the axillary vessels before they are divided (Plate xxxvii. Fig. 2). Tlie Douhlc-Fhip method consists in forming, either by trans- fixion or rapid dissection, two nearly equal and gently rounded flaps, one from the posterior, the other from the anterior aspect of the shoulder. When transfixion is adopted, the patient is brought close to the ed^e of the table and turned on his side. The affected limb is held somewhat abducted by the assistant, who stands on the opposite side of the table. If the left arm is to be removed, the surgeon introduces his knife from the posterior border of the axilla, passes it obliquely upwards over and close to the head of the humerus, and brings out the point opposite the centre of the acromion process, and cuts downwards so as to form a rounded posterior flap (Plate xxxvii. Fig. 3). The flap being raised, exposes the outer surface of the joint, the assistant draws the arm across the chest so as to project the head of the humerus,