938 REGIONAL SURGERY. In cases where the eyeball is directly injured, if any foreign body be lodged in the cornea, or sclerotic, it should, if possible, be ex- tracted at once, and then strict antiphlogistic treatment adopted to prevent mischief In cases of wounds inflicted by gXmshot, where pellets have passed deeply into the eyeball and orbit, the organ of vision is destroyed, and the presence of the foreign body may, and generally does, excite so much irritation as to ne- cessitate excision of the eyeball, either alone or with the con- tents of the orbit, to save the other eye suffering, or diseased action extending back towards the brain. In cases of abscess of the globe of the eye following injury, but in which no foreign body remains, there is no need of excising the eyeball; all that is requisite is to open or completely remove the cornea, so as to evacuate thoroughly the contents of the globe, and apply poul- tices or warm-water dressing. This relieves the tension, and when the cure is completed, the stump of the eye left enables the patient to be better fitted with an artifical eye than if the eyeball had been removed. . When Eemoval of the Eye is required, either on account of injury or disease, the nature of the operation will depend on whether we require to remove the eyeball alone, or to extirpate it along with the contents of the orbit. Wherever the injury or disease is limited to the eyeball, excision or enucleation, as it is now termed, is the operation to be j)erformed. It is effected thus :—The patient being under chloroform, and recumbent, the eyelids are separated by an assistant or the wire-spring speculum; the operator with a pair of forceps and scissors raises and divides the conjunctiva a line or two from the cornea, as in the operation for squint, only the incision is carried round the whole circumference of the cornea. He next divides, one by one, the recti and obliqiie muscles. By means of a sharp hook fixed in the cornea, the eyeball is drawn forwards, the optic nerve cut, and the operation concluded. A piece of lint is pressed deeply into the wound to control the bleeding of the artery of the retina, the eyelids closed, and a compress secured over tliem.