796 OPERA TIONS. flaps. My own experience leads me to a different conclusion. I think that whenever the upper arm is to be amputated at or near the middle, the method by lateral flaps (external and internal) should be adopted in preference to flaps from the anterior and posterior aspects of the limb. In the former, the line of the base of the external flap crosses the line in which the divided humerus is raised by the action of the deltoid, and consequently the flap folds over the bone as it is raised. But if we adopt the antero-posterior flaps, the line of union of the flaps corresponds to that in which the end of the bone will be raised after section, and hence it is liable to be projected at the angle of incision. In fact, the lateral-flap method in this region has the same advantage that the antero-posterior flaps have in regard to amputation in the thigh. Teale's method (Plate xxxvi. Figs. 4 and 5), by a long external and very short internal flap, answers admirably in cases of disease of the forearm, in which the muscles of the limb are atrophied, or the textures condensed by inflammatory exudation. I have performed it in several such cases with excellent results. The following is the method :—I grasp the soft parts on the outside of the arm, about four inches above the external condyle of the humerus, so as to separate them from the bone, and transfix there, taking care to include fully half the circumference of the limb, and then carry the knife downwards parallel to the bone, without inclining it in any direction, until it arrives at the condyle, when I turn its edge at a right angle to the skin and cut directly outwards, the assistant at the same time drawing up the skin. This long square flap is then held aside, and the soft parts on the inside of the arm divided with a single circular sweep of the knife, about an inch and a half below the point of transfixion, so as to form a short square flap, which is rapidly separated from the bone up to the base of the long flap. Both flaps are then retracted, and the bone cleared and sawn through about an inch higher up. The vessels are then secured, the nerves cut short, and the flaps carefully adjusted.