CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 921 felt the blow and was stunned, but not rendered insensible. He was conveyed home, and seen by Dr. Fanchie, who found he had suffered a compound fracture of the cranium. I was sent for, and saw the patient a few hours after the accident. He was then in bed, conscious but restless, moaning, and suffering from pain in the head. His pulse was slow and full, pupils were dilated, but contracted slowly under the stimulus of light. On examination I found a large scalp wound with depressed and somewhat ragged margins: on raising these, and introducing my finger, I felt that the left fiarietal bone, about two inches above the squamous suture, was frac- tured, comminuted, and depressed, and a portion driven inwards and downwards iinder the lower edge of the fracture. I accordingly, after bringing the patient under the influence of chloroform, proceeded to apply the trephine, which enabled me to remove many fragments ; but the large shelving portion was so impacted that I removed a projecting corner of bone with Hey's saw to gain room, so as to avoid risk to the dura mater in extracting it. I then lifted it out easily, and also several other smaller portions which were then exposed. The dura mater had been shaken from the bone for some distance, but so far as I could see or feel that membrane seemed to have escaped laceration or puncture. The wound was then dressed, and the patient replaced in bed. From the time of the operation he went on so favourably that I did not require to see him, and he was allowed to go out at the end of sLx. weeks. The oj)eration was performed in September 1868, and when I saw him last, in August 1870, he said he had never .suffered any inconvenience, and that he could follow his busi- ness, that of a joiner, which requires him to ascend considerable eleva- tions, withoiit any giddiness. The opening left by the injury and trepliine wound, which was large, had apparently filled up almost, if not altogether, by a thin firm osseous plate, a result which is unusual in my experience of such cases. Compound Comminuted Fkacture of Cranium, with Wound OF THE Longitudinal Sinus. G. B., a young, stout, and healthy cabman, was admitted on the 29th January. When standing on the pavement of the High Street a brick fell from the roof of a house, and inflicted a very severe compomid comminuted fracture of the cranium. By the injury he was rendered a little giddy, but not insensible. On admission, the general symptoms were far from being alarming ; the pulse was 72, and natural ; the pupils equal and contractile ; the skin warm ; and the respiration normal. The fracture was situated over the posterior extremity of the sagittal suture, and extended about an inch transversely and longitudinally. It was accom- panied with marked central depression. There had been a slight amount of hsemorrhage, but it had almost entirely ceased. Chloroform was admi- nistered, and the incision in the scalp extended. A small fragment of bone, which was completely detached, was removed, and the bone-j^liers were introduced through the ojiening, so as to divide the denuded and depressed pieces, and allow of their being either elevated or withdrawn. The inner plate was found to have been splintered. The smaller frag-