OPERA TIONS. 784 phalanx is flexed the relations of the bones are altered, and the articular end of the middle phalanx is then made prominent, and the ligamentous and other soft textures covering it, are rendered tense. In performing the operation, the surgeon grasps the extremity of the phalanx between his finger and thumb, flexes it as far as possible, and, with a narrow bistoury, cuts directly upon the projecting end of the middle phalanx, carrying his incision fairly across the posterior aspect of the joint, which is thus opened. He next, with the point of the knife, divides the lateral ligaments, so as to free the articular end of the distal phalanx and allow the blade of the knife to be passed in front of it. He then cuts a flap sufficient to cover the stump from the anterior aspect of the finger. Or the proceeding may be reversed when the joint cannot be bent. The surgeon then transfixes the soft parts in front of the joint, and cuts the flap ; next opens the articulation from before, divides the short lateral ligaments, and disarticulates the phalanx by cutting backwards. When, owing to disease or injury, soft parts cannot be obtained to cover the end of the middle phalanx, we require to remove a portion of it, and with this view we must shape our flaps from the sound tex- tures, and with the bone-pliers snip off a portion of the bone. If we are thus able to leave the attachment of the superficial flexor tendon, the stump so left will be useful; but when we have to amputate close to, or at, the articulation between the middle and proximal phalanges, it is better to amputate at the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation, as the short stiff stump left in the former case would be a deformity, and rather interfere with the use of tht other fingers. The only case where it is sometimes advisable to amputate at the junction of the middle and proximal pha- langes, is in the case of the forefinger, as the stump serves as a counterpoint to the thumb for prehensile purposes. Amputation of the Finger at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint is performed thus :—An assistant holds the forearm and wrist firmly with one hand, whilst with the other he separates the fingers on either side of the one to be removed, and bends them