657 LIGATURE OF COMMON CAROTID. " descendens noni" is covered in by a layer of the sheath at the upper part of the neck. The anastomoses to which we trust for re-establishing the circulation, after ligature of the common carotid, are so numerous, that we need have no anxiety on that point. We have—\st, The anastomosis between the superior thyroid branch of the artery which has been tied with the thyroid of the opposite side, and both anastomose freely with the inferior thyroids of the subcla- vian. 2d, The lingual, on the side tied with that of the opposite. Zd, The anastomosis between the facial arteries. Mli, The inos- culations between the occipital arteries of opposite sides, and of the occipital with the vertebral, ^th, The terminal branches of the external carotid—viz. the transverse facial, internal maxillary, and superficial temporal arteries—anastomose freely with the cor- responding vessels of the opposite side ; whilst, as regards the cerebral circulation, we have free anastomoses between the verte- bral arteries and the internal carotids, through the circle of Willis witliin the cranium. Operation.—The operative procedure adopted for tying the common carotid artery has been almost uniformly the same. An incision at least three inches long is made along the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, commencing higher or lower in the neck according as it is our intention to tie the vessel above or below the, omo-hyoid. As the general course of the common carotid is indicated by a line drawn from the sterno- clavicular articulation to a point a little behind the angle of the lower jaw, whilst the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid is indicated by a line from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the anterior margin of the mastoid process, it follows that as the vessel passes higher in the neck, the muscle diverges from the artery and corresponds rather to that part of the sheath contain- ing the jugular vein, than to the compartment enclosing the carotid. Hence, in tying the artery above the omo-hyoid we should make our incision nearer the mesial line, more directly over the line of the vessel, and not follow closely the oblique line of the margin of the sterno-mastoid.