TREA TMENT OF SURGICAL MENINGITIS. 873 cases in which these local conditions described by Pott exist, are cases in which the cranial bone and its pericranium have suf- fered severe contusion, followed by inflammation of the internal membrane, and hence the distinctly localised result; whilst, in cases where general meningitis follows concussion and terminates in suppuration between the bone and dura mater, these local in- dications may be absent. The Treatment of inflammation of the brain or its membranes requires to be active, and to be successful must deal with the disease in its early stage. Indeed, here, as in regard to intra- cranial extravasation, prophylactic treatment during and after the stage of reaction is that which is of most avail; and hence the surgeon should never look on any injury of the head as too slight for anxiety and watchfulness. He ought always to bear in mind, that the diseased condition may supervene very insi- diously, and that the diagnostic symptoms rarely occur till a week or ten days after the injury, sometimes much later ; hence the necessity for quiet, and careful regimen, even when all seems going on favourably. In the early stage of meningeal inflammation, the most per- fect quietude is essential, and the light of the apartment should be subdued. Cold applications, such as ice-bags, or iced-water cloths, should be kept at the head. The bowels should be thoroughly cleared out by a purgative and an enema, and sub- sequently alterative doses of calomel or grey powder may be occasionally prescribed with advantage. When the headache is severe, and the face flushed, depletion by means of leeches, or even by venesection, should be had recourse to; for, however unfashionable the practice may now be, I Icnow from experience that it relieves congestion and affords relief. The assistance of antimony can rarely be obtained, as it is apt to induce vomiting. Aconite (Fleming's tincture), in small doses of a drop, or half a drop, in water, every three hours, may be used with greater safety, to keep down the circulation after the depletion. When the rest- lessness is very great, and there is delirium and excitement, opiates may be given with advantage, though, as a general rule,