TREA TMENT OF STUMPS. answer. It was foimd that the stumps did not heal readily ; the flaps, lying loose, were disturbed by every movement of the limb, and this caused more oozing than would otherwise have happened. This plan was, therefore, soon given up, as it was found to be very inconvenient. The application of cold was beneficial, no doubt, but this should never be carried beyond a certain point, as it may induce a low form of inflammation in the stump, unless it be applied in the form of dry cold by means of ice, which seemed to answer well in the practice of Langenbeck and others, in the late war in Schleswig-Holstein. In the double-flap amputation, a broad pad of lint is placed in front, and another behind; a piece of lint is also applied loosely on the surface of the cicatrix, and a bandage is applied so as to prevent any movement. A small part of the wound is always left open at the most dependent point, to allow the blood and serous discharges to escape. At one time there used to be a great dispute regarding the form in which the edges of the stump ought to be brought together. It was disputed whether in the circular amputation the wound should be brought together per- pendicularly or transversely ; the advocates of the former view showed that by this plan, when the stump rested on a piUow, the lower part naturally tended to be pressed iipon, and so the fluids from the stump could escape readily, while, if the opening were transverse, there was no ready escape for the matter. The fact is, that both in the circular and double-flap amputations, when the cicatrix is transverse, the wound lies obliquely, owing to the form of the limb, so that in reality there is a dependent opening at one side, just as much as if the line of incision were perpendicrdar. The method of after-treatment I employ is to wash the surface of the wound immediately with cold water, and clear out all the clots of blood. In amputation through diseased textures, as scrofulous joints, or if the remains of the pyogenic membranes of abscesses were present, then I used to apply car- bolic acid in methylated spirit to the stump ; but I have given this up, as I have found more benefit from the use of tincture of iodine. This destroys the pyogenic membrane, and prevents