REGIONAL SURGERY. 968 maxillary ducts, leading to gradual alteration in structure of the sublingual gland, somewhat similar to the cystic alteration which we frequently see take place in the pancreas and kidney from obstruction in their ducts. I think this is borne out by the uniformly constant position and relations of the tumour, the slightly sacculated appearance of the cavity when opened, and the double swelling we occasionally meet with. The objection to this view, that the contents are not like saliva, is not a very strong one. In all cases of affections of secreting organs the secretion becomes altered. In this case the secretion is more glairy than saliva, but it does in general contain most of the chemical constituents of saliva. The swelling is quite different in appear- ance from other independent cysts, with glairy or steatomatous contents, which are not unfrequent in this region, and which can be removed entirely, cysts as well as their contents. In ranula we cannot remove the cyst; it is evidently part of the natural structures. Whatever view, however, may be taken of its pathology, there is no difference of opinion as to the Treatment, which consists in seizing the anterior wall of the swelling with a pair of artery- forceps, and cutting out a large oval portion of the cyst, evacuat- ing its contents, and then painting the interior of its cavity with a strong solution of nitrate of silver, or strong tincture of iodine, to cause obliteration. This plan is usually quite successful, and far safer and less painful than passing a seton through the cyst to procure obliteration, which has sometimes been had recourse to. Earthy Concretions form in the salivary ducts of the parotid sublingual, and submaxillary glands. The Salivary Calculus occurs most frequently in the submaxillary duct, which it ob- structs and distends. It gradually compresses a part of the gland- substance, and is felt from the neck. In whatever position these concretions form, they give rise, after a time, to inflammation and suppuration ; the matter bursts externally by burrowing, and when it bursts, or is evacuated by the surgeon, tliere result long tortuous sinuses, whicli lead indirectly to the concretion,