OPERA TIONS. 752 skin. I have performed several operations by this method, and seen many stumps formed by it, but these have all been decidedly inferior to those formed either by Teale's operation or my own, being wanting in thickness of soft parts over the end of the bone. In some cases I know the bone has caused lalceration of the part of the flap corresponding to it, and consequent adhesion to the bone. In some cases, also, I believe, great trouble has been caused by continued oozing, and even smart haemorrhage, from the cut surface of the condyles ; whilst, from what I have seen, I do not think the results show this method to be less dangerous to life than the other, in which the bone is sawn through imme- diately above the condyles, and a moderate amount of muscle preserved to form a protective cushion for it. In a paper on amputation by Professor Lister, in Holmes' System of Surgery, I observe that in speaking of my plan of am- putation, whilst he admits some of its advantages, he seems to think that it still involves the necessity of amputating higher in the thigh in order to procure a sufficiently long anterior flap. Now, what I consider to be one of the great advantages of the operation is, that it enables us to amputate lower in the thigh than we can do if we employ the double-flap method ; for, as that part of the flap which is to be behind the bone does not require to contain muscular tissue, we are enabled to cut the flap as low down as below the margin of the patella. Although convinced of the advantages of the single-flap operation at the lower third of the thigh, I would not sacrifice any extent of the limb merely to obtain a long anterior flap ; and, as Professor Lister had seen several of my cases, he might have noticed that the stumps were all much longer than when made by the ordinary flap method. The method which Mr. Lister proposes of an anterior flap somewhat longer than usual, and a shorter posterior flap, is in fact my modification of Piston's double-flap operation, which I had long taught and practised, and which, in a previous part of these lectures I have fully described. This modification I still prefer in certain cases, but, after considerable experience of both plans, I have abandoned it.