OZCENA. 949 time ; but these are exceptional cases, and in most of them the discharge of thin mucus was chiefly from the frontal sinuses. The treatment of ozcena consists first in using means to improve the general health, by administering iodide or bromide of potas- sium, cod-liver oil and iron, and generous diet. The local treat- ment I usually adopt at first is to make the patient apply a lotion of Condy's fluid to the affected membrane by means of a hair pencil or syringe, and once or twice a day sniff up the fumes of tincture of iodine diffused in boiling water. When the aphthous sores are present they should be brushed over with a solution of sulphate of copper from time to time, the Condy's fluid being used as an ordinary wash. In many cases great benefit is derived from blisters applied behind the ear. In cases where the membrane of the frontal sinuses is affected, the blister should be applied to the forehead. These cases are always tedious, and exercise the endurance both of the patient and the surgeon. Ulceration of the Septum Nasi is sometimes met with, and has often progressed to perforation before the patient's atten- tion is drawn to it. In most cases it begins in a small pimple or pustule on one side of the septum. This is irritable rather than painful, and the patient does not think of applying for medical advice. The irritation leads him probably to be touch- ing the part, or he picks the pimple, and so an irritable ulcer is formed which gradually eats through the septum. On dis- covering the hole, the patient becomes alarmed, and seeks surgical aid. Such ulcers almost invariably assume the circular form, their edges are irritable, and the surrounding texture congested at first; but they often assume a low chronic action from a very early period, with somewhat callous margins, which cicatrise from time to time, and then break out afresh, and so the ulcer extends until the septum may be undermined and give way. In almost all the cases I have seen there have been constitutional causes in operation; either scrofula, or that and hereditary syphilis combined, or the ulcer has occurred as one of the symp- toms of tertiary syphilis. In a few cases it seemed to be the