ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM. 641 performance of slight operations, and when the patient has been placed in the sitting posture. At the same time, all due precau- tions should be taken, such as examination of the circulatory- organs in suspected cases, and preparation of the patient prior to the operation. When the patient has a weak heart and feeble pulse, or is advanced in life, I usually mix a little anhydrous sulphuric ether with the chloroform, or begin by the ad- ministration of chloroform, adding the ether if the pulse shows a tendency to flag. The stimulating effect of the ether under such circumstances is very noticeable; although for general use the chloroform answers far better. As to the quan- tity to be administered, that must be judged of by the effect. I would only remark that there is often greater danger from beginning with small quantities than by bringing the patient rapidly under its influence. Measurement of the chloroform used, is merely to give an appearance of precaution, and, I presume, to enable the surgeon to be prepared for a coroner's inquest. In the Edinburgh Infirmary no special apparatus is employed; merely a folded towel or handkerchief; or, when the " drop system" is adopted, a single fold of the handkerchief or cloth is placed over the mouth and nostrils, the face having been pre- viously smeared over with lard or oil to prevent the skin being irritated. When the ordinary method is employed, the handker- chief is folded into a hollow cone, into which the chloroform is poured so as to wet the interior, and the cone is then placed over the mouth and nostrils. When renewing the supply of chloroform in this method, it is advisable not to remove the cone from the mouth, but merely to open up a part of the outer fold and pour the chloroform on the inner fold. When the " drop system" is used, a little chloroform is poured on the handker- chief at first, and then continuously applied, drop by drop, till the full effect is produced. When a patient is to be operated on under the influence of chloroform, no food should be given for at least three hours before the operation, so as to allow the stomach to be empty, and thus diminish the inconvenience and risks of