871 INTRACRANIAL SUPPURATION. cases, tlie symptoms indicate tlie formation of purulent matter within the cranium. After tlie phrenitic symptoms have lasted for some time, usually about the tenth or twelfth day from the receipt of the injury, a very decided rigor occurs, suc- ceeded by perspiration. The general febrile symptoms are less, but there is a tendency to low muttering delirium, a semi-comatose state. Not unfrequently, paralysis, in the form of hemiplegia, or of some particular set of nerves, such as the facial, makes its appearance, and there are convulsions, subsultus tendinum, and these culminate in symptoms of compression. These latter symptoms may arise either from effusion of serum or lymph on the surface of the brain or into the ventricles, or from suppuration and effusion of purulent matter between the bones and dura mater, or into the cavity of the arachnoid. In the cases where the effusion is either into the cavity of the arach- noid or sub-arachnoid, any surgical interference can be of little use, as the fluid, whether serous or sero-purulent, is generally diffused, and cannot be thoroughly evacuated. When, however, it is situated between the bone and dura mater, it is more likely to be localised, and may be evacuated by operation. It is therefore of importance to note any indication which may guide us to the position of the effused matter. Unfortunately, such indications as we have are neither very decided nor satisfactory as to the exact locality of the effusion. Hemiplegia is so far a general indication as evidencing pressure on the brain, and it is also usually indicative that the matter is situated over the hemi- sphere of the brain opposite to the paralysed side ; yet, in several cases, the contrary has been found to be the case ; and again, it may arise from sub-arachnoid effusion, or abscess in the brain substance itself. Mr. Pott, in his great work on injuries of the head, drew attention to the state of the scalp in certain cases, as indicating, in conjunction with the other symptoms, the position of pus, when placed between the bone and dura mater. He stated that in such cases the suppuration between the bone and dura mater affected the vitality of the bone ; and that, owing to vascular connections, the pericranium \tould also suffer, and