846 AMPUTATION. Double Primary Amputation of Arm. T. A., set. 25. Both Lands and lower part of forearms blown ofif by the explosion of gun-cotton in a quarry. Though patient was very weak and only partially conscious, Professor Spence amputated both arms as being patient's only chance. Patient lived for one hoiir after the opera- tion. Secondary Amputation of Arm. G. G., set. 17. While leading a horse by the bridle the animal seized the forearm with his teeth, and inflicted a compound comminvrted fracture. He was under treatment for ten days previous to being sent to hospital. Conservative measures were tried, and a fortnight after admission several pieces of bone were removed. Under the prolonged discharge from the wound, and from the ulcers which had formed over the sharp prominences of the condyles, his general health became impaired. The inflammatory action extended towards the wrist, and in the fourth week suppuration occurred within the joint. Under such cii'cumstances, there could be no hesitation in removing the limb. The operation was performed below the middle of the arm by a long external and short internal flap formed by transfixion. Eecovered. Primary Amputations of the Thigh and Leg. 1. John Eeilly. Compoi;nd fracture of tibia and fibula, commxmi- cating with knee-joint, the result of a railway carriage passing over his leg. Amputated at lower third of femur. Long anterior flap. Pysemia set in, and patient died at the end of the fourth week. 2. Alexander II , whilst in a state of intoxication, fell under the wheels of a railway carriage, and sustained a compound comminuted fracture of both legs—in the one communicating with the knee-joint, whilst the other limb was almost completely cut off below the knee. Amputation of both limbs performed at lower third of femur. Patient never rallied, and died on the third day. 3. Jessie Brown was violently whirled round by machinery, and sus- tained a very severe compound fracture of thigh, together with lacera- tion of perineum. The limb was amputated very high up ; but patient never rallied, and died on the following day. 4. R. B. Compound comminuted fracture of right leg and arm. A railway carriage had passed over the leg, crushing it to a complete pulp. This patient having lost a large quantity of blood previously, was admitted in a state of complete collapse, from which stimulants freely administered failed to rouse him. As there was oozing of blood into the tissues of the leg, amputation by the long anterior flap was performed at the lower third of the thigh, as affording the only chance of life. Had the state of the patient admitted, the arm also would have required amputation. He lived twenty-six hours after the operation. 5. P. L fell down a height of thirty-five feet, and was brought to hospital suffering from compound comminuted fracture of femur, commu-