EXCISION OF J A W. 983 such cases is at once to remove by disarticulation the whole lateral portion of the jaw at or within a short distance of the symphysis. The operation of Disakticulation of the Lower Jaw is per- formed in various ways. At first it used to be done by means of an incision made from the angle of the mouth running upwards towards the zygoma, and another from the lip obliquely down- wards to below the base of the jaw. The large flap so formed was dissected back, the bone then sawn through near the symphysis, the temporal muscle divided, and the bone exposed at its articula- tion, and readily removed. But this method left two very ugly scars across the face, and the mouth was divided at two points. Another objection was that there was no small risk of dividing the parotid duct, and it makes a great difference, whether we divide the main duct or merely branches of it. In cases where the substance of the parotid gland is cut, we have a little saliva oozing out for a short time, but this disappears gradually ; but when the duct is partially wounded, we find generally that the saliva makes its way out by the wound, and so keeps it open. The principal objection, however^ to this method was the great deformity left. The method generally adopted now is to begin the incision above the articulation, and in front of the temporal artery, carry- ing it deeply down to the bone along the ascending ramus of the jaw, and carrying it forwards under the horizontal ramus till we come to the point where the section of the bone is to be made, and then curve it gently up towards, but without dividing, the lip. In making this incision, the facial artery should be secured before being divided, or it may be commanded by acupressure applied to the vessel below the jaw. The large flap marked out is dissected rapidly upwards and inwards, and the bone exposed. A narrow bistoury is passed towards the inner side of the jaw, so as to clear the bone, which is then sawn through to a certain extent, and divided with the bone-pliers. By using the divided ramus as a lever, the coronoid process is brought well down, to enable us to feel it, and so to divide freely the attach-