CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 831 to perform it as the only chance of saving, or, at least, prolong- ing life, and alleviating suffering, by removing the shattered limb. In cases of disease, the question of operation comes before us under a somewhat different aspect, for the amputation may prove more speedily fatal than the disease would have done if left to its own course. Hence, to warrant its performance, the disease must be of a kind that admits no other remedy, and at a stage when the whole of the appreciable disease can be re- moved, and with a reasonable hope of prolonging life. In the case which forms the subject of the present remarks, we have a good example of the conditions which warrant us in having re- course to amputation at the hip-joint. The girl was suffering from intense pain, her appetite was almost gone, and her strength exhausted by the pain and want of sleep \ her pulse was quick and irritable, whilst the tumour was increasing rapidly. The urgency of these symptoms showed the necessity of operative interference, if any attempt was to be made to relieve her suffer- ings and to prolong life, even for a short time ; whilst the absence of glandular enlargement, either in the groin or elsewhere, gave hopes that the lymphatic system was as yet unaffected, and that, with youth on her side, there was a reasonable hope of success attending the operation. On the other hand, if it were delayed, or not performed, a speedy and painful death was certain. The disease was limited as far as malignant disease can be said to be limited in the living body, where the circulation of the fluids prevents positive limitation to any special part. But, practically, surgeons are agreed, from experience, that malignant disease, especially its medullary form, when situated in an ana- tomically limited organ—as the testicle, for example, where it is invested by a dense resisting capsule—admits of more thorough removal than when it occurs amongst muscles or other soft tex- tures, whose structure it speedily involves in the same diseased action, without any definition or limitation. In the present case the disease had evidently commenced in the interior of, and was still apparently confined to, the shaft of the femur. Thus walled in, as it were, by the dense fibrous shell of the bone, or by the