860 INJURIES OF HEAD. fall, or other injury, without any recognisable lesion of its struc- ture. By compression is understood the direct and obvious compression of the brain substance and its circulation, whether by depressed bone, as in fracture of tlie skull, or by fluids, such as blood, serum, or pus, effused within the cranium. In a case of simple concussion of the brain, the patient is insensible, the pulse weak, fluttering, and irregular. The respiration is also irregular, slower perhaps than usual, but not stertorous. The surface of the body is cold, the limbs are flaccid, and there is occasionally loss of power of the sphincter ani, and either retention or involuntary passage of urine. The pupils are not regularly affected; sometimes they are dilated, at others con- tracted, and occasionally one pupil is dilated and the other contracted. The general appearance of the patient, immediately after the injury, is that of extreme collapse, with insensibility more or less complete. The insensibility of concussion, as contrasted with that of compression, differs in degree. In both cases the patient is unconscious, but, in concussion, the patient can be roused to indicate a perception of external stimuli; thus, by speaking loudly to him, he will try and respond, not by a coherent or even a very articulate answer, but still sufficiently to indicate a certain amount of consciousness. In complete compression the patient is comatose. There is no response to external stimuli, beyond the mere existence of irritability excited by those of a physical nature. Another difference is in the evanescence of the uncon- sciousness in concussion as compared with compression. In the former the insensibility naturally tends to pass away, unassisted by remedies, consciousness gradually returning. The first stage of concussion, or concussion proper, may last from a few minutes up to some hours. Gradually the pulse rises, the respiration be- comes more regular, and the heat of surface returns. The patient becomes a little restless, and at last opens his eyes as a person awakened from a troubled sleep, stares round him, and after a time becomes sensible of his position. At the beginning of this second stage, as the insensibility begins to pass off, the patient