91G INJURIES OF HEAD. was summoned to see him. He had awoke about 2 a.m., as from a dream, in a state of violent delirium, and tried to get out of bed, when, in an attempt to do so, he suddenly became convulsed and unconscious. When I reached his house he had so far recovered consciousness, but was incohe- rent and restless. His features were distorted as from paralysis, and there was strabismus ; his pulse was about 50. Cold was applied to the head, and flannels, wrung out of warm water in wliich mustard had been diffused, were wi'apped round his feet and legs. He had passed his faeces and urine involuntarily during the convulsion. After a time he became quieter, but I remained in the house. In the morning he had another slight convul- sion, after which he passed into a state of profound coma, with stertorous breathing, dilated pupils, and all the other symptoms of compression of the brain. He died on the morning of the fifteenth day after the accident. The post-mortem examination revealed an enormous mass of blood effused over the left hemisphere of the brain, between the bone and dura mater, and also in the occipital region. Tlie greater part of the coaguliim was soft and recent, whilst other and smaller portions were of different degrees of solidity, some portions being very firm. The blood seemed to have escaped from the rupture of one of the small petrosal sinuses, where it entered the lateral sinus. There was no laceration or other lesion of the brain-sub- stance, but there was considerable subarachnoid effusion of a plastic character. 2. Mr. , aged 21. In driving a gig down a steep hill near Edin- burgh, the horse ran off, and he was pitched out with great force, and was lifted up quite insensible and cold. He was brought into town, and I saw him on the forenoon of the next day. I was informed that the state of concussion had lasted for some hours, after which he became conscious. He then vomited, and complained of headache. When I visited him, reac- tion had set in ; his skin was warm, his pulse 72, and he had only slight headache. I ordered the head to be shaved over the bruised part, and cold to be applied to the head, and an enema to be given. On my visit in the afternoon, I found that the bowels had acted freely after the enema ; but he complained of a dull heavy headache, and a noise " like waves" in the head. On examining the pupils they were dilated, and only contracted very slowly under the stimulus of light. His pulse had fallen to 58 beats in the minute, and his breathing seemed oppressed. I at once bled him from the arm to the extent of 14 ounces. He expressed himself much relieved of the headache, and breathed more easily ; and his pulse rose to 76 after the bleeding. I now had the whole head shaved, and iced water cloths constantly applied to his head. I ordered very minute doses of antimony every three hours, and enjoined absolute quietude and low diet. At my visit next day he was somewhat sick from the antimony, but had no headache or uneasiness. His pulse was 70. In the evening he had a slight headache, and his pulse had fallen to 66. I ordered four leeches to be applied behind the ear. In the morning he said the headache had been relieved by the leeches; but that shortly before I came, after getting up to stool, he felt the sounding in the head, and some pain. His pulse at this time was 70. I ordered the cold to the head to be continued, and warned him against getting out of bed on any account. In the after- noon his headache had increased, tlie pupils were dilated and sluggish, and