CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 851 swelling from extravasation of blood into the textures of the limb. The leg was cold; no pulsation could be felt in the tibial vessels. The left leg and thigh were likewise much bruised and slightly lacerated. Ampu- tation was performed through the upper third of the right thigh, by anterior and posterior flaps. A portion of the muscle in the stump sloughed ; the ulceration extended towards the femoral artery, and on the ninth day opened into that vessel a little above the ligature, wliich remained attached. On raising the stump and applying cold, the haemor- rhage ceased ; but it recurred six hours thereafter. Mr. Spence then cleared the vessel from the surrounding tissues, and applied a ligature above the bleeding point. The sloughs separated; the wound looked healthy, and partial adhesion had taken place ; bxit matter formed extensively in the left thigh and leg, and, under this profuse discharge, the patient sank in the fourth week. Secondary Amputations of Thigh for Injury. 1. S. C, set. 8, was admitted on the 15th of July with a compound fracture of the thigh between the middle and upper thirds, resulting from a fall into an area from a height of twenty feet. The wound in the in- teguments was very small ; and the limb was placed in a long splint. Necrosis of a considerable portion of both the upper and lower fragments of the bone took place, and abscesses formed around the thigh with profuse purulent discharge. As the patient was evidently sinking from hectic caused by the profuse discharge, while the necrosed portions of bone had not separated, amputation was performed on the 26th of August, immedi- ately below the trochanters, by antero-posterior flaps formed by transfixion. The case promised well for some time, but pyaemia set in, and death occurred on the 18 th of September. 2. C. A., a strong healthy girl, set. 16, was admitted on the 13th of July with a compound comminuted fracture of the leg, caused by a light butcher's cart having passed over the limb. Pulsation in tibials distinct ; temperature of the foot good ; no great bruising of soft parts. Several detached portions of bone were removed, and the limb placed in a Liston's splint. July \lth.—Gangrene of the limb having taken place, amputation was performed at the lower third of the thigh, by the long anterior flap. There was unusually little bleeding during the operation, and there was no sloughing or gangrene of the stump ; but the patient took a rigor on the 20th, and died of pyaemia on the 29th. 3. M. J., aet. 16, while running from a ram, tripped, and fell. Her right limb lay across a narrow drain and against it the chief violence of the animal was directed. The butting against the knee was so severe as to separate the external condyle, and at the same tinie cause great distor- tion of the joint and extravasation of blood into the surrounding textures. At first the knee-joint was thought to be dislocated, and attempts were made to reduce it. She was sent into hospital next day. The limb was placed in a wire splint, and fomentations applied to the joint. For about three weeks the patient went on favourably, but the soft parts began to slough, and the joint was ultimately opened into. Thereafter, acute syno- vitis set in, accompanied with irritative fever and profuse unhealthy dis-