AMPUTATION. 741 them, and that the nerve filaments become attached to this lymph, and, as further effusion takes place, are stretched out upon it. When such swellings are subjected to irritation from pressure, or, being near the surface and scantily covered, are liable to atmospheric influence, or when they ha^^pen to have become involved in the cicatrix, they increase in size, and give origin to excessively painful symptoms ; but, whether the stump has been a painful one or not, neuromata are invariably present on all the nerves of any size. I may here also describe the appearances observed in the bones forming the skeleton of the stumps. At the point where they were sawn across, the surface had become rounded off, and the medullary canal was closed in by the effusion of new bone. They were also, in most cases, atrophied so as to appear more than naturally pointed; but in some instances they were enlarged, either generally or partially, by the deposition of osseous matter. In stumps of the forearm and leg the ends of the two bones were usually approximated and connected by a strong ligamentous substance, and in some cases they had even coalesced so as to form an osseous arch. In almost every instance the end of the bone corresponded to the cicatrix, and was often firmly united to it. There is an interesting point in connection with this part of the subject, to which I would further allude—namely, the growth of the bone after amputation in young persons, this growth giving rise to projection of the cicatrix and conical stump. Mr. Har- grave of Dublin long ago drew attention to this circumstance in his work on operative surgery; and my own observation leads me to believe that the bone may continue to grow in the young, and thereby tend to produce the results which have been men- tioned, although, doubtless, this condition of stump may also be caused by other circumstances which come into play as the patient grows up. My own dissections do not furnish sufficient data on this point, but I have one preparation of so marked a kind that I cannot but refer to it. The case was one of amputa- tion of the upper arm, performed by Mr. Liston ; and in it not