OPERA TIONS. 756 yet prove too mucli for the vitality of the denser textures ; and portions of fascial or tendinous tissue, instead of healing, may slough. The bone too requires to be rounded off, and during that process, in a very dense bone or after primary amputation, we may have slight molecular necrosis taking place, and ab- scesses forming from time to time as these minute portions separate. Great exfoliations of the bone are not very common now-a-days, and even acute necrosis, after primary amputation, is not very frequent, but slight molecular necrosis is not uncom- mon from the bone rounding off; its denser texture, instead of opening out and yielding, dies under the excited action ; there is, in fact, a slower process of alteration and healing in the denser than in the softer textures. Again, as regards the state of the parts in which we amputate. When we amputate for a diseased knee-joint, for example, we very often have to cut through abscesses and other textures, which are so far unhealthy, and which cannot, therefore, be expected to heal by the first intention. Absolute and complete primary union cannot, therefore, be often expected, but, under ordinary circumstances, we find that a very large proportion, if not tlie whole, of the stump does heal by adhesive action, por- tions here and there not being so united, and this is generally due to the character of the textures entering into its formation. The simple plan of dressing incised wounds was first applied by Mr. Listen to the treatment of stumps. His rule used to be to tie the vessels and wash the flaps, laying the latter in contact ; the patient was then removed to bed, and cold water was applied upon the stump for six or eight hours, till the oozing ceased and a layer of lymph was thrown out on the surface, then the edges of the wound Avere brought together by sutures. The object of this was to get rid of all oozing and clots of blood, and to let the surface of the woimd glaze by effusion of lymph ; the plastic surfaces were then brought together, and the water-dressings were continued, along with slight compression by a bandage. This plan looked very well in theory, but in practice it did not