FRACTURE AND DISLOCATION. 907 witli little or only temporary disturbance of the functions of the spinal cord, may be accounted for by the flattened form and small size of the cord in relation to the cavity of the canal in which it lies. As a general rule, however, fracture or dislocation of the vertebne is attended with complete or almost complete para- lysis of the parts supplied by that part of the cord which is below the point of compression. Indeed, in most cases, from the secondary effects of the injury, diseased action, acute or chronic, affects the parts of the cord liigher up, and so the loss of nervous power extends until at last complete paralysis takes place. If the injury be high up in the neck, death may result instant- aneously, or the patient soon dies from interrupted respira- tion, depending on paralysis of the phrenic, thoracic, and inter- costal nerves, or from the effect of the lesion being propagated to the mediilla oblongata. In cases where the injury is lower down, the fatal result is less rapid, and the patient dies, ex- hausted by low febrile action, cystitis, and bed sores, or from extension upwards of diseased action and degeneration of the medulla spinalis, the paralysis gradually extending, as already mentioned. In some cases, however, when the patient gets over the first effects of the injury, the symptoms improve, and although some deformity remains, he gradually recovers, and the paralytic symptoms disappear. These successful cases should encourage us to use means, and not give up treatment as un- availing. The Treatvient to be adopted is similar to that for spinal con- cussion, only in most cases we require to place the patient on the back, and then the water-couch is almost essential to suc- cess. Attempts at reduction of the displaced bones are useless and dangerous, as being more likely to cause further injury to the cord than to replace the bones. Almost all displacements of the vertebrae are attended with fracture, as the short and strong connecting ligaments do not readily permit of luxation, without fracture. It sometimes happens, however, that fracture of the spinous processes and laminae of one or more vertebral 3 0