CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 841 passed about six ounces of urine. Had a draught of thirty drops of solu- tion of morphia at midnight. At four A.M. on the 10th his pulse was slightly accelerated and harder; he had shunbered occasionally for about half-an-hour at a time, but woke with pain in the woimd ; the skin was warm and moist, and after he had passed about six ounces of high-coloured urine, he fell asleep, and rested for some time; at noon he had a laxative draught. On the morning of the 11th he continued pretty easy, having passed a good night, but as his medicine had not acted, he got a dose of castor- oil. His tongue was white and furred. Before twelve o'clock his bowels had acted tmce freely, and his skin was moist, and of a natural heat; he was allowed a little beef-tea. In the afternoon his pulse had risen to 100 in the minute, and was pretty full, though soft. The beef-tea was discon- tinued, and a little thin arrow-root allowed instead. In the evening he had passed water freely, and felt easy, but his pulse was still about 100, and the skin hot; had no headache. To have a draught of morphia and ipecacuan wine at bed-time. 12^A.— 7 A.M. Has passed a good night, pulse diminished in fre- quency and soft, skin of a moderate heat.— 3 p.m. Has suffered from sickness since morning. The wound was now dressed for the first time, and at his own request chloroform was administered ; but after it began to affect him, vomiting took place, and Mr. Falconer desisted from its use. The wound was found of a favourable appearance ; suppuration had com- menced at the lower part; a little wine was administered previous to the dressing ; he felt much easier after its completion, when an opiate di'aught was given. At 10 P.M. his pulse was 92, and soft ; he still felt sick, and had not slept since the dressing. To have a large opiate draught. 13^/i, Monday.—Passed a bad night; suffered greatly from sickness and vomiting ; pulse 96, tongue covered with white fur, but red at tip and edges ; half a grain of solid opium was given him. At noon the bilious vomiting and sickness still continued ; pulse 100, coimtenance anxious. To have one grain of solid opium. At six p.m. he was much easier, the vomiting had ceased; he had taken a little thin arrow-root and drank'some tea. As he had no evacuation from the bowels since Saturday, an enema was ordered, and after it had acted a grain of opium was given at 10 p.m. On the 14th I saw him along with Mr. Falconer, and dressed the wound, which I found uniting at the upper part, and granulating at the other parts of the wound, the suj)puration was of a healthy character ; he bore the dressing without much fatigue ; his pulse previous to the dress- ing was 86 and soft, the expression of his face and general appearance good. He had had no return of the nausea or vomiting, but his tongue was still somewhat furred, and he complained of thirst. For the i^urpose of allaying thirst and abating the irritability of the stomach, I sent him some citrated alkali for effervescing draughts. On the 17th, one of the ligatures came away, and on the 18th another, but without the slightest tendency to bleeding : from this time he con- tinued to go on favourably ; the wound healed rapidly, and no circum- stance worthy of note took place, except a slight attack of bronchitis, which was promptly and actively treated, and he was able to leave his bed