STATISTICS OF AMPUTATION. 761 under wMch it is performed. The operation for strangulated liernia is an example of this. That operation is, I believe, attended with no danger in itself: the causes of death are invariably to be found in the state of the abdominal viscera antecedent to the operation; and the tables of mortality are swelled by undue delay in operating. The same thing, indeed, cannot be said of ampu- tation, for it has inherent dangers ; but I believe many circum- stances which determine the favourable or unfavourable result are to be found in the different circumstances under which it is performed. The statistics of amputation have been rendered of prac- tical service in reference to the question of primary and secondary amputations, because they have been made comparative; and the results have established this great practical fact, that however great the mortality may be in primary amputation, delay in similar cases of injury, with a view to secondary amputa- tion, is still more fatal. Hence the surgeon feels that, when the case is one presenting no reasonable chance of recovery without amputation, he gives his patient the best chance by perform- ing the operation at once. Little, however, has been hitherto done in comparing the immediate results of amputations performed for different diseases. Indeed the usual tabulated form in statistics of amputation is, Primary, Secondary, and for Disease; and thus, I believe, much valuable information is lost. Moreover, I think that more useful information would be obtained from statistics of the results of the practice of individual operators, with remarks as to any peculiar circumstances in the cases, and stating the nature and site of the injury or disease for which the amputation was performed, than from the larger general statistics at present referred to. It may be objected that the experience of any one man is too small for purposes of generalisation, but the aggregate of such statistical returns would give the general result—the operative procedure by the same surgeon would give equality in that respect; whilst we would obtain details which, I believe, would have most important effects on practice. In my own practice, both in hospital and private, I have kept such a record