785 AMPUTATION OF FINGER. so as to keep them out of tlie way. The surgeon, standing in front of the patient, seizes the doomed finger with his left hand, and uses it as a lever, to twist it in different directions to render the ligamentous textures tense over the articular end of the phalanx, so as to effect their division more readily. The point of the knife is then placed over the middle line of the metacarpal bone, at least half-an-inch higher up than the joint. The incision is carried straight down, till near the web between the fingers, when it is made to diverge slightly to one side of the finger, and carried fairly down into the palm, in an obKque direc- tion, converging again towards the middle line ; from this point it again diverges towards the web, on the opposite side of the finger, and is then made to pass upwards, converging to and terminating in the original incision on the dorsal aspect of the hand. The extensor tendon, capsular and lateral ligaments, are then divided, and disarticulation having been thus effected, the surgeon draws down and extends the finger, and removes it by dividing the flexor tendons at one sweep of his knife. The result is a V-shaped incision, which, when the fingers are approximated, forms a single linear cicatrix. The digital arteries require to be secured, and a point or two of suture introduced, to close the wormd. When the oval method is adopted, the incision is brought round the root of the finger without cutting into the palm; but this results in a puckered projection—an unseemly appearance, which is avoided by the V-shaped incision. The operation may also be performed with the same result by the method represented in Plate xxxv. Fig. 1. The hand being held as before, with the fingers well separated, the surgeon lays the edge of a long narrow bistoury against the tense web close to the finger, and cuts into the joint, and by a rapid movement causes the heel of the knife to cut the palm, and the point of the knife to divide the skin on the dorsal aspect higher up beyond the joint, twists the finger so as to divide the lateral ligaments, pushes the articular end of the phalanx aside, to allow the knife to pass round it, and com- pletes the operation by cutting through the web of the fingers