LIGATURE OF ILIAC ARTERIES. G83 of the loose connections of the external iliac artery, an aneurism of the lower part of that vessel, by enlarging, may push iip or aside the upper part of the vessel, and lead the surgeon to sup- pose it necessary to tie the common iliac. I should, if per- forming such an operation, make my incisions through the abdominal parietes where these were not adherent to the sac, by dividing them upwards and outwards towards the ilium and flank. Then, passing the finger gently down- wards between the sac and the parietes, as far as that could be done without force, I should divide the abdominal wall in that direction. The peritoneum in such cases is usually pushed upwards and inwards by the tumour, and is so far removed from injury. Having enlarged the opening of the abdominal wall as far as could be done without injury to the sac, I should then feel with my finger for the artery higher up, so that an assistant might command it by direct compression, or I should clear it as closely down to the sac as possible, and place a ligature under it, and entrust it to the assistant. Then, return- ing to the lower part of the incision, I should by careful dissection divide the crural arch and fascia lata in the groin below the tumour, to command the circulation frorn below, and if possible trace and expose the artery close up to the sac, and let an assistant compress it directly. All being thus prepared, I should make a small incision into the sac, break up the coagula, en- large the opening, and turn them out. The circulation being commanded both above and below the aneurism, I should then tie the upper ligature which had been placed under the vessel, and entrusted to an assistant at the earlier stage of the oper- ation. If the lower portion of the artery admitted of ligature above the origin of the epigastric and circumflex ilii, I should tie it there, but if not, then I should clear the common femoral where it had been exposed, and pass a ligature below it. Any coagula wliich remain, or portions of the sac which can be re- moved without risk to the peritoneum, should be cut away, so as to diminish the risk of extensive suppuration, and the wound then closed. 2z