918 INJURIES OF HEAD. intense headache, want of sleep, vomiting, and repeated rigors, and, for some days before admission, imperfect power of con- trolling the movements of her limbs. Notwithstanding all remedial measures used after she was received into the hospital, the bad symptoms increased. She screamed with pain ; at the same time a kind of semi-consciousness as to surrounding objects developed itself, and there was limited facial paralysis. The wound of the scalp was unhealthy, and scalp around boggy and swollen, whilst the exposed bone was dry and bare. Under these circumstances trepan was performed ; and although only a very little unhealthy pus was found, yet her recovery went on without inten-uption from the time of the operation. I cannot help concluding that removal of the dead bone and small quan- tity of pus, as sources of irritation, and the relief of tension, proved the means of saving this woman's life, judging from the progress of the symptoms prior and subsequent to the operation. In the case of B—r, though the dangerous symptoms were somewhat slow in manifesting themselves, yet the un- healthy state of the scalp wound, and the denuded bone, in conjunction with headaches, gave rise to an unfavourable pro- gnosis ; and when the more urgent symptoms supervened, com- bined with the formation of a boggy swelling which, when opened, exposed a farther portion of bare bone, I felt no hesita- tion in recommending trephining. This, however, was not per- mitted, and the patient died comatose. From the post-mortem appearances, I still think that the operation was advisable, as affording a chance of relief. The existence of the fissure of the base could not be determined during life ; and, moreover, as it was attended with no displacement, and as the only place where the dura mater was diseased was at the point corresponding to the puffy swelling and necrosed bone, I cannot consider such fissure as in itself a contra-indication, especially if we view it in connection with the successful result of some other cases of severe fracture at the base which I have recorded.