PUNCTURED FRACTURE. 883 The usual explanation of these effects of a punctured fracture of the cranium is, that whilst the outer fibrous and more resist- ing table of the skull is merely perforated, the extremely brittle, internal, or vitreous table is largely comminuted and projected inwards. The brittle character of the vitreous table no doubt explains to a certain extent the amount of comminution, but the real explanation of the effect produced is to be found in the direction of the force. Here, as in a bullet-wound, the point of entrance is small, the point of exit large, and the inner table driven aside in fragments. Any one may satisfy himself of this by inflicting forcibly on the dead subject a punctured fracture from the interior of the skull outwards, when it will be found that the outer table will be projected outwards, though perhaps not comminuted to the same extent as the vitreous table, when the punctured fracture is caused in the usual way, because in the latter both the direction of the force and the brittle texture of the internal table combine to produce great comminution. Suicidal gunshot wounds inflicted with a small pistol-ball, fired from within the mouth, cause large com- minution and eversion of the outer table of the skull, when the ball perforates the cranium, showing the effects of the direction of the force causing the fracture. It is most essential to bear in mind the condition of the bone in punctured fracture in relation to the brain and its membranes, so as to understand the reasons which induce us to interfere at once in such fractures, although no bad symptoms may be present. In these cases it is indeed rare to have any untoward symptoms until six, eight, or ten days after the injury, when the usual symptoms—meningitis and intra- cranial suppuration—begin to manifest themselves. Fracture of one of the tables of the skull may occur, but such injuries are rare. I have never in my own practice met with such an injury, and I should think it must almost be limited to the frontal bone, in which the divergence of the tables at the frontal sinuses might admit of the one yielding alone without implicating the other. Thus a direct blow might break the outer table over the frontal sinus, and the