OPERA TIONS. 800 conclary amputation for a bum, in Avhicli, from the state of the textures, I was compelled to form the flap entirely from the front; and the other a case requiring amputation from the presence of a malignant tumour, to which the skin was ad- herent, and where only two very small flaps could be obtained from the sound textures. What I have already said might almost indicate the method proposed. But to describe it more distinctly and fully.—Sup- posing the right arm to be the subject of amputation. The arm being slightly abducted, and the head of the humerus rotated outwards, with a broad strong bistoury I cut down upon the inner aspect of the head of the humerus, immediately external to the coracoid process, and carry the incision down through the clavicular fibres of the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, till I reach the humeral attachment of the latter muscle, which I divide. I then with a gentle curve carry my incision across and fairly through the lower fibres of the deltoid towards, but not through, the posterior border of the axilla. Unless the textures be much torn, I next mark out the line of the lower part of the inner section by carrying an incision, through the sldn and fat only, from the point where my straight incision terminated, across the inside of the arm, to meet the incision at the outer part. This ensures accuracy in the line of union, but is not essential. If the fibres of the deltoid have been thoroughly divided in the line of incision, the flap so marked out, along with the posterior circum- flex trunk, which enters its deep surface, can be easily separated from the bone and joint, and drawn upwards and backwards so as to expose the head and tuberosities, by the point of the finger, without further use of the knife. The tendinous insertions of the capsular muscles, the long head of the biceps, and the capsule, are next divided by cutting directly on the tuberosities and head of the bone ; and the broad subscapular tendon especially, being very fully exposed by the incision, can be much more easily and completely divided than in the double-flap method. By keeping the large posterior flap out of the way by a broad copper spatula or the fingers of an assistant, and taking care to keep the edge