640 OPERA TIONS. beforehand. Whilst there is no necessity for a large number of assistants, there is often an error committed in having too few, and trusting to unskilled aid, which sometimes fails when most wanted. The patient need never see any one but the operator, and the as- sistant who administers the chloroform. When he is under the chloroform the other assistants are introduced to lift the patient upon the table, and take the places previously assigned to them. By a little forethought and preconcerted action much bustle is saved. The instruments and dressings required in the operation are prepared beforehand, and arranged on a small tray in another room, whilst the patient is being chloroformed. As a general rule, it is advisable that the after-dressings, ligatures, suture-needles, and the like, be placed on a separate tray from the instruments used during the operation. For night operations small wax tapers should be at hand, as being more manageable and giving a clearer light than a flaring candle. I have found these tapers so useful that they form part of the furnishings of niy emergency bag. 3. The use of AN.<?i:sTHETics is now almost uniformly adopted in all important operations, and the cases in which they are objec- tionable are so very few and exceptional that they will be better imderstood when speaking of special operations. I do not intend to enter upon the general question of anaesthesia and anaesthetics; that has been so fully discussed by my distinguished colleague, the late Sir James Simpson, that I need only state what I have found to be the most efficient and safest method of exhibiting them in cases of operation. I would, however, observe, as regards their risks, that whilst we could scarcely expect that an agency so potent as to dull or arrest temporarily all consciousness, should be perfectly free from danger in some cases, or if not carefully watched in its action, yet, when we take into account the many thousand cases in which ansesthetics must have been administered, and the com- paratively few cases in which fatal results have occurred, I think we may safely say that few powerful narcotic remedies are so free from danger. And it has been frequently remarked that the great majority of the fatal results have occurred during the