CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 825 powers in young persons are no doubt great, wlien once a certain point has been passed ; but the first effects of shock, either from accident or operation, and especially the loss of blood, are not well borne by such patients, and these, together with the irritability of constitution, which is often marked, in a great measure, I think, counterbalance the remedial powers observed in them. Then, as to the less amount of cut surface, though less absolutely, it is qiiite as great comparatively to the size and vital powers of the patient. The amount of mutila- tion, the consequent derangement of the circulation, and all the risks depending on these conditions, are at least as great relatively in the lad as in the adiilt. From what I have ob- served in the case of primary amputations in young children, the patients sometimes sink rapidly and without any apparent cause, whilst even the successful cases are often attended at first with as urgent constitutional disturbance as in adults. Indeed, the state of the patient whose case I have recorded, shows how great was the constitutional shock during the first four days, and how slowly full reaction set in. The true causes of success will, I think, be found in the nature of the injury, the small amount of blood lost, and the comparatively little shock he was subjected to after the occurrence of the accident. \st, As to the character of the injury. Although so exces- sively severe as to necessitate amputation, and though in danger- ous proximity to the trunk, the destructive force was limited to the parts over which the wheels had passed,—there was no laceration of the limb below, nor of the abdominal region above, and there was little bleeding from the contused wound. Then the boy was seen immediately, the limb adjusted, and he was conveyed at once to his own home, so that he scarcely suffered any secondary shock from removal. Now, let me contrast these conditions with those of another case occurring in my hospital practice, and some of the causes which greatly determine the results will be pretty apparent. A man was admitted under my care in consequence of an injury inflicted by the explosion of a large iron flask containing gunpowder. The flask, the metal of