OPERA TIONS. 722 found very useful in preventing the naatter collecting in the cavity of the wound when the patient is lying on his back. When the operation is completed, the incision is united by points of interrupted suture. A long flat pad, thicker above than below, and covered with gutta percha, is placed in the axilla and between the arm and the side, the forearm and elbow supported in a sling, and the elbow fastened to the side by a circle of broad bandage. The wound is simply dressed with dry lint, except in cases where there has been much suppuration. In such cases 1 wash the wound with solution of chloride of zinc (1 part to 30 or 40), and use a weak tepid chlorinated soda lotion, or Condy's fluid for dressing, for some days. At the end of four or five weeks, gentle passive movements of rotation and abduction should be cautiously begun. The general result of this opera- tion is most successful. I have performed the operation seventeen times, and some of these cases looked very unpromising, but I have never lost a patient ; while in all of them the arm left has been most useful, and in many the amount of power regained was very surprising. The patient represented in Plate xxxii. Fig. 2, seemed, prior to the operation, a very hopeless case, but his general health and muscular power have been re-established ever since the removal of the diseased parts. Excision of the Elbow may be effected either by means of a simple longitudinal incision, or by incisions in the form of H or H. As I have already indicated the general principles to be attended to in planning our incisions in resections of joints in the upper extremity, and in the section of muscles and tendons in these operations, in reference to the after-treatment and usefulness of the limb, I shall now limit myself to describing the steps of the operation—beginning with the operation by the longitudinal incision, which, as a general method, I prefer. In performing this operation, the humeral artery having been commanded by the tourniquet or manual compression, the assistant, standing on the side of the patient opposite the diseased limb, grasps the arm above and below the elbow, keeping it very slightly flexed