INJURIES OF SPINE. 906 to relieve local congestion, in cases where tlie state of tlie pulse, febrile excitement, and painful jerkings of tlie limbs are present. In more clironic cases, counter-irritation by blisters, the actual cautery or other form of issue is indicated, and in all cases absolute rest is essential, if possible, in the prone position, or the patient lying on his side rather than on his back. The constitutional treatment must be carried out on general principles, according to the state of the patient, and great attention mu.st be paid to the condition of the urine, as there is always a tendency in it to become alkaline, and easily decomposed. Chronic cystitis is almost uniformly present in the later stages. The condition of the bowels also requires great attention. In some chronic cases I have seen benefit derived from the exhibition of minute doses of strychnine. I generally prescribe it in solution, with the addition of dilute nitric acid, beginning with the xVth of a grain twice a-day, never exceeding the tV of a grain, and carefully watching its effects. By this treatment, and tlie use of the warm or tepid douche, and friction with the hand and hair glove, the patients sometimes recover some amount of power. In some chronic cases marked benefit is derived from the use of baths, such as those of Wilbad, Toeplitz, Gastein or Buxton. But in general these chronic affections, resulting from injury, are not satisfactory in their results. Fractures and Dislocations of the Spine are, as you may readily conceive after what I have said regarding concussion, in- juries in which the prognosis is always unfavourable, owing to the immediate and direct damage inflicted on the spinal cord by the fractured or displaced bones. Yet we sometimes meet with cases in which there is well-marketl displacement or fracture, but where, from the manner in which the symptoms of paralysis pass away whilst the displacement of the bones remains unal- tered, it is pretty evident that they were the effects of concus- sion, and not caused by the direct pressure of the displaced bone. (See case of John S—s in Clinical Cases.) The occasional occur- rence of distinct fracture, and displacement of the vertebrae,