CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 849 ing the pulse it had become so weak, that I desired him to be left, and stimulants and heat to the surface to be applied. I waited with him for above an hour, but he still continued in the same collapsed state. I then ordered the treatment to be kept up, and left him, and on returning, two hours afterwards, I found he had just expired without ever rallying. I and all who saw him concliided he must have received some injury of the pelvis, or rupture of some internal organ, or had internal haemorrhage ; but the most careful post-mortem examination of the body revealed nothing beyond the local injury and the shock to account for death. From this and other instances I would infer, as I have already said, that in cases of injury by great direct force, as by railway, or machinery, and gunshot, such a shock may be caused as may affect the powers of life immediately, as in this case, or more slowly and gradxially leading to the form of pytemia which proved fatal in Eeilly. The fourth case, that of E. B., is an example of a class which I have referred to in my lectures, where the surgeon is obliged to amputate at once, notwithstanding the depressed state of the patient, in consequence of bleeding going on amongst the textures of the hmb. In the successful case we have an example of a much greater amount of injury to the bones of the limb, as there was a greatly comminuted fracture of the femur, communicating with the knee- joint, and fracture of the bones of the leg, but caused by indirect violence from a fall; and though much more advanced in life, and not of strong constitution the patient suffered comparatively little constitutional disturbance after the operation, whilst, had it been delayed, I have no doubt the result would have been very different. The fatal case of amputation of the leg is scarcely a fair example of primary amputation, as nearly thirty hours had elapsed since the injury before the operation was performed, the patient having been sent from a very long distance to town, con- ditions very different from what we have in cases of amputation performed soon after the injury. At the time this case was under my care, I operated in private on a female patient above sixty