RHINOPLASTICS. 953 made on the opposite side of the mesial line, so as to insulate a flap about a quarter of an inch in breadth, and composed of skin, mucous membrane, and interposed substance. The frtsnulum is then divided, and the prolabium of the flap removed. In order to fix the new columna firmly and with accuracy in its proper place, a sewing needle—its head being covered with sealing-wax to facilitate its introduction—is passed from without through the apex of the nose, and obliquely through the extre- mity of the elevated flap : a few turns of thread over this suffice to approximate and retain the surfaces. The flap is not twisted round as in the operation already detailed, but simply elevated, so as to do away with the risk of failure. Twisting is here unnecessary ; for the mucous lining of the lip, forming the outer surface of the columna, readily assumes the colour and appear- ance of integument, after exposure for some time, as is well known." The fixing of the columna having been accomplished, the edges of the lip must be neatly brought together by the twisted suture, or silver wire suture, as in hare-lip, after the edges have been raised. " Some care is afterwards required, from both surgeon and patient, in raising up the aliB, by filling them with lint—thus compressing the columna, so as to diminish the oedematous swelling, which takes place in it, to a greater or less degree, and repressing the granulations. It is, besides, necessary to push upwards the lower part of the column, so that it may come into its proper situation ; and this is done by the application of a small round roll of linen, supported by a narrow bandage passed over it and secured behind the vertex." The wounds of the cheeks from which the flaps have been dissected are stitched at the outer parts, and closed as far as can be done without straining the skin. The remainder heals by secondary union, and the contraction which follows rather improves the appearance by projecting the new nose more in relief. Partial restoration of the nose can be practised with very great benefit by transplanting portions of the cheek texture to supply the deficiency ; and as the opposite side of the nose