822 AMPUTATION. CLINICAL CASES ILLUSTRATING THE SUBJECT OF AMPUTATION. Successful Case of Primary Amputation at the Hip-Joint. On the 3d of September 1863, Robert Davidson, a young lad, was thrown from a truck which had been suddenly set in motion, and fell in front of it, both wheels passing obliquely over the upper part of the left thigh just below the pelvis. The accident happened at tlie Meh'ose station, and tlie boi^ was seen almost immediately by Dr. Clarkson, who adjusted the limb, and had him conveyed to his home at Newstead, about a mile distant. About two hours afterwards, Drs. Brown and Smith accompanied Dr. Clarkson to see the case. The boy had recovered in a great measure from the shock, but his pulse was still very weak. On examination, there was found a large contused flesh wound at the upper and inner part of the left thigh, exposing the muscles, which were much torn and bruised, and allowing the finger to be passed deeply into the tissues of the limb. The femur at and below the trochanters was felt to be much shattered. The foot was cold, and pulsation in the popliteal and tibial arteries extremely weak, but there had been no great amount of blood lost. As it appeared to the medical attendants that the boy's only chance of life was removal of the limb by amputation at the hip-joint, I was tele- graphed for, and arrived at the patient's house about 9 p.m. On examina- tion of the injury, the contused and lacerated state of the soft parts, the shattered condition of the femur, and the consideration of the great force by which the injmy had been caused, left no doubt as to the practice to be pursued. I at once coincided in the opinion which his medical attend- ants had expressed, although, from the depressed state of the young patient, and the proximity of the injmy to the trunk, the chances of success seemed very small. The boy's parents having given their consent, I proceeded to perform the operation under circumstances not the most favom-able. The room was small, and the only light procurable was from a small lamp on the mantlepiece, and two small candles held by a non-professional assistant; a wax taper I had brought with me was kept in reserve for exigencies. I had brought the abdominal compressor, but as it could not be applied so as to command thoroughly the circulation. Dr. Smith took charge of compressing the common femoral on the brim of the pelvis, and 1 in- structed one of the patient's friends how to command the bleeding from the jjosterior flap, by grasping it with one hand and pressing a large sponge upon its surface. Dr. Brown took charge of the movements of the limb, whilst Dr. Clarkson administered the chloroform. Wlien the boy was brought under its influence, I entered my knife between the tro- chanter major and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and carrying it obliquely across the thigh, brought the point out a .little above the tuberosity of the ischium, cutting a short anterior flap. Dr. Brown then rotated and depressed tlie limb, with the view of facilitating disarticula- tion ; but owing to the shattered state of the femur, this movement did