LECTURE XCV. Injuries of tlie Spine : their similarity to those of the Brain—Concussion of the Spine : Objective and Subjective Symptoms which characterise and accom- pany it; Indications of Treatment—Fractures and Dislocations of the Spine : their Diagnosis, Prognosis, and Treatment—Tumours of the Scalp : Cystic, Fibro-Plastic, Maligiaant, Vascular-Erectile ; the Diagnosis and Treatment of each—Cirsoid Aneurism or Arterial Varix—Necrosis of the Cranial Bones. Although Injuries of the Spine may not be considered as belonging properly to the region of tlie head and neck, yet they are so similar in character to those of the head—the important feature being the implication of the nervous centres—that I think these injuries naturally come to be treated of in connection with each other. By doing so we will also save much needless repetition. Like the brain, the spinal cord may suffer from concussion, without lesion of its substance, and from the effects induced by such injury. From compression caused by intraspinal extravasa- tion, owing to laceration of vessels, in an injury causing concussion or fracture. From effusion, the resu.lt of inflammation of the spinal membranes after injury ; or from direct and forcible compression, caused by displacement of the vertebrte in fractures, and dislo- cations of the spinal column. It is also liable to undergo soften- ing and alteration in structure from inflammatory affections of a chronic type, following slowly on comparatively slight injuries. The pathological conditions in concussion and compression of the spinal marrow are strictly analogous to those which we traced in these conditions in relation to the brain. The symp- toms vary, however, in consequence of the difference in the functions of this part of the cerebro-spinal system, and hence they also differ according as the injury implicates different points of the spinal cord—the general symptoms being those of inter- rupted nervous power to the parts below the seat of injury.