CONCUSSION AND COMPRESSION. 859 delirium increases, and gradually the patient becomes coma- tose. In such cases there has probably been suppuration between the bone and dura mater, resulting from the continuity of vascular supply between that structure and the scalp. This result is liable to occur in all forms of scalp wound, and is one of the cases where the operation of trepan may be required to evacuate the pus ; but of this I shall have to speak hereafter. In cases where a contused or lacerated wound of the scalp is in the vicinity of or involves a large artery like the temporal or occipital, without actually wounding the vessel, if the wound takes on an unhealthy action, secondary lisemorrhage may result from ulceration of vessel. As this may occur suddenly, we should secure the patient against the risk by placing an acu- pressure needle below the artery at a healthy part, and this in no way interferes with the ordinary dressing of the wound. In all cases of scalp wounds, when erysipelatous inflammation attended with much tension, supervenes, incisions must be made into the swollen scalp, and warm fomentations, such as those of chamomile flowers and hops applied to the head. Abscesses in or under the scalp texture must be opened early and freely, and the constitutional symptoms watched, and met by appropriate treatment. Before proceeding to speak of the injuries of the cranial bones, it is necessary to consider the effects produced by the shock of force communicated to the brain, or those produced by laceration or compression of its substance, as these effects on the contained organs constitute the important feature in all forms of head injury. There are two conditions, Concussion and Compression, which we require specially to consider. These conditions are very different in their essential nature; but the symptoms on which our diagnosis must be founded are not always well de- fined, owing to the less serious condition being often complicated with other lesions. Concussion, pure and simple, means the effect produced on the brain substance and its circulation from the shock of a blow 3 L