myURIES OF HEAD. 882 loose fragments of the skull, and so guides us as to the treatment necessary. When the scalp wound is too small to enable us to examine the fuK extent of the fracture, it can be enlarged sufficiently for that purpose. In some cases, however, the ex- ternal appearance of the bone might mislead, as, for example, when the injury has been inflicted with a sharp-edged missile, such as a quoit thrown with great force, the edges of the wound in the bone look comparatively smooth, and not much depressed, when in reality a narrow portion is driven in and impacted, and the internal table extensively broken up ; and I have seen the same thing occur from the kick of a horse. In all cases, besides the appearance of the fracture, we must take into account the nature and degree of the force causing the injury.* Punctured fractures are those in which the injury is inflicted by the patient falling from a height on some sharp-pointed body, as an angular piece of stone or the spike of a rail, or when the patient is forcibly struck on the cranium by some sharp-pointed body, as, for example, by a sharp fragment of rock projected by the explosion of a shot in mining, or by a pitch-fork falling from the top of a hay-rick, or similar causes. In such cases the accident looks trivial, as there is only a small scalp-wound, and a mere punctured depression or small hole seen in the outer table of the skull, and the patient suffers little or nothing at first; there is seldom even slight concussion. The inner or vitreous table of the skull, however, suffers in general to a much greater extent. It is either projected inwards in an angular manner on the dura mater, or ex- tensively comminuted in a star- like or radiating manner, numer- ous loose detached portions lying between the bone and dura mater, which is separated more or less extensively by the projecting Fig. 4. force. Hence the term stellate or radiating fracture is sometimes used to denote this form of punc- tured fracture (Fig. 4). * See Clinical Cases.