948 REGIONAL SURGERY. We meet with other kinds of polypi besides the simple ones. We may have a Fibrous Polypus occupying the whole nostril and hanging down the throat. This form of growth is very firm, and is generally attached towards the posterior nares or pharjmx. When in that position, we can, by means of a pair of strong toothed forceps, twist them out; but when otherwise situated, we may have to slit open the nose or perform excision of the upper jaw, as, especially in young subjects, there is a risk of the bones of the base of the cranium yielding if great force be used. In some cases we can snare them in a loop of double-twisted wire, which may then be used as an ecraseur to separate the polypus gradually, and extract it by the mouth, or we may tighten the wire from time to time till the polypus drops off. Another form is the Malignant Polypus. This is rather a malignant medullary tumour than a polypus, and its character is known by the bleeding from the nostril, the age of the patient, and the nostril becoming rapidly plugged up. We should not remove it, for it would recTir again immediately, and the great mass of the growth is deeply situated, springing from the ethmoid cells, so that it would do no good to remove merely the projecting portion. Besides, such operations are likely to be followed by excessive haemorrhage, which is very difficult to arrest. OzCENA is a disease of the nose and frontal sinuses, charac- terised by a thin and foetid discharge. The odour of the dis- charge is peculiar—not a strong but a very offensive foetor. On examining the nostrils, the mucous membrane seems swollen but not very vascular, rather of yellowish tinge, but in some instances congested. On examining the nose with the specuhim in a strong light, if the disease is at all advanced we observe numerous superficial aphthous sores, not larger than the surface of a mUlet seed. The patients are generally pale and unhealthy looking. In truth, the disease is one of the manifestations of scrofula in most cases, although some elderly people otherwise healthy have told me that the discharge had existed for nearly half their life-