G70 OPERA TIONS. o pus at tlie deep part of the wound from tlie accumulation of discharges which have lodged there, and as there is great diffi- culty in placing the patient so as to obtain a dependent aperture of escape, the pus is apt to burrow towards the pleura, and even ulcerate into the pleural cavity. To obviate this risk, as well as that of secondary hsemorrhage, there should be the least possible disturbance or fingering of parts during the operation ; all oozing of blood, however slight, should be arrested by cold or some other plan before the wound is closed, and attention given that no ac- cumulation be allowed to take place. Ligature of the Axillary Artery used to be performed for axUlary aneurism, but the operation has now been given up. I should only perform it in Brasdor's operation for tying the artery on the distal side of the aneurism, in the case of sub- clavian aneurism, or as a preliminary to amputation of the arm for such ; I should be inclined to tie the upper part of the axillary, so as to prevent bleeding from the enlarged muscular branches, and also because it would avoid having a great number of collateral branches coming off between the aneurism and the ligature. The operation is a much more difficult one than tying the third part of the subclavian artery. Some authorities recom- mend cutting down between the two portions of the pectoral muscle, and cutting through the coraco-clavicular fascia, but in doing this we come upon the vein and not the artery ; and secondly, we have a very constricted and narrow opening with a very deep wound. Others, again, advise to cut between the clavicular fibres of the deltoid and the clavicular fibres of the pectoralis major, but this is also objectionable. The best plan is to cut across the fibres of the pectoralis major and some fibres of the deltoid, so as fully to expose the deeper parts, and then through the coraco-clavicular fascia. Care must be taken not to wound the axillary vein, which is superficial and internal to the artery. The axillary nerves lie to the outside of the artery, and are not much in the way. This operation, however, merely enables us to get at the vessel just at its commencement, and nearly the