660 OPERATIONS. in the higher operation. In the living subject, when the neck is short and the omo-hyoid broad, it forms a considerable obstacle to dealing with the sheath and clearing the vessel; and I have had occasion to divide a few of its fibres to gain room. Indeed, rather than tie the artery very low down, or have much difficulty or manipu- lation in the deep part of the dissection, I would strongly advise complete division of the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, to ex- pose the vessel easily and lessen the depth of the wound, and to render the operation less dangerous. In one case in which I required to tie the left common carotid very low down, in a man with a short muscular neck, I found great difficulty in drawing aside the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid, which stood out in strong relief and deepened the wound. This was before the days of chloroform ; but still, were I now called on to operate so low down in the neck, I would make a small incision at a right angle with the cervical incision, so as to divide the skin and internal origin of the mastoid muscle, and reflect the flap thus formed, as in ligature of the innominate artery, so as to simplify the operative procedure. M. Sedillot has proposed to reach the carotid artery by an incision between the sternal and clavicular attachments of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Such an incision, however, would cor- respond rather to the compartment of the sheath containing the jugular vein, than the artery, and the operation in the living would be more difficult, owing to the restricted space between the separated portions of the muscle; and I therefore consider the ordinary method, with the modifications I have indicated in certain circumstances, as the best to be followed. When the operation is concluded, the head should be bent slightly forwards to relax the parts and prevent tension of the deligated vessel. To fix the head in this position a circle of bandage round the head is connected with slips of bandage fastened to a broad circular bandage round the chest, and the patient is placed in bed with the head and shoulders raised. An opiate should be given, and some anodyne linctus, such as some emulsion containing small doses of hydrocyanic acid, or other