659 LIGATURE OF COMMON CAROTID. clear the internal edge of this opening from the vessel, lay hold of it with a pair of artery forceps, so as to fix it, and give the forceps to an assistant to hold the edge gently, or simply let the forceps hang across the neck, and hold the margin aside by their own weight. I next seize the outer margin of the opening of the sheath with the dissecting forceps, and clear the vessel to a very small extent from its cellular connections, but thoroughly, so as to enable me to pass the armed aneurism needle round the vessel without any force. If I meet with any resistance, I withdraw the needle and clear the vessel a little more. Wlaen I see the point of the needle on the inner side of the carotid, I do not, you will notice, depress the handle so as to elevate the point from the wound, as that raises the vessel too much from its sheath, and is apt to tear and destroy its vascular connections. I merely keep the needle firm, and with the dissecting forceps seize the ligature and hold it, whilst I withdraw the needle. The point of the aneurism needle should always be passed from the outer side of the vessel, so as to avoid risk of injury to the jugular vein. If care be taken to open the sheath directly over tlie artery, and to keep the point and surface of the needle close to the coats of the vessel in passing round it, there is no risk of including the vagus nerve or injuring the vein. In my own ex- perience in tying the carotid in the living I have felt the vein in the sheath, but have never seen it bulge over the artery. If, however, the sheath be opened so as to expose the vein, it will be more likely to overlap the artery and give trouble to the operator. The operation I have now demonstrated is that for ligature of the carotid above the omo-hyoid. (See Plate xxviii. Fig. 1.) When we require to tie the vessel lower down, we extend the incision downwards along the edge of the mastoid, and draw that muscle more fully aside than in the former operation ; and now you wiU observe I divide the fascia which covers the omo- hyoid, and separate the connections of that muscle with the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid. The omo-hyoid is then drawn upwards, and the sterno-thyroid drawn inwards. (Plate xxviii. Tigs. 2 and 3.) The sheath is thus exposed, but much more deeply seated than