CONCUSSION. 861 very generally vomits. Occasionally vomiting occurs imme- diately after the accident, but this is rare. The vomiting, in fact, is an evidence of the existence of some degree of sensibility. After a short period, during which the patient seems restored to his natural health, another train of symptoms manifest themselves. The pulse becomes quick, sometimes hard and wiry, the skin hot and burning, and the patient complains of headache and thirst. Eeactionary fever has set in. Such is the usual course of the phenomena observed in a case of concussion, when unaccompanied by any lesion of the brain, its membranes or their blood-vessels. When, on reaction, the circulation becomes excited, other symptoms may develop themselves ; vessels which have been torn may then begin to bleed, and lead to compression of the brain ; or inflammation of the brain or its membranes may supervene, and occasionally give rise to compression caused by effusion of lymph, serum, or puru- lent matter within the cranium; but these are effects which require to be considered specially. The explanation of the symptoms in pure concussion is not very easy. These symptoms seem dependent on some temporary derangement of the brain substance, or its circulation, giving rise to functional disturbance of the sensorium, which gradually passes off with the subsidence of the shock which caused it. In cases where the symptoms are more severe and persistent, or lead to any permanent change in the mental or physical condition of the patient, we may infer that some organic lesion has compli- cated the injury. This view is borne out by what we see in cases of concussion, which terminate fatally, where usually lacera- tion of the brain substance, or extravasation of blood into the brain is found. In the very rare cases where concussion termi- nates fatally without reaction occurring, and in which no obvious lesion is found, it is probable that the shock has affected not only the sensorium but also that portion of the nerve centres more essentially concerned in organic life. The late Mr. Vincent was of opinion, that the amount of danger in cases of con- cussion depended on the direction as well as on the degree of