CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 835 10 p.m.—P. 130, and weak. Same treatment continued. 12.30.—P. 140, and weak. Consciousness returned and patient is inclined to sleep ; cough somewhat increased, and pain in the abdomen complained of. Ordered a large poultice over the chest and abdomen ; takes some food. 10;A, 4 A.M.—P. 120. Has been sleeping calmly, but is beginning to start somewhat, and grinds her teeth slightly. 8 A.M.—P. 104. Very weak ; is unconscious ; grinds her teeth ; lies with her eyes wide open, and complains of great tenderness in abdomen. Enemata continued, and poultices on abdomen. 10 A.M.—P. 116. Drinks milk heartily ; stump dressed and looking healthy. 12 M.—P. 120. Weak ; some of the old symptoms returned. En- ema given. From this time forward, patient gradually recovered. None of the cerebral symptoms returned, and appetite gradually improved. Wth.—P. 100. Is in good spirits ; slight erethema along the edge of the wound. Some stitches removed. Discharge somewhat increased. 12iA.—P. 108.—Patient continues to do well. This morning she took a hearty breakfast of porridge and milk, in addition to tea, toast, and eggs. The stump looks very well ; there is not much discharge, and it is of a healthy character. As the cough is troublesome she is ordered to-day the following mixture :—!^ Ammon. sesquicarb. grs. xxiv. ; tine, scillae, gii.; decocti Senegae, ad gvi. ; sig. a teaspoonful every three hours. \Zth.—P. 104, of good strength. During the night she slept well, but was observed to start occasionally. Plasters applied to stump and stitches removed. Dressed with soda lotion. \hth.—P. 90 ; bowels regular ; appetite good. \lth.—All the the ligatures except one have separated. General health continues to improve. At the inner angle of the stump is a hard, red, and painful swelling, evidently an abscess commencing to form ; for this fomentations were applied. P. 110. 21sf.—P. varied from 104 to 120 during the night. Stump looking very well. Sleeps soundly. Appetite good. 23c?.—P. 104. Yesterday, passed four, and to-day eighteen ascarides lumbricoides, of which some were very large. Ordered a purgative, fol- lowed by 9 Santonin, gr. viii. ; sacchar. gi. ; M., et divide in pulv. iv. ; Sig. one to be taken night and morning. 25iA.—Passed two more worms of the same kind, but smaller. Appe- tite has fallen off somewhat. The abscess in the groin burst to-day at the outer angle of the stump. July Zd.—Since last report convalesence has been uninterrupted. To- day passed another small worm, which was the last. From this date onward the patient improved daily. Appetite returned by degrees. The femoral ligature was withdrawn on July 6th, and the incision healed up without the slightest bad sign, and remains quite sound at the present date. Whilst it is generally admitted that the true principle in regard to amputation for malignant tumours of bone is to amputate be-