940 REGIONAL SURGERY. increased secretion from irritation of tlie lachrymal apparatus, from obstruction of lachrymal puncta, or ducts, or from the puncta having been displaced, so that the tears are not directed into them. Or these symptoms may depend not on disease of the nasal duct, but be due merely to congestion of the mucous membrane covering the inferior tm-binated bone, or the pressure of a nasal polypus obstructing the free passage of the tears at the lower opening of the nasal duct. The surgeon must therefore examine carefully as to the cause of the stillicidium, and treat the case accordingly. If due to over secretion, the treatment is to remove the source of irritation, and use sedative and astringent collyria. If the puncta or lachrymal ducts are obstructed, dilatation of the puncta and canaliculi by means of Anel's probes should be had recourse to. If the lower punctum be everted from the result of injury or disease, the simple operation recommended by Mr. Bowman of introducing a fine grooved director into the duct, and then slitting it up on its conjunctival aspect, so as to restore a direct channel for the tears, will prove effectual. When the obstruction is at the lower opening of the nasal duct, then relieving the congestion, or removal of the polypus, is the evident indication. When, however, there is stricture of the nasal duct, the tears gradually accumulate in and distend the lachrymal sac; irritation of and increased mucous secretion from the lining membrane of the sac takes place, and unless actively and properly treated, inflammation and suppuration follow, and fistula lachiymalis may be the result. There is little use in such cases to try the introduction of dilating instruments, such as probes from the nostril, and still less in putting off time by fomentations or anodyne lotions applied over the distended sac. It is in this early stage, before suppur ation has begun, that Mr. Bowman's operation for, or rather to prevent, fistula lachrymalis is most advantageous. It is performed thus :—The lower punctum is first dilated by Anel's probe, or by the point of a common pin, and then a fine grooved director is passed along the duct into the sac: along the groove of the director the surgeon glides a thin-bladed knife, an ordinary cata-