755 ARRESTMENT OF HAEMORRHAGE. removing tlie tourniquet they retract very quickly, and we find that the bone projects more than we expected, so that an assist- ant's fingers are the best compressors we can have. In the case of the femoral artery, the compression should always be on the brim of the pelvis, and never on the femoral artery in the thigh, for by the former method we get complete command over the vessel. The brachial artery should always be compressed very high up, just where the axillary artery ends, no matter at what part of the arm we are going to amputate, because the brachial artery in the middle of the arm is very movable; and if it slips from under the assistant's fingers, it is often difficult to get it compressed again. The permanent arrestment of haemorrhage, is effected in the usual way, by ligature or by acupressure. In using the ligature the vessels are drawn out and tied close to the soft parts ; the loop of the ligature should always be passed over the point of the artery forceps before being at all tightened, and the vessel should be tied as far from the forceps, and as near the soft parts of the stump as possible. If any small branches are seen coming off from a large artery, the vessel should be dissected up a little, and. tied above the point where the branches come off. The after-treatment of the stump may be said to be the same as that of an incised wound, though practically it is not a simple incised wound, but a very large cut surface, including all the various soft textures of the limb, and having at its deepest part either a section of the bone or an articular surface. When we reflect on the various degrees of vitality, and therefore of reparative power, in the different textures forming the stump, we can scarcely expect all these textures to heal exactly in the same time or in the same way. Those endowed with much vitality, such as the skin, cellular tissue, and muscles, are gene- rally united very soon, while the tendons and the osseous tex- tures are undergoing slower processes of healing and alteration in form. In the case of the denser and less highly vitalised tis- sues, the amount and extent of action which follows the opera- tion, whilst it may not be excessive for the softer tissues, may