651 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. slit it open for about a quarter of an incli, or, placing the edge of his knife horizontally, cut out an oval portion of the sheath to the same extent. He should next carefully separate the margin of the sheath, and fix it by seizing it with a pair of artery forceps which are left on until the vessel is cleared and the ligature completed. This little manoeuvre prevents the original opening of the sheath being lost sight of, should the patient move or the parts get displaced, and it also does away witli the necessity for the fingers of an assistant to hold aside parts. The mode of applying the forceps to the edge of the opening in the sheath will be understood by reference to the sketch of the ligature of the femoral artery. Plate xxix. Fig. 2. When the sheath is thus opened, the surgeon, with the point of the scalpel, clears the circumference of the artery to the ex- tent of a line or two in breadth, so as to admit of the aneurism needle being passed without any force. In passing the aneurism needle, the handle should never be forcibly depressed with a view to make its point project, for that elevates the artery from the sheath and breaks up its fine vascular connections. The needle should merely be insinuated below the vessel, till its point is seen on the opposite side, and then the thread is seized with the dissecting forceps and held whilst the needle is with- drawn, so that all unnecessary disturbance of the artery is avoided. After ligature of the great arteries supplying the ex- tremities, the wound is. merely covered with lint, supported by strips of adhesive plaster, and the limb enveloped in a sheet of cotton wadding, and laid on a water pillow or some soft cushion to avoid pressure. The apparatus required for ligature of arteries is very simple. Besides the ordinary dressings, sponges, and other requisites for all operations, the special instruments needed are a sharp-pointed scalpel or small bistoury, a probe-pointed bistoury, which may occasionally be required; dissecting forceps, artery forceps, and torsion forceps ; blunt hooks or bent metallic spatulse for holding aside the textures ; an aneurism needle, armed with fine ligature silk. 2x