PASSIVE INTRACRANIAL EXTRAVASATION. 867 arteries. Its progress is insidious, and unless we are on the watch for danger, there is nothing in the appearance of the patient which would excite alarm. Generally, he seems to be suffering little from the injury ; complains, perhaps, of occasional head- ache, followed by a dull, uneasy sensation. If we examine carefully, we find that the pulse either never rises to the natural standard after the first stage of concussion has passed off, or what is more common, after having regained its natural frequency, it begins to fall to 60, 52, or 40 beats per minute; this decrease following in a marked manner the occasional attacks of headache. The pupils become rather dilated, and, if tested by the appli- cation of light, contract in a sluggish and irregular manner. If these conditions be unnoticed or neglected, the patient, after the lapse of some days, may gradually become comatose ; or, more generally, excitement, delirium, squinting, and con- vulsions, precede by a few hours the symptoms of compression, which close the scene. The great danger in these cases is, as I have already said, that, owing to the slight general symptoms, and the trifling alterations in the state of the pulse in the early stages, the surgeon may neglect to guard against sub- sequent reaction, with its accompanying extravasation. From what I have seen in thepos^-morfem examinations of cases in which the progress was such as I have described, I believe that the symptoms are due to a passive form of extravasation occurring at different times. Perhaps a certain amount of blood may have been poured out at the time of the accident, or slowly as the shock passed off, causing a slighter form of compression, as indi- cated by the somewhat dilated and sluggish pupil and the slow oppressed pulse. If no more extravasation occur, the symptoms may pass off without further bad effects ; but if the patient, feeling not very ill, be excited in any way, or allowed to move about, attacks of headache ensue. Each attack, attended by falling of the pulse, and greater dilatation and sluggishness of the pupil, marks the further effusion of blood. Next, the clot so increased in bulk, may, by its presence, excite irritation of the brain and its membranes ; and then we have the delirium and squinting