655 LIGATURE OF COMMON CAROTID. carotid arteries are very different in the first part of their course, owing to the difference in their mode of origin, yet, in the cervical region, where the surgeon has to deal with them, these differences almost disappear. In the lower anterior triangle of the neck, the right common carotid is more superficial than the left, owing to its origin from the innominate trunk, which lies in front of the trachea, whilst the left carotid in this region has a closer relation to the oesophagus on its internal aspect, and at the very lowest part of the cervical region the thoracic duct corresponds to its external side. But in other respects, and higher up in the neck, their relative anatomy is very similar. The general course or position of the common carotids in the neck is indicated by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point nearly midway between the angle of the lower jaw and mastoid process. The vessel divides into its great terminal branches, the external and internal carotids, at a point a little higher up than the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage. In the neck, the primitive carotid artery is inclosed in a common sheath, which contains the internal jugular vein and pneumo-gastric or vagus nerve. This common sheath rests upon the front of the cervical vertebrae, and more immediately upon the longus colli muscle, and, higher up, upon part of the rectus capitis anticus. Between the sheath and these muscles there is a quantity of fine connective tissue, which permits of .free movement of the parts lying in front of the vertebrae. The cervical portion of the great sympathetic nerve also corresponds to the posterior aspect of the common sheath. On the mesial side of the sheath are the larynx and trachea, the lower part of the pharynx, and the oesophagus—the last-mentioned structure being more directly in relation to the left than to the right carotid. The superior and inferior laryngeal nerves pass behind the sheath in the course which they take to- wards their destination, and the inferior thyroid artery also crosses behind the sheath, and then corresponds to its inner aspect. Still more deeply, at the lower part of the neck, a chain of lymph- atic glands Ues to its inner side. On its outer or distal side