TREA TMENT OF INTRA CRANIAL SUPPURA TION. 875 there is for life, and his chance will be all the better that we do not delay the operation too long. If we wait tm symp- toms of complete compression arise, we wait too long. The amount of pus present is very seldom such as would cause com- pression of itself, and when that condition supervenes, in con- nection with suppuration, it will be found to be chiefly due to the inflammation extending to the arachnoid and pia mater, and leading to serous or plastic effusion on the surface and into the ventricles of the brain, and not to the purulent collection between the bone and dura mater. Indeed, so far as I have noticed, the symptoms of complete compression are rarely if ever present in such cases tiU just before death. The symptoms are generally semi-consciousness, irritability, and occasional convulsions or facial paralysis, together with the severe rigors which precede these symptoms and recur from time to time. Even under the most favourable circumstances, the operation of trepan, when performed for the purpose of evacuating intra- cranial purulent collections, cannot be expected to furnish many successful results. The very existence of pus, and the symptoms which warrant the surgeon in performing the operation, indicate that inflammation of the membranes has been proceeding for some time, and argue the existence of such morbid processes as are most unfavourable as regards the prospect of recovery. Even when we find and evacuate a purulent collection between the bone and membrane, we can never be sure whether, or to what extent, the brain itself may have suffered from the diseased action. Hence the operation can only be regarded as a chance afforded to a patient under otherwise desperate circumstances. But we must take care that we give that chance for life in good time, and not wait till there is no reasonable hope left, and when the result can only bring discredit on the operation. In one case, on which I operated early, and where the symp- toms had not fully developed themselves, only a very little sero- purulent matter escaped, yet the patient mended from the time of the operation. In speaking of the conditions of concussion and compression, 3 M