CLINICAL CASES. CASES ILLUSTRATING INJURIES OF THE SCALP. 1. Anne G , £Et. 48, was knocked down a flight of stairs, whereby the whole frontal bone was laid bare, and the flap, divided into two equal portions, reflected over the face. Silver sutures were used to keep the parts in situ after the bleeding vessels were secured. The hair was cut short. Cold applications to head, and the patient kejst on low diet. Afterwards, abscesses formed in both eyelids, and bare bone could be felt through the openings which were made to evacuate the pus. The parts, however, cicatrised withovit any exfoliation taking place, and no other untoward symptom occurred to delay the cure. 2. Henry C—g, tet. 9, fell among some stones from a height of 12 feet, causing a wound near vertex, four incbes long. Lips of wound brought together by two silver sutures, hair cut short, and cold to head. Patient was pale, cold, and trembling, on admission, but perfectly conscious. Pulse 80. Next day he became very feverish, complaining of pain in head. Stitches removed, purgatives administered, and two leeches behind ear. Four days after admission, face was slightly erythematous. Cotton wadding apjdied, with the internal use of Tinct. Mur. Ferri. With rest, low diet, and occasional purgatives, the cure was completed on the twentieth day. 3. David C, admitted 23d December. While in a state of intoxica- tion he fell from the top of a loaded cart, and received a severe womid of the scalp. The incision extended from the left frontal eminence to the middle of the occiput. The scalp was detached from its connections, and turned down over the ear, leaving a considerable surface of bone ex- posed. A stream of tepid water was directed over the wound, to wash away the mud and filth. The edges were then brought into accurate appo- sition by silver sutures ; the head was shaved, the bowels freely opened, and low diet enforced. Although this patient was an old man and a habitual drunkard, he recovered without an unfavourable symptom. 4. David Williamson, set. 60, fell from a locomotive thrashing-machine, the wheel of which passed over his head. On admission, twenty-four hours after the accident, the scalp and pericranium were found to be detached from nearly the whole of left side of head, and the bone was extensively fissured. Pulse 74, and of good strength. Head was shaved, poultices applied over the whole of left side, and an enema administered. Slight head symptoms, which yielded to leeches behind the ears and an occasional blister. Two large sequestra separated seven weeks after admis- sion ; the wound then rapidly healed, and the patient left, cured. Commentary.—The foregoiug brief notices of the results of different forms of severe scalp wounds are given to illustrate the