CANCER OF THE TONGUE. 973 operation may be effected by the ecraseur. The removal of half of the tongue, or even of the whole tongue, may be effected in various ways. It has been done in Italy more than once by means of an incision below the jaw—the tongue and os hyoides being drawn out under the jaw-bone, and as much of the tongue then removed as necessary, the vessels being ligatured where they enter the organ. The late Mr. Syme performed the opera- tion by making an incision through the soft parts in the mesial line, from the margin of the lower lip to the body of the hyoid bone, and then dividing the inferior maxillary bone, the two halves of which were drawn aside, so as to expose fully the cavity of the mouth and sublingual region. There is always a very great risk superadded in cutting the bone, and if we can manage the operation any other way, we should do so. In some cases lately, it has been done without any section of bone, by simply drawing the tongue forwards in the mouth. In other cases an incision has been made through the check at the angle of the mouth, so as to get a larger opening, and then a knife or dcraseur passed in and the tongue removed. Cases of epithelial cancer of the tongue are not very encour- aging, for the operation of excision of the tongue is very generally fatal, and even when the patient escapes from the immediate danger, the recurrence of the disease is very rapid. Still, from the intense suffering of the patient, the operation may be had recourse to for the great, though temporary, relief which it affords. The diagnosis of these cases is, however, very im- portant. In a case I saw lately, the patient was suffering from what seemed to be very marked malignant disease, but which turned out to be merely a chronic syphilitic affection of the tongue. The patient recovered after tracheotomy had been per- formed. There was no malignant disease present, but simply a chronic thickening and ulceration of the back part of the tongue. We occasionally meet with tumours developed in the cover- ing of the hard palate, or in the substance of the soft palate. These growths are generally of a benign character, and of fibrous structure ; sometimes, though rarely, fatty, but firmer than the