CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 829 attack ; but she could trace it to no cause, having sustained no accident. The pain at this time was very moderate, being more, indeed, a sense of uneasiness than anything else, but it was increased during the night. Measurements were taken from time to time, which showed that the tumour at first was increasing in size, but not quickly, until July last, when, after exposure to cold in an open conveyance, she was seized with pleiu-itis, which reduced her strength very much. From this date the tumour made rapid progress, and it became evident that nothing but am- putation would save the girl, for which purpose she was put under your charge. When I first saw her, her face had a somewhat dingy appearance, and it gradually became darker, until it assumed a leaden hue." Symptoms on Admission. Patient is pale, emaciated, and presents a very cachectic appearance ; pulse rapid and irritable ; chest and urine found normal on examination ; no glandular enlargement; tongue slightly furred. The whole circumference of the middle and lower part of the right thigh is occuj^ied by a large tumour, over which the veins are greatly distended. The surface of the timiour is irregular, and there is at points an indistinct feeling of fluctuation. There is no oedema of the leg, nor glandular enlargement in the groin. Ibth July. To-day Mr. Spence performed amputation at the hip-joint in the following manner :—The patient having been put under chloroform, Lister's tourniquet was applied to the abdominal aorta. The breech was brought well over the edge of the table, and the pelvis held steady by an assistant. The tourniquet was intrusted to Dr. Gillespie, while Dr. Watson compressed the femoral artery at the brim of the pelvis. Mr. Spence having abducted, and slightly flexed the limb on the pelvis, gave it in charge to Dr. Struthers. Then grasping the soft parts with his left hand, Mr. Spence entered the point of the knife in front of the tuberosity of the ischium, and passing it obliquely ujdwards, in front of the articulation, brought out the blade almost midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and trochanter major, so as to form a large anterior flap, disarticu- lated the limb, and terminated by cutting a posterior flap nearly equal in size to the anterior. A large sponge was immediately applied to the posterior flap, until the large vessels in the anterior flap were secured. No artery jetted so long as the tourniquet was retained. After the arteries had been tied, and the tourniquet removed, the femoral vein continuing to bleed, a ligature was placed upon it. The flaps were then stitched together, and a pad placed on the anterior and posterior surfaces to keep them in apposition. The patient having been removed to bed, a beef-tea and brandy enema was immediately administered, and after she had rallied an opiate was given. IQth July. Slept well; pulse 130 ; no reactionary haemorrhage since the operation. nth. Pulse 128 ; patient progressing favourably. ISih. Pulse 120. 19th. Pulse 116 ; some of the stitches removed, and straps of plaster applied ; has been taking beef-tea, wine, milk, and a little brandy for diet. 20i/i. Pulse 106 ; stump looking well; no dressing on the wound except a narrow strip of lint along the line of incision, and a pillow to support the hip.