OPERATIONS. 790 in performing this operation, instead of amputating higher up, is not to get a longer stump, but with the view of retaining the movements of pronation and supination, and consequently the greater use of the stump. To obtain this advantage, the lower radio-ulnar articulation must be sound. Hence there is no use in performing this amputation in cases of disease of the wrist- joint, as in such cases, where amputation is warranted, the lower radio-ulnar articulation is almost always implicated, and we obtain a better stump by amputation of the forearm. The cases suitable for amputation at the wrist are those of injuries in which no part of the hand can be saved, but where the lower radio-ulnar articulation is intact, and where we can obtain suffi- cient flaps of sound skin to form a covering for the stump. I have performed the operation with very successful results in several such cases. The modified circular method is in my opinion preferable to a flap saved from the palmar aspect, as sometimes recommended. In performing the operation, the assistant who holds the forearm should draw up the integuments tightly. The surgeon then makes a slighly curved incision, with its convexity downwards, on the dorsum of the wrist. This iucision should begin about an inch below the styloid processes of the ulna and radius, and should join, with a gentle curve, a similar incision carried over the forepart of the wrist. These incisions should divide the skin, fat, and fascia ; and a few touches with the knife enable the assistant to retract the loosened integuments to a level with, or a little above, the styloid processes. The flexor and extensor tendons are rendered tense, and divided with a circular sweep of the knife below that point. The joint is then opened by dividing the lateral ligament on the outer or inner side, as most convenient for the operator, and disarticulation accom- plished from behind forwards. By following this plan, we find that when the operation is completed the flaps come well over tlie ends of the bones, which are covered with sound skin ; whereas, in the ordinary flap method, the styloid processes correspond to and tend to project at the angles of the incisions where the bases of the flaps unite. The vessels requiring ligature, in this opera- V