AMPUTATION OF FOREARM. 791 tion, are the radial and ulnar; sometimes, but rarely, the ter- minal twigs of the interosseous artery. During the after-treat- ment, the forearm should be placed in the position between pronation and supination. Amputation through the Forearm may be performed by the double-flap method, by transfixion, by cutting the flaps from without inwards, so as to avoid redundancy of muscle, or by a long and short flap on Teale's principle. By any of these methods an excellent stump can be obtained, and our choice is often regulated by the conditions demanding the operation. In all cases of primary amputations, the plan of cutting our flaps from without inwards answers best; it enables us to shape the flaps more regularly, to avoid injured tissue, and to leave only a very moderate amount of muscular and tendinous struc- ture in the flaps. If we operate by transfixion in such a case, the tendons and muscles loosened from their connections by the injury yield, and are dragged out before the knife and cut irregularly, leaving a redundancy of muscle and ragged surface. In operating, we shape two equal rounded flaps from the anterior and posterior aspects of the forearm, dissect the integuments, fat, and fascia, upwards for at least two inches, the assistant retracting the skin. Then the muscles are divided obliquely upwards to the bone, leaving only a small quantity of muscle on the anterior aspect; the knife is swept round and between the bones, the flaps retracted, the bones sawn through, and the operation completed by securing the vessels, and bringing the flaps into apposition by sutures. When the operation is undertaken for disease, the muscular tissue is gene- rally atrophied and not likely to be redundant, and the tendons being attached inferiorly, the flaps can be cut smoothly and evenly by transfixion, and without disturbance of the natural connection of parts. In performing the double-flap operation by transfixion, the arm being held between pronation and supina- tion, the surgeon grasps the soft parts covering the sides of the forearm, and draws as much of them as possible towards the