INJURIES OF HEAD. 870 coup ; but when the extravasation is within the membranes, the blood is so diffused towards the base of the brain that it could not be removed even if found, and hence operative measures are unwarrantable. Inflammation of the Brain oh its Membranes, as a conse- quence of concussion, is the other danger which we have to guard against. In such cases, the train of symptoms and the period at which they supervene, are, in general, sufficiently diagnostic. Even in the passive form of extravasation, which I have alluded to, although some of the symptoms are those of excitement, and though the more marked symptoms of extravasation occur at a later period than in cases of active intracranial haemorrhage, yet, when we are on the watch, the indications of extravasation are evident from the symptoms at an early period after reaction ; whereas, in the case of inflammation of the cerebral membranes or substance, the symptoms never appear immediately after re- action is established ; but generally from the sixth to the tenth day—seldom before the eighth day. Up to that date, the patient probably progresses well, complaining little of uneasiness beyond occasional attacks of headache, andwithout any great increase in the frequency of the pulse. The most common premonitory symptoms are anxious expression and sleeplessness, though these are not always present. About the sixth day the patient feels rather out of sorts, his appetite fails, the tongue is white and loaded, and he complains of headache, the character of which he describes as if a cord were tied round the head ; or else he complains of feeling a general tension about the head. The skin becomes hot and dry, and he has either a slight or well-marked rigor. The pulse becomes hard, wiry, and very frequent. Then follow intolerance of light and sound, aud all the other symj^tonis of fever. The patient has an excited look, the eyes are restless and brilliant, and he starts and speaks during sleep. Delirium, generally of a violent frenzied character, supervenes. This state of matters, unless it yields to treatment, goes on increasingly, till it gradu- ally terminates in low muttering delirium and coma. In some