812 OPERA TIONS. is completed, tlie stump has a bulbous form, from tlie thick cushion of dense textures that covers the heel, and readily admits of being fitted with a boot."—(See Plate xxxix. Figs. 1, 2, 9, 10, and 11.) Amputation by laege internal Flap (Plate xxxix. Figs. 12 and 13) is performed as follows :—Suppose the right foot is to be removed, it is held firmly, resting on its outside. The surgeon inserts his knife over the tendo Achillis, and cuts obliquely across that tendon towards the outer and plantar aspect of the heel, then curves his incision inwards across the sole of the foot, and then upwards in front of the internal malleolus, till it crosses the tendon of the tibialis anticus, so as to form the large internal plantar flap. Next, without removing his knife from the incision, he continues to cut across the dorsal aspect of the foot, about an inch below the ankle, until the incision terminates at the point where he commenced the operation. The flaps are then rapidly dissected up, taking care to avoid injuring the posterior tibial artery. Finally, disarticulation is accomplished, a section of the tibia and fibula removed as in Syme's method, and the vessels secured. When the patient rests on his side, the flap lies in position almost by its own weight, and any serous or other dis- charge escapes very readily, so that the stump generally heals more quickly and solidly than when the other plan is adojDted, in which discharges are apt to accumulate in the heel-flap. To ob- viate this, Mr. Syme used at one time to make a counter opening, to allow free escape. That, however, is unnecessary, for if, after Syme's operation, the patient be made to rest on his side instead of being laid on his back, the discharges will escape at the fibular angle of the incision, which should be left a little open. Various modifications of amputation at the anlde have been proposed, such as leaving the upper portion of the astragalus, in connection with the malleoli, instead of disarticulating it. Piri- goff's amputation consists in making the incisions somewhat in the same way as in Syme's method, except that the line of the plantar flap is well in front of the malleoli. After dissecting