892 INJURIES OF HEAD. sketch in Plate xliii. was taken, the patient, though he lives for a fortnight or longer, may never recover consciousness, and the fungoid protrusion apparently causes no alteration in his condi- tion in any respect. In other cases the coma may become profound, and be accompanied by subsultus tendinum or con- vulsions and hemiplegia. The method of treatment very generally adopted and recom- mended is the local application of pressure to repress the fungus, and general antiphlogistic regimen, and occasional anodynes, if there be much excitement. In the early part of my practice I gave this plan a fair trial, but I must say that I never saw it afford relief, and very generally it seemed to aggra- vate the symptoms, so that even the use of slight pressure could not be persisted in. I accordingly gave up the application of pressure in the early stage, and founding my practice upon the pathological conditions which I found in cases I had examined, and confirmed in my opinions by the views of Abernethy and the experience of Dr. Hill and others, I had recourse to shaving off the fungus even below the level of the opening in the bone, which I was enabled to do, as the cases I had to deal with were openings caused by comminuted fracture, largely exposing the dura mater. In two or three cases distinct, though only tem- porary, benefit was afforded by the escape of pus and grumous blood, and the fungus was scarcely reproduced. In other cases the symptoms of coma were relieved, and the tendency to pro- trusion gradually lessened, though no matter seemed to escape ; and I never have had any trouble from haemorrhage or cerebral symptoms from cutting off the protrusion. After a time I use a thin fold of lint soaked with lime-water, or weak solution of tannin, and supported by a bandage or adhesive plaster, as a local application. Attention requires to be paid to diet; and although, as a general rule, antiphlogistic regimen is required at first, and stimulants avoided for fear of exciting the circulation, yet after a time this must not be carried too far; and in many instances I have seen temporary benefit derived from the use of quinine and a rather liberal diet, when the patient perspires much and