REGIONAL SURGERY. 936 generally find a small opening with callous edges, and a slight trickling of the saliva over the face. This gives rise to a great deal of excoriation of the skin. Digestion also becomes impaired by the loss of the saliva, and the patient may suffer in his general health. The old operation for parotid fistula was to enlarge the opening and pare off the edges of the fistula, cut into the mouth, and then pass a seton of silk or leaden wire through the opening. One end of the seton was left hanging into the mouth, the other out of the external wound. This was removed after a day or two, and the external wound was closed by harelip suture. The method of operation which I recommend, and which is now usually performed, is to pare the callous edges, by including them in an elliptical incision, and cut through about two-thirds of the thickness of the cheek. The operator then takes two large straight needles, attached to a seton composed either of silk or leaden wire. One needle is passed through the opening parallel to the line of the duct, and the other is passed lower down and more horizontally, leaving a considerable space of the undi- vided mucous membrane of the cheek between them. Both needles are drawn through into the mouth, so that both ends of the seton hang into it, that the saliva may be guided in that direction. Lastly, the raw edges of the external wound are brought into close contact by silver suture. This operation is more diffi- cult to describe than to perform, but I consider it much more likely to be successful than the old method of treating salivary fistula. Wounds implicating the parotid gland itself are not liable to be followed by salivary fistula. For a time saliva is discharged from the wound, but as it cicatrises, the textures consolidate, and the wounded part of the gland is obliterated and ceases to secrete. Should the wound be prevented from healing by the oozing of saliva, pressure, or a touch of a heated wire, will be found effectual in promoting the cure. Wounds of or in the vicinity of the orbit require attention, as they may affect the functions of the eyelids or lachrymal ap-