805 AMPUTATION OF THE TOES. inserted over tlie middle line of the toe to be removed, half-an- incli above the joint, carried down, gradually diverging to one side as it approaches the web, and is carried through that into the sole of the foot. From the plantar aspect it is carried up- wards, on the opposite side of the toe, converging into the original incision. The strong flexor tendons on the plantar aspect of the toe are divided, the lateral ligaments cut with the point of the knife, and disarticulation effected. When the bleed- ing is arrested, and the adjoining toes are closely approximated, the loss of the toe is scarcely perceptible. The key to easy dis- articulation of the toe is complete division of the strong flexor tendons, and, to effect this at once, I extend the toe forcibly upwards so soon as the incisions of the soft parts are completed ; and this enables me to twist the toe so as easily to open the joint and divide the lateral ligaments. In performing j^MPUTATiON OF the Phalanges of the Gkeat Toe, we require to save all the integuments we can, to cover in the large distal extremity of the metatarsal bone, and with this view we take care not to make the incision diverge laterally till it has passed for some distance beyond the articular end of the proximal phalanx, or we even carry the incision directly down to near the middle of that phalanx, and then cut circularly round the toe, thus marking out two square flaps of skin. In either mode the internal flap requires to be dissected, the texture forming the web on the outer side divided, and then the flexor tendon cut, and disarticulation accomplished, as in the other toes. The sesamoid bones may require to be removed along with the phalanges. JSTo part of the articular surface or extremity of the metatarsal bone of the great toe should be removed with a view to neatness of the stump, as it forms the anterior extremity of the antero-posterior arch of the foot, and its removal seriously injures both progression and the support which the arched form of the foot affords. When injury or disease necessitates Amputation of the Meta-