EXCISION OF J A IV. 985 be principally used, and made to act chiefly on tlie base of tlie jaw, which is the densest part of the bone, then the division of the bone completed by the bone-pliers. The key of the opera- tion in disarticulating the jaw, is free and early division of the temporal muscle at the point of attachment to the coronoid pro- cess of the jaw, and then forcing the jaw outwards. In general, when after section of the horizontal ramus we depress the jaw, the coronoid process can be readily felt, and by cutting upon and around its point, the narrowest attachment of the muscle is divided. In one case, in which I operated for osteo-sarcoma, the coronoid process was so altered in structure as not to be distinguishable by the finger, so I cut through all the textures with the bistoury, but finding that the point of the process still remained in the muscle left, I drew it down with a vulsellum, and removed it. The method of excising the central portion of the lower jaw will depend on the nature and extent of the disease on account of which the operation is undertaken. I have alluded to a case in which I effected removal of the symphysis, and a large portion of the base of the lower jaw, with scarcely any external incision— merely two small incisions to enable me to introduce the narrow saw to divide the bone on each side, and then separated the de- tached portion from within the mouth. But when there is a large or projecting growth, such as that shown in Fig. 28, we must proceed differently. In some cases, by means of a free incision along the inferior margin of the base of the jaw, with a little dissection we clear the lower lip from the bone, and draw it upwards, next clear the bone from its attachments on its inner surface, and saw it through on each side wide of the tumour, and so remove it. In other cases we may require to make an incision through the lip in the central line, and another at a right angle to it along the base of the jaw, reflect the flaps, and saw through the bone at each side, detach the soft parts from the inside of the jaw, and thus remove the diseased part. In some respects, so far as the manual procedure is con- cerned, the excision of the central portion of the jaw may seem.