PREPARA TION OF PA TIE NT. 637 condition, if it depends on temporary congestion of the kidney, may yield to treatment, and then the operation may be per- formed with a reasonable hope of success. In cases of disease in which irritative fever or much suppuration has been long present, or in cases of malignant tumours, there is a great tendency to blood-contamination, and hence prophylactic measures to diminish the risk of pytemia should be had recourse to before as well as after the operation. The prophylactic remedies in which I have most faith are preparations of iron and chlorate of potash in moderate or small doses, so that they may mix with the food and enter into the formation of the blood. If given in large doses, they simply irritate the bowels, and are rapidly carried off by the alvine and urinary secretions and excre- tions. In performing operations on females, we should studiously avoid the catamenial period, and if present wait till it has passed. The patient is generally more excitable and irritable during the menstrual period; and even in cases in which operations have been performed previously, an unfavourable change is often noticeable during that period, healthy action in the wound being restored as the discharge ceases. At the same time, whilst it is well to observe this precaution in ordinary cases, the presence of the catamenia should never be a bar to the performance of opera- tions of urgency. Whilst I have thus instanced some of the conditions to be specially attended to ; in a large proportion of cases, all that is required is to give the patient some gentle alterative or a mild purge a day or two previous to the opera- tion, and to regulate his diet, so that the digestive organs may be in a favourable state. 2. Arrangements for the Operation. — In hospital prac- tice, a theatre designed with a special view to the performance of operations, well lighted, and furnished with suitable tables, and all other appliances, together with the existence of an organised staff of medical assistants and nurses, render the arrangements for operations so methodical, simple, and apparently routine, that the requisite details and the forethought required in making the arrangements are scarcely noticeable to students who witness