735 EXCISION OF ANKLE-JOINT. is, that we cannot readily ascertain when deep-seated abscesses may be forming. In three cases in which I used it, everything looked well at and near the wound ; the patients complained of no pain, and it was only after discharge showed itseK at the upper part of the apparatus, that abscess, burrowing under the muscles of the thigh, was detected. The modification I recom- mend allows of the bandage being cut or removed without dis- turbing the limb, as the broad circles of adhesive plaster retain the apparatus fixed until a clean bandage is applied. Besides, as swelling subsides, the gypsum bandage is liable to become loose and permit of motion between the ends of the bones. I would also advise a water instead of an air pillow as being more comfortable ; but that is a matter of minor importance. Excision of the Ankle-Joint.—This operation, which corre- sponds to excision of the wrist in the upper extremity, is, how- ever, much less complicated and much more easily and rapidly performed. The bones which enter into the formation of the joint, are only the lower extremities of the tibia and fibula, and upper head of the astragalus, which last is so defined that its resection can be accomplished without interfering either with the astragalo-scaphoid or calcaneo-astragaloid articulations ; whilst, as regards the tendons and blood-vessels, they are so arranged, and so loosely connected with the bones and joint in front and behind, as to be readily separated and drawn aside, to permit of resection being effected. My own experience of the operation is limited to cases of compound dislocations, in which I consider its performance is preferable to merely reducing the dislocation ; and the ease with which the resection can in these instances be per- formed proves that in certain cases of disease it might be as easily effected with great advantage. But, unfortunately, the suitable cases are of rare occurrence, as the extent of the disease, and the implication of the surrounding textures, are very generally such as to necessitate amputation. The best method of performing excision of the ankle is by means of two lateral incisions ; one along the inner and posterior