OPERA TIONS. 788 phalanx, or at the joint between the proximal phalanx and the metacarpal bone of the thumb, is performed in the same way as in the fingers ; but the usefulness of even a small portion of the thumb is so great that it is important to save parts of the pha- langes by irregular operations which we would not think of performing on the fingers. Amputation of the thumb, along with its metacarpal bone, is therefore avoided except in cases of dire necessity. When, however, disarticulation is required, it is not obnoxious to the risks incurred in amputating the other metacarpal bones at their junction with the carpus, for the os trapezium, with which it is articulated, lies on a plane anterior to, and does not implicate the other carpal joints. The amputation may be performed in various ways. The best plan is by the V-shaped incision, either made by cutting from the skin, as in the case of the fingers, or partly by transfixion, and partly by incision from without (Plate xxxv. Figs. 4, 5, and 6). The latter method is more rapid and elegant in execution, and gives the same result. Suppose the left thumb is to be removed. The surgeon grasps its extremity with the forefinger and thumb of his left hand, inserts the point of a long bistoury on the dorsal aspect of, and about half-an-inch above, the carpo-meta- carpal joint, and carries the blade obliquely over and towards the ulnar side of the metacarpal bone, with a bold and decided sweep, so as at once to divide the parts forming the web be- tween the thumb and index finger. Next, without withdrawing the point of the bistoury, he bends forward the thumb, as repre- sented in Fig. 4, Plate xxxv., so as to relax the muscles forming the ball of the thumb, passes his knife in front of the meta- carpal bone, brings its point out at the first incision, and turns its edge almost directly towards the skin ; pushes the thumb outwards, as in Pig. 5, to render the parts tense, and cuts toward the surface : then, forcibly throwing back the thumb, he opens the joint between the trapezium and metarcarpal bone of the thumb, and completes the disarticulation. If the right thumb is to be amputated, the surgeon begins by transfixion, and com- pletes his palmar flap or incision; and then, applying the heel of