PARTIAL AMPUTATION OF FOOT. 807 formed, there is no difficulty in seeing and dealing with the wounded artery. Partial Amputation of the Foot may be performed at dif- ferent points, and, like the partial amputations of the hand, the operation must be modified according to the circumstances requiring its performance. But, besides the irregular amputations, there are certain amputations of the foot which may be con- sidered as regular operations, such as, amputation of all the toes at the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, Hey's amputation at the junction of the tarsus with the metatarsus, and Chopart's amputation at the joint, between the scaphoid and cuboid, with the astragalus and calcaneum. Amputation of all the Toes, at their junction with the me- tatarsus, is best accomplished by shaping a short skin flap from the dorsal aspect of the joint, and a larger plantar flap, as repre- sented in Plate xxxix. Fig. 5, and effecting disarticulation by opening the joints from the inner side of the left and the outer . side of the right foot, after dividing freely the textures on their dorsal and plantar surfaces. Owing to the division of the digital branches, a great number of arteries require to be tied in this amputation. Partial amputation of the foot, leaving the great and second toes, and removing the other toes with their metatarsal bones, or even removal of all the toes and metatarsus with the excep- tion of the great toe, leaves a very useful foot. The flaps must be cut from without inwards, and must be so shaped that a large somewhat triangular flap from the plantar region is obtained to cover in the tarsal range and outer aspect of the metatarsal bone of - the great toe, and a smaller dorsal flap to meet it. In two instances I have removed the two outer cuneiform bones and anterior surface of the cuboid, leaving the great toe ; and when the wound was healed, and a well-stuffed boot worn, the move- ments of the foot, after a time, seemed as free as those of the opposite one. When the great and second toes require to be