CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 915 slight, and that he never had been unconscious, only stunned. At the time of my visit he felt little or no uneasiness in the head ; his pulse (usually 76) was 70, and soft ; he had taken some saline medicine, which had acted freely on his bowels, and he made light of his injury. The only disagreeable feeling he now had, he said, was occasional black spots before his eyes, which he attributed to indigestion. I ordered that eight leeches should be applied behind the ears, cold to the head, and enjoined absolute rest. I also prescribed a solution of tartarised antimony (l-16th of a grain) every fourth hour. Next day he was much better, had had no return of the headache ; felt lighter, as he expressed it, and wanted to get up and go home. I, however, persuaded him to remain quiet, and continue the treatment and antiphlo- gistic regimen ; his pulse at this time never rose above 70, and was soft in character. He continued to go on favourably for the next six days, only very desirous to get up and go out. On the sixth day after the accident, as both he and his friends were urgent to have him removed home, I had him carefully removed in a carriage, with as little motion as possible. Notwithstanding every precaution, however, and though the distance he had to be conveyed was not great, violent headache, with the same rushing sensation in the head, occurred during the transit, and continued when he was placed in bed. After he had rested for some time, I felt his pulse, and found it was barely 60 beats per nunute, and laboured. I at once ordered twelve leeches to be applied behind the ears, and cold cloths con- stantly kept to his head, and hot bottles to his feet. Under this treat- ment the headache and uneasy feeling and noise in the head passed off, and he again felt well. The pulse, however, never rose above 60, and the pupils contracted sluggishly ; in other respects, he said he felt quite well, and two days afterwards he was anxious to be up, and could hardly be persuaded to remain in bed. On the eleventh day from the accident, he did not feel so well, complained of aching pain, and return of the sensation of rushing noise in his head. He had a somewhat anxious expression, though, at the period of my visit, the pain in the head had passed off ; his pulse had now fallen to 56, and his pupils contracted very sluggishly. In the evening he was flushed and excited, but the pulse was still slow. He passed a very restless night, starting, and speaking through his sleep. He had a dose of henbane, which quieted him and procured him some sleep. Next morning he looked pale and haggard, and though still excited in manner, his pulse was 54 and laboured, his pupils largely dilated and sluggish in contraction when tested by the light of a taper. I ordered a blister to the nape of the neck, and an enema to act on the bowels ; and as he was restless, with a tendency to wandering and delirium, he was con- stantly watched. Throughout the day he was quieter, and said he was free from pain. In the evening, T found him again flushed and excited, and complainmg of pain, but his expressions were incoherent. I remained with him for some hours during the first part of the night ; about midnight he became delirious and somewhat violent, but recognised me and lay quiet when I spoke to him ; by and by he fell asleep, and I left him. All next day he continued in a delirious state, but seemed relieved by the action of the blister. I again watched with him dming the evening, and as he seemed quieter and inclined to sleep, I left about midnight. At 4 a.m. I