775 MORAL CAUSES. regard to individuals. For so much depends upon the natural mental constitution, the education, habits, and age of each, that when we come to examine the question closely, it will be found almost impossible to draw any general deductions in regard to it. The class most liable to such injuries is not in general remarkable for habits of thoughtful calculation with regard to future possibilities, consequently such opinions as that I have quoted, refer rather to what we might expect to be the state of feeling, than what we actually often find it to be. "Were patients generally much influenced by the consideration of all the evils which the loss of a limb might entail upon their future prospects, we might expect to see this feeling and its unfavourable effects most generally in amputations of the upper extremity, for surely no other mutilation involves so much prospect of misery to a labouring man or mechanic. Again, when we find a man, as I have seen, suffering from the loss of a limb, his wife struck down with fever, both lying helpless in a miserable room, themselves and their childi'en dependent on the care of strangers, we would expect this depressing influence to exert its utmost power. Yet the man in that condition seemed but little affected, and his case went on favourably to a perfect cure. In two cases in which the bad effects of mental depression were most obvious, the circumstances were peculiar. In one, the man had in former years suffered the loss of an arm, and had felt painfully all the difficulties and privations which that loss entailed, and, when advanced in life, he lost the leg of the , same side. Thus, he could not but feel to what a perfectly helpless condition such an unusual form of mutilation must reduce him, by depriving him of any means of supporting himself and his family. In the other case, the patient's feelings were painfully excited by the conduct of a young woman, to whom he was on the eve of being married, and who, immediately on hearing that he had suffered amputation, showed the depth of her affection by removing the portion of the furniture she had provided for their intended home. Previously to hearing this, he had been in good