OPERA TIONS. 770 two small tallow candles and a wax taper which I had brought with me, the circumstances will not compare favourably with the advantages of an hospital operation. Yet the compression of the vessels was so efficient, that the amount of blood lost, when col- lected and measured, did not quite half fill a small teacup. In regard to the after-treatment, the patient was no doubt in the country, and it may be said that pure air is everything, and cer- tainly it is most important; but the house was small, the room in which he lay, so small that one person only could stand be- tween his bed and the wall, and the only window in it was com- posed of a single small pane of glass. The street of the village was narrow, and with surface drainage. Yet this patient made a good recovery. Was it due to the pure country air, or to his not having been removed to a long distance after the injury, and so having been saved from increased shock ? I cannot help think- ing that it was chiefly due to the latter circumstance. I have come to that conclusion from what I have observed in cases of other primary amputations, such as those through the thigh and leg ; for, whilst the amputation of the hij) is undoubtedly a very serious operation, similar circumstances to those I have mentioned seem to determine the favourable or unfavourable result in other amputations. In the fatal cases of primary amputation of the thigh and leg, almost all had been brought from a distance, or after long exposure and having lost blood, and in the majority other injuries were present. In the successful cases, on the other hand, the operation was either performed in the country, where the accident took place, or else the nature of the injuries was peculiar, consisting either of laceration and destruction of the soft textures, of ploughing up of the texture of the bone by toothed machinery, or compound impacted fracture, or else means had been taken to arrest all bleeding and adjust the limb previous to their removal to the hospital. The patients in the successful cases had thus either been saved all shock, except that of the original injury, or any secondary shock in those who were removed to hospital had been considerably diminished either by the cha- racter of the lesion or the means taken to prevent motion of the