AMPUTATION OF THE LEG. 815 the anterior angle formed by the section of the tibia, by first sawing the tibia obliquely before sawing it through ; but 1 have found this to expose the bone too high beyond the section, and now, when I find the angle very acute, I remove it, after section, either with the bone-pliers or a small saw. A good deal has been written about the difficulty of transfixion in this operation, and the risk of passing the knife between instead of behind the bones; but, with ordinary care, and keeping in mind the oblique position of the fibula in relation to the tibia, there should be little risk of such an occurrence. I have never felt any diffi- culty, nor have I ever seen it happen, even with students prac- tising the operation on the subject. In cases of primary amputation of the leg, or when the muscles of the calf are largely developed, the transfixion method is objectionable, owing to the redundancy of muscle left not only preventing the parts being brought and kept in position, but as leading to tension and suppuration, and increased risk to the patient. This result is depicted in Plate xxxiii., from a sketch taken by the late Sir Charles Bell to show the disadvan- tage of the flap method. In such cases I "have occasionally made my assistant retract the skin, and then removed the redundant muscle with a single stroke of the knife. Still, in primary am- putations, I prefer the modified circular method, or rather a short anterior and longer posterior flap of skin cut from without in- wards, a very small amount of muscle only being retained near the bones. The soft parts are then retracted fully, and the bones sawn higher' up. In this amputation, when performed high up in the leg, difficulty is sometimes encountered in securing the posterior tibial artery. It retracts amongst the deep muscles, and cannot be readily seen or secured. In such circumstances, the best plan is to divide the interosseous membrane, and dis- sect so as to expose and tie the vessel. In the after-treatment of the stump, the patient should be made to lie on his side, which tends to obviate the pressure of the tibia on the anterior skin flap, and also allows the posterior flap to lie better in posi- tion to the bongs.