726 OPERA TIONS. nature of a dissection that it requires more time and patience on the part of the operator than any of the other excisions of joints. There is not, however, any special difficulty in the operation, apart from particular conditions of the diseased parts, such as the broken-up disorganised condition of the carpus, in some cases necessitating the removal of the diseased fragments, as it were, piecemeal. I have performed the operation in several cases in from ten to fifteen minutes, whilst in others I have re- quired fully forty minutes to complete it properly. I usually adopt, with some slight modifications, the plan described and figured in Bourgery and Jacob's Operative Sur- gery, only that, instead of the chain-saw there represented, I use a narrow saw (Langenbeck's) and the bone-pliers for the section of the bones. The operative procedure is as follows:—A tourniquet having been applied over the brachial artery, the surgeon makes an incision from about an inch above the styloid process of the radius, along the outer and posterior aspect of that bone, over the radial side of the carpus and outer back part of the meta- carpal bone of the index finger to at least an inch below its connection with the carpus. He next makes an incision on the inner and posterior aspect of the wrist, extending from an inch above the styloid process of the ulna, descending in a slightly slanting direction outwards (radiad) to a point an inch and a half below the articulation of the fifth metacarpal bone with the carpus. These incisions should only divide the skin and fascia. The operator next carefully dissects the tendons from the grooves on the posterior aspect of the radius, the skin being held aside by means of blunt hooks. The extensors of the thumb, especially the long, delicate extensor tendon of the distal joint, and the radial artery where it lies on the posterior part of the carpus, require special care for their conservation at this period of the operation. The radial extensors inserted into the metacarpal bones of the index and middle finger need not be preserved, as their points of attachment usually require to be removed in the resection of the diseased parts. The tendons of the common