723 EXCISION OF ELBOW. and raised from the body. The surgeon, standing on the same side as the diseased limb, inserts his knife in the middle line of the posterior aspect of the upper arm, about two and a half inches above the elbow, pushes it directly down to the bone, and carries it rapidly downwards, inclining the incision a little inwards as it passes over the olecranon and upper part of the ulna, and termi- nates the incision two or two and a half inches below the joint. He should next separate the triceps on the outer side by cutting very obliquely downwards and outwards, the edge of the knife being directed to and rasping upon the ulna, so as to separate the muscular fibres in connection with their periosteal attachment; and then this deep incision is continued downwards and outwards to separate all the textures over the outer condyle and head of the radius. This relieves the tension, and enables the operator to deal more easily with the more important step of separating the parts on the inner side of the joint. The surgeon divides the inner half of the triceps in the same manner as on the outside ; but on reaching the line of the internal margin of the olecranon, the operator must recollect the proximity of the ulnar nerve, and, to avoid injuring it, must keep the edge of the knife directed to- wards the ulna as he cuts downwards. He then separates the parts from the humerus and ulna sufficiently to enable the textures, including the ulnar nerve, to be drawn over the internal condyle, and allow it to be fairly exposed. The assistant should now bend the arm further, to render the lateral ligaments tense, so that they may be freely divided. This is most readily effected by cutting upon or just below the condyles of the humerus, where the ligaments are narrowest, and can be divided by a single stroke of the knife. The elbow is then forcibly flexed, and the upper ends of the ulna and radius dislocated or projected back- wards, exposing somewhat their anterior aspect, which may be still attached by the anterior ligament or portions of it. The ope- rator clears the anterior aspect of the coronoid process by cutting obliquely down to and upon the bone, so as to separate the peri- osteal attachment of the brachieeus anticus tendon from the bone, then, clearing the radius and ulna by a circular sweep of