7G8 OPERATIONS. operating. Having said this much of the effects of shock and loss of blood, let us look now how some primary amputation cases are situated as to these dangers. Of the five cases of primary amputation at the hip-joint, one was brought a distance of more than fifty miles, partly by cart, over bad roads in a hiU district, and partly by railway, and was admitted into hospital late in the evening, the injury having been received about half-past six in the morning. The injury occurred from the explosion of a large iron flask con- taining gunpowder, which he had in the pocket of his trousers. The whole of the thigh, abdomen, and lower part of his thorax were scorched ; all the soft parts on the front and inner part of the thigh, with the exception of the femoral artery, torn through ; and the branches of the profunda were bleeding into the textures of the limb, so that amputation had to be performed at once. In another of the fatal cases the patient had one limb shattered and torn off immediately below the knee, and a severe compound fracture of the other leg. In this case there had been great loss of blood at first from the torn arteries of the severed Hmb, but it had been arrested by tying a handkerchief round the limb and twisting it tight by means of a stick used as a rack-pin. In the third case, the patient was brought from a distance, and had evidently suffered both from severe shock and loss of blood prior to the operation. Neither of the last two cases ever fairly recovered from the effects of shock. In both of them the injury was caused by a train of railway trucks passing over the limbs, and the patients were otherwise bruised, though there were no internal injuries. In another case, a little girl, six years of age, was run over by a heavily-laden cart. The wheel passed over her right knee and left thigh, producing a lacerated wound of the former and a compound comminuted fracture of the latter, with extensive destruction of the soft texture in front to within three inches of Poupart's ligament. The accident happened in town, and the child was admitted into hospital half-an-hour after the accident. There had been profuse bleeding at first, but that had been