REGIONAL SURGERY. 978 Cystic Tumour of the Lower Jaw is also a not uncommon affection. In some instances, it is simple cystic expansion of the bone, and is usually situated near the anterior surface. In such cases, all that is required is to open it up, and with a small pair of bone-pliers, cut away as much as possible of the projecting anterior wall of the cyst, and then apply nitrate of silver or chloride of zinc to destroy the remaining cystic surface. When this is done, the cavity granulates, the thickening around be- comes absorbed, and the cure is completed. But if the growth returns or fungoid projections take place, or if the cystic tumour be large and multilocular, then the safest practice is to excise the portion of the jaw in which the growth is situated, wide of the disease. The other forms of tumour to which the jaws are chiefly subject are—osteoma, osteo-sarcoma, fibrous tumours, and the different forms of malignant growths, and present the usual charac- ters and history of such tumours. When speaking of malignant tumours of bone I referred specially to the tumours of the upper and lower jaws, in regard to their peculiarities, so that I need not dwell on them again. In all the simple tumours there can be no question of the propriety of their early and complete removal, before they involve a large amount of the bone, or over-distend the skin, or become adherent to the soft parts from inflammatory action. At the same time, the bulk of the tumour, supposing it to be simple, is no objection to its removal, nor does it much in- crease the difficulties of the operation, iinless the soft parts have ulcerated from pressure, or become adherent. In the upper jaw especially, a large firm tumour, such as that represented in the accompanying woodcut (Fig. 26), is often removed with greater facility than a small one, from the amount of leverage which it affords, and because the osseous connections are thinned by the pressure of the growth. In large simple tumours of the upper jaw, in which the skin is tense, thin, and adherent over the tumour, by carefully planning our incisions, it is surprising how little difficulty arises in bringing the parts into contact without overstretching them ; whilst, even in extreme cases, plastic