CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 917 his pulse had fallen to 58. I again bled him from the arm to the extent of 10 ounces, and desired the cold and other treatment to be continued. From this time he went on favourably till the fourteenth daj^, when he had some return of the symptoms. These yiehled, however, to the effects of a blister to the nape of the necli, and free purgation ; and he left town quite recovered at the end of a month. Cases of Intracranial Suppuration. 1. Christina S—n, ret. 36, on the 28tli January 1860, was struck on the head by a quantity of hard lime and brick thrown from a house-top, three storeys high. She was rendered insensible for some time, and lost a considerable quantity of blood from a wound, two inclies long, situated over the middle of the superior part of os frontis. Admitted, February 7, 1860. Patient staggers as slie walks ; is dull and listless ; complains of severe pain around wound, the edges of which are pale brown and everted ; nearly two inches of frontal bone can be felt bare. Has had repeated rigors since third day after the accident; vomits continually ; pupils dilated and sluggish ; pulse 60. Ordered aperients, and blister behind ear. No improvement following this treatment, Mr. Spence trephined at the seat of the injury. Only a little matter was found ; but immediately after the operation the pulse rose to 66, and vomiting only occurred once afterwards, while the rigors never returned. Headache continuing, a seton was introduced ; and, on the 25th April 1860, the patient left, cured. 2. James B—r, aet. 28, feU on tlie 28th April 1860, and was admitted into the hospital 7th May 1860. Over occiput a scalp wound existed, whose edges were swollen, puffy, pale brown, and everted. The bone was entirely denuded of periosteum. He had headache, dimness of vision, and singing noises in the ears. Ordered rest, low diet, purgatives, and leeches. On the 13th an abscess below the wound was opened. On the evening of the 18th he was seized with rigors and vomiting. A blister applied to nape of neck, head to be shaved, and mustard cataplasms to ej)igastrium. The rigors and vomiting. Math high pulse and occipital pam, continued unabated until the 19th, when delirium, and then coma, set in. Patient died on the 22d, at noon. His friends would not allow trephining to be performed. Posi-mortem.—May 24th. Membranes generally adherent. Beneath necrosed occiput a quantity of purulent matter was found. Dura mater at same place sloughy, but entire. From occiput a fissured fracture ex- tended downwards, forwards, and upwards, terminating at the post-clinoid process. No pus was found between the membranes and brain, nor in the brain-substance itself. Commentary.—The case of Christina S—n illustrates the amount of disturbance which may be caused by a very small amount of purulent matter, and dead or dying bone. Before her admission into hospital, ten days after the injury, she had had