LIGA TURE OF RADIAL. 673 To perform the ligature of the Eadial Artery above the middle of the forearm, the limb being extended and resting upon its dorsal surface, the surgeon, placed to the outside, makes an in- cision at least two inches in length, and parallel with the internal edge of the supinator radii longus muscle. In order to find the edge of that muscle, it is sufficient to apply the fingers of the right hand upon the radial artery, as if to feel the pulse, and trace it towards the bend of the arm by following the furrow, which is bounded externally by the supinator radii longus, and internally by the pronator radii teres and palmaris longus muscles. In this manner the intermuscular space which lodges the vessel is easily found. If the incision, however, is not made perfectly to correspond with this line, it will not be of much consequence ; to remedy this fault it is sufficient to divide a few muscular fibres to arrive at the artery, which is always found in the first intermuscular space we arrive at in tracing from the external to the internal side of the forearm. The mobility of the skin upon the aponeurosis renders the examination of this space very easy. The skin alone having been cut, the surgeon searches, as we have said above, for the internal edge of the supinator radii longus muscle, and dividing the aponeurosis parallel with that muscle, and slightly raising it, perceives the vessel placed immediately below. But before proceeding to in- sulate, in order to tie the artery, he must open the aponeurotic covering of the supinator radii longus muscle. This layer divided, the operation is easily terminated. At the inferior part of the forearm the muscles which we have seen to surround, by their fleshy bodies, the upper portion of the radial artery, being only represented by their respective tendons, a large space is left between them, so that nothing can be easier than the ligature of the artery in this region. This artery is accompanied, as in its superior parts, by two veins, one internal and the other external to it, and covered by the aponeu- rosis and the skin. To perform this operation, an incision corresponding with the