OPERA TION FOR HARELIP. 961 is desirable to leave a redundancy of texture at the lower portion of tlie wound. The operation consists in paring or rawing the labial margins of the gap, then placing them together in close and accurate apposition with points of silver suture or harelip suture; but in order to get a redundancy of texture at the margin of the lip, it is necessary to employ either angular or elliptical incisions, both of which I have used with success. The angular incision is begun on either side at a point above the base of the fissure, and brought down in a straight line to the upper margin of the prolabium, where it is directed inwards at an obtuse angle (Fig. 20). Thus, when the two straight edges are brought together, the labial margin wlU be excessive rather than defective ; but the excess wUl soon be remedied by absorption. You will readily under- stand that a like result will be obtained, and perhaps in a simpler manner, by employing two curved incisions, their concavities being directed towards each other, so that when the lips of the curves are approxiniated and brought into line, the lower extremity of the united line will exhibit a redundancy of texture. This is the mode of operation I generally employ, and its simplicity and success have decided me in giving it the preference for most cases of harelip. After the margins have been closed by silver sutures, the mucous surface should be secured by a point of silk suture, to prevent saliva entering the deep aspect of the wound. The operation for the double deformity is conducted on the same principles, and must, of course, be modified according to circumstances. Where there is an isthmus of skin depend- ing in the middle line, I raise it up and employ it in supple- menting the columna of the nose, which is generally defective. This I find to be more advantageous than to pare it into a wedge-like form, and employ it in patching up the new lip, as is sometimes done, as represented in Fig. 19. When the inter- maxillary bone is present, we either break its narrow pedicle