691 LIGATURE OF ANTERIOR TIBIAL. this course the vessel with its venae comites is very deeply seated in the two upper thirds of the leg, havmg the anterior tibial nerve at first external and then crossing it in a very oblique manner, so as to lie rather in front for a considerable distance. It lies at first deeply seated between the outer side of the tibialis anticus muscle and the extensor digitorum communis; and, owing to the prismatic form of the tibialis anticus, the broad superficial part of the muscle fairly overlaps the vessel. Lower down in the leg the extensor proprius poUicis, arising from the fibula and inter- osseous membranes, intervenes between the extensor communis and the artery, so that, for nearly the lower three-fourths of the leg, the artery is placed between the extensor of the great toe and the tibial muscle. Nearer the ankle the tibial muscle, becoming tendinous, passes forwards and inwards, out of relation to the artery, which then lies between the extensor of the great toe and the common extensor of the toes, the former to its internal side. The best guide to the position of the anterior tibial artery, either at the upper or middle parts of the leg, is the outer edge of the tibialis anticus. This muscle is very broad above, and narrows as it descends. Operation.—To tie the artery in the upper fourth of its course, the surgeon should make a long incision, slightl)'- oblique, so as to follow the margin of the tibial muscle. This incision should not pass deeper than the surface of the aponeurotic fascia binding down the muscles, so that the operator may recognise the intermuscular line which separates the tibialis anticus from the common ex- tensor. He should recollect that the upper portion of the latter muscle is very narrow, not above three lines in breadth, and that he is very apt to open the intermuscular line between it and the peroneus longus, and thus be led away from the artery. The assistant should be desired to extend and relax the ankle alter- nately, so as to show the outline of the tibialis anticus, before the fascia is opened, in the intermuscular line. The surgeon, with his finger or the handle of the scalpel, then separates the muscles and makes the assistant hold them forcibly apart. This exposes the vessels and nerve at the bottom of a deep and confined wound.