834 AMPUTATION. Professor Spence made an exploratory incision into the swelling, and dis- covered it to be a tumour, as diagnosed. Tlie patient's pelvis was then brought well over the edge of the table, and held firmly by an assistant. Professor Spence next, grasping the soft parts with his left hand, entered the point of the knife at the front of the ischial tuberosity, and passing it obliquely upwards in front of the articulation, brought it out almost mid- way between the anterior superior iliac spine and the trochanter major, so as to form a large anterior flap. Having opened the joint by this first in- cision, while Dr. Gillespie abducted the limb, the disarticulation, was efi'ected, and a posterior flap nearly equal in size to the anterior one was cut from within outwards. Immediately thereafter, a sponge was applied over the posterior flap ; Dr. Watson compressed the vessels over the brim of the pelvis. The vessels, including the femoral vein, were then ligatured, the flaps stitched together, pads placed over the anterior and posterior sur- faces, and bandaged. When the effects of the chloroform had passed off", an opiate was given, but the patient continued very restless, requiring to be held down for some time. No reactionary haemorrhage took place. On examining the limb, the tumour was found to be of a greyish colour, of firm consistence, and of a medullary character. Microscopic examination of the aductor muscles of the thigh showed the nuclei of the muscular fibres to be greatly increased in number, and seemingly about to undergo cancerous degeneration. The fibres of the gluteus muscle showed fatty degeneration, but no proliferous cells. 6.30 P.M.—P. 80. Patient has been sleeping continuously for some hours, is very thirsty and restless at intervals, and vomits on trying to take food. 9 P.M.—P. 100. Urine drawn off with a catheter. Opiate given as vomiting continued. 8iA.—P. 100. Spent a very good night. Urine drawn off with a catheter. 4.30 P.M.—Patient has been sinking gradually, and is now uncon- scious. Pulse, not perceptible ; respiration, rapid and very weak ; has slight bronchitis ; eyelids partially closed, and eyes oscillating. Ordered Spt. ammon. arom. in five drop doses, every five minutes ; also an enema of beef-tea and wine, and a mustard-poxiltice to the chest. 6.30 P.M.—Still continues in a very weak state. P. 156, and very weak ; respirations, 60 per minute ; has had her bowels opened freely. Beef-tea injections given every hour, and sal-volatile at intervals. 11 P.M.—Under this treatment patient rallied gradually ; but as the nervous symptoms continued, fifteen drops of sol. mur. morph. were added to the beef-tea injections. P. 140 ; respirations, 40 per minute and regu- lar ; has grinding of the teeth, twitchings of the face, with knitting of the brows, and gives occasional starting and delirious exclamations. 1.30 P.M.—P. 150, weak. Cerebral symptoms and general weakness somewhat increased. Wi, 10 A.M.—Has slept well during the night, and cerebral symptoms are absent. P. 140, weak ; takes no food, and is supported by enemata ; respiration regular and not laboured. 4 P.M.—Continues in much the same condition ; has occasional grinding of the teeth and startings of the limbs. P. 112. Supported by enemata.