733 AFTER-TREA TMENT. arrest the hismorrhage. This has usually been quite effectual, the cases going on favourably afterwards. The permanent adjustment and after-treatment of the limb require great care, with a view to which the selection of proper apparatus is important. In my earlier cases I used to employ the form of splint advised by the late Mr. Price, and the limb was kept fixed, the apparatus resting on the bed. Though the results of these cases were admirable, the treatment was very trouble- some ; and I feel convinced that for comfort to the patient, and for obtaining a good result with greatest ease, the apparatus should always be swung so that the movements of the trunk may not injuriously affect the limb. Thus the patient can, after a few days, sit up in bed, and bed-sores are prevented. Price's splint is sometimes useful where we want counter-pressure on the sole of the foot, to maintain the tibia in firm contact with the femur in cases where the osseous union is slow in forming. But, as a general method, I prefer and use, with some slight modifications, the simple and effective apparatus designed by my colleague Dr. Watson. " It consists essentially of two parts—1. A suspension-rod made of iron, about the size of No. V. of trade wire gauge ; 2. A modelled Gooch splint, long enough to extend from the tuberosity of the ischium to beyond the heel. " Tlie, suspension-rod extends from the groin to the extremities of the toes, and is bent to the outline of the limb, departing from it only in the situation of the excision, where it forms a bow or arch. To the upper surface of the rod are attached one or more hooks by which the suspension is effected." " The Gooch splint should not be made too wide, and should certainly not surround the thigh and leg to more than two- thirds of their circumference. It should be scooped away laterally, at a part corresponding to the site of the excision, and should have an aperture cut corresponding to the tendo Achillis and heel. The inferior extremity of the splint is thus of a horse-shoe or stirrixp shape, and admits of the ankle and foot being supported by the lateral horns of the spUnt, as they fold on each side of the malleoli, without the risk of inordinate