OPERA TIONS. 820 the hip projects well over the table, whilst the pelvis is kept firmly secured, so as to prevent the body receding : this allows the limb to be fully depressed after the anterior flap is formed, and also facilitates the other movements necessary for enabling the knife to be passed readily beyond the trochanter major, so as to cut the posterior flap. The direction given to the knife in passing it across the front of the limb to form the an- terior flap is all-important as to the ease with which the subse- quent steps will be accomplished. Operation.—In operating on the right limb, the surgeon, standing on the inside of the limb, which must be abducted, and slightly flexed on the pelvis, should enter the knife imme- diately in front of the tuber ischii, and carry it steadily in an oblique dnection across the front of the joint to a point nearly midway between the great trochanter and crest of the ilium, and cut a rounded flap of sufficient length from the anterior surface of the limb. In doing this, great care must be taken to make the knife pass close in front of the head of the femur, and to turn its edge obliquely towards the joint; so that, when the flap is formed and raised, the capsule will be found to be opened, and when the limb is forcibly depressed, the head of the femur either at once starts out, or a single cut upon it divides the remaining portion of the capsular and round ligaments. Then nothing remains to be done but to clear the trochanter major, and form a posterior flap, somewhat shorter than the anterior. The hcemorrhage is controlled during the operation, either by applying an abdominal tourniquet, or by compressing the femoral on the brim of the pelvis, as in amputation of the thigh. The femoral artery should always be commanded, even when an abdominal tourniquet is employed, as it may slip or require to be removed from interfering with respiration. When the anterior flap is cut, the assistant grasps it so as to command the vessels completely ; and on disarticulation being accomplished, another assistant com- presses the surface of the posterior flap with a large sponge, rais- ing it from tiine to time to allow the bleeding points to be secured. Then the femoral vessels are tied, the nerves cut short.