LIGATURE OF SUBCLAVIAN. 6G9 Should the third, portion of tlie subclavian be found in a doubtful condition for the safe application of a ligature, the inci- sions must be extended so as to expose the middle portion. For this purpose the incision is carried through the clavicular attach- ment of the sterno-mastoid and superimposed tissues. This procedure, added to the former incisions, exposes the scalenus anticus, with the phrenic nerve crossing it obliquely from above downwards and inwards, and lower down, and more internal, the confluence of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. Two ^ important arterial branches, the transversalis colli and supra-scapu- lar, cross the scalenus more superficially than the parts mentioned, and require to be avoided in dissecting through the cellular tissue lying between the sterno-mastoid and the more deeply seated parts. Even in tying the third portion of the subclavian I have seen one of these vessels wounded, and give rise to serious embarrassment to the surgeon and danger to the patient. And we must also remember that these are two of the most directly and important anastomosing branches for re-establishing the cir- culation in the upper extremity after deligation of the subclavian. The special points of danger, however, in this extension of our incision to expose the part of the artery covered by the scalenus, is the risk of injuring the phrenic nerve lying upon the muscle to be divided, and injury of the pleura, which is here in close proximity to the vessel to be tied. The former danger is met by drawing the nerve gently aside by means of a narrow copper spatula, and then carefully dividing the scalenus, so as to expose the subclavian, whilst the wound of the pleura is guarded against by keeping the point and concave surface of the aneurism needle in close contact with the coats of the artery in passing round it. When all oozing of venous blood has ceased, the wound is closed by points of suture, and the patient placed in bed, with the arm supported but not much bent. The patient should be laid upon the side operated on, so that serous discharge or venous oozing, if ■ there be any, may escape by the outer angle of the wound. One of the secondary risks of ligature of the subclavian, apart from the risk of secondary hsemorrhage, is the formation of