826 AMPUTATION. wMcli was about a quarter of an inch thick, had been in close contact with his body when it exploded, and the wound was therefore similar to that caused by the bursting of a shell. The thigh was almost separated from the trunk at the upper and inner part. The pectineeus, adductors, and the hamstring muscles, at their origins from the tuber ischii, were divided and torn into shreds, whilst the front of the abdomen and lower part of the thorax were severely scorched by the explosion. The femoral artery, largely exposed, had escaped injury, but the vein seemed twisted and injured, as the blood was coagulated in it. There had been considerable bleeding from the arterial branches divided, and slow oozing into the textures of the limb was going on when the patient was brought into the hospital. The acci- dent had occurred in Lanarkshire, and the patient had to be con- veyed partly by road, and then by railway to Edinburgh. In this case also, the only chance of life and relief from suffering was removal of the limb at the hip ; but after rallying during the first twenty-four hours, he died on the third day. Here, in contrast to the case of the boy, we see the disadvantages of a long and tedious journey, and renewal of shock from time to time, from the unavoidable movements in being so conveyed to town ; the slow loss of blood from oozing into the tissues of the limb ; the extent and severity of the wound, and the scorch- ing of the abdomen and chest, an injury very dangerous in itself;—such cirqumstances are sufficient, I think, to explain the fatal result,—and from what I have observed in cases of primary amputations, these are conditions which, according as they are present in greater or less degree, most materially influence the success of such operations. Perhaps it may seem that I do not sufficiently appreciate the importance of the patient enjoying the benefits of pure country air, instead of that of a hospital ward. But whilst it is perfectly true that there is much need of doing all we can to improve the ventilation of our hospitals, the dwellings of the working-classes in the country are not always or even generally models of ventilation. In the case of the boy, the room be oc-