RANULA. 9G7 at the same time if possible, or the second may be removed a day or two after the first. There is seldom bleeding of any importance after the operation, but we must be careful not to drag the parts too much towards the mesial line, nor to cut too much outwards, for fear of injuring the important vessels. In children, it is sometimes not a very easy operation, from the small size of the mouth and other causes ; and chloro- form, though it may be given, does not assist us much. An instrument called the guillotine has been introduced to obviate these difficulties ; but my objection to it is that it does not remove a large enough portion of the tonsil, and, besides, in children it is quite as difficult to use as the bistoury; still, in some cases, it has been found useful. There is no after-treat- ment required beyond washing the mouth with warm water, and afterwards with alum gargle, and avoiding cold. The term Eanula is applied to a cystic tumour in the sub- lingual region. On looking into the mouth we observe that the apex of the tongue is raised, and the body of the organ carried upwards and backwards, whilst the floor of the mouth is occupied by a large prominent swelling of a peculiar bluish tinge from distension with fluid, and covered by the mucous membrane. In some cases there is a sort of double swelling occupying both sides of the mouth; in others, the tumour occupies only one side, but often presses over beyond the middle line as it enlarges. The swelling of course interferes with the use of the tongue and mouth ; the voice is harsh and croaking, hence the term Eanula, from the sound resembling the croaking noise made by frogs. Deglutition is interfered with, and even respiration may be seriously affected; and in some cases suffocation has been threatened from rapid increase of the swelling. Considerable difference of opinion exists as to the nature of ranula. Some consider it a new growth, or true cystic tumour ; others, enlargement of some mucous follicles. Whilst some, with whom I am inclined to agree, consider the growth to depend upon obstruction of the sublingual and sub-