928 INJURIES OF HEAD. there was fracture of the skull, with rupture of some of the branches of the middle meningeal artery. The operation, though demanded in the circumstances, was followed by no improve- ment in the condition of the patient, who gradually died coma- tose. On post-mortem examination, the fissure was found to extend right across the base of the skull. The base of the brain was also found ruptured at several points, more especially at the line of fracture, and a layer of pus covered its entire surface. The occurrence of a distinct layer of pus over the surface of the brain at so early a period after the accident, is certainly remark- able, and may seem to justify a suspicion of the injury being merely a coincidence occurring in the course of an inflammatory action of the meninges. This, however, is rendered improbable, not only by the history of the case, but also by the facts that the pus was most abundant in the line of fracture and at points corresponding to the rupture of the brain-substance, and that the brain-substance itself at these points was undoubtedly the seat of inflammatory action, as proved by microscopic examination. OPEEATION OF TEEPAK The following extract from a case narrated by Mr. John Bell affords so good an illustration of what I stated in my Lecture on Trepan as to the advantage of using the Hey's cranial saw in certain circumstances instead of the trephine, that I quote it here. Mr. Bell says— " I made au incision into the tumour, a long incision, which, directed by what I felt without, uncovered a long fracture, the circumstances of which are represented in this sketch. One great fracture (a) running down the forehead, passed into the orbit, and was so very wide that it easily admitted the handle of my scalpel; the other limb of the fracture (6) ran round in the direction of the coronal suture ; the whole piece and corner marked (c) was deeply depressed, and so far locked under the edge {d) that it was necessary to make those two perforations, and to cwi off a small projecting corner with the finger-saw, before we could think of using the lever. The blood rolled out through the fii'st perforation. The depression of the dura mater l)y the blood was as great as in the former case ; the ckcle in which, I could with the probe feel it detached, was as wide. The risuig of the pulse, which had been 02>pressed ; the