743 AM PUT A TION. the cicatrix, which was closely attached to the bone. Still, as a general rule, the stumps resulting from the flap operation were decidedly better than those from the circular, and their defects apparently did not depend on causes inherent in the mode of operating; and, on the whole, this method appeared to combine greater rapidity and facility of execution, with the formation of a more thickly-covered stump. The plan which I adopted in my earlier operations was that by anterior and posterior flaps as recommended by Mr. Listen. The flaps were made by transfixion, the one in front being rather short, whilst the one behind was considerably longer, in order to allow for the greater retraction of the posterior muscles. The flaps were then pulled well back, and the bone cleared by circular sweeps of the knife before applying the saw. Thus, when the operation was concluded, the result was two rounded flaps of equal length, with the bone cut through a little higher up than their bases. N'othing can look finer than this at the time. The smoothly-cut flaps come neatly together, and cover the bone thickly, so as to form a well-rounded stump. Practical expe- rience, however, soon showed me that in order to obtain a perma- nently well-covered stump, it would not do to trust to flaps formed in this manner, as they had a tendency to retract gradually to the point of transfixion ; and if, in order to remedy this defect, they were cut very long, they contracted and turned in upon themselves, and left a deep cleft in the line of the cicatrix, so that the cushion of soft parts did not correspond to or cover the end of the bone. Seeing, then, that merely adding to the length of the flaps did not produce the result which was desired, I was led to make an alteration in the method of operating itself I transfixed the limb fully two inches lower down than where I intended sawing through the bone, and having cut and retracted the flaps, I applied the point of the knife round the bone so as to clear it upwards to the extent of the two inches already speci- fied. The limb was now raised in order to project the bone away from the soft parts, and the saw was then applied as high as possible. By this means the bone remained deeply covered even