lA JURIES OF HEAD. 866 reaction has occurred, and the patient has answered questions rationally, and expressed himself free from uneasiness. As re- action proceeds, the pulse rises, the face becomes flushed, and he complains of headache, and, perhaps, some sensation of noise as of rushing water, and becomes hot and restless. By and by he falls into a troubled sleep ; gradually he becomes still, the sleep is noticed to be profound, and he snores deeply. At length the ap- pearance of the features or the noisy character of the breathing alarms the friends, and they try to rouse him, but in vain, and the medical attendant is summoned. He finds the patient's pulse slow and laboured, the breathing stertorous, the pupils of the eyes dilated and insensible to light, and the eyelids and eyes insensible to the touch. The limbs are flaccid, though, in some cases, occasional convulsions and subsultus tendiuum occur. The sphincters are relaxed, the patient passes his stools and urine involuntarily, or complete retention of urine takes place from loss of expulsive power. ISTo noise, or question, however loudly put, nor even external stimulus, can rouse the patient, the state of coma being complete. In such a case the train of symp- toms enables us to trace cause and effect. The original shock to the cranium, the insensibility caused by that passing away, the interval of consciousness, the excited circulation of reaction, , followed by the gradually increasing coma of compression, leave no doubt as to what has taken place. It is a case of active intra- cranial haemorrhage, leading to compression of the brain. Such a case points to the necessity for the watchful care and the pro- phylactic measures I have indicated during the stage of reaction following concussion. The course and nature of the symptoms in this form of extra- vasation are so marked as to arrest the attention of even a care- less observer. There is, however, another and more insidious form, that of Passive extravasation, of which I have seen many cases, and to the dangers and treatment of which I drew attention long ago, but more specially in my Clinical Eeport for 1859-60. This passive ha;morrhage very generally occurs from injury of some of the venous sinuses, but also from the smaller meningeal