713 MORTALITY AFTER EXCISIONS. life, nor did he complain of uneasiness at the wound, a great part of which was consolidated. Another of the fatal cases occurred in a man about 30 years of age, of very strumous constitution and spare habit of body, but not very much exhausted by the disease, which was chronic gelatinous degeneration of the synovial membrane. In this case the cause of death was very obscure. The operation was very easily and quickly performed; there was less than the usual amount of bleeding during the operation, and the wound was not a large one. After the operation some venous bleeding occurred, which, however, was quickly and easily arrested by snipping the bandage above the knee and applying cold. There was no bleeding into the cavity of the wound—no distension—and the ends of the bone were kept in accurate apposition; but he never rallied fairly from the operation, and died within forty- eight hours. There was no affection of the lungs or chest to account for death. I presume we must classify the cause under the convenient term of " shock," though, as he was not at all nervous prior to the operation, and felt nothing of it, and was neither restless nor complained of pain after it, it is difficult to understand in what the "shock" consisted. A lad, aged 19, on whom I operated for gelatinous degeneration, died under pecu- liarly annoying circumstances. So far as the excised knee-joint was concerned, the wound healed nearly by the first intention, and consolidation proceeded favourably. So little pain did he suffer that he never moved the limb in the slightest degree, and the apparatus never required to be removed for five weeks, and then only to change the bandages for cleanliness. His appetite was good, and he slept well. The only bad symptom was that the pulse was more frequent than consistent with the general symp- toms. He was looked upon as convalescent, when suddenly the opposite foot and leg began to swell. The urine, which had formerly been normal, was now found to contain albumen in considerable quantity. Notwithstanding all treatment, the con- dition proceeded, occasionally yielding for a time, and then be- coming worse. He died nearly four months after the operation.