AMPUTATION. 850 years of age, on account of compound fracture into tlie ankle- joint ; slie made an excellent recovery, but then the operation was done soon after the accident, and without removal of the patient. Primary Amputation op Thigh; Death from Mortification of Sttimp.—(Cases referred to in Lecture Ixxxvi. pp. 771, 772.) 1. David Wallace, set. 25, admitted August 11,1854, on account of com- pound comminuted fracture of the'bones of the leg. A heavy truck passed over his right leg about two p.m. The gentleman who first saw him applied a tourniquet, and had him sent into the hospital in a cart. He arrived at six P.M. He was pale, and his pulse very weak from loss of blood. On examination, the bones were found to be ground to pieces, just below the tuberosity of the tibia ; the muscles of the caK were divided and mixed up with fragments of bone; the skin was entire, excepting on the front and on the outer side. Four oz. of brandy and 5i. of solution of morphia were adminis- tered. He was put under chloroform, and removed to the operating theatre, but nearly sank on the way, respiration and pulse ceasing almost wholly. He was allowed to awaken, and had two oz. of whisky as soon as he could swallow; he was again put under chloroform, and amputation by flaps per- formed at the lower third of the thigh. During the operation he nearly sank. He was then removed to bed, and surrounded with hot bottles; two oz. whisky and 3i. morphia were administered ; in a short time he vomited ; the morphia was repeated ; pulse 120, very weak. He rallied about three next morning, under the assiduous application of stimulants and warmth. In the afternoon the skin was warm and moist; pallid hue gone. Ordered 3i. Sol. Mur. Morj)h., M'hich he soon vomited ; Bismuth Alb. gr. x. He became very excited and restless ; the dressings came loose ; dry lint was applied. Three stitches were removed, as some oozing had taken place. He slept well during the night, but awoke weak and restless ; pulse 130. To have port wine §ss. every hour, and Sol. Mur. Moi-ph. 3i., and M. xx. every fourth hour, if necessary. The bowels were moved by enema. At five p.m. the pulse was 130, full. Slept soundly all afternoon. Sweated profusely, but felt quite comfortable. At seven p.m. he was found pale and collapsed, only semi-conscious. There was a foetid smell round the bed. There was a bluish line all arormd the stump above the dressings, and a row of phlyc- tense behind it ; the bandage was becoming tight. All dressings and stitches were removed. The stump, as high as the trochanters, was quite cold and emphysematous. A poultice was immediately applied all over it. Wine 5iv and whisky Sij were given ; but the gangrene spread rapidly, and the patient died at half-past nine p.m. No examination was allowed. Shortly after death the body became of a purplish hue, and emphysematous all over, especially the head and face. 2. Wm. G., set. 30, was knocked down by a railway waggon, which passed over both his lower limbs. The right thigh was fractured in the lower third ; the soft parts were considerably bruised, and there was enormous