CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 925 compound comminuted gunshot fracture ; and when we con- sider the lacerated state of the scalp, and the extreme splinter- ing of the skull, there can be little question of the propriety of removing the shattered and isolated fragments of bone. Even in the absence of any marked symptoms of compression, operative interference was not only justifiable but urgently called for, as the presence of broken pieces of bone, severed from all vital connection, would, by their irritation of the membranes and their certain necrosis, have undoubtedly been attended by greater risk to the patient. The paralysis, convulsions, and other nervous symptoms, together with the hernia cerebri which subsequently took place, cannot be considered as having been influenced by the operation, for they were no doubt due to sloughing of the membranes, and to inflammation and suppuration within the cranium, following the laceration of the dura mater and contusion of the brain-substance, which took place at the time of the accident. As in this case, true hernia cerebri seems always to be accompanied by abscess of the cerebral matter, and to be the result of increased volume due to the presence of the products of inflammation. Though there was great danger from the recur- ring haemorrhage, death was caused not by the hernia cerebri, but by the morbid processes going on within the cranium, of which the hernia cerebri was the result. Cases of Simple Fractures of Cranium complicated with Active Intracranial Haemorrhage. 1. R. M'D., Eet. 40. Admitted February 15tli, 1859, about 3 p.m.—Said to have been struck by a poker on the head, and pushed violently down stairs. He was seen by Mr. Dewar on admission, who described the symptoms under which the man Laboured as being those of concussion. He was, however, nearly totally insensible ; the pulse quick and small ; the breathing very slow and gentle. At 5 P.M. the patient was in a state of complete insensibility ; breath- ing slowly, but calmly, not stertorously ; pulse 68, full ; left pupil much contracted; right pupil much dilated ; both insensible to light. On the left frontal region, about an inch above the eyebrow, was considerable ecchymosis, and a small punctured wound, into which a probe could be passed down to the pericranium. Over the parietal and part of the occi-