TREATMENT OF CRANIAL FRACTURES. 885 bone is usually much broken up, and portions abruptly de- pressed, with, perhaps, a point of bone projecting inwards, we ought to lose no time in trephining, although symptoms of compression be slight or altogether wanting. Here we super- add no danger by operating. "We are not converting a simple fracture into a compound one, as in the former case, whilst the benefit derived from elevating or removing the depressed portion or removing loose fragments is obvious. When the bone in a compound fracture is fissured, without being much comminuted or depressed, no one would think of trepanning at once, for no bad consequences may result from such a fissure, and the mere co-existence of a wound of the scalp does not greatly increase the danger. But when the fracture is comminuted or depressed, we should operate at once. From what I have stated regarding the character of the punctured and stellate fracture, I trust you will see the propriety for promptitude in its treatment. You must not be beguiled into false security by the trivial appearance of the injury, or the absence of bad symptoms at the time. Keep in mind the state of the injured bone, and its relation to the brain and dura mater. It must be obvious to you that the projecting points of the table driven in upon the dura mater must irritate, if not lacerate that membrane, or even the brain itself, and that the detached frag- ments, deprived of their vitality, will act as foreign bodies, which, as they have no means of escape, must necessarily lead to intra-cranial inflammation and suppuration, unless an opera- tion be performed to remove these sources of irritation. This, to be of service, should be done at once. If done early, we remove the fragments and depressed portions of the internal table before they have lacerated or punctured the dura mater, or excited inflammation, and so prevent bad consequences. If we wait till urgent symptoms supervene, our interference is too late, the mischief already done generally proves fatal. Although it is still our duty to give the patient a chance for life, as some few cases have recovered from removal of the fragments of bone, and escape of purulent matter, even when the operation has been,