962 REGIONAL SURGERY. and forcibly repress it into position, after dissecting off the soft parts, or we divide the pedicle with bone-pliers, and remove the bone. The former is the preferable method when we can adopt it. In either case it should form a preliminary operation. The mistake you are likely to commit as beginners is to remove too little texture in paring the edges. This conservatism is suggested by the apparent dearth of material to supply the existing defect; but that deficiency is more apparent than real. In drawing the edges of the wound together, we have to draw largely on the elasticity of the component textures ; and lest the sutures should of themselves be insufficient to keep the ground we have gained in this way, we generally draw the cheeks towards each other by strips of adhesive plaster, causing the lip to pout. This can be done more effectually by means of an apparatus, formed somewhat like a double truss,consistingof a circular spring and two pads. The spring is applied round the back of the head, and the pads are adjusted so that one is made to impinge on either cheek. It is kept in position by means of a cross strap applied over the forehead and vertex. I have never myself used this, but it has been found of advantage. The bleeding must be arrested by torsion. No approximation must be attempted until it has entirely ceased, unless we use the- harelip-needles, when these are made to compress the vessels. ■ •■ Chloroform may or may not be used. If given, care should be taken that the child has had no food for some hours before the operation, lest it cause sickness. The condition known by the name of Cleft Palate consists of a congenital malformation, in which the arch forming the roof of the mouth, instead of being continuous and entire, is inter- rupted by a longitudinal fissure or gap in its substance. This deficiency may be partial, affecting the soft palate only, or it may be complete, involving the hard palate also. Sometimes ag- gravated forms of it are met with, in which the fissure extends forwards through the alveolus and upper lip into either nostril; and there are minor degrees of it, in which the fissure is repre-