922 INJURIES OF HEAD. ments were easily taken away ; but one large, shelving portion had to be divided by the pliers previous to removal. As this latter spicula had been driven into the longitudinal sinus, a gush of blood followed its withdrawal. The jet was easily checked by the pressure of a finger until the wound was thoroughly searched, and all loose particles removed. A small piece of lint was then placed directly over the wound in the sinus, and above it larger pieces, until the whole space was lightly filled. This sufiiced to check the haemorrhage. The patient was replaced in bed, and iced water kept constantly applied to the head. Next day all the pads were removed except the one in du-ect contact with the blood-vessel. In the evening a saline purge was given ; and as the pulse had risen from 84 to 100, he was put on small doses of tartar-emetic. On the third day a small frag- ment of bone, which pressed directly inwards on the brain, was removed by the pliers. During the third and fourth days, the pulse varied from 80 to 88 ; the mental faculties were unaffected ; and the general appear- ance of the patient augured well. On the sixth day, however, he had sKght rigors, and the pulse rose to 112. Leeches were placed behind the ears ; and on the seventh day the pulse numbered 92. In consequence of the pulse rising to 100 towards evening, a blister was applied between the shoulders. On the morning of the eighth day he wandered, the rigors and sweats were repeated ; in the afternoon he became comatose, with paralysis of the left arm and leg, and marked dilatation of the pupils. The coma gradually deepened, and he died on the evening of the ninth day after receipt of the injury. On examination, the bone around the wound was smooth and healthy, but underneath the dura mater a diffuse collection of jjus covered the right side and base of the brain. A small abscess was fomid in the posterior lobe. The longitudinal sinus was com- pletely occluded by a large fibrinous clot. Gunshot Fracture of Cranium. A. B., vdi. 21, was brought to the hospital on October 2d, at 9.30 P.M., with a severe compoimd comminuted fracture of the skull, which had been caused by the discharge of a fowling-piece. The fracture involved the left parietal and frontal bones, and was situated about midway between the anterior termination of the sagittal suture and the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The wound of the integuments was much lacerated, and several pieces of the splintered bone were depressed. Mr. Spence, who was at ouce summoned to the case, removed in. all fifteen detached fragments of bone, and elevated any remaining portions which were depressed. The dura mater was found intact, except at one point where there was a small laceration. The patient, who was now placed in bed, after having had his head shaved and cold applied, seemed to be in Some degree conscious of what was going on, and to understand questions addressed to him, though unable to answer them. The pulse, which, though weak, was about the natural standard after the operation, about three o'clock next morning became strong and full, and rose to 88 ; and as the patient was feverish and restless, he was ordered antimony in doses of a twentieth of a grain. Durmg the day he vomited twice ; the pulse