MORTALITY AFTER EXCISIONS. 711 operation is likely to be perilled by its being indiscriminately resorted to. In reference to the absolute advantages of excision of the knee over amputation as regards the results in successful cases, no one can doubt that, and I think the question now to be considered in regard to the comparative mortality of these opera- tions is to endeavour to discriminate between the cases in which the one or the other of these operations presents the least risk to life. Here, as in amputation, it is difficult or impossible to gain much from mere general statistics. What we want to Icnow in considering such a point is, all the circumstances of the cases operated on, which may have influenced the result, and hence the surgeon will learn more from, and naturally be more impressed with, the results of his own cases, or of cases which he has opportunities of closely observing. My own experience of excision of the knee-joint is comparatively limited, and there- fore, in stating to you the results, any deductions I may draw from my cases are to be regarded as merely suggestive, not positive. I have performed excision of the knee-joint 18 times ; of these 9 have recovered, and 8 died, and 1 is under treatment. 17 of the cases operated on were for disease, and 1, a primary excision, for injury. 14 of the patients were females, and 4 males. Of the 9 successful cases 8 were females: in 6 of these the ages varied from 20 to 25; 1 was a little girl, aged 7 ; and 1 was a young man, aged 20. The diseased conditions for which the operation was per- formed were as follow :—In the cases of the young adult females there was disease of the articular ends of the bones, leading to ulceration of the cartilages, attended with great local pain and constitutional disturbance ; but in all of them, notwithstanding the severity of their suffering, there was less wasting of the body and less impairment of the general health and strength than might have been expected. In the case of the young man, an- chylosis in the bent position had resulted after long-continued disease of knee-joint, which, so far as the history could be ascer- tained, seemed to have been disease of the bones and cartilages ;