811 AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLE. Amputation at the Ankle-joint is, both in regard to safety and the formation of a useful stump, perhaps the most successful of all amputations. It may be performed either by Mr. Syme's method, or by a large internal flap ; and when the stump is fairly healed, it is very difficult to teU. which method has been used—the result is so similar. Mr. Syme's method, as described by himself, is as follows:—"When the operation is to be performed, pressure should be made on the tibial arteries by the fingers of an assistant, or a tourniquet applied above the ankle. The only instruments re- quired are a knife, of which the blade should not exceed four inches in length, and a saw. The foot being held at a right angle to the leg, the point of the knife is introduced innnediately below tlie maleolar projection of the fibula, rather nearer its posterior than anterior edge, and tlien carried across the bone (sole ?), slightly inclining backwards, to the inner side of the ankle, where it terminates at tlie point exactly opposite its commence- ment. The extremities of the incision thus formed are then joined by another passing in front of the joint. The operator next proceeds to detach the flap from the bone, and for this piirpose, having placed the fingers of his left hand over the prominence of the OS calcis, and inserted the point of his thumb between the edges of the plantar incision, guides the knife between the bone and nail of the thumb, taking great care to cut parallel with the bone, and to avoid scoring or laceration of the integu- ments. He then opens the joint in front, carries his knife out- wards and downwards on each side of the astragalus, so as to divide the lateral ligaments, and thus completes the disarticula- tion. Lastly, the knife is carried round the extremities of the tibia and fibula, so as to afford room for applying the saw, by means of which the articular projections are removed, together with the thin connecting slice of bone covered by cartilage. The vessels being then tied, and the edges of the wound stitched together, a piece of wet lint is applied lightly over the stump, without any bandage, so as to avoid the risk ol undue pressure in the event of the cavity becoming distended with blood, which would be apt to occasion sloughing of the flap. When recovery 3h