FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 941 ract knife for example, and slits open the canal into the sac. This permits him to introduce a silver probe, sufficiently strong, to pass along the nasal duct, and overcome the obstruction. The distended sac is then emptied of its contents, and tepid anodyne lotions applied over the position of the sac for a few hours to allay irritation. In two or three days the probe is passed again, and followed up by a larger one, and thus at intervals gradual dilatation of the duct is effected, and its function restored, with- out any deformity being left. If, however, suppuration has occurred, with much inflammatory swelling in and over the sac, then Bowman's method wiLL not suffice ; for not only will it not permit free exit for the pus and other inflammatory products, but the gradual dilatation cannot be properly carried out. The suppurating sac should be opened like an ordinary abscess, and its contents freely evacuated, and a probe passed down through the canal. Afterwards, when irritation has ceased, dilatation is carried out, at first from above, but after a time I introduce the probe from below, to permit the opening in the sae to heal. In cases where the lachrymal sac has been allowed to burst, and no means have been used to clear the nasal duct, the tears pass from the sac through the opening, coiistituting the condition termed Fistula Lachrymalis ; and for the cure of this a special operation is generally described. The operator makes tense the eyelids, so as to render the tendo oculi distinct, inserts the point of a narrow bistoury below the tendon, directing the edge out- wards, and the point backwards and downwards into the nasal duct; then partially withdraws the knife and passes a probe along the blade, and finally lodges a style in the duct; and after a few days removes this, and gradually introduces larger styles, till the duct is fully dilated ; then a very fine style with an enamelled head is left in permanently. For my own part, I never could see the necessity for this special operation. The external aperture must communicate with the sac, and all I have ever found necessary has been to dilate the existing aperture, and pass a probe into and along the nasal duct by giving it the proper direction, and then carrying out gradual dilatation.