RESULTS OF SPINAL CONCUSSION. 905 slight inequalities. If we examine the patient at this time and desire him to shut his eyes and stand upright, away from any support, he begins to sway, and may even fall or stumble, and pressure on the injured part produces pain and starting of the limbs. After a time the paralytic condition becomes more marked, and the temperature of the affected limb or limbs is below the natural standard of the body. At this time the pulse and general constitution are affected, and the objective as well as subjective symptoms confirm the diagnosis. I have said that even injury done to the ligamentous textures of the spinal column may be followed by such chronic changes as just described, in consequence of their close relation to and vascular connections with the membranes of the spinal cord, and a good deal has been made of this in regard to railway injuries; but it does not follow that, because it may happen occasionally, that it is likely to happen as a general rule. If ordinary care and treat- ment be adopted, such results will be the rare exceptions, and when the symptoms do arise we can test how far they are really indicative of structural changes or due to an over-excited appre- hension, a species of hysteria. We examine the urine whether it be alkaline or contain much phosphatic deposit,—note the tem- perature of the affected limb or limbs in relation to the natural standard and that of the rest of the body, the movements of the patient, and the state of the muscular tissue as to bulk and con- tractile power; apd thus, by careful personal examination, and using these and other tests, we can form a correct opinion as to the state of the patient in any given case. I have already indicated the treatment to be adopted in the case of spinal concussion, and that required to obviate the increase of intraspinal extravasation and inflammation following con- cussion. The slow alterations in structure are not so amenable to treatment, because, from the insidious manner in which they manifest themselves, before the patient becomes alarmed, con- siderable changes and degeneration in structure have probably taken place. The remedial measures consist of abstraction of blood by means of leeches, or cupping over the part with a view