OPERATIONS. 776 spirits, and—except that the pulse kept somewhat high—appeared to be going on favourably; this, intelligence, however, completely depressed him, and seemed to predispose to the unfavourable result. In such cases as these last, mental depression and despond- ency can hardly be overlooked as having an important influence on the resiilts. Still, I repeat, we can draw no exact general deductions where so much depends on the mental constitution and temperament of the individual. There is, however, one mental state which should always be recognised, and which should influence our practice, not only in cases of amputation, but in all operations—I mean the effect produced upon a patient by witnessing or hearing of the death, or of any unfavourable condition happening to another who has undergone a similar operation. This is of course most likely to occur in hospital; and in my own practice I make it a rule to avoid placing two patients, about to undergo the same opera- tion, in one ward, more especially if the prognosis in either case be unfavourable ; and I feel satisfied from observation, that what are termed in some hospitals " Operation Wards," are very objectionable both on this and other grounds, and that operation patients get on better when scattered throughout the different wards, amongst the less serious cases. In regard to the question of secondary amputations, for traumatic gangrene and those for burns, I have already discussed these subjects, under their appropriate heads, in the earlier part of the Lectures, and therefore need not speak of them here. I now turn to the results of the amputations performed for disease, with the view of considering what they suggest. I have already said that an operation in itself may be comparatively free from danger, and yet the condition of the patient, or the circum- stances under which it is performed, may lead to its performance being attended with great mortality. Perhaps no better example of this could be found than in comparing the results of amputation of the leg for disease with those for injury. Out of 22 cases of amputation of the leg for disease 21 recovered and 1 died ; whilst out of 31 performed for injury, either primarily or