PRELIMINARY ARRANGEMENTS. 639 admit of, and after the operation the table and all the other para- phernalia of the surgeon are at once removed. Supposing the room to be fixed on,—the surgeon chooses a firm table of mode- rate height, not very broad, and of sufficient length to support the patient. An ordinary stout deal table generally answers all purposes. This table is covered by a folded blanket, protected by oil-cloth or India-rubber web, and furnished with a coujjle of pillows to support the patient's head. A piece of floor-cloth or old carpet should be placed over the carpet of the room, under and for some distance from the table, to protect the carpet from being stained with blood. In cases of amputation, where there may be considerable effusion of blood, or discharge from the diseased limb, the surgeon should direct the friends or nurse to provide a tray with sawdust, so as to avoid all disagreeables as far as possible, as the sawdust absorbs the fluids, and prevents the risk of their accidental diffusion over the floor. The other preparations to be provided by the family are basins in which to wash the sponges ; and plenty of towels, hot and cold water, and a foot or slop pail, into which the soiled water may be emptied. Hot bottles should be ready when the patient is replaced in bed after the operation. The surgeon should never trust to finding sponges provided; he should invariably bring his own, otherwise he will sometimes have to deal with very doubtful articles. In my own practice, I am very particular in regard to sponges. Before being used they should be thoroughly cleansed from all sand or calcareous matter, and after every operation I have my sponges washed in a weak solution of bicarbonate of soda, to remove the blood thoroughly, then in cold water, and lastly, I allow them to steep for a night in a weak mixture of water and hydrochloric acid, and in my private practice I seldom use the same sponges continuously, or for any long period. The num- ber of assistants required will depend upon the nature of the particular operation. In cases of emergency we must do the best we can with what assistance can be procured, but in pre- arranged operations the surgeon should consider what assistance is required, and arrange the number of attendants and their duties