667 LIGATURE OF SUBCLA VIAN. margin of tlie trapezius muscle to a point a few lines internal to tlie outer margin of the sterno-mastoid. The more important parts of the operation will, however, be much facilitated by making another incision about an inch and a half in length along the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid, so as to join the former incision nearly at a right angle. This method enables us, by dissecting or merely drawing back the angular flap marked out at the internal part of the wound, to expose more fully the parts immediately in relation to the vessels, so as to . deal more readily with the artery, or to modify the operation, if necessary, by extending our incision inwards. There is no use in dissecting deeply at the outer part of the supra-clavicular in- cision, as we gain no room by doing so, and it is liable to lead us away from the subclavian artery and endanger the supra- scapular vessels. The skin, superficial fascia, and platysma myoides, should be divided by the first incision in the line indi- cated, care being taken to cut lightly through the textures over the course of the external jugular vein, so as to avoid wound- ing that vessel, which should be drawn aside, if necessary, by a blunt hook. The next step in the operation consists in dividing the deep fascia at the middle and inner part of the wound. In doing this there should be no dissection upwards or downwards ; the fascia should be divided in the line of the incision directly from the surface towards the deeply-seated parts. . When this is effected the angular flap of the textures can be drawn up- wards and backwards, not forcibly, but merely held aside. At this stage the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid generally comes into view, and has by some been recommended as a guide ; but it is not a safe guide to the artery, since it merely marks the depth or plane at which we have arrived. When the deep fascia is divided, the operator should pass his finger close to the outer edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, directly backwards, to try if he can feel the outer margin of the anterior scalenus, or perhaps touch the artery itself. In general, however, the outline of the scalenus and the position of the vessel are rendered indis- tinct by a quantity of areolar tissue and lymphatic glands being 2 Y