697 EXCISION OF JOINTS. was successfully performed by Mr. Park of Liverpool in 1781, and his views on the advantage of excisions in general were published in the form of a letter to Mr, Percival Pott in 1782, and also in the London Medical Journal in 1789. Mr. Park also mentions a case in which Mr. Filkin, a surgeon at Northwitch, had performed excision in a case of diseased knee complicated by injury in 1762. Excision of the head of the humerus had also been performed by White of Manchester and Mr. Bent. And in France the Moreaus, father and son, practised excision of - joints as a general rule, and the younger Moreau published a work on the subject. Notwithstanding all the success which had attended excisions of joints both in England and France, the operation never came into general use ; and it is undoubtedly to Mr. Syme that we owe its revival and advancement as a general method in the present day. Mr. Syme's work on Excision of Joints, published in 1831, drew general attention to the subject, and the success which attended his operations induced many surgeons to perform excision of the elbow-joint instead of ampu- tation. Still the general adoption of the method was much less rapid than might have been expected from the success of the operation and the advantages to be gained by it. This partly arose from some surgeons misunderstanding the objects of the operation—viz. to remove the whole of the articular ends of the bones, and to obtain a movable elbow by means of a false joint. Some placed the limb after excision in rectangular splints, and kept it in the bent position to obtain anchylosis. Still more detrimental to the credit of the operation were the attempts to perform partial excision, such as resection of the olecranon or portions of the condyles of the humerus, which attempts were very generally followed by increased local mischief and grave constitutional disturbance, sometimes terminating fatally or requiring amputation of the arm secondarily. And then many surgeons, forgetting how long it is before the soft parts in the neighbourhood of a diseased joint regain their healthy character after excision, and how frequently in such cases sinuses form from time to time, took alarm, and not unfrequently performed