CAUSES OF MORTALITY. 7G7 collapse, and that even when the patient's feeling of pain seems to be benumbed rather than exalted. Very little irritation or pain, or exposure to cold, superadded to this state, I believe to be sources of great additional danger, both immediate and secondary ; and to these causes I attribute much of the fatality which attends primary amputation in civil hospital practice, where most of the cases are brought from some distance—often from a long distance—by cart or railway. The state of a patient with a torn and broken limb, carried even with the greatest care, is aggravated by the slightest movement, and fresh shock superadded. I have on two occasions accompanied patients under these circumstances from short distances in the country, and though an opiate had been given, and the fractures were arranged and supported, the limbs slung, the car- riages very easy and the roads good, yet the slightest jolt or sudden motion of the horses caused exacerbations of suffering and faintness, requiring the administration of stimulants. In one of the two cases alluded to the soft parts were principally injured, the fibula alone being fractured. If such were the effects of removal under every advantage, I could not help asking myself what must be the condition of most patients brought to hospital with severe injuries? The loss of blood resulting from the injury, and any subsequent htemorrhage, either during the transport of the patient or in the amputation, is so evident a cause of danger, so frequently associated with and aggravating the shock, that I need not dwell on it fur- ther than to point out the necessity of prompt attention to this so soon as the patient comes under your care. You should not only be satisfied that there is no hsemorrhage externally, for I have frequently found bleeding taking place into and infil- trating the limb; and the patient may sink from this cause. Indeed, I have not unfrequently been obliged to amputate when the pulse was very weak, because, from this kind of haemorrhage, it was obvious that delay would only have led to greater debiHty from loss of blood. Under other circumstances, it is always proper to have a fair amount of reaction before