872 INJURIES OF HEAD. hence that unhealthy suppuration would occur under the scalp at the affected point. That in such cases, if the scalp was entire, a puffy or boggy tumour occurred at the part, or if a wound of the scalp existed, as the internal diseased action proceeded, the external wound became unhealthy, its edges everted, the discharge thin and gleety, and the bone could be seen bare at the bottom of the wound, and that the intracranial suppuration would be found to correspond. The "puffy tumour" of Pott has not been considered by recent authors as being much to be depended on as a diagnostic, and is spoken of as being rarely met with. My experience has been different. I have had occasion to trephine in several cases for purulent matter, and in these cases, one or other of the conditions described by Pott served as my guide to the pus. I suspect the term " puffy tumour " may pos- sibly have led some to expect the presence of a distinct prominent swelling. In some cases it is so, but most generally it is merely a boggy tumefaction or flattened swelling under and in the scalp tissue at the part corresponding to the internal collection of pus. As regards the value of the indications alluded to, it must be obvious that they are not absolutely certain. A simple contusion of the scalp tissue may be followed by suppuration of unhealthy character, and give rise to a boggy swelling; or a scalp wound, in which the pericranium has suffered, may be followed by necrosis of the surface of the bone, and then the wound would present the unhealthy appearance described, and it may so happen that the general head symptoms may be coincident with such local symptoms. It is quite true that suppuration between the bone and dura mater may occur without these local conditions, and also, that when they are pre- sent, perforation of the cranium may disclose nothing beyond a sloughy state of the dura mater, and perhaps a thin layer of yellow lymph, scarcely purulent matter. Still, as a general practical rule, if we have the symptoms of intracranial suppu- ration, and one or other of these local conditions be present, they form the best guides the surgeon has as to the position of the suspected purulent collection. My own opinion is, that the