HYPERTROPHY OF TONGUE. 971 jaw, in such cases, is quite altered in form, so as scarcely to re- semble the human jaw. This will be seen in the accompanying woodcut (Fig. 24). The treatment used to be excision of a V-shaped portion of the fore part of the tongue, which protruded, and this, though attended with some risk, generally answered well enough ; but it could seldom be done in young children, and when done later, the deformity of the jaw was irremediable. More recently it has been found that methodical bandaging of the protruded part, if combined with the internal use of iodide of potash, is sufficient gradually to dhninish the swelling. The bandaging of this unruly organ might seem difficult, but it can be done either with cotton bandage or strips of adhesive strap- ping, which, however, require to be renewed frequently, and the compression is more easily managed and more effectual than I could have at first believed. I certainly would not now have recourse to excision until I had given this method a fair trial. Ulcerations of the Tongue are very common. In a great many cases they look more formidable than they really are ; in many cases they are dependent on irritation of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, and in all cases their appearance is influenced by the condition of the digestive organs. In other cases, the ulceration has been originally caused, and its unhealthy condition kept up, by the local irritation produced by some sharp corner of a tooth, or the fastening of some false teeth, the adjustment of which has become disarranged. In the class of cases I have just mentioned, the treatment is obvious—removal of the excit- ing cause by filing down or removal of the offending tooth, the proper adjustment of false teeth, or leaving them out for'a time till the ulcer heals, and the use of some mild wash, composed of borax, or chlorate of potash, combined with honey or glycerine and water. In more obstinate cases, the best local application is the sulphate of copper. In cases where there is a constitu- tional taint, such as syphilis, the appropriate constitutional remedies must of course be used ; whilst in those cases where the ulcers evidently arise from, or are kept up by derangement 3 s