INJURIES OF SPINE. 904 sequently cold should be applied to the spine as before, and absolute rest and non-stimulating diet strictly enforced. Great attention should be paid to the state of the bowels and urinary bladder. The relapse of interrupted nervous function shortly after the original symptoms have passed off and reaction has occurred, points to intraspinal extravasation as the cause. If pain and febrile symptoms occur at a later period, followed by the interrupted nervous function, inflammation of the membranes or of the cord itself is indicated. In this case, however, the interrup- tion of the nervous power takes place more gradually than in the former, and is generally preceded by fever, hypersesthesia, and painful cramps or startings of the limbs. The general consti- tutional disturbance also is more marked, so that, besides the period of accession, the symptoms of the two conditions of extravasation and inflammation are sufficiently diagnostic. In some instances, concussion of the spine may be followed by chronic forms of diseased action, affecting the medulla spinalis and its membranes, leading to gradually increasing paralytic symptoms. The progress of the alteration is very gradual, and , so insidious as not at first to attract much attention; indeed, at first, the symptoms are mainly subjective, and so anomalous as often to be very similar to those of hypochondriasis or hysteria. If, however, any serious change in structure is com- mencing, certain marked symptoms supervene. The patient complains of a constant feeling of tightness and fulness at the lower part of the abdomen, and of slowness in passing urine. These symptoms he probably attributes to flatulence, which is generally present, and stricture of the urethra. Next, he feels peculiar creeping sensation (formication), pricking and numb- ness in the extremities. He has cramps and jerking of the limbs when asleep, or about to fall asleep, and in some cases there is hypersesthesia of the skin, especially in the lower limbs. After a time the patient walks awkwardly, sets down his feet irregularly, and lifts them high from the ground, and unless he is looking at his feet he is apt to stumble, or catch the point of his foot against