712 OPERATIONS. and at the time of his admission into the hospital there were deep-seated pains in the bones, and the section removed showed the existence of articular caries at some points where the osseous anchylosis was incomplete. His general health had previously- suffered during the progress of the disease, but he had regained health and strength after the joint became stiff, but was again beginning to suffer, from the pain preventing rest at night. In the case of the female child, the disease was originally gelatinous degeneration, which had yielded to treatment in the hospital on a previous occasion, but had begun afresh. In her case, also, the joint was partially stiff; her general health was beginning to suffer, but she was by no means exhausted at the time of the operation. In this child's case there was very severe haemorrhage from the bones some hours after the operation, which could only be arrested by a pad of lint, dipped in perchloride of iron, being placed between the condyles of the femur and tibia, and retained for some hours ; after its removal no more bleeding occurred. Of the fatal cases, one was a case of primary excision in a man about 45 years of age, who jumped from a railway carriage whilst the train was in motion. He sustained several other injuries—concussion of brain and a small lacerated wound of the scalp, and simple fracture of the upper arm. The injury of the knee consisted of a very fine semilunar wound (made nearly as cleanly as with a knife), laying open the knee-j oint. The convexity of the flap looked upwards—that is, in the direction opposite to that in which we should make the incision in operating. The in- ternal condyle of the femur was fissured, and fragments broken off. No new incisions required to be made. The slices of bone removed were not of any great thickness, and no ligatures were required. At first the injury of the head rendered him restless and difficult to manage, but after a few days the head symptoms passed off, and he went on most favourably for more than three weeks, when suddenly rigors occurred, pysemia set in, and he died about five weeks after the injury. The lower end of the femur, above the section of the condyles, was found bare, as from acute necro- sis. There was no swelling of the thigh to be seen or felt during V