AMPUTA TION. 824 Eaw surface of stump covered with patches of whitish semi-translucent membrane of pretty tough consistence. Copious purulent discharge. Stimulants given in increased quantity.* 21st Pulse 120. Occasional delirium. Wound has same appearance 23c/. Pulse 118. Wound has less of its diphtheritic-looking covering. 'Hth. Stump looks healthy, and is cicatrising round the edges. Dressed with suli^hate of zinc lotion. Pulse still liigh, 11C. Sleeps well. Appetite indifferent. \st October. Pulse 110. Doing well. Ath. Pulse 102. From this time recovery was slow but uninterrupted. The patient gained strength gradually, with the aid of tonics, wine, etc. The femoral ligature did not fall off till 4th November, two months after the operation, having evidently been retained for some time after its separation from the" vessel by the granulations surrounding it. By the middle of December the stump was healed, with the excejition of a mere spot. Two or three weeks later this also had closed, and the patient was able to move about with the aid of crutches. Remarks.—I have thought this case would be interesting because successful results in cases of amputation at the hip- joint are rare, and in primary amputations exceedingly so. In the last edition of Cooper's Surgical Dictionary, it is stated that there have been six cases of primary amputation at the hip performed in Great Britain since 1838, and all of them proved fatal. In the Crimea fourteen amputations at the hip- joint were performed by British surgeons for injury, and not one recovered ; and in the Punjaub in 1848-49, three cases occurred, with the same unfavourable result. And, so far as I am aware, the case I have just detailed is the first successful primary amputation at the hip-joint in Scotland. But the principal interest which such a case possesses, seems to me to be the con- sideration of those circumstances or conditions which may have conduced to the successful result, and which may influence our practice in similar cases. The age of the patient may seem to explain the favourable result. It has been said that in young patients, from the greater remedial powers of nature, and the smaller surface exposed by the operation in them, the operation is likely to be more successful; but this is very questionable. The remedial * Dr. Brown infomis me that diphtheria was prevailing in the district at the time.