703 EXCISION OF JOINTS. protracted cure and the nature of the limb preserved by the operation. In regard to the comparative risks to life, I shall have to consider that subject hereafter. At present I shall merely treat of the objections to the results of the operation in the cases where the patient ultimately recovers. It is quite true that the treat- ment of a patient after excision of the knee-joint is necessarily much more protracted than after amputation of the thigh; for, even supposing the wound to heal completely by the first inten- tion, the limb must still be kept slung for at least seven or eight weeks, to insure solid union, and prevent the risk of bending; and even after the patient is able to move about with crutches, some time must elapse before much weight can with propriety be borne on the limb. In referring to these objections, Mr. Syme, in his work on excision, has well observed—" It ought to be recollected, too, that though recovery from amputation of the thigh is usually completed in three or four weeks, it is generally at least as many months before the patient can rest the weight of his body on the face of the stump, so as to i;se it in standing or walking. As to the utility of the lilnb, we find that it can be employed freely in progressive motion, and all the patients have declared that they considered themselves extremely for- tunate in having preserved their legs such as they were. The advantages of the operation which may be contended for, are, that it preserves the natural support of the body afforded by the bones and joints of the tarsus, metatarsus, and toes, which, by diffusing the effects of force applied at the extremity of the limb, protects both it and the other parts of the body from concussion ; and that it obviates the necessity of resting the whole of the patient's weight on the face of a stump, which must be done when amputation is performed above the knee." Mr. Syme might have stated a longer period as being neces- sary before a patient should use an artificial limb; after amputa- tion, I think at least eight months should elapse, after the stump has healed, before a support is used. As to the objection that the limb left is little, if at all, more useful than an artificial support, the advantages stated by Mr. Syme are fully corrobo-