REGIONAL SURGERY. 958 include the diseased part in a V-shaped incision, and remove the part so marked out, taking care to cut wide of the disease. In making the incisions, the texture of the lip should not be stretched by the assistant, as that is liable to render the surrounding hard- ness less distinct. The bleeding should be commanded by pressure on the facial artery against the lower jaw in front of the masseter muscle, and the lip held loosely whUst the incisions are being made. After the cancerous portion is excised, the vessels are twisted, and the margins of the wound approximated by silver sutures, so that little deformity is left. In cases where the warty ulceration occupies the length of the prolabium superfici- ally, we project the ulcerated surface, and remove it with a pair of curved scissors, and unite the edges of the skin and mucous membrane. If there be some depth as well as length of surface involved, we include the diseased part between the lines of a prolonged elliptical incision, and dissect off the skin and prola- bium, remove the diseased structure, and then, after securing the vessels, re-unite the margins of the skin and prolabium. In many cases the disease involves so much of the substance of the lower lip that its removal would necessarily leave the teeth exposed, and allow the saliva to be constantly running out of the mouth. In such cases our procedure ought to be so arranged that we may at once remove the cancerous part, wide of the disease, and at the same time replace it by a substitute lip, formed by what is termed the Cheiloplastic Operation. Suppose we have to deal with a cancerous ulcer with in- duration, involving a large extent of the Kp both in length and depth, we begin by making two incisions, one from either angle of the mouth, converging at the chin; we then dissect away the triangular part included. By means of these incisions we remove the whole diseased lip, and mark out part of the flaps from which the new lip is to be formed. From the apex 1) of this large V-shaped incision (Fig. 16) we next carry downwards and outwards two oblique incisions to the points d and e, and then with a curve to / and g, we mark out two flaps in the submaxil- ''ary region. The flaps are now to be dissected from over the