702 OPERA TIONS. methods of operation and after-treatment. The complete removal of all diseased tissue is equally imperative as in the excisions of the upper extremity, but here we limit ourselves to the least possible removal of bone compatible with the complete removal of disease. In many cases, after making our section of the con- dyles of the femur and tibia, we may find that the osseous surface still presents traces of disease, often in the form of parts of cavities containing tubercular-looking matter, or of points where the bone seems unhealthy. If the general surface of the divided bone seems unhealthy, then we require to remove a fresh section, and I think it better to do so then than to remove too large a section of bone at first, from the apprehension of diseased structure, which possibly or probably does not exist. In the cases where the cut surfaces present the remains of cavities, or small parts where the bone seems unhealthy, I consider the use of the gouge, and touching the surface with iodine, perchloride of iron, or chloride of zinc, quite sufficient, without requiring a fresh section, and consequent larger removal of bone. As regards our division of the soft parts, the complete division of muscles or the direction of our incision through the skin is of less conse- quence than when we want to obtain a movable articulation. Indeed, we often divide the hamstring muscles when the knee has been contracted, either as a preliminary or after resection of the bones, to enable us more easily to bring and retain the osseous surfaces in accurate apposition ; whilst, in regard to the line of incision through the integument in the knee-joint excision, I feel satisfied that a slightly convex incision transversely from condyle to condyle below the patella is by far the simplest method of operating ; the firm cicatrix, in this instance, is itself useful in giving solidity in front of the knee. In cases of excision of the hip and ankle, parts of the incisions must nearly always be trans- verse or curved. Much has been said and written as to the comparative advan- tages of excision of the knee-joint over amputation, for disease of that joint. Objections have been made to excision, first, on account of the greater risk to life, and secondly, because of the