OPERATIONS. 704 rated by experience iu the cases on which I have myseK operated, and the larger experience of other surgeons. The results, as to the use of the limb and the little lameness observable in walk- ing, have, I confess, surprised me. In one case of a young woman, on whom I operated in 1858, and in whom I removed more than the usual amount of bone, having thought it necessary to remove a second section from the condyles of the femur, I dreaded that the lameness would be very great, and she had a high-heeled boot fitted for the foot of the affected limb. A year afterwards I was astonished to see her at the hospital walking with scarcely a perceptible halt, and she informed me that the high-heeled boot hindered her walking, and, on using an ordinary shoe, she found her ease in movement so much greater that she had thrown aside the high-heeled boot; and this, I may state, has been the experience of all my patients, viz. that they walk best with a shoe or boot similar to that on the healthy foot. In other words, the obliquity of the pelvis, though scarcely notice- able, compensates for the shortening, whilst the movements of the hip and ankle joints compensate for the loss of motion in the knee ; so that, in most cases, the limb left after excision of the knee-joint is very different from an artificial support, as regards the ease of the patient's progression. But, to take another aspect of this objection,—no surgeon would hesitate to prefer cure by anchylosis in the straight position in a case of diseased knee, to amputation of the limb. Now, that is just the result obtained by excision. In some cases it would appear that a joint which, after resec- tion, was pretty firmly anchylosed, may gradually, from alteration in the bones, become movable, and form a false joint. I recently saw a patient under the care of my colleague Dr. Gillespie, in whom that gentleman had excised the knee, with a favourable result, three years ago, so that the man returned to his occupation, that of a miner. Gradually, however, his health became im- paired, and he had pains in the parts near the wound. The anchylosis gradually gave way, and, after a variety of treatment, he insisted on amputation being performed. On section of the