789 AMPUTA TION OF HAND AND WRIST. the knife to the web of the thumb, carries the blade rapidly through the soft parts on the dorsal aspect, terminating in the first incision at the upper point of transfixion, and concludes by disarticulating, as in the former case. By this method the amputation can be performed with great rapidity, and without withdrawing the knife from the incisions till they are completed. The appearance of the elliptical wound left after disarticulation is shown in Fig. 6, Plate xxxv., and the result after the wound has healed is a simple linear cicatrix. Partial Amputation of the Hand is generally required for injury, and consequently the operative procedure must vary in each case, according to the amount and direction of the destruc- tion of parts. Under certain circiimstances it may be performed by means of a large flap from the paLnar aspect; the metacar- pal bones being removed, or sawn through close to the carpal articulation, and the thumb preserved, as represented in Plate xxxv. Fig. 7, or by two smaller flaps anterior and posterior. In many cases we must construct the best covering we can by shaping tlie sound portions of the soft textures, to adapt them- selves to the surface of the stump. In aU cases where we can save a finger, or a portion of a finger, as an opponent to the thumb, it is most important to do so ; but even when the thumb and a portion of the hand can be saved, it should be done, as an artificial opposing power can be fitted to the stump. If, how- ever, the carpo-metacarpal joints of the fingers, and that of the thumb, be injured, and its long flexor tendon torn, there is little use, and considerable risk, in attempting partial amputation, as the movement of the parts would be lost, and unhealthy inflam- mation and suppuration very likely to occur. Amputation at the wrist, under such circumstances, would be the better plan. "Whenever we can avoid opening into the carpo-metacarpal arti- culation, we ought to do so, for reasons already given. Amputation at the Weist affords excellent results in suit- able cases, but these are not of common occurrence. The object