THE AUTHORS METHOD OF AMPUTATION. 749 form of the anterior flap are, in themselves, serious drawbacks to the operation. Moreover, as the angles of the anterior flap require to be brought into exact apposition with those of the posterior, tlie anterior flap must be doubled on itself When retained in this position by stitches, its vitality is placed in some risk, and, if union by first intention do not occur, the reflected portion of the flap is apt to fall away from the unre- flected portion, thereby causing trouble in the after-dressing of the stump. In 1858 I began to practise a mode of amputation which has yielded excellent results, and which in certain situations, as for example in the lower third of the thigh, I now employ in preference to any other operation that I have hitherto tried. The method which I adopt is that of a long anterior flap, but this is formed on a principle essentially different from that which regulates the construction of the flap in the operations of O'Hal- loran, Sedillot, and Baudens, and is a material modification and simplification of Mr. Teale's method. In carrying out the direc- tions of Mr. Teale, it is absolutely necessary, as was previously observed, that the angles of the anterior flap be brought into exact apposition with those of the posterior. The anterior flap must, therefore, be doubled on itself, and in order to admit of this its length must be equal to one-half of the circumference of the limb, so that in a thigh twelve inches in circumference, if we do not obtain an anterior flap at least six inches long, the opera- tion cannot be accomplished. In the method of amputation which I employ, the anterior flap is not formed with the design of being doubled on itself, but is simply made of such a size and shape as will allow it to fold loosely over and cover the poste- rior segment of the stump. For this it is necessary that the flap, throughout its extent, be in breadth fully equal to one-half the circumference of the limb, and that it be gently rounded at the extremity, so as to adjust readily to the curve of the cut margin of the posterior half of the stump, whilst it must be suffi- ciently long not merely to cover, but to hang loosely over, the posterior cut surface, so that the cicatrix may be placed ulti-