CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES 847 nicating with knee-joint, and a similar fracture of both bones of leg. Amputation at middle of thigh. Cured. 6. J. M'C, £!et. 33. Compound comminuted fracture of the leg com- municating with the ankle-joint, resulting from a railway-truck having passed over the limb. Amputation below the knee by long internal, lateral, and short external flaps, cut from without inwards. There was not the slightest tendency to the projection of the margin of the tibia ; the recovery was rapid and complete. 7. C. C, set. 73, was knocked down and run OA'er by a loaded van. The chief injury sustained was a compound fracture of the leg, for which amputation below the knee was performed by the long posterior flap cut from without. She had been a habitual drunkard for years, and was intoxicated at the time she sustained the injury. The wound remained in a very inactive state, the discharge being thin and serous. She died on the sixteenth day after admission. 8. J. M., set. 25. Compound comminuted fracture of leg and ankle, resulting from a railway waggon passing over the limb. Amputation by a long posterior flap. Recovered. Commentary.—As regards the advantage of primary over secondary amputation in all cases where there is no reasonable hope of saving a useful limb, or where the risks to life seem too great to warrant any attempt to save the limb, I think there is now very little difference of opinion amongst practical surgeons ; but in these days of conservative surgery, some few looking at the admitted danger of primary amputations, such as those of the thigh, seem to think that in almost all cases we should make the attempt, or at least delay, for, say they, you may perhaps save the limb, and if not, you can always amputate later with perhaps a better chance of success. But this is assuming what is not the fact, for every surgeon who has had much experience in accidents, knows, that in cases of compound fracture, where legi- timate attempts have been made to save the limb, the most general cause of a fatal result is pysemia, not exhausting dis- charge, or even gangrene, which are comparatively rare ; and, consequently, if we delayed in more hopeless cases, we should probably never have the opportunity for the secondary operation to which they would have us trust. I would merely refer to the fatal cases of amputation of the thigh, as showing the nature of the accidents requiring this operation as their only chance for life, and as exemplifying what