WOUNDS OF AND NEAR THE ORBIT. 937 paratus, or injure the eyeball itself. Thus wounds of the cheek or forehead, with loss of substance, may, by their contraction, lead to eversion of the eyelids—Ectropion ; or wound over the upper margin of the orbit may, by implicating the levator palpebrse, cause drooping of the upper eyelid—Ptosis. The former condition may be remedied by removing a portion of the conjunctival surface of the eyelid, so that the contraction following its cicatrisation may coimterbalance the external cicatrix ; or other methods may be required, such as dissecting the margins of the contracted wound, and transplanting a flap to fill up the gap, and allow the eyelid to regain its natural position. Ptosis, arising from division of the levator muscle, is not remediable by surgical interference, but after a time the divided muscle forms adhesions, and some- times acts to a certain extent in raising the lid. 1 have seen ptosis follow contusions and superficial wounds over the upper eyelid, apparently due to some affection of the nerve supplying the muscle. In some of these long time elapsed before the power was restored. In such circumstances, after a time, blistering over the superciliary ridge, and sprinkling the blis- tered surface with a minute quantity of strychnia (about the ^ of a grain) every third day, will be found useful in restoring the nervous power. Wounds injuring the lachrymal sac or ducts, if they be attended to at first, and if the passage for the tears be kept open during the healing process, generally do well enough. If the inner part of the lower eyelid be drawn down during cicatrisation, and the punctum displaced, the tears pass over the cheek. This is remedied by slitting open the orifice of the duct, on its conjunc- tival side, that the tears may pass into their natural channel. Injuries of the Orbit are always attended with danger to the eye, either by directly implicating that organ, or from the in- flammation and suppuration which follow, affecting it second- arily. They may also prove fatal in some cases, from the wound penetrating the brain, or leading to inflammation in that direc- tion, hence they require great attention to obviate bad results.