CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 843 shattered limb, before undergoing amputation; a coudition which, in itself, apart from other considerations as regards the effects of hospital air, etc., is evidently less favourable than that of the patient to whom surgical assistance has been afforded without his having undergone a rough and exhausting journey. There is another point to which I would direct attention, as I consider it of some importance to the prevention of secondary haemorrhage, in cases where there is extensive injury of the soft parts around the vessels. In severe accidents from direct vio- lence by machinery, the parts even beyond the apparent injury often suffer indirectly, their vitality is impaired above the points of amputation, and extensive suppuration or separation of small sloughs takes place around the vessels, or the vitality of the arterial tissue itself may have been so impaired by the traction and twisting, that separation of the ligature will probably take place, and secondary haemorrhage occur, at a period before the canal of the artery has been obliterated. It was to avoid such a risk in this case, that besides tying the axillary at the point, divided by the knife in amputating, I laid it bare and tied it higher up ; and the result, I think, shows the propriety of the practice, for the lower ligature came away in eight days, so that, except for the ligature higher up, secondary bleeding would likely have occurred at that time. The case has also this in- terest, that it was the first great operation in which I used chloroform, which had just been proposed, instead of ether. Injury by Machinery—Death from Secondary Hemorrhage. Case II.—In October 1852 I was sent for by Dr. Ellison of Penicuik, to see a young man who had received a severe injury of the right arm by machinery in a paper mill. I found the soft parts of the arm from near the shoulder, and down the forearm, extensively lacerated, the muscles in the upper arm being fairly stripped off the humerus, a portion of the inner side, comprising the great vessels, having alone escaped. The bones were not fractured, but from the nature and extent of the injury, and the com- plete destruction of the muscles and skin, it was evident that amputation at the shoulder-joint was the only chance for the patient. This I did by lateral flaps, disarticulating and then forming the inner flap by cutting outwards. Whilst I was cutting outwards through the 3k