AFTER- TREA TMENT. 647 principles laid down when speaking of incised wounds (Lecture xxvii.) 5. Constitutional After-treatment.—When the patient awakes from the chloroform, an opiate is given to allay pain and to prevent the restlessness which would otherwise be sure to take place. Should sickness from the chloroform supervene, as already stated when speaking of anaesthetics, I advise the use of tepid water to render the efforts of vomiting less violent, and to empty the stomach, and then a little brandy in iced water may be given. If the nausea continue, a sinapism applied to the epigastrium, and a little ice kept in the mouth and slowly sucked, or small quantities of iced aerated water, will usually arrest it. In some cases, where the patient does not vomit, the nausea may continue for some time, and, unless attended to, may prove troublesome by depressing the patient. During the progress of the case opiates are given at bed-time, if required to obtain sleep, but the sooner we can dispense with their use the better. In some patients, in whom there is much nervous excitement, the use of the bromide of potash in 30- grain or 40-grain doses, at bed-time, is often of great service in procuring sleep, and enabling us to dispense with opiates. As to diet, it should be simple, light but nourishing, and given at first in small quantities, frequently. For a day or two it is pro- bable the patient may not be able to take anything but milk diet. Milk beat up with the white of eggs and a little lime- water will often remain on the stomach when all other food is rejected, and milk with aerated potash water is also much relished by patients. So soon, however, as the patient can bear it, strong beef-tea, with extract of beef, should be given, or a little white fish, and afterwards, as the appetite improves, chop or steak is preferable to slop diet. As regards the exhibition of stimulants, that must be regulated by the condition of the patient, the state of the pulse, and the appearance of the wound. ISTo routine practice should be followed. In my hospital practice I find myself forced to give stimulants largely, owing to the exhausted state of the patients, their inability to take nourishing