734 OPERA TIONS. pressure being made upon the tuberosity of the os calcis. In application, the limb is first laid and carefully adjusted upon the posterior splint, which should preliminarily be padded with lint, and covered with gutta-percha tissue, or hot paraffine, in the situation which corresponds to the site of operation. The iron rod is then placed in front, and folded lint laid between it and the limb at the groin (where the rod terminates above), at the upper part of the tibia, and at the bend of the ankle. These two parts of the apparatus are then retained in contact with the limb by means of an open-wove roller bandage applied from the toes upwards, the site of the incision alone being left uncovered. The whole is then rendered immovable by means either of plaster-of-Paris applied by the hand, of a consistence like thick cream, or of paraffine, which, having been rendered temporarily liquid by heat, is applied by a large painter's brush. When the application has solidified, the patient may then be removed to bed, and the limb suspended from the running pulley of a Salter's swinging cradle, or from the roof-bar of the common iron-wire cradle employed to support the weight of the bed- clothes. The foot and limb should not be much raised above the level of the mattress upon which the patient lies, as this is apt to lead to an awkward position of the limb when the patient first begins to move about." In my own practice I omit the use of the plaster-of-Paris, or at least only use it at certain parts to give firmness and solidity to those points from which the apparatus is to be slung. I sub- stitute broad strips of adhesive plaster in interrupted circles, to fix the apparatus to the foot, leg, and thigh, and then apply an ordinary roller round the foot and leg to a little above middle of the calf, and apply another roller from about four inches above the knee up to near the hip. The pelvic part of the splint is fixed with broad strips of plaster. If there be any tendency to projection or elevation of the condyloid end of the femur, a flat pad should be placed in front, and a separate circle of plaster or broad bandage applied over it and fixed behind the splint. My objection to the plaster-of-Paris bandage