725 EXCISION OF WRIST. in the form of flaps, so as to eiq)Ose the bones more fully. In either of the two plans last mentioned, the operator begins by- making a transverse cut from the internal margin of the olecranon process to the articulation between the outer condyle of the humerus with the head of the radius. He next makes an inci- sion, about three inches long, parallel to the axis of the limb, and close along the inner border of the olecranon. This com- pletes the lines of the T incision. If the H incision is to be used, another longitudinal cut is made at the outer end of the transverse incision. In both methods the siirgeon next proceeds to separate the parts between the internal incision and inner condyle ; and as these contain the ulnar nerve, the edge of the knife should be kept close to the olecranon and ulna, to avoid injury to the nerve, and then the separated parts drawn inwards, and protected by a broad metallic spatula. Tlie flaps marked out by the line of incision are dissected from the bones, the lateral ligaments divided, the ends of the bones dislocated, and projected and sawn off as described in the operation by the single longitudinal incision. In these last methods everything depends on primary union of the transverse incision taking place, and hence the limb must be kept very quiet. Should primary union of the transverse cut fail, passive motion cannot be begun without interfering with the healing process ; whilst in the longitudinal method we can begin passive motion, even though primary union should fail, without doing harm. Having performed the operation re- peatedly by all three methods, I feel satisfled that the long posterior incision is preferable in many respects, and quite as easy of performance as either of the other two. What has been said of the mode of dressing applies equally to all the methods. Excision of the Weist-Joint, owing to the nature of the parts to be removed, and the necessity for avoiding the division of tendons and blood-vessels to preserve the movements of the fin gers afterwards, is an operation partaking so mi;ch of the