805 OPERA TION OF TREPAN. our incision of the scalp will often be determined for us by some wound in that texture. If, however, there be no wound of the scalp, or only a small one, then, if the evacuation of purulent matter be the object, I make a free crucial incision through the puffy or boggy scalp, so as at once to expose the bone and to allow the unhealthy infiltrated pus to escape from the scalp tex- ture. In the case of operation for extravasated blood, I prefer a V-shaped incision, the apex pointing downwards, as the flap adjusts itself more readily afterwards. In either case, the vessels of the scalp which bleed should be sec\:red before proceeding to the section of the bone. The size of the crown of the trephine, which is to be used for section, should be large, to facilitate the evacuation of the blood or pus. In the case of a fissure of the bone being discovered when we are trephining for extravasated blood, the centre pin of the trephine ought to be inserted close to the fissure, so as to make sure of including the line of the injured vessel, and to be able to secure it if possible after the evacuation of the coagula. "When our object is to evacuate purulent matter, the crown of the trephine is placed over the denuded portion of bone, as that is most likely to correspond to the internal collection of pus. The incision of the scalp having been made, I proceed to clear the bone for the saw ; I divide the pericranium crucially, and then push it aside with the handle of the scalpel till I gain sufficient room to apply the trephine. Scraping off the peri- cranium, as used formerly to be done, is a most mischievous practice. The bone being now prepared for section, I apply the trephine ; but you will observe that, before doing so, I project the centre pin, and fix it considerably beyond the line of the edge of the saw. I now press the centre pin firmly into the bone, and begin to work the trephine. When I remove the trephine, and find I have made a sufficiently deep groove to fix the saw, and allow it to work in the circle, I withdraw the centre pin within the crown of the trephine, for, if this were neglected, it would per- forate the bone before the circular saw, and so injure the dura mater. After brushing out the detritus of the bone from the