INFLUENCE OF PREVIOUS DISEASE. 777 secondarily, only 16 recovered, and 15 died. But to pass from this, let us now examine into the results of amputations performed for different forms of disease. One of the most frequent amputations is that at the lower part of the thigh for disease of the knee-joint. The absolute results of my practice in this operation give 79 cases, of which 67 recovered and 12 died, or an average of 1 death in 6| cases —not a very large mortality for an operation of such magnitude, and so frequently performed as a last resort. There is, however, one thing which I regret I have not sufficiently attended to in connection with this class of cases—namely, to distinguish the cases of gelatinous degeneration from those of articular caries and ulceration of the cartilage. I have a very strong impression that the result of operations, whether excisions or amputations, for gelatinous degeneration wiU be found much less successful than in other forms of articular disease; and of late, since I have been careful in noting the distinction, my statistics seem to justify the impression. Thus, out of 10 cases of amputation of the thigh for disease of the knee performed by me between February 1867 and 1st May 1869, 5 were cases of articular caries and ulceration of the cartilage, and 5 were cases of gelatinous or pulpy degeneration. Of the former all recovered ; of the latter 2 died. I have already pointed out, in speaking of articular disease and of excision of joints, the constitutional complications to which I attribute the fatal results in the gelatinous form of disease. When we compare the results of amputations for disease of the knee with the results of those performed in cases where the affec- tion of the joint had either supervened upon necrosis of the femur, or in which the patient had previously suffered from necrosis, and where the sequestrum had been removed and a cure obtained, and the joint affection subsequently appeared, the difference in the mortality is very startling. Of 13 cases of the class referred to, only 8 recovered and 5 died. It seems to me that this mortality is not merely accidental in a limited number of cases, but may be traced to certain constitutional conditions. You may recollect