844 AMPUTATION. nerves and vessels, the patient, having partially recovered from the chloro- form, made a sudden movement, which threw off the hold of the gentleman who was compressing the subcla\'ian artery, and a gush of blood from the axillary blinded me ; but luckily I succeeded in grasping the vessels and nerves, and secured the whole mass temporarily, till I had tied the smaller vessels ; then I cleared the axiUary higher up, and placed a ligature ujjon it, removed the temporary ligature, closed the flaps by suture, and dressed the stump. Next day I found the patient going on favourably : there had been slight venous oozing, which was arrested by cold water cloths, and there was now neither oozing nor tension of the stump. On the fifth day the patient was going on exceedingly well ; a large part of the stump had healed by the first intention, though at the lower part, there was a considerable discharge of pus along the course of the ligatures, and a little erysipelatous redness. Late at night, on the sixth day after the operation, I was sent for, on accovmt of the sudden occurrence of hDemorrhage, but before I reached his house, the patient was dead. On opening, and examining the stump, the greater part was found solidly adherent, and even along the course of the vessels, there appeared to be no great amount of sloughing or suppuration. The haemorrhage was from the axillary, which presented an open mouth, as if cut with a knife, to the extent of about two-thirds of its circumference, the ligatu.re being still attached to the remainder. I learned from Dr; Ellison that the patient had been ex- ceedingly well all that day, and that Dr. E. had seen him shortly before the bleeding occurred. It came on either during, or shortly after, the patient had been turned in bed, and though Dr. E. succeeded in arresting it by pressure, so much blood had been previously lost, that he soon sank. Case III.—J. C. was admitted in a state of great prostration, due to a severely compound comminuted fracture of the humerus, with the limb almost severed from the trunk ; a dislocation of the right hip ; and a very severe wound of the dorsum of the foot. As the chief laceration of the tissues was on the inner surface of the arm, amputation was jjerformed by a long antero-posterior flap cut from without. Died twelve hours after admission. Case IV.—John L., tet. 66. Compound comminuted fracture of the arm and forearm, the result of a railway injury. The patient had come from a distance, and had lost a large quantity of blood. Amputation by a long external, and a short internal flap cut from without. He sank next day. Memarhs.—Primary amputation at the slioulder-joint is one of tlie most successful of the major operations. If a fatal result speedily follows its performance, as in the two last cases, it wiU be found to depend on unavoidable causes, such as the complex nature of the injuries, haemorrhage, etc. One died from the