REGIONAL SURGERY. 976 If the disease has occurred slowly, more iii tlie form of chronic than acute abscess, the symptoms are modified in their intensity, and after a time pus and mucopurulent matter escape through the opening from the antrum into the middle meatus of the nose, when the j)atient is recumbent, and the matter is felt passing downwards. The early or palliative treatment is to remove all obvious sources of irritation, and to allay pain by opiate fomentations to the cheek. So soon as we are satis- fied that there is pus in the antrum, we should extract the tooth corresponding to the cavity, and perforate the alveolus into the antrum. This, however, is rarely sufficient. We must make an opening through the anterior wall of the cavity with a stout bistoury, and, if necessary, remove an oval portion of the parietes of the antrum. Thus a free escape of pus is permitted, and we can thereafter syringe out the cavity twice a day, and inject weak stimulating lotions to promote the cure. In Abscess in the Lower Jaw, owing to the increased thickness of the bone corresponding to the purulent collection, diagnosis is often very difficult, and we must trust chiefly to the history of the case in connection wdth the appearance of the affected jaw. In some instances we may be obliged to make au exploratory perforation to make quite sure. In many cases the oozing of matter by the side of a tooth will guide us to the right conclusion ; and if there be any decayed or loose teeth, it is advisable to remove them, and then the escape of matter will at once satisfy us of the presence of an abscess. In some instances the osseous walls of the bone expand without thickening, and become like parchment. Then the diagnosis is easy, and the treatment equally so. An opening is made in the expanded bone with a bistoury, and a portion cut out to permit free vent for the pus. In those cases where the bone is thickened, we require to use a small trepan to perforate the bone. After evacuating the pus, the same treatment is adopted as in the case of abscess in the upper jaw.