732 OPERATIONS. as much of the bone as is required. The assistant who supports the leg is desired to project the head of the tibia a little by- carrying the foot backwards. The condyloid surface of the tibia is then cleared above the articulation with the fibula. The narrow saw is applied so as to remove a thin slice of the articu- lar surface by sawing from behind forwards. The sharp project- ing portions of the section of the femoral condyles are then sawn off or removed with the bone-pliers. The surgeon now applies the sections of the tibia and femur to each other, to see whether their surfaces fit accurately, and examines them to see that all diseased texture is removed. If the patella be diseased it must be dissected off, but if not diseased it should be left. In cases of synovial disease the procedure is somewhat different. The semilunar incision should only divide the skin, fat, and fascia, and be reflected as a flap from the synovial swelling. The whole of the projecting diseased mass, including the patella, is then dissected off from above downwards, and from the sides. Thus the greatest portion of the diseased synovial structure is at once got rid of, and the joint fairly exposed ; the lateral and crucial ligaments are then divided, and the other steps of the operation completed as already described. All portions of diseased synovial structure that can be safely dissected off should be removed, and the rest of the surface painted over with the chloride of zinc solution. In excision of the knee, after all the bleeding points had been secured, it used to be the practice to close the wound and put up the limb in the splint. But there is often troublesome oozing from the bone and from small vessels which do not bleed at the time of the operation, and hence I prefer merely to insert some points of suture without tying them, and to place the limb upon a temporary splint. If reactionary bleeding occur, the wound should be re-opened, and permanent adjustment of the limb delayed until twelve, or even twenty-four, hours after the operation. When the bleeding from the section of the bone is very troublesome, I have sometimes found it necessary to interpose a fiat pad of lint soaked in a solution of perchloride of iron between the femur and tibia, to