ERECTILE TUMOURS AND CIRSOID ANEURISM. 911 mining into the history of the case, and the character of the swelling. Vascular Erectile Tumours or naevi are frequently met with, especially in children, both in the flattened and prominent form. The different methods of treating such growths have been already fully discussed. I may, however, state, that recently I have resorted very generally to galvano-puncture, the continuous current being used, and have found it very effectual, without producing any undue irritation. Whatever procedure is adopted, I would give you this caution, that if the nsevus be over or close to the fontanelle, we should allow that opening to be closed before resorting to any interference in young infants. The condition termed Cirsoid Aneurism, or Arterial Varix, consists in a dilated and tortuous state of the arteries, which form pouches, anastomose with, and lead to enlargement of, the com- municating vessels. It is most frequently met with in the lateral regions of the scalp, and over the temples, affecting the branches of the temporal, occipital, or posterior auris arteries, and gives rise to a large pulsating tumour, on which the tortuous trunks of the vessels are seen. Pressure has occasionally been employed with success, to cause obliteration of the vessels. Deligation or compression of the trunks of the temporal or other af^'ected arteries before they enter the tumour, has been the plan hitherto most resorted to. But in some cases of this disease in which galvano- puncture has been methodically applied, the results have been so successful that I think it will probably be found to supersede other measures ; or it may be combined with acupressure, to hasten the cure and prevent all risk of embolism from displace- ment of portions of the clot. In all such cases where galvano- puncture is used, pressure with the finger is maintained on the main trunks during the application, until consolidation of the clot has taken place. Necrosis, or Cario-Necrosis, with exfoliation of the cranial