HEY'S AND CHOP ARTS AMPUTATIONS. 809 second metatarsal bone. Instead of trying to get round tliat, lie attacks the articulation between the internal cuneiform and first metatarsal, by opening it from the inner side. He then plunges his knife perpendicularly between the first and second metatarsal bones with its edge directed upwards, and moves it backwards and forwards till he feels the strong interosseous ligament give way. He then forcibly depresses the part to be removed, and, with a few touches over the head of the second metatarsal bone, the joint is opened, and disarticulation accom- plished. In Hey's method, after disarticulation is so far effected, the saw is applied to remove the projection of the internal cunei- form bone, and thus a more regular surface is left, and the opera- tion much simplified. The plantar flap may be made by trans- fixion (as in Plate xxxix. Figs. 6 and 7) ; but I recommend it to be cut as I have described, as we can then shape it more accurately. The dorsal and plantar arteries require ligature, and also, in general, numerous branches springing from the arch. Some surgeons trust almost entirely to the plantar flap for a covering, but, to say nothing of the impossibility of always obtaining so long a plantar flap, I think it better that the cica- trix should be rather over the surface of the stump, where it will be opposed to the soft padding, than on the dorsum of the foot, where it will be exposed to the pressure of the boot. Chopart's amputation consists in removal of that portion of the foot which lies anterior to the astragalus and os calcis. The general method of procedure and form of the flaps are very similar to that just described. The plantar flap requires to be very long internally, to fold over the exposed articular surface, which is very deep. The disarticulation, however, is very simple as compared with that at the tarso-metatarsal joint; for although, anatomically speaking, the line of articulation between the astragalus and scaphoid is slightly curved, and that between the cuboid and os calcis oblique from within outwards and for- wards, yet practically, as regards disarticulation, when the anterior part of the foot is depressed, the articular surfaces sepa-