772 OPERA TIONS. the amputation. The vessel was secured higher up, but the deep-seated sloughing continued and the patient gradually sank. In the former of these cases, the patient had suffered both from excessive shock and great loss of blood; and when brought into hospital he was so collapsed that it was doubtful whether he could bear the operation, but as bleeding was going on into the tissues, the operation seemed his only chance. The main artery was compressed and stimulants given, but during his removal from the receiving-room to the operating theatre his respiration and pulse became so feeble, that I had again to give stimulants and wait for some reaction before operating. We can be at no loss to understand how, in a patient so debilitated, the general and local vital powers should be so impaired as to lead to gangrene, instead of healthy reparative action. The second case was more insidious in its course, as beyond the foetid discharge from one part of the stump, there were neither local nor general symptoms indicative of gangrene. The secondary htemorrhage caused by the sloughing, by debilitating the patient, doubtless made the after-progress of the gangrene more rapid. The third case of gangrene of the stump occurred after an amputation of the fore- arm, performed on account of gunshot wound of the hand. The patient, a man of excessively intemperate habits, was attacked with delirium tremens the day after the operation. Erysipelas of the stump, forearm, and arm supervened, and assumed the gangrenous character and proved fatal. In this case the previous habits and broken-down constitution of the patient, rather than the amputation or the nature of the injury, must be looked to as explaining the tendency to gangrene. The most general cause of death in cases of primary amputa- tion, when the patients survive the more immediate dangers of shock and loss of blood, is the condition termed pysemia. Pytemia is often spoken of as if it were specially an hospital disease, depending on the effects of hospital air. From the greater number and severity of the surgical cases occurring in hospital, we can scarcely wonder that pysemia should be more