DISEASES OF SCALP. 910 way, we apply a compress over the part for a few liours, to pre- vent any blood distending the cavity in which the tumour lay. Afterwards, little or no dressing or other treatment is required. I have said that we usually find a number of encysted tumours existing in different parts of the scalp. In some cases 1 have removed as many as ten or twelve at once, but I think it better to avoid removing so many at one operation, as a number of small wounds over the scalp may excite undue irritation, and I therefore seldom remove more than four or five of the larger growths at a time. We sometimes meet with tumours which simulate cysts, but are of a very different nature, soft solid growths, medullary or medullary fibro-plastic. These should be recognised by the rapidity of their development, the general appearance of the patient, and the suspicious circumstance—in this region—that there is only one tumour. The treatment is early excision, before the lymphatics are affected. Some years ago I removed a soft medullary tumour, the size of a small orange, from the scalp of an old woman eighty-five years of age, who insisted on its removal, owing to the pain and rapid growth. Notwithstanding her age, she made a good recovery. I saw her at different times for three years, during which time there was no recurrence of the growth, and so far as I know she may be alive yet. Occasionally Soft Malignant Tumours of the cranial bones involving the scalp occur, and have, in their early stages, been unfortunately mistaken for wens. Opei'ative interference in such cases is most disastrous in its results, for it hastens the progress of the growth, the removal of which is of course impossible. A less dangerous error I have known to be committed, is mistaking the swelling caused by a small eburnated exostosis for a cyst. Such exostoses occur mostly in the frontal region, and between the bony growth and the scalp or skin there is usually a sort of bursal cyst. If this be opened, and attempts made to remove it, a very disagreeable and dangerous form of erysipelas is set up, and this risk to the patient might be avoided by a little care in exa-