EXCISION OF JOINTS. 701 fossae, and the ulna divided below the base of the coronoid process, and the radius immediately below its head, there is no fear of a bad result. Whereas, if too little bone be removed, the risk of anchylosis is very considerable, especially in young sub- jects ; and I have noticed this more particularly in cases in which the excision had been performed to remedy anchylosis arising from injuries, where the increased bulk and altered form of the bones are more apt to mislead. In such cases, the removal of bone should be very free. The only case of loose " flail-like " false joint I have met with in my own practice was in the case of a very debilitated man, in whom, owing to the extent of disease, I was obliged to saw through the humerus at the lower part of the shaft, quite above the condyloid part. It is now several years since the operation was performed, and though consumptive and apparently very weak, he still lives. When the arm hangs at rest, it certainly has a very " flail-like" and useless appearance ; but when he calls the muscles into action, he has complete power over the joint, and can raise and sustain considerable weights—in fact he has very perfect use of the arm and hand. So that even this extreme case shows that a loose joint is not so very disastrous, and not likely to happen in ordinary cases. I have never had to regret removing too much bone in excisions of the elbow, but I can look back on cases in my earlier practice when I could wish I had removed more. Whilst on this subject, I confess that, holding the views I do, I am rather at a loss to understand the principle, on which dissect- ing off the periosteum below the point of section of the bone, and retaining it, is advocated; the object in doing so must be to favour the formation of the new bone, and that just renders the risk of anchylosis greater. I can perfectly understand it in cases of resection of the knee, where we desire a firm osseous union, but I must say I think it objectionable in cases where we desire a movable false joint after excision. In excisions of the lower extremity, in which, as already ex- plained, we aim at obtaining a firmly-anchylosed joint, to afford support to the body, in so far as our objects differ, so must our