CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 929 recovery from the stujjor ; the granulation of the clui-a mater, and the closing of the wound ; and the daily issue of clotted blood, make this, in all respects, a just j^arallel with the case I have just related. The extent of the wound was such, that the boy was not dismissed till the 9tli of January, the 7th of September being the day of his fall. But what sur- prised and gratified me was this,—The piece of bone marked (c), which had been depressed and elevated, actually moved with each pulse of the brain, so loose did it lie upon the dura mater. I feared, when I saw the dura mater through the trepan holes, red and granulating ; when, on the twentieth day from that of the operation, I found also all the exposed parts of the skull covered with a fine and florid pile of granulations, this triangular piece of bone excepted (which continued yellow, quite bare, and still movable) ; that it must become entirely carious, and exfoliate ; and that this, by protracting the cure, or, by its exposing the brain, might bring the boy into new danger : I had this impression on the 30th of November, and marked it in my daily report ; but by the 6th of December the same pile of florid granulations had crept along over the whole surface of this portion of the skull, and by the 14th the whole wound was cicatrised." Mr. Bell states that when the triangular depressed portion was elevated after removal of a large portion of sound bone by- means of two applications of the trephine and section of the intermediate portion with the small saw, he found it so loose that it rose and fell with every movement of the brain, and that he feared from the appearance that it would exfoliate. In his case it fortunately did not, but the chances were all against it retaining its vitality, and it seems to have retarded the cure. Now, by looking at the sketch in Plate xliv. Fig. 4, you will see that by applying the saw to the fissured base of the loose triangular portion, it could have been withdrawn from under the sound margin at d, where the trephine was applied, without any removal of the sound bone, and with the probability of a more rapid cure. Cases of Fractures oe the Base oe Cranium. 1. John G—n, set. 39, while in a state of intoxication, fell down a flight of ten steps. He was quite insensible when admitted ; bleeding from both ears (especially the right) and nostrils ; breathing stertorous and slow. Pulse 60, weak ; pupils contracted and fixed. Cold to head and a dose of croton oil was administered. Next day was semi-conscious, drowsy, and complained of severe headache ; vomited violently. Ordered three leeches behind each ear. On fourth day, pain much less, pupils natural; quite deaf, and saw double with left eye ; pulse 72. 'On the