LIGATURE OF ILIAC ARTERIES. 677 iKac trunk rests, in its lower half, upon the junction of the right and left common iliac veins, where they are about to form the inferior vena cava, or, more properly speaking, rests on the com- mencement of the cava. On the left side the common iliac vein lies completely internal to the corresponding artery. In front these vessels are covered by a layer of the peritoneum, very loosely connected with them and easily pushed aside. Still more in front we have the abdominal viscera and inferior mesenteric artery, and the anterior abdominal parietes, which have a variable relation to the vessels, in regard to distance, according to the development or distension of the abdomen and the state of the viscera. The ureter occasionally crosses the common iliac trunk ; more generally, however, this duct crosses obliquely immediately below the bifurcation, or just at that point. In either case the ureter is very loosely connected with the parts over which it passes, and when the peritoneum is pushed inwards from ofi' the surface of the vessels the duct follows the peritoneum. The internal iliac artery in its course rests posteriorly on the nerve connecting the lumbar and sacral plexus, and on the nerves forming the latter plexus as they pass outward. The correspond- ing veins lie to the inner side of the artery, towards the upper part, where.the surgeon should apply his ligature, for the internal iliac trunk is very short and variable in its length. The numer- ous veins which coalesce to form the internal vein have also very variable relations, some passing behind and some crossing it in front, and require to be carefully avoided in clearing the artery for ligature. The ureter lies in front, attached to the posterior surface of the layer of peritoneum which passes from the lumbar region and iliac fossa, and covers the fore part of the internal iliac artery. The external iHac artery rests throughout its whole course upon the inner aspect of the psoas muscle, and more immediately upon the aponeurotic fascia, covering the muscles of the iliac fossa. The connective tissue here is very fine and loose, so that the vessel is easily separated from its posterior connections. The external iliac vein lies in close contact with the internal side of