OPERA TIONS. 644 to restore the force of the circulation, and prevent the accession of the dangerous symptoms. Galvanism has been recommended and used. If applied, the current ought not to be directed through the chest, so as to affect the heart, or it may do more harm than good. It should be applied to the cervical region, so as to pass along the course of the phrenic nerve. But I should hardly advise its use, as it is likely to interfere with the other and more efficacious measures for resuscitation of the patient. In my own practice I have met with one fatal case resulting from chloroform. The operation—amputation of the penis— was effected with one stroke of the knife. No blood flowed, the pulse at the wrist had ceased in an instant, and all efforts to resuscitate failed. Breathing, though of a gasping character, was present when the artificial respiration was commenced. In another case, in which I was assisting, I had my finger on the posterior tibial artery. The patient was just brought under the chloroform, and the operator had entered the knife through the skin, when the pulse, without any previous diminution in strength, ceased to beat. In both these cases there was fatty heart. I have, however, both in my own practice and that of others, seen some patients, who seemed to be in a fatal syncope, resuscitated by the measures I have advised. Almost aU the cases in which the dangerous symptoms occurred were cases of slight operations. But, after all, the risks of danger are very small if the administration be watchfully and properly carried out. As to its after-effects, the worst are the nausea and vomiting which often result from its employment; and in some operations, such as hernia, this vomiting may prove serious. In most cases, sucking a little ice, or a dessert-spoonful of iced brandy and water given occasionally, and the application of a sinapism over the epigastrium, serve to relieve the sickness. When the nausea and retching continue, a draught of tepid water, to assist the effort of vomiting to empty the stomach, is often of use, and this may be followed by a small opiate to allay