CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 919 Case of Fracture of the Cranium. Arthur M'Kenzie fell from a ladder whilst at work, and alighted on his head. He was taken up insensible, and immediately brought to the hospital. He was in a state of complete collapse—face pale, extremities cold, pulse scarcely perceptible. A large fluctuating tumour was observed over the left parietal bone, and a sharp raised margin felt at some parts of the circumference of the tumour. Head was shaved, heat applied to the surface of the body, and a little brandy administered. Towards even- ing the pulse rose to 100, and was stronger ; breathing long, loud, but not stertorous ; pupils dilated, and insensible to light ; patient once or twice spoke, and complained of pain. Six leeches were applied behind the ears, and cold to the head. Under the repeated application of leeches, and the use of free purgation, patient rapidly improved. Ten days after admission, as the pulse again rose, a seton was introduced at nape of neck. The tumour now began to disappear rapidly, and an evaporating lotion was applied. Severity of head symptoms soon abated. At the end of four weeks the depression could scarcely be detected, and at the end of two months the patient was dismissed cured. Cases of Compound Comminuted Fracture of the Cranium. 1. J. H., plumber, was brought to the Infirmary at 3 p.m., August 1, having a short time before fallen from a considerable height in the National Bank. On admission he was nearly insensible, his skin cold, breathing low, and pulse 70, very feeble. There was a wound two inches long on the back part of the head, towards the left side, communicating with a depressed comminuted fracture of the skull. There was fracture of the right leg and of the middle metacarpal bone of the left hand, and a super- ficial wound on the left arm. He vomited considerably while being placed in bed. Hot bottles were applied all round his body. At 4 P.M. Mr. Spence applied the trephine, and removed the depressed portion of bone. It was then observed that the dura matter was injured at one point, and the cerebral matter could be distinctly felt projecting. There was immediate improvement in the patient's condition. He became more sensible ; his pulse rose to 80 ; his breathing became more natural; but his face was noticed to be twisted to the right side. Next day he complained of intense headache ; his face was flushed ; pulse 90. Six leeches were applied behind the left ear, and they were repeated in the evening, giving great relief.—On the 4th his pulse was still 90 ; headache present, but not so intense. Leeches were again applied. On the 7th the wound began to suppm-ate, the pulse fell to 70, and the headache disappeared. From this time the patient progressed favour- ably, his cure being retarded by cynanche tonsillaris, from which he suf- fered severely, durmg the last week of August. He is now quite well 2. Thomas Porter, aet. 22, was kicked by a horse on the head, and