830 AMPUTA TION. 21 St. Pulse 116; wound dressed with chloride-of-soda lotion. 22c?. Pulse 110 ; some more stitches removed to-day. 23c?. Pulse 106 ; the remaining stitches were removed, and straps applied. 24^^. Pulse 98 ; patient is taking tincture of the muriate of iron, nourishing diet, and wine. 25iA. Pulse 102. 26</i. Pulse 100 ; two ligatures came away to-day. 1%th. Stump looking well; appetite good; general appearance of patient very much improved. 29;A. Pulse 100 ; tongue cleaning, 30i;/». Pulse 100. 31 si. Pulse 96. \st August. Pulse 90. M. Pulse 86. Zd. Pulse 90. \2th. Pulse 86; femoral ligature came away to-day; stump almost entirely healed up. IZth September. Since last report, recovery has gone on in a most favourable manner. Not an occurrence worthy of notice has interrupted the convalescence, and to-day she returned to the country in a state of health bordering on that of former years. During the last fortnight she has been walking about the ward, and has been out several times for a drive. HemarJcs.—The mortality whicli attends amputation at the hip-joint, and which has even led some to question the justifi- ableness of the operation, is undoubtedly very great; and hence considerable interest attaches to every successful case, the cir- cumstances under which it was performed, and all the conditions which may have a bearing upon the general question of the operation in similar cases. According to the latest statistics of the operation, given in the recent edition of Cooper's Surgical Dictionary, we find that, in a total of 139 cases, there were 91 fatal results, or a mortality of 65'46. Moreover, when we know that in several of the successful cases the operation was performed on limbs which-had previously undergone partial amputation, and where consequently the shock and disturbance of the system caused by the sudden removal of the whole lower extremity were wanting, or at least greatly diminished, it seems evident that the risks of this formidable operation are such as must limit its performance to cases of extreme necessity. In cases of certain severe injuries the surgeon may be forced