INJURIES OF HEAD. 926 pital region of the left side, there was much, ecchymosis of the scalp. About two inches above and behind the left ear, the finger could be placed in what seemed to be a depression of the skull, but no wound existed at this part. At 8 P.M. his breathing had become somewhat stertorous, with slight puffing of the cheeks. Mr. Spence made a crucial incision at the part where the depression of the skull was supposed to exist; and on passing the finger down, a severe comminuted fracture was found, and a portion of the bone depressed nearly half-an-inch. The'trephine was applied, and a full half-circle removed from the edge of the bone. The depressed por- tion was then elevated, and a triangular piece, which was lying loose, removed. There was little perceptible change made on the patient's appearance by the operation. He remained perfectly comatose ; his pupils were widely dilated ; his pulse immediately rose to 120 ; and he vomited slightly. He remained perfectly insensible till half-past 1 a.m. of the fol- lowing morning, when he died, Post-mortem examination revealed very extensive fracture of the skull, stretching from the point where the trephine had been applied through the scpiamous and petrous jjortions of the temporal bone to the foramen magnum on the right side. The right hemisphere of the brain was entirely covered by a thin layer of blood. 2. D. L., set. 38, fell, on the 27th July, about 3.30 a.m., from a window into the street, alightiiig on his head, When admitted, immediately after the accident, he had a flushed face, was noisy, excited, and smelt strongly of spirits, but answered questions quite coherently. There was an extensive bruise over the right temporal region, where the patient comj)lained of pain ; there was great swelling and ecchymosis of the eyelids, especially the right. There was no external wound, and no depression of the skull. Slight vomiting, but no signs of copipression. Pulse 96, and soft. The head was shaved and cold ajiplied, and a cathartic enema was administered. Towards evening, as he was more restless and excited, and the pvilse had risen to above 100, he was ordered to have three leeches behind each ear. About 5 o'clock on the following morning I was summoned to the patient, and found him violently convulsed, with a slow and irregular pulse and dilated pupils. In the intervals of the convulsions he was evidently coma- tose. I made an incision over the point where the patient had comjilained of pain, and where there was the greatest aniount of extravasation, and, finding a fissure, immediately trephined. The inner table was fpund splintered at the edges of the fissure ; there was some amount of blood between the bone and the dura mater, and the latter was tense and bulgr ing, and, when divided, a considerable quantity of bloody serum escaped. The patient derived no relief from the operation ; convulsions recurred in the course of the day ; coma gradually became more profound ; and he died in the evening at 10.30 p.m. Remarks.—In the case of K. M'D., the question of operative procedure required to be very carefully considered. When I first saw the patient the symptoms of compression were of the most decided and urgent character ; but then, from the effusion