LIGATURE OF THE FEMORAL. 689 inclies in length along its outer margin. This incision should divide the integuments, superficial fascia, and fat. The operator next incises the fascia lata to the same extent, so as fully to expose the edge of the sartorius. If the fascia be very strong and aponeurotic, it is advisable to divide the fascia across the line of the sartorius by a small transverse incision about the middle of the longitudinal one, to allow of the muscle being drawn fully to the inner side, as, at the part where the artery is to be tied, the sartorius does not merely overlap, but completely covers the aponeurotic canal enclosing the vessels. When the sartorius has been separated and drawn inwards, the strong ten- dinous aponeurosis forming the anterior wall of Hunter's canal is exposed. This should be carefully opened with the point of the knife, and then slit open more fully with a probe-pointed bistoury, to avoid all risk, as the aponeurosis is very closely applied upon the contained vessels. The proper sheath of the vessels is then opened, and the armed aneurism needle passed with the same precautions as in the higher operation, and the treatment of the wound and limb is similar in both cases. Wlien, from any cause, as in my case of traumatic varicose aneurism formerly alluded to, the sartorius is adherent, so that it cannot be fully drawn aside, I would advise its complete division to facilitate the deligation of the artery. The adhesions above and below would prevent the divided ends retracting very far from each other, and union ultimately would take place with little, if any, loss of muscular power, whilst we avoid unneces- sary manipulation in the vicinity of the vessels. In tying the femoral by the direct method in a case of false aneurism, or for wounds, the incision should be free, to enable the surgeon to see the parts distinctly, so as to avoid injury of the vein. The artery is commanded above by the tourniquet, and the sac of the false aneurism opened in accordance with the general principles laid down in Lecture Ixxi., pages 558-59. In cases of circumscribed false femoral aneurism, I have already indicated my reasons for preferring ligature of the femoral on the Hunterian principle in Scarpa's triangle.