638 OPERA TIONS. operations. Hence I consider it more necessary to draw your attention to what forms a most important condition for the proper performance of an operation, and specially so in private practice, where everything must depend on the forethought and careful directions of the operator. In all cases of operation not arising in emergencies, it is desirable that the proper arrangements should be made beforehand, so that nothing be left to be done in the confusion and excited state in which a private family generally is on the day of the operation. As all the necessary requirements are simple and easily obtainable, the arrangements can be made without any parade or alarm to the patient, whilst much time and annoyance is thereby saved both to the family and the oper- ator. If the bedroom of the patient be tolerably large and well- lighted, it is advisable that the operation be performed there, as appearing less formidable than transporting the patient into another room. In all great operations I consider it most essential that the patient be placed upon a table to undergo the operation. This enables the operator and his assistants to act more easily in concert, to obtain better light, and to get rid of all appearances of the operation when it is completed ; and, what is my special reason, it secures greater safety to the patient. Some object to this as unnecessary, and say that in most cases the operation had better be performed in bed, as less disagreeable to the feelings of many patients, and as causing " less fuss." Now, my experience is that eventually it always causes " more fuss." It is not easy to get at the patient; the assistants get crowded and awkwardly placed, blood can hardly be prevented soiling the patient's night-dress, and the bed-clothes and the bedding generally get disarranged, so that the after comfort of the patient is interfered with. All this and more serious consequences are avoided by placing the patient on a table, and there is no need for him knowing anything of it. He is put under chloroform in bed ; the table is easily arranged in another room, and brought in when the patient is unconscious, and he is lifted from bed and placed on the table. His bed is then properly arranged, so that he is after- wards placed in as comfortable a condition as his circumstances