792 OPERA TIONS. posterior aspect of the limb, so as to obtain as broad and bulky a posterior flap as possible. He then transfixes the base of his flap from the radial towards the ulnar side of the limb, aiid in the case of the right forearm, from the ulnar towards the radial side of the left forearm, making his knife pass close to the posterior surfaces of the bones, and then carries it down so as to cut out a gently-rounded flap about 2| or 3 inches long. Again he inserts his knife in front, about half-an-inch lower than the former point of transfixion, and cuts a flap to correspond with the posterior one. Both flaps are then forcibly retracted, the knife applied so as to clear the bones at least an inch higher than the point of transfixion, the interosseous textures divided, the bones sawn through, and the operation completed as in the former method. Or the operator may make his second flap by cutting from the skin inwards. In either case, to facilitate the formation of the anterior flap, the assistant should supinate the forearm when the posterior flap is completed. In my own practice, I generally cut the posterior flap somewhat longer than the anterior (as represented in Plate xxxvi. Fig. 1), so that it may fold over the ends of the bone as the wound heals, and thus the cicatrix does not correspond to the end of the bones. The reason why the knife is entered lower down in transfixing for the second flap is to avoid cross-cutting the base of the first flap, which is otherwise almost certain to occur. Amputation of the forearm by a long and short flap on Teale's principle, can be most readily performed as follows :—The fore- arm being held as formerly described, or slightly supinated, the surgeon, managing the soft parts as in the former case, transfixes in front of the bones, and carries his knife directly down close to the bones, without any inclination to the surface, for about four inches, he does not cut out at this point, but, drawing the knife back in the track of the incision for about two inches, turns its edge directly towards the surface, and cuts out there, so as to form a short square flap ; then at the point where the longi- tudinal incision terminated he divides all the soft parts on the back part of the forearm with a decided circular sweep of his