857 LACERATED WOUNDS OF SCALP. adopting the treatment I have indicated, we obviate the dangers arising from extension of erysipelas over the scalp, the lodg- ment of unhealthy pus and blood in the vicinity of the cranial bones, or of the important internal structures becoming affected by the continuity of vascular supply. Lacerated scalp wounds are of very common occurrence, and unless carefully treated and watched may prove very serious. In many cases such wounds are very extensive, and present a most frightful and ghastly appearance. It does not, however, follow that these very extensive wounds are always the most dangerous, and we require to consider the whole circumstances to form some estimate of the risk in each case. A reference to what has been already said of the anatomy of the scalp wiU ex- plain the peculiarities of such wounds. The close connection of the different textures composing the scalp, and the resistent character of the aponeurotic structure which enters so largely into its composition, may account for the circumstance that we rarely find large portions of the scalp torn away, even when the parts are much lacerated, as by machinery ; whilst the loose con- nection it has with the pericranium, admits of it being readily detached from the subjacent structures over a large surface with- out such injury as would impair its vitality. This also explaiias why it fortunately happens that the pericranium is seldom de- tached to any great extent in such wounds. Thus we often see half of the scalp stripped from the cranium, and hanging over the face or side of the head, and yet wonderfully little constitutional disturbance follows, and the wound, if properly treated, heals kindly. The treatment of lacerated wounds of the scalp must be conducted on the general principles laid down when speaking of lacerated wounds, bearing in mind the peculiarities of structure and connection already alluded to. In most cases of this kind, we find the torn and everted scalp covered with mud or dirt, as such injuries usually occur in consequence of persons falling from horseback and being dragged along the road, or from the head coming in contact with the wheel of a passing carriage or cart, or frona the hair getting entangled in machinery. The injured scalp