698 OPERA TIONS. amputation secondarily, when a little patience and reliance on the curative powers of nature would have saved the limb. I need not, however, dwell longer on the causes which delayed the general adoption of excision of joints in operative surgery, as it is now recognised as one of the greatest improvements in modern surgery ; but I rather draw your attention to the objects which we seek to accomplish in performing excision of a joint, and how these are modified in regard to excisions of par- ticular articulations, or in relation to such operations in the upper and lower limbs, and the constitutional condition of the patient; for a variety of considerations must be carefully kept in view, to enable us to perform these operations intelligently, so as to - obtain the best results, and to discriminate between cases suit- able for excision, and those in which its performance might, from their unfavourable results, bring undeserved discredit on the operation. In all cases of excision of diseased or injured joints, the paramount consideration is the complete removal of the diseased or injured parts, for unless we can accomplish this the operation is imperfect, and the result cannot be expected to be successful. The next consideration is to obtain as useful a limb as possible. Here our object, and consequently our mode of procedure, will vary, according as the excision is in the upper or lower limb. In the former, our object is to obtain a movable articulation, to admit of the free use of the arm and forearm. In the lower ex- tremity a movable articulation renders the limb useless as a support, less useful than an artificial limb, and hence our object in such cases is to procure firm anchylosis in the straight position. In all cases our operations for excision should be effected with as little disturbance of parts as is consistent with the thorough removal of diseased structures. Finally, the risks to life, as compared with amputation, require to be considered in certain excisions, whether as depending on the state of the patient's health, predisposition to pulmonary or renal disease especially, or as depending on the dangers incident to particular excisions. As regards the objects mentioned, all surgeons must admit