EPISTAXIS. 943 patient be put under tlie influence of chloroform. In uncom- plicated cases the foreign body ca,n be easily seen and felt. The patient should be placed opposite a clear light, and his head held firm by an assistant. The surgeon then introduces a strong flat probe, or an ear-scoop lever, over and beyond the foreign body; but, before attempting to extract it, he should introduce his finger into the mouth to obstruct the posterior nostril, for if the foreign body were dislodged backwards whilst the child is struggling and crying, it might be drawn into the larynx and cause suffocation, or at least necessitate the immediate performance of tracheotomy; hence I always adopt the precaution I have mentioned. In some cases a pair of polypus forceps may be used to extract foreign bodies of a flattened form ; but the lever-scoop generally answers best. In cases where ineffectual attempts have been previously made, or in which inflammatory swelling is present, the nostril should be gently syringed with tepid water, to remove blood or discharge and allay irritation. Then the patient should be brought under the influence of chloroform, and the extraction effected as already described. Should there be any doubt as to the presence or position of the foreign body, the nasal speculum should be used, after we have washed out the nostril to remove blood or discharge. Epistaxis, or Bleeding from the Nose, frequently follows all accidents or operations about the nostrils. The hsemorrhage is often of a serious character, and requires efficient means to arrest it. This form of bleeding also occurs idiopatliically in patients in whom there is a tendency to cerebral congestion or disease. When we do not wish to check it very rapidly, the application of cold, or plugging the anterior nostril, may be sufficient to arrest it. This is, however, seldom sufficient, for if the bleeding be at all serious, it will take place by the posterior nares, and the blood will pass into the stomach, giving rise to vomiting, and the patient may suffer from the loss of blood. Hence we generally plug the posterior nares first, and then the anterior, so as to