887 FRACTURE OF THE BASE OF THE CRANIUM. pressed fracture on the vertex, and along with it extensive fissures passing down towards and causing fracture of the base of the cranium (see woodcut). The accident may occur from a person receiving a heavy blow upon the vertex, or from falling upon the occipital protuberance, fissures extending from the point struck to the base. Or it may occur from the patient falling in the sitting posture ; the head being still in motion is forced against the spinal column which has come to rest, and the base of the cranium is thus broken up extensively. Most generally it occurs from a fall upon the vertex, or from heavy bodies falling upon it. In some cases the symptoms are very intense : if the symptoms of compression do not come on at first, they soon do so ; when they are not very marked at first but become so subsequently, it is probable that effusion of blood has taken place secondarily, and caused the urgent symptoms of compression. These cases, as I have said, are considered by some to be almost uniformly fatal; but my own experience does not confirm this, for several well-marked cases under my charge have recovered under proper treatment, and it is certainly not right to lay down such an absolute statement as to their fatality, as it might lead to a want of sufficient care in treating them. The general treatment of fracture of the base of the skull is just that recommended for compression—the application of cold to the head, depletion to prevent further extravasation of blood taking place, absolute rest, and attention to the state of the bowels. By these means the very severe symptoms are often relieved. We can thus do something to prevent further extrava- sation of blood taking place to any great extent, and it is to that the fatal results are principally due. It sometimes happens that in depressed fracture of the skull some sharp fragment may wound the longitudinal sinus, or the depression may be so situated that the operation for the ele- vation or removal of the depressed and comminuted bone may unavoidably implicate the sinus. In either case the complication is a serious one, but it is not now regarded with the dread it once was. Formerly it was supposed that the bleeding would be uncon-