EXCISION AT THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 721 into the greater tuberosity. The joint is thus largely opened, and then, by rotating the arm outwards, the tendon of the sub- scapular muscle attached to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus is brought fully into view, and easily divided. The arm hangs loosely, and the assistant projects the head of the humerus by drawing back the elbow (the elbow in this method of operating should not be thrown across the chest, as that buries the head of the humerus under the deltoid), so as to allow the surgeon to divide any portions of the capsular ligament which remain, and to clear the bone for sawing it below the tuberosities. In this part of the operation the edge of the bistoury should be con- stantly directed towards the bone, so as to avoid injury to the posterior circumflex artery, or even the great vessels ; and in cases of disease, when the textures are very unyielding and the incision contracted, it is advisable to use a round blunt-pointed bistoury for this part of the operation. When the head of the bone is sufficiently cleared and projected, by the arm being drawn forcibly back and maintained firmly in that position, the operator, steadying the head of the humerus with his left hand, applies the saw and removes the diseased or injured part, taking care to remove no more than what is absolutely neces- sary. Any vessels which bleed are now secured, and then the state of the glenoid cavity is carefully examined. If not diseased, nothing further is required—if diseased, the carious portion may be removed with the gouge-forceps, or bone-pliers and gouge, or the whole glenoid articular surface may be clipped off with large curved bone-pliers ; but this is seldom required. When there has been much suppuration in or around the joint, I usually, after the resection is completed, introduce my left forefinger into the wound and pass it downwards and backwards to the most dependent part of the cavity, and then, introducing a bistoury upon the finger, make a counter-opening of about an inch and a half in length, to allow the discharge to escape freely in that direction. A piece of perforated india-rubber tubing is passed through the wound, to keep the track open and enable us to wash out the cavity with antiseptic lotions. This plan I have