685 LIGATURE OF THE FEMORAL. funda or deep femoral, which gives off numerous branches to the muscles and other textures of the thigh. The femoral artery- continues to descend in the course already described, till it reaches the popliteal space. As the femoral artery descends in the thigh, it gradually passes more deeply, and its relations be- come more complicated ; the vein, which above lies to its inner side, gradually comes to be placed behind it, so that the artery rests upon the vein. Both these vessels, together with the great saphenus branch from the anterior crural nerve, are inclosed in a common sheath, which lies in a canal bounded internally by the adductors, and externally by the vastus internus, where these muscles converge near their attachments to the femur. A layer of dense fascia, stretching from the vastus to the adductor muscles, passes in front of the vessels and closes the canal anteriorly. This fascia becomes aponeurotic towards the middle and lower parts of the thigh, and the canal, for two or three inches above the point where the vessels pass out of it into the popliteal space, is very narrow and contracted. In the middle and lower third of Scarpa's triangle, the femoral continues to be covered only by the skin and fasciae; but gradually the sartorius muscle, which descends obliquely inwards from the superior spine of the ilium, comes into relation with the vessel lying, at first, close to its outer side, on a plane superficial to it; next, slightly over- lapping ; and at last lying upon and covering the artery throughout the remainder of its course in the femoral region. The point of election for tying the femoral is at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, just where the sartorius begins to overlap the vessels, and hence the inner edge of this muscle forms our guide to reach the artery at this point; whilst, if we require to tie it lower down in Hunter's canal, the outer edge of the sartorius again serves as our guide to secure it. Under the fascia, beneath the sartorius, and in front of the sheath, there as-e h sometimes a quantity of fat, and some nervous filaments from the anterior crural, which cross the vessels obliquely. From the point where the femoral artery gives off the profunda, with