OPERA TIONS. 744 after permanent contraction of the stump had taken place, because, although flaps may retract up to the line of their bases, they cannot do so beyond it, and by such a mode of amputating as has been described the bone was cut through a long way above the base of the flaps. I still further modified my plan of operating by making the anterior flap the longer of the two, instead of the posterior as recommended by Mr. Liston. That great surgeon, when speaking of antero-posterior flaps in the thigh, urges, as one of their advan- tages, that " the more the stump is raised, the better is the end of the bone covered—the anterior flap folds over it." Examina- tion, however, has shown me that, in stumps formed according to Mr. Liston's method, the bone is never fully covered by the anterior flap; and indeed it will be obvious to any one, that the mode of balancing the flaps by cutting the posterior longer, so as to allow for its greater retraction, must necessarily make the line of cicatrix pass through the centre of the end of the stump, and so correspond to the extremity of the bone. By cutting the anterior flap, however, rather longer than the posterior, two unequal flaps will result; the anterior will then " fold over the end of the bone," and the cicatrix will be posterior to the centre of the stump. Another advantage which arises from this plan of operating is, the greater simplicity of the dressing and after- treatment, owing to the diminution in the bulk and weight of the posterior flap. I continued to practise the double-flap opera- tion thus modified, and to teach it in m}'- surgical lectures up to a very recent period; and from the results I obtained I was satisfied that it did not leave much to be desired as regarded the form of stump ; and in some parts of the limbs, and under cer- tain circumstances, it is that which I stUl recommend and adopt. It, however, requires great care in its performance, and in some cases is attended with much difficulty. As examples of such cases, I may especially refer to two of not uncommon occurrence— namely, primary amputations, and amputations through condensed textures, as in the vicinity of necrosed bones. In the former, when amputation is performed on a healthy man it is almost