682 OPERA TIONS. for, as I have already shown, every minute twig enlarges at first. But the larger and more direct inosculations, are—1. The internal mammary from above, with the deep epigastric from below, the deligated part. 2. The ilio-lumbar and lumbar branches of the aorta, with the deep circumflex ilii of the external iliac. 3. The extra-pelvic branches of the internal iliac, with branches of the femoral—as, the scrotal branches of the deep pudic, with those of the superficial or inguino-pudic branch of the common femoral, and the gluteal ischiatic and obturator, with the branches of the internal and external circumflex and perforating arteries from the deep femoral. When the common or internal iliac arteries have been tied, the free communications between the branches of the two internal iliacs, and of both with the middle sacral, together with the anastomoses just mentioned, speedily re-establish the circulation below the ligature, and the maintenance of the distal circulation is amply provided for. When speaking of inguinal aneurisms, I referred to the revival of the old operation for aneurism, by opening the sac, turning out the contents, and then tying the vessel on either side of the sac. It is scarcely possible to lay down rules for the steps of such operations. The plan hitherto adopted has been to command the circulation through the abdominal aorta, by means of the abdominal tourniquet, and then to make a limited incision through the anterior parietes into the sac, to enable the operator to introduce his forefinger and break xjp the adherent coagula; then rapidly to enlarge this opening upwards and downwards, and turn out the coagula, and so expose the interior of the sac, and recognise the opening of the artery into it above and below, and clear the vessel and tie it at these points. From what I have seen of such operations, it always ap- peared to me that very great difficulty occurred in recognising the orifices of the artery in the sac, and this is what we might expect from the way in which true aneurism, either saccular or fusiform, arises. Again, as I have pointed out when speaking 0