OPERA TIONS. 686 the exception of a few small muscular twigs, no large collateral branch arises from it, until, at its lowest part; just before it passes through the adductor into the poj)liteal space it gives origin to the anastomotica magna. Operation*—I have already said that the point of election for tying the femoral artery is towards the lower part of Scarpa's triangle, immediately above its apex, where the sartorius and adductor longus muscles approach each other. Here the sheath of the vessels is comparatively superficial, and the relative position of the sartorius gives us an excellent guide to the artery. The surgeon having ascertained the course of the sartorius, and also the position of the saphena vein and the superficial veins which sometimes join that vessel in this region, should make an incision about three inches long, beginning an inch or so below the apex of Scarpa's triangle, and continuing it upwards to the requisite extent along the course of the artery. This line will correspond to the inner margin of the sartorius. Higher up the muscle lies more obliquely outwards, less in relation with the artery. In operating on the right limb, the surgeon cuts from above downwards in the same line and to the same extent. This first incision should merely pass througli the skin, superficial fascia, and fat, so as to expose the fascia lata, shining through which the sartorius muscle is generally seen. The fascia is next carefully divided along the inner edge of the sartorius, at the lower part of the wound, and slit up in the direction and to the full extent of the superficial wound. This exposes the fibres of the sartorius and the fascia covering the sheath of the vessels, under which there is often a quantity of fat. The operator should now trace from above downwards with his finger, so as to feel the pulsation, and so re-assure himself of the exact position of the artery. Without any further dissection, the edge of the sartorius is gently held aside at the part where it begins to overlap the sheath. The fascia is opened immediately over the artery by pinching up a portion of it with the dissecting forceps, and applying the edge of the * Plate xxix. Figs. 2 and 3.