OPERA TIONS. 65G the sheath is ia relation with the origin of the scalenus anticus. The common carotid artery, vagus nerve, and internal jugular vein, whilst included in the common sheath, lie each in a separate compartment; the septa between them being pretty strong and distinct, more especially as regards the compartment which con- tains the artery, so that we may expose the carotid without interfering with the vein and nerve. The artery lies in the inner compartment, i.e. nearest the mesial line of the body. The in- ternal jugular vein lies most external, whilst the vagus lies be- tween, and on a plane posterior to both. At the root of tiie neck, on the right side, the nerve is more exposed between the vein and artery, from the somewhat oblique upward course which the latter takes from its origin from the innominate. The coverings of the sheath vary at different parts of the neck. In the lower anterior triangle we liave the skin, superficial fascia, and a few of the lower and inner fibres of the platysma ; the layer of the deep fascia covering the sterno-mastoid and the inner head of that muscle, the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, and the deeper layer of the cervical fascia from which the sheath is derived. Immediately above this point the sheath is crossed by the ten- don and anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, which passes from below, upwards and inwards, to reach the body of the hyoid bone, and forms the boundary between the superior and inferior carotid triangles of the neck. If we draw aside or divide the O omo-hyoid, we see the lateral lobe of the thyroid gland, which generally overlaps the inner surface of the sheath. Above the point where it is crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle, the common sheath is only covered by the skin, platysma, and the superficial and deep fascia of the region. Branches from the superior thyroid artery to the sterno-mastoid muscle cross it obliquely from above, downwards and outwards. The descending branch from the ninth cranial nerve passes down in front of the sheath, and a little above the point where the omo-hyoid crosses the sheath. This nerve forms a loop-like junction or plexus with the anterior branch of the second cervical nerve, the branches from which pass to the tracheal muscles. In many cases, however, the