779 INFLUENCE OF PREVIOUS DISEASE. tinctly purulent, and wlien neighbouring joints are affected, amputation may be resorted to with better prospect of success ; but in most cases the surgeon will find himself rewarded for his anxiety and forbearance by seeing his patient recover without mutilation. The amputations performed for malignant tumours are amongst those that swell the mortality. But it may be noticed that the favourable or unfavourable results seem to be dependent on certain conditions as to the situation of the tumour, whether it is developed in the bone and confined to that structure, or has commenced in or involved the soft parts of the limb, and also by the situation at which amputation is performed. Although, in all cases of malignant disease, the state of the blood and peculiar cachexy which accompany such disease, have a marked influence in predisposing to pytemia, thereby affecting the imme- diate result as to recovery from the operation; the risks seem most marked in cases where the tumour has originally been developed in the soft parts, or in those where the soft parts have become in- volved secondarily. Of 11 amputations through the femur for malignant tumour, only 5 recovered. All of the successful cases were for tumours of the bone, and in 4 of them the growths were confined to the condyloid portion of the femur, whilst the amputation was performed at the junction of the middle and tipper third of that bone. In the fifth case the tumour involved the lower part of the femur above the condyle, and the operation was performed through the tro- chanters. In 2 of the 6 fatal cases the condyles were ori- ginally affected, but in one of them the patient had refused to submit to the operation till the tumour had involved the shaft and soft parts. The other 4 were tumours of the shaft at its lower part. In these cases, except one where the tumour seemed limited to the condyle, amputation through the trochanters was performed. In 2 cases death resulted from a form of secondary hfemorrhage, or rather a continuous oozing of a sanguineous dis- charge from the general surface of the stump ; the others died with symptonis of pyaemia. Now, if we contrast these results 3 F