EXCISION OF UPPER J A W. 981 described, and then cut outwards along the lower margin of the orhit. The large flap thus marked out, when dissected off the bone, lays bare the entire surface of the upper jaw and malar bone, and enables us to remove a tumour of any size. We must be very careful in clearing the floor of the orbit ; a thin copper spatula should be ixsed to guard the parts within that cavity. The malar bone is generally very dense, and requires a deep section with the saw. It is sometimes very difficult in such cases to get the soft palate divided properly, owing to the tumour being close to the teeth, and pressing down towards the tongue. When we remove the whole of the upper jaw in this way, the wound is entirely in front of the soft palate. When all the bleeding has been arrested some slips of lint are introduced into the large gap left by the removal of the jaw to support the cheek-flap, which is then adjusted. These slips of lint are removed in a few days through the opening in the palate. The surfaces generally heal by the first intention, and very little deformity is left. (See Plate xlvi. Fig. 2.) Excision of the whole upper jaw and malar bone, for these large tumours, may also be effected by means of a single oblique incision through the cheek. The incision is commenced above the zygomatic process of malar bone, and carried obliquely downwards and forwards to the angle of the mouth. The soft tissues of the cheek, lip, and ala of the nose are then detached, and drawn upwards and inwards, so as to expose the body of the tumour, the nostril, and ascending or nasal process of the maxilla. The attachments of the temporal muscle in the zygomatic fossa are next separated. The soft palate and the osseous connections of the tumour are then divided, and the jaw removed as in the operations already described. The method of operating for Excision of the Lower Jaw will depend on the nature and extent of the disease. In simple growths, all that is required is to remove the tumour, together with a portion of sound bone on either side of it, for there is no tendency to reproduction in these cases. For example, if a firm