964 REGIONAL SURGERY. in all. Formerly there was sometimes a difficulty in getting hold of the right ends of the sutures, but an instrument has been invented which obviates this difficulty—a coronet with projecting pegs, to which the ends of the sutures are fixed. In the other form of the disease there is a split and deficiency in the hard as well as in the soft palate. Langenbeck and others have lately introduced a method of operating for this condition, founded on the researches of Oilier with regard to the periosteum. He fills up the gap in the hard palate by separating the gum- texture, and the periosteum along with it, from the palatine surface, and pushes it in towards the cleft. This operation is much more difficult than the former, and requires much time and patience in its performance. Very careful dissection is required in separating the palate from the arch of the mouth, and the palatine plate of the superior maxiUa and the palatine bone proper are generally much more vaulted in such cases than usual. The first thing is to pare the edges, both of the soft and hard palates; then make an incision with a bistoury close to the edges of the gum, on either side, leaving a small portion in front imseparated, so as to preserve its vascular con- nections entire ; then, with a double-edged knife curved on the flat, separate the periosteal texture from the bone. This is done on both sides. It will generally cause considerable bleeding, and we must wait tUl this ceases before proceeding with the operation. When bleeding has ceased, we bring the parts to- gether by points of suture, but this is not very easUy done, and we require to have several needles for the purpose; the spring needle of Langenbeck answers best in most cases. The operation is a tedious one, and in many cases, after all, the result is unsuc- cessful. As a general rule, I think that the best plan in the more complicated cases, in tlie case of adults, would be to per- form the operation on the soft palate first, and not to complete the whole operation at one sitting ; rather than attempt too much. If the operation on the hard palate fails, it is very apt to impli- cate the soft palate. It would therefore be less troublesome, and more likely to be successful in many cases, to do the two parts of the operation on different occasions.