862 INJURIES OF HEAD. the force causing the injury ; being greatest when transmitted in a line directed towards the base of the cranium, by which its effect is received on the central parts of the brain, and least when directed in a line at right angles to the vertical lines, the force being then transmitted from side to side on the upper part of the brain, producing but little disturbance of its functions. (See diagram, Fig. 1, Plate xliv.) Concussion of the brain, when uncomplicated with organic lesion, rarely proves fatal in the early stage; the dangers are chiefly due to those conditions which develop themselves during reaction, and it is against such that you must be on your guard ; but the treatment of the early stage of shock has important bearings on the after-risks, as it may influence materially the subsequent conditions. First let me state succinctly and distinctly what I consider should be the treatment, and I will then give you my reasons for avoiding certain things which are sometimes done. Amongst the most important items of treatment are the abstaining from all avoidable movement of the patient, and maintaining him perfectly quiet. External warmth should be applied by means of hot bottles or heated bricks wrapped in flannel; a sinapism may be applied to the epigastrium, and if the collapse is considerable, and the symptoms do not soon improve, a turpentine enema should be administered, which acts as a stimulus, and at the same time relieves the bowels if distended. No internal stimu- lants should be administered at this stage, unless in very excep- tional circumstances. If we attempt to give them in the unconscious state of the patient, unless we use the stomach- tube, there is a chance of suffocation from inability to swallow, and if we administer stimulants by means of the tube we are liable to increase the violence of the reactionary stage and the risks incident to that. The opposite and even more dangerous interference by bleeding during this early stage of concussion is not so likely to be used as it once was. There are certain conditions supervening on concussion, in which depletion is indicated and is followed by marked benefit. But to withdraw