884 INJURIES OF HEAD. inner not yield to the force; or, in a fall on the occiput, the effect of the ' contre-coup ' might split or fissure the inner table at the frontal sinus, without similarly affecting the outer table. In the case of the more serious lesion, fracture and probable comminution of the internal table alone—in which, as in punc- tured fracture, it would be proper to interfere if we could determine the existence and site of the fracture—I can scarcely conceive of any diagnostic symptom to warrant interference until those of intracranial suppuration begin to manifest themselves, and then the chances of successful interference would be small. * Ecrasement,' or smash of the cranial bones, is usually the result of great force ; as when a person falls from a great height, or when a heavy weight or force crushes the skull, or as the result of a gunshot wound, as when a heavy charge of small shot strikes the vault of the cranium obliquely. In such cases, as may be readUy conceived, the injury is almost immediately fatal. But there are degrees in this, as in every form of injury, and even most unlikely cases recover, as that of the girl J. S—r, which will be found in the Clinical Cases ; so that we must never despair, even under unfavourable circumstances, but do what we can to assist the curative powers of nature. In the Treatment of ordinary depressed fracture of the cranial vault, we must keep in mind that the danger depends on the relation of the bone to the brain and its membranes. In simple depressed fracture, even if there be symptoms of com- pression present at the time, we do not interfere immediately by trephining. We apply cold to the head, give purgatives, and in some cases deplete. If, notwithstanding these measures, the symptoms go on without improvement, then, especially in the adult, it is proper to cut down on the fracture, elevate the depressed bone, and remove any loose fragments which may be present; but we are not warranted in doing this unless the symp- toms of compression do not yield to treatment. In young patients we should be very slow to interfere, as the bones possess great elas- ticity, and the symptoms of compression may gradually pass off. In a depressed compound fracture of the skull, in which the