806 OPERA TIONS. TARSAL Bone of the Great Toe, aloug with its phalanges, the longitudinal incision may be made either on the dorsal or internal aspect of the foot, and carried down to its phalangeal articula- tion, when it is made to diverge, as in the amputations of the phalanges. If partial removal of the bone is contemplated, its section is accomplished, at a healthy point, by means of strong bone-pliers. If disarticulation of the whole bone is necessary, then the incision must commence fully three-fourths of an inch above the articulation between the metatarsal with the internal cuneiform bone. The form of the articulation must be kept in mind. It is not broad, but very deep from the dorsal towards the plantar aspect of the foot, and is most easily opened by cutting the lateral ligaments on the inner side, then inserting the knife perpendicularly, with its edge directed upwards, between the first and second metatarsal bones, so as to divide the strong inter- osseous ligamentous structure. When this is done, and the great toe and its metatarsal bone forcibly drawn inwards, the disarticiilation is most easily effected. Great difficulty has often been met with in arresting the bleeding after partial amputation of this metatarsal bone. This arises from the terminal branch of the dorsal artery being wounded, as it passes down between the first and second metatarsal bones to join the plantar arch. The vessel is wounded, not divided completely, and cannot be seized with the artery forceps, or, when seized, the ligature cannot be tightened in the narrow space between the bones. In some cases I have managed to pass a double ligature by means of an aneu- rism needle, drag the vessel up and secure it; but in one in- stance I had to disarticulate the remaining portion of the bone before the vessel could be secured above and below the wounded point, and this has been required in other cases ; whilst there have been fatal results from repeated hasmorrhage, when compression has been trusted in to arrest the bleeding. For my own part, I see no great advantage in leaving a small por- tion of this metatarsal bone, as the articulation is on a line anterior to, and does not communicate with, the other tarso- metatarsal joints ; and, when complete disarticulation is per-