AMPUTATION. 828 by the psoas and iliacus flexing it on the pelvis, so as to project it towards the skin, and prevent the knife being carried dovpn in cutting outwards. In this case it was of no consequence, because the soft parts in front were so injured that I could not get a long anterior flap ; but, supposing the tissues to have been sufficiently sound, the bone was so tilted forward that I could not have carried the knife onwards. In such cases I would strongly recommend cutting the flap of integument and fascia from without, and then transfixing across the joint, or to cut the flap altogether from without inwards as is now generally done in primary amputations of the limbs. In regard to the vessels, it ■will be observed that in this, as in a former successful case of hip- joint amputation for disease, I put a ligature on the femoral vein as well as on the artery. In my former case I did so with great dread of the result, but I liave since done it in some cases of amputation, and as they all did well, I am sometimes inclined to think that, instead of being hurtful, as I used to dread, it may possibly be useful as preventing imbibition or absorption of purulent or sanious matter from a large wounded surface ; but I confess I have still so much of lingering prejudice that I do not like to try or urge the practice generally. I have, however, no hesitation now in applying a ligature when venous bleeding is troublesome after amputation. Amputation at the Hip-Joint. L. S. was admitted into the Eoyal Infimaary on the 13th of July 1862, on account of a large tumoiir occiipying the middle and lower parts of the right thigh. The previous history of the case is contained in the subjoined extract of a letter from Dr. Meikle :—" I attended Miss L. S. and two of her sisters, in September 1861, during a mild attack of fever. She rapidly recovered, and did not again come under my obser- vation till April last, when I was requested to examine her right thigh. Tlie lower third of the femur was considerably enlarged, and the soft parts surrounding it were firm, and closely matted together. The circumference of the affected portion of bone seemed bulged out in all directions, and enlarged veins were seen ramifying on the surface of the tumour. The condyles of the femur were not involved \\\ the disease, and the portion of the shaft al)ove the tumour was of normal size. I was toKl tbat ]\liss S. had felt mure or less uneasiness in the part since the date of the febrile