OPERA TIONS. 658 The patient should be placed with the shoulders moderately raised, the head supported by a pillow, the neck slightly stretched, and the face turned to the opposite shoulder, so as to make tense the steruo-mastoid. The surgeon should next compress the neck at the lower part, to make the superficial veins turgid, and thus ascertain their course in each individual case, so as to avoid them, or tie them previously to dividing them if necessary. Having indicated this precaution as requisite in the living, I now make an incision in the line previously described, through the skin, platysma myoides, and superficial fascia. Commencing on a level with the upper part of the thyroid cartilage, I carry the incision downwards for three inches. When the skin and platysma are fully divided, my incision brings into view the deep fascia. That structure I next divide along the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, in the line and to the full extent of my superficial incision. This exposes the margin of the sterno- mastoid. A few light touches with the x^oint of the knife divide any resisting connections, and with the ivory handle of the scalpel I now gently separate the loose cellular tissue, so as to enable me to draw the overlapping edge of muscle slightly aside by a blunt hook. You now observe a layer of the deep fascia covering in and binding down the omo-hyoid and other tracheal muscles and sheath of the vessels ; the sheath being merely covered by this fascia at the upper part of the incision. I proceed to divide this fascia by raising a portion of it over the omo-hyoid, opening it with the point of the knife, and then slitting it open upwards and downwards. The muscular fibres of the omo-hyoid are now exposed and bare, and higher up the proper sheath of the vessels, more or less overlapped towards the mesial line by the lateral lobe of the thyroid body. This latter structure is drawn aside by a blunt hook. The sheath, now fully exposed, is opened carefully by raising a portion of it which lies immediately over the artery with a pair of dissecting forceps, and you will observe tliat I apply the edge of the knife horizontally, so as to cut out the portion raised without risk to the subjacent vessel. This manceuvre results in a rounded opening or hole in the sheath. I