OPERA TIONS. 688 venous bleeding will be arrested, owing to the diminished arterial supply; but the ligature so left will keep up irritation, and lead to phlebitis, obstruction of the vein, and gangrene. The accident is a very dangerous one ; but we give the patient the best chance by withdrawing the needle and ligature, and passing the needle again so as to avoid the injured vein. By doing this at once, the puncture in the vein may heal, and no bad consequence follow. When the needle is so far passed round the artery that its eye and the ligature can be seen, the surgeon should seize the loop of the ligature with his dissecting- forceps, and then withdraw the aneurism needle; this avoids all unnecessary traction on the vessel or destruction of its vital connections. The ligature is then to be firmly tied with the reef-knot, and both ends twisted so as to form one cord, which is brought out exactly opposite the point of deligation. The wound is then washed out with a little cold water, and its margins closed by a few points of suture. Two narrow flat pads of lint are placed, one on either side of the incision, and retained by strips of plaster, to keep the superficial in apposition with the deeper textures. The limb below the knee should be enclosed in a sheet of cotton wadding, and laid on its outer side, slightly flexed, on a water-pillow, moderately filled with barely tepid water. JSTo external heat should be applied to the limb or foot. Ligature of the femoral lower down, in Hiinter's canal, is only performed in exceptional cases. I have referred formerly to a case of varicose aneurism, where I tied the femoral both in Scarpa's triangle and Hunter's canal, so as to include the aneurism between the deligated points ; and the details of the operation are given in the clinical cases illustrative of the treat- ment of aneurism. But the cases where ligature of the femoral in Hunter's canal is required are very rare. When, however, the surgeon finds it necessary to perform such an operation, it may be accomplished in the following manner. The surgeon, having ascertained the position and breadth of the sartorius muscle, as in the higher operation, makes an incision fully three 0