INJURIES OF HEAD. 856 of the method of treatment adopted. A great dread existed of the bad effects of sutures and ligatures in scalp wounds, and so they were dressed with pads of lint, plaster, and bandages. This excited irritation, and led to the very danger it was intended to obviate. A simple incised wound of the scalp will in general do well if treated on the same principles as any other incised wound. In all forms of scalp wounds the part should be shaved. Bleeding vessels must be secured, and as, in a dense texture like the scalp, the arteries cannot be readily drawn out to be tied, acupressure has been long employed for this purpose, and the needle used, as in harelip suture, to unite the edges of the wound. If the wound be large, points of interrupted silver suture should be used, as giving rise to little irritation, and dry cold, by means of ice in gutta-percha bags, may be applied with advantage for some time. This local treatment, combined with rest and attention to constitutional symptoms, will generally prevent the accession of erysipelas or other bad symptoms. In punctured scalp wounds, where injury has been inflicted with some force—as for example when a person falls on a pike or a sharp-pointed stone, or when a sharp-pointed body projected with force strikes and perforates the scalp—we must be careful in our examination of the wound, as a punctured fracture of the bone (a most dangerous lesion) may be present, and would necessitate prompt and decided measures to avert bad consequences. Even in cases where there is only a punc- tured wound of the scalp, there is greater risk of erysipela- tous inflammation or unhealthy suppuration following than in the incised wound. In such cases the proper treatment consists in applying dry cold to the part, enjoining a non-stimulating diet, and keeping the bowels freely open. Should inflammatory tension sxxpervene, the punctured wound should be freely incised, with the view of at once relieving tension and depleting, and also of allowing any pus or putrefying blood to get free vent, poultices or warm v/ater lint-dressing applied over the wound and neighbouring parts, until the acute stage has passed off, when gently stimulating lotions should be substituted. By