646 OPERA TIONS. of operating should be carefully considered and decided on be- forehand, so that the incisions may be effected rapidly (not hurriedly), with decision and precision, every touch of the knife telhng towards the accomplishment of the object in view. If the plan be not decided on, confusion, and a want of decision in operating, and loss of time, will be the almost inevitable result. If the steps of the operation be duly planned beforehand, all will be executed with decision, simplicity, and safety to the patient. The assistants should have their several duties assigned beforehand, and their places arranged, so that they may not interfere with the operator, or each other, but that all may act in concert. The incisions should be free, deep, and directly from the surface towards the deeper parts, without lateral dissection, except in particular operations, such as those for the removal of tumours. In certain operations where it is important to recog- nise readily the deep textures, such as in hernia, ligature of arteries, or in the removal of some tumours, it will save time in the end to pause and secure the small vessels which bleed, so as to prevent oozing of blood into the deep part of the wound, which, by infiltrating the cellular tissue, renders it difficult to recognise textures. Besides, small vessels, which are easily seen and tied at first, soon cease to bleed actively during the opera- tion, and are consequently often left unsecured, and bleed again on reaction taking place; and in cases of hernia, or in other operations near the great cavities or canals, they may bleed into the cavity and give rise to serious risk. When the operation is completed, the wound should be washed by pouring first tepid and then cold water, from a jug, over its surface, to remove all clots and arrest oozingi The edges of the incision are then ap- proximated by points of interrupted suture, or harelip suture. In some cases we only introduce the sutures, leaving the ends long without tying them, so that if any oozing occurs it may be noticed and arrested. After six or eight hours, any clots of blood which may have formed are gently removed with a bit of soft sponge and by syringing out the wound, and then the inci- sion is finally closed, and the local treatment conducted on the