914 myURlKS OF HEAD. principles inculcated in the Lecture on that subject. Success in the treatment of scalp wounds depends greatly on their proper management at first. The wound ought to be carefully cleared of all filth by a stream of tepid water, the hair around it shaved, cold constantly applied to the head, the patient kept quiet in bed, put on low diet, and the bowels freely moved. If the skin has been reflected, it ought to be brought into position by points of silver suture. Sutures have been objected to as tending to produce great irritation, and the objectors either prefer compress and bandage, or leave nature to bring the parts into their proper site. Bad results will not arise from the use of silver, or even of thread sutures, if they are withdrawn on the first signs of irritation ; whereas the employment of a compress and bandage implies the collection of the discharge, the frequent change of the dressing, and the inflic- tion of a considerable amount of daily pain and mental excite- ment. Again, if the scalp is allowed to hang down, it becomes thickened and everted, the process of contraction is tedious, and the imcovered bone is very liable to exfoliate. The cases narrated were treated in accordance with the principles above laid down ; and although the wounds were most extensive, the bone laid bare, and extensively fissured in some cases, and though one patient was an old drunkard, they went on most favourably. Cases illustrative of Passive Intracranial Haemorrhage FOLLOWING Concussion. 1. Mr. R. , aged 24, fell from the back of a carriage whilst it was in rapid motion. He felt stunned for a few minutes, but re- covered, was able to take a glass of water, and thereafter proceeded in the carriage to town. He felt, he said, quite well, but as his head was cut, he requested to be left at a friend's house that night, so as not to alarm his own family, and he walked without any difficulty to the house, some distance from where the carriage stopped. Next morning he awoke with a violent headache, and complained of noise in the head, but after a short time he again felt better. I was asked to see him, and visited him on the third day after the accident. He told me he had another attack of headache, accom2:)anied with the same sensation of a " rushing noise " in the head, as on the morning after the accident. Of the fall, he spoke as having been