CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 931 cloths to the head, and enemata ; yet, when she once began to rally, she recovered rapidly, and wonderfully little deformity of the head remained. On leaving the hospital she seemed quite lively and intelligent. Cases of Injury of the Spine.—(From Clinical Reports, Session 1859-60.) 1. Patrick B—s, set. 40, was doubled up and crushed by the weight of a horse falling on him, by which several dorsal vertebrEe were fractured. Along with complete paraplegia, a low form of peritonitis set in, and he died on the fourth day. 2. John S—s, ddt. 26, a strong muscular man, fell backwards over a rail seven feet high. Complete insensibility immediately followed the acci- dent ; but on admission, an hour afterwards, consciousness was partially restored, with, however, all the symptoms of jjaraplegia, and involuntary emission of semen, urine, and faeces. A fracture was discovered at the sixth cervical vertebra. The patient was placed in bed, and the head and neck secured to a pillow. He gradually recovered the power of volun- tary movement and sensation. On the twenty-fifth day he went out, and, two weeks after, resimied his employment as a brewer. 3. Peter K—r, set. 38, during the delirium accompanying erysipelas of the head, jumped from the third storey of a house, whereby he sustained a fracture about the middle of the dorsal vertebrae. For the first ten days he had all the symptoms of paraplegia, requiring the constant use of the catheter. Uiine phosjjhatic. Ordered Nitric Acid. As the bowels con- tinued constipated. Ext. Nuc. Vomic, gr. 1, with Ext. Coloc, was adminis- tered thrice a-day. On the sixteenth day he passed his water without the use of an instrument. After this his appetite and strength gradually im- proved, and he only svifi^ered from pain over seat of injury, for which a seton was introduced with benefit. Three months and a half after the accident occurred he walked perfectly, and still continvies well. Be^narhs.—The fractures of the vertebrte furnish us with two instances of successful results out of the three cases re- corded. As a general rule, such success is unusual. The size of the spinal cord, and the nature of the osseous canal through which it passes, render it almost impossible that fracture, attended with any displacement, can occur, without such com- pression or injury of the cord as must lead, either primarily or secondarily, to interruption of its function, and consequent paralysis of .the parts below the injury. Fractures, with dis- placement, occurring in the cervical region, may, especially from