REGIONAL SURGERY. 942 rRACTURES OF THE BoNES OF THE NosE do not require much notice. The fracture is easily diagnosed, and if seen before much swelling has occurred, we can ascertain if there be deformity, and its nature. In young persons the septum nasi yields laterally along with the nasal bones, and the result is a twisted appearance of the nose. At other times, as from a direct blow, the septum and nasal bones are flattened, and then we have the " Fancy JSTose" resulting. In all cases there is more or less epistaxis from rupture or laceration of the lining membrane. When the nature and direction of the deformity are ascertained, we pass a director, or the handle of a penholder, or closed dressing forceps, within the nostril, and model the bones into position, and leave them thus without any interference afterwards. We should not, except in special cases, push lint up the nostril to keep the bones in posi- tion, for that is very apt to lead to suppuration and necrosis, especially if it be a compound fracture. These fractures usually unite readily enough, and little or no deformity is left if the treatment be adopted early. ^ Foreign Bodies, such as peas, beads, portions of slate- pencil, or small pebbles, are frequently lodged in the nostrils by children in their play; and when they find that the substance cannot be blown out of the nostril, they or their friends make matters worse by ineffectual attempts to remove the substance. In some cases of older children, the accident is concealed until the irritation of the foreign body has caused inflammation and discharge from the nostril. If the patient be seen before attempts have been made to extract the foreign substance, there is no great difficulty either in ascertaining its position or removing it. But if there has been interference, the foreign body is generally pushed further back or upwards, and its position is hidden by the bleeding which has resulted from such interference. In cases where the substance has been impacted for some time, the inflammatory swelling and the discharge hide it, whilst the extreme tenderness of the in- flamed mucous membrane prevents manipulation, except the