678 OPERA TIONS. the artery, and iu front a branch of the ilio-lumbar nerve lies upon it; further removed, and gradually passing towards the parietes, the spermatic artery and veins also pass down in front. In some cases, lymphatic glands lie in close relation to the vein at the lower part. The fold of peritoneum reflected from the anterior abdominal parietes ripon the iliac fossa, covers the fore- part of the vessels, but at a short distance above Poupart's ligament, corresponding to the point of reflection, the peritoneum may be said to be separated by an interval from the artery and vein; and throughout the whole of the iliac fossa, and immediately above Poupart's ligament, the peritoneum is so loosely connected as to be easily separable from the vessels ; whilst higher up, in the lateral region of the anterior abdominal parietes, the mem- brane is very closely connected with the fascia transversalis, and attempts to separate it from the parietes there would almost certainly be attended with laceration or puncture. On arriving close to Poupart's ligament, the external iliac gives off two branches, the deep epigastric and circumflex ilii arteries. The former courses obliquely upwards and inwards, the latter outwards in the direction of the spine of the ilium. The vas deferens, as it passes from without inwards, crosses the course of the external iliac vessels, more especially that of the vein, and, together with spermatic vessels forming the spermatic cord, lies in pretty close relation to the anterior aspect of the vessels near the lowest part of their course. Lastly, in front we have the intestines pro- jecting into the peritoneal sac and the anterior abdominal parietes, as in. the case of the other iliac arteries. In speaking of the general course of the external iliac artery, I have described its normal position on the anterior and inner aspect of the psoas throughout its whole length ; but in old persons, or in cases in which an aneurism or other cause of obstruction to its circulation is present, the artery, owing to the feeble cellular connections which it has with the fascia on which it rests, forms numerous flexures, or one or two large curves, so that a large part of the vessel often dips into the true pelvis before it ascends again to gain the pubis. This need give rise to little or no difficulty in