736 OPERA TIONS. margin of the tibia, commencing about two or two and a half inches above the internal malleolus, and passing below the malleolus, curving round it and forwards towards the inner margin of the tendon of the tibialis anticus. The other incision is of the same extent and form, along the outer margin of the fibula, and should curve to the peroneus tertius tendon on the outside of the foot. The operator first carefully dissects or sepa- rates the tendons of the peronei muscles from the fibula, till he can pass his finger well behind that bone. He then proceeds to separate the tibialis posticus and common flexor from the tibia along the line of the internal incision, and carefully clears the posterior aspect of the tibia and fibula above the joint, so that he can pass a narrow metallic spatula from one incision to the other, between the bones and the soft parts placed posteriorly. The next step in the operation is to dissect forward the skin flaps marked out by the incisions, and separate the tendons, vessels, and other soft parts in front from the joint. In doing this, the edge of the knife should be constantly directed towards bones and joint, to secure the safety of the extensor tendons and anterior tibial artery, and also to disturb the connection of parts as little as possible. When this has been accomplished, a doubled fold of broad bandage is passed behind the soft parts, to enable the assistant to draw them forwards. The foot should now be forcibly inverted, to put the external lateral ligament on the stretch and render the external malleolus prominent: by cutting directly upon the point of the malleolus, from without inwards, the narrow attachment of the external lateral ligament is at once divided. Tlien, the margins of the inner incision being sepa- rated, the surgeon divides the narrow attachment of the internal lateral ligament on the point of the internal malleolus. The joint being thus opened, the foot is replaced, and held firmly at right angles to the bones of the leg. The soft parts are then held forcibly apart from the bones; the long narrow Langenbeck o saw is passed between the posterior surface of the bones of the leg and the soft parts, which are protected by the metallic spatula ; and the tibia aiid fibula sawn through from behind forwards,