802 OPERA TIONS. mised, as it depends cluefly on that vessel for its arterial supply. 3d. The great ease with which disarticulation can be accomplished. In advocating the merits of any particular plan of operation, we should be careful not to risk its reputation by claiming superiority for it, under all conditions, over every other plan, or ignoring its disadvantages in certain circumstances. There are cases in which I would prefer the operation by double flap, such as those for malignant tumour, where we wish to remove aU the muscular tissue of the deltoid, and leave nothing but skin- flaps. In these cases a single long flap dissected from the sub- jacent tissues, and depending entirely for nourishment on the vascular supply of its base, is more apt to slough than two smaller ones would be. I may say, however, after considerable experience in ampu- tation at the shoulder-joint, that there are few cases in which the method I have recommended will not be found suitable ; and where it is so, I have no hesitation in advising it as being pre- ferable to any other method I have ever practised. Amputation of the Scapula along with the arm is sometimes required in consequence of injury, or for tumours involving both the scapula and humerus, and the results of the cases in which it has been performed fully warrant it. In cases where the operation is necessitated, the surgeon must often require to modify his incisions, according to the position and connections of the disease, or the state of the injiired parts. As a general rule, however, the operation is performed by dorsal and pectoral flaps from the axilla, to cover in the exposed surface. The posterior flap is marked out by making a lunated incision with its con- vexity directed forwards, commencing along the upper margin of the scapula and passing down over the acromion process to the lower border of the axilla, and again passing back towards the lower part of the base of the scapula. The anterior flap is next marked out by an incision commencing over the clavicle, about an inch nearer the sternum than the coracoid process of the scapula, and carried down over the front of the axilla to