REGIONAL SURGERY. 980 then we cannot extirpate the whole of the disease. In tumours of a more fibro-plastic character, and less rapid growth, however, we may give the patient the benefit of the operation, though the disease may possibly recur. A good practical rule in regard to tumours of the upper jaw is, not to interfere when there is pro- jection of the eyelids and eyeballs with eversion of the eye, the latter symptom especially, shows that the tum-our has com- menced in the ethmoid bone, and is bulging outwards the contents of the orbit. In Excision of the Upper Jaw the lines of incision will depend entirely on the size of the tumour. Sometimes an incision made in the middle line of the upper lip will enable us to lift up the upper lip and cheek, and remove the tumour ; for we must keep in mind that the mobility of the soft parts forming the cheek, and the opening of the nostril, give us great space when the lip is divided, and enable us to remove a tumour of some bulk, affecting only the body or lower part of the superior maxillary bone. If the malar bone or floor of the orbit be involved in the disease, or require to be removed, then we enlarge the incision upwards along the side of the nose towards the inner canthus, and are thus enabled to dis- sect back a flap sufficient to expose the parts beyond the tumour on each side. The incisor teeth should always be extracted before beginning the operation. To divide the osseous connections, we require, after division of the soft palate, to introduce a narrow saw into the nostril, and saw very deeply in front through the bone, and then with a pair of bone-pliers we cut through the nasal process of the maxilla, and then saw through the bone at its outer attachment with the malar. In all cases we divide the covering of the hard palate longitudinally, and the soft palate transversely out towards the tuberosity of the jaw. It is very rarely, however, that the superior maxilla alone is affected, and in cases such as that represented in Plate xlv. Fig. 3, we require to dissect a larger flap by a rather different form of incision. We first make the same incisions as last