OPERA TIONS. 714 the wound having healed long previously. In two others of the fatal cases the patients were females, one 40 years of age, and the other 45. Both had on former occasions suffered from necrosis of the femur, which had been cured previously to the appearance of the affection of the knee, for which excision was performed. Both did well for some weeks, and then pysemia, complicated with albuminuria, supervened, and terminated fatally. Pyaemia also proved fatal in the case of a female, aged 35, on whom I per- formed excision for gelatinous degeneration ; and a very acute form of pysemia caused the death of a young girl on whom I operated on account of acute ulceration of the cartilages, aris- ing from disease of the bone. In this case the girl had suffered excessively from pain and irritative fever before admission into the hospital. I was anxious for a post-mortem examination in the last case, but it was not granted. Another of the eight fatal cases occurred after excision for ulceration of the cartilages caused by masses of fimbriated bodies from the synovial membrane. The patient, a female, though nervous and excitable, was not by any means weak, but suffered intense pain on moving. The disease, though extensive in surface, was of little depth. The sections of the bones were accordingly very thin, and the bone underlying the sections removed was sound, and rather more solid than usual. All the synovial membrane was carefully removed. The disease seemed so completely local and limited, and the general health so good, that I anticipated a very favourable result, but she became very excited, and depressed mentally, and died within a week after the operation, apparently from constitutional irritation, and without any symptoms of pytemia. I have entered more fully into the nature of the fatal cases, with the view of directing your attention to some circumstances in regard to them. As to the successful cases, I have only to remark that, with the exception of the little girl, they all presented certain features in common. In all, the disease was in osseous texture, and tolerably limited. All of them were young adults, and in none of them were the general powers of the constitution exhausted, although the local