OPERA TIONS. 758 suppuration from taking place to a great extent, so mucli so, that I used also to apply it to healthy flaps, with a view to prevent great suppuration. The solution of chloride of zinc I have also used with advantage, and still use it after amputations for malig- nant tumours, but it is often too irritating, unless used weak; stUl I now prefer it or the iodine to any other local application, though, in most cases, it is best to avoid all such remedies. Having cleansed the wound and arranged the ligatures, I next bring the flaps into contact with sutures, about an inch apart. The parts should be held in accurate apposition as we put in the stitches, and we should begin either in the centre or at one of the angles of the stump. Cold-water dressing is to be applied to the surface of the stump for about six or eight hours, but after that time I would leave off all moist dressings. If, when the wound is healing, we apply water-dressings to it, with gutta percha tissue over the lint, we are just applying what will act as a poultice, and break up the newly-formed cicatrix. The stump should be placed on a soft pillow, with a sheet of gutta-percha under it, and a piece of dry lint laid over the surface like a veil, and then a wire cradle placed over it to keep off the weight of the bed-clothes. In many cases, indeed, we may dispense with the dry lint, and leave the stump without any dressing, and merely covered by the bed-clothes. In the double-flap and circular amputations we require to place pads of lint on the stump, so as to keep the surfaces together; but in the single-iiap operation the flap remains naturally in position, 1^0 attempts should be made to force the union of the stump. If we attempt to force the union by compression, instead of advancing we are very likely to hinder it, and to cause strangula- tion and gangrene at certain parts of the stump. Long ago different forms of apparatus—plates of metal or wood—were used for keeping the surfaces of the flaps in very accurate con- tact, and preventing blood collecting between the flaps ; but this only serves to irritate the parts, and is therefore to be avoided.