OPERA TIONS. 690 The principal anastomoses which restore the circulation in the leg and foot after ligature of the femoral artery, are : 1. The long descending branches of the external circumflex artery inos- ciilating with the superior external articular of the popliteal, and with other small branches of the popliteal at the outside and front of the knee. 2. The obturator artery and descending branches from the internal circumflex, with muscular branches, and with recurrent branches from the anastomotica magna below. 3. The arterial chain of communication formed by the three perforating arteries inosculating with each other, and superiorly with the gluteal, sciatic, and transverse branches of the external circumflex, whilst inferiorly they communicate with the articular and other branches of the popliteal artery. 4. The anastomoses of the terminal branches of the profunda with the anastomotica magna, the superior articular, and other branches from the popliteal. The tibial recurrent and the inosculations of the anastomotica magna with the articular arteries, assist, especially in cases where, as in popliteal aneurism, some of the articular arteries are obstructed at their origin from the popliteal. Ligature of the arteries of the leg is seldom required, except in cases of wounds, or of false aneurism resulting from wounds, and as the wound should in general form part of our incision in such lesions, this will modify the operative procedure in different cases. Nevertheless, as in the arteries of the forearm, the line of incision should come as directly as possible upon the woimded vessel, and be determined by certaui anatomical guides. I shall therefore describe very briefly the operations for exposing and tying these arteries. The popliteal artery, almost immediately after it has passed beyond the lower margin of the popliteus muscle, divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. The Aitteiiior Tibial Artery passes directly forwards through the interosseous mem- brane, and then continues to pass downwards, lying upon the an- terior surface of that membrane, in a slightly oblique course from above downwards and forwards, till it reaches the fore part of the ankle, where it receives the name of anterior pedal artery. In 0