WOUNDS OF SCALP. 855 and in this region these dangers are aggravated by the close relation of the effusion to important parts. Should symptoms of inflammatory tension or of suppuration occur, then, of course, incisions are imperatively required ; and there should be no delay in making them freely, to evacuate putrid blood and pus. In some rare cases, where the extravasation arises from rup- ture of a large artery, such as the occipital or temporal, a pulsa- tory motion is communicated to the swelling, as in false aneurism. In such cases, firm pressure applied over the trunlc of the injured vessel, and cold lotions to the swelling, will generally suffice to effect a cure, without having recourse to more heroic measures. When the extravasation takes place into the scalp-texture, instead of beneath it, the extravasation is limited, owing to'the density and close connections of the different tissues forming the scalp. This peculiarity of structure gives rise to a peculiarity in the swelling, which might lead—indeed often has led—to error in diagnosis. As the extravasated blood coagulates in the interstitial texture of the scalp, the flattened swelling assumes an extreme hardness ; whilst towards its centre, where a portion of fluid blood or blood-serum exists, the swelling pits, and on pressure the finger feels as if it passed down through an opening or depression of the bone, and a depressed fracture is suspected. The diagnosis, however, is not in general difficult. If the finger be pressed firmly down, the fluid blood or serum is displaced, and the flat surface of the cranial bones is felt. The condition, how- ever, when complicated with the existence of severe concussion or symptoms of compression, may prove perplexing, and even lead to unnecessarily active practice. When the real state of the case is ascertained, the extravasation requires very little treat- ment beyond perfect rest and the use of cold applications to the bruised part. Wounds of the scalp, whether incised, punctured, or lacerated, are, from the nature of the texture wounded, more likely to be fol- lowed by erysipelatous inflammation than wounds in other parts of the body. At one time this risk was increased in consequence