INJURIES OF HEAD. 930 sixth day a blister was applied to nape of neck, with good effects. On the thirteenth day all the above bad symptoms returned, along with facial paralysis on right side ; leeches and purgatives ordered. A seton was afterwards introduced, rest and low diet being constantly enjoined ; and on the forty-seventh day he left, cured. 2. Jane S—r, aged 4 years, was admitted iuto the Eoyal Infirmary during the session 1859-60, in consequence of her head having been crushed under a coping-stone, which fell on her, and which was so heavy that it required two men to lift it from ofl' the child. When brought into the hospital she was quite unconscious, with oppressed pu.lse and stertorous breatliing. There was profuse bleeding from the left ear and from the nostrils. Her eyeballs were protruded iu a remarkable manner, and the conjunctivae were ecchymosed, and the tissues of the orbit seemed distended with extravasated blood. The only treatment which could be adopted was the external applica- tion of cold to the head, sinapisms to tlie epigastrium, and hot bottles to her feet. The coma was so complete that neither food nor internal medicine could be administered except by enemata. A drop of croton oil in nmcUage was placed on the back part of her tongue, to act as a purga- tive. She remained comj)letely insensible for three days, and then began gradually to regain consciousness, and to be able to take food ; after which she rapidly improved, and left the hospital perfectly well on the fifteenth day, and continued to be brought, as an out-patient, at intervals, for some time. No bad after-symptoms supervened. I merely advert to the successful results of these frac- tures of the base of the skull, as showing that we should not despair even of such cases ; for, by carefully watching symptoms, and applying proper remedial measures, we may assist nature in the curative process. I would specially notice, as an example of this, the case of G—n, in which there was evidence of extensive fracturCj with great bleeding from both ears and nose, injury of ethmoid, and subsequent foetid dis- charge from that region. The most remarkable recovery, how- ever, of fracture of the cranium, was that of the child whose head was fairly crushed by a large coping-stone (so heavy as to require two men to lift it from off the child). When brought into hospital her head seemed flattened; the cranial bones felt loose, as if broken up ; and the eyeballs protruded. The child was completely insensible from compression, and remained so for nearly three days. At first, recovery seemed almost impossible ; and the treatment was necessarily limited to the application of sinapisms to the epigastrium and feet, cold