OPERA TIONS. 720 supplies the deltoid chiefly, attaches itself to the deep surface of the posterior part of that muscle after winding round the neck of the humerus below the tuberosities ; and this large vessel being only loosely connected, would, if divided posteriorly, re- tract and bleed very copiously. As it passes forwards, however, entering the substance of the deltoid, it diminishes in size, and, at the anterior margin of the deltoid, only exists in the form of its ultimate muscular twigs; it follows that both in excision and in amputation at the shoulder, we should if possible avoid divi- sion of this artery near its origin, or where it lies under the posterior portion of the deltoid* The operation is performed as follows :—The arm being slightly abducted, the surgeon feels for the projection of the head of the humerus immediately external to the coracoid process, and entering his bistoury just in front of the point of the acro- mion process, he cuts directly down upon the head of the humerus, and carries his incision deeply, downwards and slightly outwards for at least three inches and a half, or four inches. This incision should fairly divide the deltoid. On drawing aside the margins of the incision with blunt hooks, the internal and anterior aspect of the joint is seen, and the long tendon of the biceps lying in the upper part of the bicipital groove. The anterior circumflex artery is generally divided in this first in- cision ; and this, as well as any small muscular branches which bleed, should be secured before proceeding further. The ex- ternal margin of the wound is then drawn well outwards, and if the deltoid be very powerful, or its fibres altered and con- densed by disease so as not to allow it to be easily retracted with the skin, a small incision may be made across its anterior fibres immediately under the acromion. This thoroughly exposes the external tuberosity. As the arm hangs well over the table, the assistant moves the elbow slightly backwards to project the head of the humerus forward, and the surgeon, using his knife as if he were about to cut into the bone, divides at one sweep the capsular ligament and the attachments of the muscles inserted * riatf xxxviii. Figs. 1 and 2.