CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 923 varied from 80 to 54. He was ordered six leeches behind the left ear, and an enema, which moved his bowels freely. On the morning of the 4th, after a tolerably quiet night, the wound was looking well, but the pulse, which was about 66, was irregular, and there was slight paralysis of the right side. On the evening of the 5th, six leeches were again ordered to be ai5plied to the mastoid region, in consequence of the pulse having fallen to about 50. %th.—Pulse 60 ; urine, hitherto passed in bed, drawn off by a catheter ; ordered a castor-oil enema. 7fA.—Patient has passed a good night, and seems more intelligent, but is still unable to make ^vater. Con- vulsions, however, came on in the afternoon, chiefly affecting the paralysed side, and there was considerable haemorrhage from the wound, through which the brain-substance had begun to protrude. 8?/i.—Has had two more convulsive seizures; pulse 67, regular ; blister ordered to the nape of the neck. About 3 p.m. there was renewed hfemorrhage from the wound, which was arrested by transfixing the bleeding point and securing it by a ligature ; pulse 86, regular, but weak and compressible. 9th.— Haemorrhage again occurred, and could not be staunched till a slough had been removed. 12th.—^For the last two days the fungus cerebri has been rapidly increasing, and is now about the size of the closed fist. Patient somewhat restless, but intelligence still improving ; has passed water volun- tarily for the last three days ; pulse 100. I5th.—Since last report the patient has been progressing favourably, but to-day he has had repeated rigors, and been very restless and noisy. Part of the fungus has sepa- rated ; the bowels have been freely moved by an enema; pulse 106. I6th.—Patient looks much worse ; has passed a very bad night. Eecur- ring haemorrhage from the surface of the fungus, and edges of the wound, arrested by matico ; pialse 100. Early next morning symptoms of coma gradually set in, and patient died about 4 A.M. On post-mortem examina- tion, an abscess was found diffused through the left cerebral hemisphere, the surface of which was covered with a layer of pus most distinct towards the base. Bemarks.—The case of Arthur M'Kenzie was one of simple fracture of the cranium, with depression; but the dangerous symptoms were evidently those of severe concussion, not com- pression. The depression of the cranium was pretty extensive as to surface, but not in depth ; and the state of the pulse, pupils, and breathing, as well as the subsequent progress of the case, showed that the symptoms were not due to the depression of the bone. I think it well to notice this, as there is often a ten- dency, when such injury exists with symptoms of unconscious- ness, to regard the fracture as the cause, and to resort to opera- tive measures to remove the depression. This case, with many similar which I have seen, shows the necessity for carefully examining the general symptoms; and—if they be those of con- 3 p