694 OPERATIONS. direct method, all I had to do was to clear the parts to the outer side of the posterior tibial nerve, and tie the peroneal, which was nearly thrice the size of the tibial. Had I followed the lateral incision, and the exposure of the parts been less complete, the operation would have been very much more complicated. The plan of operation which I followed on that occasion, and which I would recommend, was as follows:—I made an incision about six inches long, through the integuments on the back of the leg, dividing the skin and fascia. The posterior saphena vein was then cleared and held aside, and the incision continued, so as to separate the two heads of the gastrocnemius, to the extent of the superficial wound. One or two small vessels only required to be secured. I next divided the fibres of the soleus directly from behind forwards, till I recognised its deep aponeu- rotic surface. This I divided cautiously about the middle of the wound, and then with a probe-pointed bistoury dilated the opening upwards and downwards to the full extent of the super- ficial incision; two or three small muscular branches were secured, and the deep fascia slit up. The pulsating tumour then projected and filled the wound, but was gently held aside, and rendered less turgid by compression on the femoral. The pos- terior tibial nerve was now very distinctly seen, and the posterior tibial and its veins readily recognised and the artery tied ; but, as I have said, it was very small and produced no effect. Seeing this, I slightly dissected the tissues on the outside of the nerve, and drew aside a vein which hid the peroneal artery, exposed that vessel, and tied it. The presence of the erectile tumour in this case rendered the operation more difficult than in ordinary circumstances : yet, the comparative ease with which the vessel was reached, and the parts at the bottom of the wound seen, render it in my estimation infinitely superior to working in a confined wound, the most important part of which is very imper- fectly exposed. There is really no division of muscular fibres, except in the case of the soleus ; for the two origins of the gas- trocnemius are merely separated along their aponeurotic line of union, and the tendon of the plantaris drawn aside.