668 OPERA TIONS. interposed, and the operator requires to break througli this layer with his finger, or the cautions use of the point of the knife, to clear the scalenus more fully ; he then glides the fore- finger of his left hand from above downwards along the outer margin of the scalenus anticus, till the point of his finger touches the tubercle on the first rib, into which the muscle is inserted ; immediately above and behind this the subclavian is felt. By attending to this rule, the operator will avoid the risk of mistaking the large nerve which passes from under the edge of the scalenus immediately above the subclavian for that vessel. The next and most important step is to clear the vessel for pass- ing the armed aneurism needle. In doing this we must keep in view the position of the venous branches crossing the course of the artery in front to join the subclavian vein, whilst higher up and deeper the pleura is in close relation to the deep surface of the vessel, and may be wounded in passing the needle. The former of these dangers is best avoided by the mode of incision I have recommended, which enables the operator to see the deep part of the wound, and, by using the point of finger and nail, gently to separate any loose tissue and push aside the veins before using the point of the knife, to clear the artery for liga- ture. The second danger—wound of the pleura—is best avoided by passing the needle under that part of the subclavian which rests upon the first rib, not higlier up; and this rule is also advantageous, should the posterior scapular artery arise, as it often does, from the third part of the subclavian close to .the edge of the scalenus. The aneurism needle for this operation should be short in the point, and have a double curve to play over the clavicle, so as to allow the point to appear round the artery without elevating the vessel and unduly separating its connec- tions. In accordance with the general rule, the point of the needle sliould be passed from the position of the subclavian vein upwards and outwards ; but in many cases it is difficult to effect this, owing to elevation of the shoulder raising the clavicle so as greatly to deepen the subclavian space. In such cases the j)oiut of the finger may be made to guard the vein whilst the needle is passed from above downwards.