EXCISION OF KNEE-JOINT. 731 articulation for the further steps of the operation. Of these methods, I prefer the last, and it is that which is now almost uniformly adopted in this country. The dissection of flaps and exposure of the textures involved in the method of the H in- cision are unnecessary, and even hurtful. The longitudinal incision, which I consider the most advantageous in the case of the elbow, has no advantage here, as we do not desire a movable articulation, whilst its form and position favour the retention of blood and serous or purulent discharge in the cavity of the wound. I shall therefore describe and show you the operation by the lunated incision as I usually perform it. The tourniquet having been applied over the femoral artery, the leg of the affected limb is to be supported by an assistant, seated in front of the patient, the knee being very slightly bent. If the right knee is to be operated on, standing on the inside of the limb I commence my incision over the posterior margin of the outer condyle of the femur, and carry it down to the upper margin of the head of the tibia ; then sweep across the front of the joint at that level, curving my incision upwards over the inner condyle of the femur to a point opposite that where I commenced. If the case be one of articular caries or ulceration of the carti- lages, I carry my incision so deep as at once to divide the ligamentum patellae and anterior part of the joint, and then divide the lateral ligaments; the semilunar flap, including the patella, is drawn upwards, and the condyles of the femur and tibia separated by bending the knee, so as to expose and facUitate the division of the crucial ligaments. The section of these ligaments should be made by cutting them upon the crest of the tibia, to which they are attached inferiorly, as, by doing so, we avoid risk of injury to the popliteal vessels, which might be injured if we used the knife carelessly at this stage of the operation, especially when the surrounding textures are much altered and disorganised. When the crucial and lateral ligaments are fairly divided, by elevating the femur, its condyles can be projected sufficiently to enable the operator to saw off ' . 3 c