705 EXCISION OF JOINTS. parts, the condyloid portion of the femur was found atrophied, and its lateral section looks precisely like the bone from a stump of the thigh. A false joint had formed, and the femur worked like a pivot in a corresponding cavity in the head of the tibia. The original section of the femur, in the excision, was made through the upper part of the condyles. Deep in the head of the tibia a tubercular abscess was exposed by the dissection. I believe that the cause of alteration and atrophy was connected with the tendency to disease and the state of the constitution, and that, except for these conditions, amputation would not have been called for. Such cases must be considered as very exceptional, and as by no means forming a valid objection to excision of the knee, only warning us to be careful in discriminating in our diagnosis what cases admit of thorough removal of the whole disease by resection. Sir William Ferguson, in his interesting and instructive lectures on the progress of modern surgery, shows the great advantages gained by excision of the knee in successful cases, and his own practice has had great influence in giving excision of the knee its present position as a recognised operation in sur- gery. In the lectures I have alluded to he advocates its claims very strongly, perhaps rather exaggerates them. For, with all my appreciation of the advantages of the operation in certain cases, I am not insensible to the dangers attending it, and the necessity for discriminating as to the cases in which it should be performed, or to the inconvenience which may occasionally result when the resected joint remains very movable, or when the limb is not developed in proportion to the sound one, so as to be very much shorter. I cannot think that the sketch he gives at page 142 is likely to impress many with the advantage of excision over amputation, and I believe that, if that sketch were contrasted with a patient after amputation fitted with a good artificial limb, the contrast would rather be unfavourable to excision. In regard to the Excision of the Hip-joint, I think that, look- ing to the pathology of morbus coxarius, and the extent to which