774 OPERATIONS. the stump is found necrosed, and the medulla is often seen to project like a fungoid mass. In such cases it is usually assumed that this condition is the cause of the blood-poisoning. No doubt, it may be said that it is quite as likely that the state of the bone is the effect rather than the cause, for all the soft parts show diseased action as well as the bone, and besides we occasionally see even acute necrosis of the bone of a stump without pyaemia supervening. Still the possibility of the disease of the bone being the cause, is just another reason for amputating beyond the continuity of a bone which has been severely com- minuted and fissured longitudinally. The moral causes which may influence the resiilt unfavour- ably are more difficult to trace than even the physical. In all cases of severe injury, however, and especially in cases involving mutilation, the mental state, leading to depression, cannot be overlooked. Tlie moral influences of the different circumstances in which, in such cases, the civilian and the soldier are respectively placed, have been stated as amongst the causes predisposing to the less favourable results of primary amputation in civil as compared with military practice. " A tradesman," says the late Sir G. Ballingall, " who has, perhaps, an indifferent constitution, and a wife and family de- pendent upon his exertions, is admitted with an injury requiring amputation, which may be the result of an accident originating in intoxication, ignorance, or folly, and by which he finds him- self suddenly reduced to misery and dependence ; while the sol- dier, again, with a constitution originally sound, and accustomed to contemplate such an accident, loses his limb in a good cause, under circumstances creditable to himself and duly appreciated by his country, from which he is certain of a pension for life." Now, these appear very satisfactory and obvious reasons why mental depression and anxiety might be expected to be more frequent in the one case than in the other. But, whilst I con- sider these moral states as most important, I believe it will be found difficult to estimate correctly their influence, except in