888 INJURIES OF HEAD. troUable ; but experience has shown that, whilst the bleeding may- prove dangerous in some instances, in many it is easily controlled. In my own practice I have met with five cases in which sharp fragments of bone had penetrated the longitudinal sinus ; in two of them the haemorrhage was profuse and impetuous at first, but was not very dif&cult to control. One of the patients, a young lad, received a blow on the vertex with a piece of stone which was blown down with great force from the parapet of a high house. The bone was broken in fragments, most of which were loose and easily removed, except one which seemed driven across the line of the saggital suture. It was impacted, and evidently must have womded the sinus ; but it was absolutely necessary to remove it. The instant I withdrew the fragment a profuse gush of venous blood poured out from a large wound in the vessel, and the amount lost before I could put my finger on the opening was almost in- credible, but the pressure of my finger at once arrested it. On moving the finger to apply a compress of lint, the blood again gushed out, but the lint, supported by a single turn of bandage tied from over the vertex and fastened under the chin, served completely to arrest it, and when the dressing was removed, forty- eight hours afterwards, there was no tendency to bleeding. In another case a man received a blow with a quoit, which struck him about the upper part of the occipital bone, inflicting a trans- verse wound about an inch and a half long across the line of the longitudinal sinus, near its confluence with the other sinuses. The bone was rather cut than fractured, and a portion of the margin, which had been indented, was drawn out along with the scalp, when I proceeded to examine the wound. On this being done a profuse gush of dark blood followed. I checked it at once with my finger ; but as I considered it necessary to examine the state of the bone in case of fragments of the inner table having been detached, I required to examine with a probe, and during the time I was so engaged, the bleeding was active, though not so vio- lent as at first. Having satisfied myself that there were no loose fragments projected, I placed a compress of lint over the wound, applied ice-bags to the head, and kept the patient in the prone