OPERA TIONS. 642 vomiting. A little brandy, diffused in a small quantity of water, may be taken about quarter of an hour before the chloroform is inhaled. This is useful both as a stimulant to the circulation and also in obviating flatulence, which is apt to occur in some patients when the stomach is empty, and, when present, leads to retching and attempts at vomiting. In the Eoyal Infirmary, where the usual hour for operations is twelve o'clock noon, the patient gets a light breakfast about a quarter to eight o'clock, so that fully four hours elapse before the anassthetic is adminis- tered. I have spoken of the risk of vomiting, for there is great risk of a portion of the vomited matter passing into the larynx, and leading to suffocation, as the symptoms of asphyxia might be attributed to the chloroform, and time lost in attempting arti- ficial respiration. In cases of hernia, where vomiting is present independently of the effects of the anaesthetic, great attention is required on the part of the assistant to keep the patient's head and neck lying on the side, so as to allow the vomited matter to pass easily from the mouth, which it cannot do when the head is lying back. When, after an attack of vomiting, sudden symptoms of asphyxia occur, I think the proper plan would be at once to perform laryngotomy in the crico-thyroid space, and allow air to enter the trachea; because, if any solid matter has entered the larynx or trachea, the peculiar sensory and expulsive powers being diminished during ana?sthesia, the foreign body is not ex- pelled, as it might be under ordinary circumstances. In all cases of important operations the patient should be placed recumbent. All articles of dress which constrict the neck or waist, or may in any way impede the free movements of the chest or abdomen, should be loosened or removed. The state of the pulse should be ascertained before beginning the inhalation, and carefully watched throughout. Immediately before applying the chloroform, the patient is desired to take a deep inspiration, and then to continue to draw in full breaths quickly after the chloroform is applied. By doing this, less chloroform is required to produce the desired effect, and the assistant administering it watches carefully the effects produced. In almost all cases there