CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES. 839 for though the more severe symptoms passed off, and she gradu- ally began to amend, yet her rapid and thorough convalescence dated from the time the worms disappeared under the use of the santonine. PEIMAEY AND SECONDAET AMPUTATIONS FOE INJUEY. I have selected the following as examples of the class of cases requiring amputation in consequence of injury, and as illustrative of what I have said in reference to the conditions which influence the mortality of primary amputation :— Skvere Injury of the Eight Upper Extremity by Machinery; Amputation op the Shoulder-Joint ; Eecovery. Case I.—On the morning of the 9th December 1847, James Watt, mill- wright at a large paper-mill in the vicinity of Edinburgh, when inspecting the machinery, perceived that a part of it was loose. While engaged in fastening the loose part, the sleeve of his jacket was caught, and the right arm dragged between two wheels, and rapidly crushed. Notwithstanding the fearful nature of the accident, he possessed sufficient presence of mind, on feeling himself drawn forwards, to take off his cap with his left hand, and place it in a position to check in some measure the revolution of the wheels, and at the same time he directed those about him to cut the sleeve of his coat, telling them that the arm was already torn through. He was extricated just in time to prevent the body being drawn in, but not before the soft parts on the right side of the chest had suffered severely. The accident happened about half-past four a.m., and I saw him at half- past seven a.m. I found Mr. Falconer and Dr. Thomson in attendance. The patient was lying in bed, pale and exhaiisted, having lost a considerable quantity of blood ; but, though suffering great agony, he was quite sensible ; the fragments of his clothes which had been left by the machinery had been removed, some stimuli had been administered, and external warmth applied ; his pulse was about 120, and the skin was covered with cold sweat. The injured arm presented a frightful appearance ; the limb was completely detached from about three inches above the elbow, and the humerus was again broken through obliquely immediately below the in- sertion of the deltoid, leaving the attachment of that muscle entire ; but on the inner side, the fracture had splintered the bone up to within an inch of the joint; the middle part of the humerus, together with the soft parts, were hanging in slu-eds. On the right side of the chest, the integuments had been entirely removed to within two inches of the ster- num ; the clavicular and sternal portions of the pectoralis major had been completely torn off, so as to expose the pectoralis minor, the intercostal