INJURIES OF HEAD. 898 that, as often happens, we must use the trephine to get suffi- cient room, then attention to the usual conditions of fractures requiring trepan, will, I think, indicate that the instrument may be applied with greater advantage at a different point from that usually advised. In almost every case in which there is a deep and abruptly depressed point or margin of the fractured cranium, it will be found that the bone is fissured across the base of the depressed fragment. At the fissured part there is no shelving of the inner table, the bone is more or less completely cracked through in an even line ; beyond the fissure tlie bone is perfectly sound and resistant. If the trephine be applied there, so as partly to overlap the fissured part, the sharp depressed fragment, with the shelving portion of the internal table, will be easily withdrawn, and other loose fragments removed, and any remaining depressed margins of the unde- tached parts of the bone can be as easily elevated. I have said, that in many cases of comminuted fracture we do not require to remove a circle of bone with the trephine, but can effect our purpose without sacrificing any sound bone. I will show you what I mean by operating on this comminuted fracture made . on the subject, which enables me to exemplify exactly wliat would be required in such an injury in the living. You notice the fracture is comminuted and depressed, but that fragments are closely impacted. I choose this large triangular fragment, knowing that its removal will give me room, either to elevate the other depressed portions, or that, on its removal, these will be found loose, and be readily picked out. I now apply the cranial saw, known as Hey's saw, aud with it, as you see, I saw across the base of the triangular piece of bone ; next, with the dissecting forceps, or the thin point of the lever, I loosen it at the base, sides, and apex, and carefuUy remove it. This, you see, is a slow process, but now you perceive the effect. Most of the other fragments which were wedged in by it are now found to be loose, and I lift them out, elevate readily the other de- pressed margins, and next examine for and pick out those small scales of the internal table lying on the dura mater; and all