OPERATIONS. 818 upper curved dotted line, in the plate already referred to, repre- sents my line for the posterior flap. The anterior flap is thus drawn more over the end of the femur after cicatrisation of the stump. I have already fully described my method by the long an- terior flap, and given my reasons for adopting it. The manual procedure is as follows :—The limb being held as in the other methods, the surgeon standing on the inner side of the right, or on the outside of the left limb, measures with his eye the breadth of half the circumference of the thigh, inserts his knife into the side of the limb, immediately above the outer or inner condyle, according as he is operating on the right or left thigh, carries the incision down to below the lower margin of the patella, sweeps the knife across the front of the knee with a gentle curve, and terminates the incision on the opposite side of the limb, on a level with the point where he entered his knife at first. The large flap, so marked out, is dis- sected rapidly upwards from off the patella and front of the joint. On clearing the iipper margin of the patella, the surgeon cuts deeply and obliquely upwards, so as to retain muscular structure, and as much thickness of substance as possible in the upper part of the flap. He then applies the edge of his knife to the textures on the posterior aspect of the limb, about two inches below the base of the anterior flap, and divides them obliquely to the bone. The soft parts are then retracted, and the femur sawn through just above the condyles ; the vessels secured and flap retained by stitches ; but there is no need to apply any bandage or dressing ; all that is required is to pin a handkerchief across the thigh, to prevent jerking of the stump. Circular Amputation of the Thigh is so exactly similar to the same operation in the upper arm, that it need not be further described here. The modification of the circular method pro- posed by Mr. Syme, will be found fully described in Lecture Ixxxiii. page 745.