879 FRACTURES OF THE SKULL. procedure ; the latter, those in which our treatment is limited to indirect measures, owing to the position of the injury. The classification of fractures of the skull, according to their characters, includes, first, their condition as simple or compound, conditions which, though important in all fractures, are very speci- ally so in cranial fractures, as influencing in a marked manner our treatment of the cases. Lastly, the subdivisions of cranial frac- tures founded upon their peculiar characters, are—fracture without depression, which includes the different degrees of fissure ; simple fracture with depression; compound fracture, with depression; and compound comminuted fracture with depression ; punctured or stellate fracture ; and lastly, what is termed by French sur- geons ecrasement or smash, extensive comminuted fracture of the cranium. Fracture of one of the tables of the skull may occur without fracture of the other, and occasionally it happens that the internal is the table injured, whilst the outer has escaped injury. Fissure of the bones of the cranial vault varies from a mere capillary fissure to a fissured fracture without depression, ex- tending throughout the whole length and thickness of one of the bones, or even passing through several bones and the connecting sutures. Such an injury may be followed by grave danger, from the force which inflicted it affecting the contained organs, and leading to intra-cranial extravasation or inflammation. Hence a necessity for prophylactic measures, and for watching the patient for some time in case of mischief arising. But a fissured fracture neither admits of nor requires any interference with the frac- tured bone, except in cases in which compression from extrava- sation occurs, and in which the fissure traverses the course of a large blood-vessel,—as for example, a fissure through the anterior and lower part of the parietal bone. In that case, the existence of the fissure is a warrant for trephining, with the view of removing the extravasated blood. In cases of fissured frac- ture, we sometimes find the fissure at the opposite point of the vault from that on which the injury was received ; and not unfrequently we have fissure both at the point struck