ADMINISTRA TION OF CHLOROFORM. 643 is more or less struggling just before the patient gets fully under the effect of the anaesthetic. Then the breathing becomes ster- torous, but regular; the eye and eyelid insensible to the stimulus of touch, and the limbs become flaccid. The symptoms which indicate danger are—extreme lividity, irregular gasping breathing, but more especially pallor, and irregular weak pulse, or sudden cessation of the wrist pulse. Stertorous breathing, so long as the respirations are regular, is not necessarily a symptom of danger, it merely shows that the patient is deeply under the autesthetic. The chloroform cloth may be removed to a greater distance from the mouth to allow free admixture of air, or its use may even be intermitted ; but unless the breathing be irregular, or become stridulous or gurgling, with increased lividity of the face, there is no need to interfere. When the breathing becomes irregular, gasping, gurgling, or very stridulous, and the face livid, remove the chloroform, draw forward the tongue, pass the finger into the mouth to clear away any mucus over the glottis, push away the uvula and soft palate upwards to avoid its interference with the opening of the larynx, and sprinkle cold water on the face and chest, or flip the surface with the end of a wet towel. At the same time, artificial respiration, by means of gentle and regular pressure on the walls of the chest, not too forcibly or rapidly applied, should be used; or the same end may be effected by the assistant drawing the arms upwards above the head, and then pressing them down by the sides of the patient, so as to make alternate compression and expansion of the parietes of the thorax. Whenever the lips or face are seen to become pale, and the pulse to flag in strength or to become irregular, the chloroform should be stopped, and sulphuric ether substituted, cold water sprinkled on the face, and artificial respiration begun. The case is one of imminent danger. Whilst these means are being used, a small enema of brandy and warm water should be administered as a stimulus. If the patient be carefully watched, and the administration of the ether begun when any weakness of pulse is noticed, it will generally suffice