854 INJURIES OF HEAD. scalp presents a smooth layer of dense fibro-cellular structure, ■which is very loosely connected by a quantity of fine cellular tissues with the pericranium. This cellular tissue is largely per- meated by blood-vessels, which enter the bones and communicate in the diploe with branches which ramify in the dura mater. The anatomical structure of the scalp—its dense unyielding texture, its great vascularity and nervous supply, the large amount of fibrous and aponeurotic tissue which it contains blended inti- mately with the more highly organised textures, together with the vital connections existing between it and the cranial bones and membranes, have important bearings in relation to diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of injuries occurring in the region ; and hence we always regard these, even when slight, as deserving of watchful attention. Bruises of the scalp may prove troublesome, from the injury leading to inflammation and unhealthy suppuration, or being complicated by dangers arising from the force causing the bruise affecting the brain and its membranes, as in concussion. The character of the swelling which follows extravasation from bruise of the scalp, deserves our attention in reference to dia- gnosis. If the deep surface of the scalp be ruptured and blood effused, such extravasation may and very often does spread over the whole extent of the head, causing enormous swelling on the cranium, hixlging over the orbits, and posteriorly passing down towards the neck. This arises from the loose connection between the scalp and pericranium, permitting the blood to spread uninterruptedly. The appearance of the patient, in some cases, is frightful enough ; but, as a general rule, if rest be en- joined, and cold evaporating lotions applied at once, the blood is rapidly absorbed, and no bad consequences may result: the laxity of the connecting tissue allowing of great distension without injurious pressure on the pericranium and bone. Incisions to evacuate the extravasated blood can hardly be requisite, except the tension be very great, and attended with constitutional symptoms. When speaking of contusions, I have akeady pointed out the dangers attendant on opening collections of effused blood,