858 INJURIES OF HEAD and cranial surface require to be cleansed from all foreign sub- stances, and then the scalp should be carefuUy re-adjusted, and maintained in position by points of silver wire suture. At one time this, as I have already said, was greatly objected to as being likely to cause erysipelas ; but it is less likely to cause irritation than heavy dressings of plasters, pads of lint, and complex bandages. The surgeon sees the progress of the wound, and can remove any sutures that seem irritable. Discharge is prevented from accumu- lating ; a piece of lint soaked in tepid water or some antiseptic lotion is merely laid over the part, and the patient is thus saved much pain and discomfort. Sutures I have used long before the introduction of silver wire sutures, and I never saw any irri- tation follow even when the ordinary silk was used; and though we do not expect such wounds to heal by the first intention, the sutures maintain the detached scalp in position until it gets.' a set,' if I may so speak. Whereas, if we do not employ stitches, the scalp falls away, contracts upon itself, and leaves a large gap ; the edges of the wounded scalp become thick and everted ; the healing process is very slow, and occasionally ulceration of the pericranium with head symptoms may arise in a scalp wound from neglect of accurate apposition at the first. In cases where the scalp is contused and torn rather than detached, as in injuries inflicted with blunt weapons, the local treatment at first is the least important. Warm water lint-dressing should be applied to the wound at first, and simple or charcoal poultices afterwards, when suppuration or sloughing supervene. In such cases we require to be specially on the watch for the development of head symptoms, especially those which indicate suppuration within the cranium. Erysipelas with smart fever and delirium may occur, and often does so without great danger. The most dangerous cases are those in which all seems to be going on favourably until about the eighth or tenth day, when the patient complains of not feeling so well; then a distinct rigor or repeated chills are felt, followed by headache and a low delirium; the edges of the wound become glazed and everted, or the scalp around has a puffy appearance, and the bone is seen bare. The