OPERA TIONS. 724 the knife, lie applies the long narrow saw, and cuts them through a few lines below the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. Lastly, he clears the lower part of the humerus, and saws it off through the upper part of the olecranon fossa, and rounds off the angles of the section with the bone-pliers. All diseased synovial structure should, as far as possible, be clipped away or dis- sected off; and any portion which remains, or any suppurating texture, should be painted over with a solution of chloride of zinc (1 part to 30). The vessels which usually require to be secured are the branches of the inferior profunda which accom- pany the iilnar nerve, and the anastomotica magna on the inner side, and the radial recurrent and posterior terminal branch of the su]3erior profunda externally; but all bleeding points must be secured by ligature, or other means, before closing the wound, which is then to be closed by an interrupted suture. The central stitches should be left untied, the wires or thread being left long so as to be tied after six or eight hours, when all oozing has ceased, and after any clots which may have formed have been removed. The dressing is simple : a long, rather thick pad, of the breadth of the limb, is placed in front of the arm, which is kept slightly flexed, then two lateral pads on either side of the wound. These pads are secured by a figure-of-8 bandage, so applied as to leave the wound free, a light veil of lint is laid over tlie wound, or no dressing at all to the cut surface. The limb is then laid on a pillow, and the arm secured so as to prevent the humerus being tilted oiitwards, which would cause the condyloid end of the bone to press upon the skin, and might lead to ulceration. In cases where the joint is anchylosed the soft textures may be dissected off, so as to allow the removal of the articulation in a mass after resection with a fine narrow saw, or the operation may be facilitated by cutting off the olecranon with bone-pliers ; and some surgeons take this latter method in all cases, but there is really no necessity for doing so generally. Excision of the elbow by the H or H incision is very similar as to the final steps of the operation, the chief difference being in the dissection of the parts on the posterior aspect of the joint