924 INJURIES OF HEAD. cussion—of refraining from operative interference with tlie de- pressed bone, but resorting to other treatment. Indeed, even when the symptoms are those of compression, when the fracture is simple, I consider it the wisest plan not to interfere unless the symptoms do not yield to depletion, purging, and other gene- ral remedies ; for, in a great number of cases, such general treatment is successful. The cases of compound fracture of the skull stand out in strong contrast to the last regards the propriety, or rather the necessity, for operative interference. In cases of compound fractures, especially in such as those detailed, in which the injury has been inflicted by great and direct force, and where, through the wounded scalp, we can see or feel that the bone is depressed and comminuted, there can, in my opinion, be no possible reason for delaying the removal of the shattered fragments, and elevating the larger depressed portions. By operating here we superadd no danger. We do not convert a simple into a compound frac- ture, whilst we remove the detached spicular fragments, which, if they did not directly puncture the membranes, must ultimately, as foreign or dead portions, infallibly lead to inflammation and suppuration within the cranium. In such cases, to wait for urgent symptoms as our warrant to operate, is to wait till the operation is of little use. It was this conviction, founded on former experience, that led me at once to operate in the cases of Porter and J. T. Unfortunately, a sharp-pointed portion of the depressed bone had injured the dura mater, and this, I doubt not, led to the meningitis which proved fatal; but the numerous detached fragments removed showed the absolute necessity for interference. The venous bleeding referred to in the report of Porter's case followed the removal of a shelving portion of the inner table which had been driven up towards the sagittal suture ; and I think there could be little doubt that the frag- ment must have punctured the longitudinal sinus, so that its withdrawal was followed by smart venous ha?,morrhage, which, however, was soon stopped by very slight pressure. The case of A. B. was one of very severe and extensive