LIGATURE OF SUBCLAVIAN. 661 sedative, to prevent or allay laryngeal irritation. Wlien, how- ever, irritation has led to symptoms of pulmonary congestion, I have seen marked benefit follow venesection, with relief of the urgent symptoms. The diet should at first he nutrient, but non-stimulant, such as whites of eggs with milk, and farinaceous diet. White fish, and fowl or other animal food of a more stimulating nature, may be gradually given. The first or internal portion of the Subclavian Artery extends from the origin of the vessel to the inner margin of the anterior scalenus muscle. On the left side this part of the vessel, as it ascends from the thorax, is so situated as to be scarcely in the cervical region, and is consequently beyond the reach of surgical operation. On the right side, owing to the manner in which it arises from the innominate artery, this part of the subclavian is placed in the neck, but is most unfavourably situated for the applica- tion of the ligature, whether we regard its complicated relations to important structures or the numerous branches given off within so short a space. From its origin till it reaches the edge of the scalenus anticus, the first part of the right subclavian is not more than an inch and a half in length, and in this space it gives off the internal mammary and vertebral arteries, and thyroid axis. These large collateral branches form a very great disturbing force on the distal side of the ligature, and so prevent the hfemostatic process taking place ; while, on the proximal side, we have the force of the cardiac circulation through the innominate and right carotid arteries. The relations of the first jjart of the subclavian artery are also much more complicated than those of the innomi- nate artery. This part of the subclavian is crossed in front almost immediately after its origin by the vagus nerve, whilst the recurrent laryngeal branch of that nerve curves round it, so that both these important nerves are in close contact with the vessel. Upon it and the innominate artery also lie the cardiac branches of the vagus. Immediately external to the vagus the