74G OPERA TIONS. led to recognise the advantages of the circular, or modified cir- cular, method in primary and certain other amputations, yet in ordinary cases of disease of the knee, where the muscular tissue was not redundant, I continued to practise the modified double- flap operation formerly described, because where the circular method was employed, the muscles, owing to the way in which they were divided, retracted and did not heal over the end of the bone. The only covering for the stump, therefore, was the skin and subcutaneous fatty layer, which latter, in cases of chronic disease, is apt to be very scanty. Mr. Syme, indeed, supposes that there is a mistake in regard to preserving muscular tissue, and thinks that skin is the proper covering for a stump. In the paper already referred to he says—" The perfect condition of stump resulting from amputation at the ankle, where there is nothing but integument to protect the bone, led me to conclude, that if the circular operation could be performed with the cer- tainty of producing such a covering, it might be employed with advantage in the lower third of the thigh, which being the thin- nest part of the limb, more readily admits of forming a stump composed merely of skin." There is, however, a fallacy in this, arising from the idea that in the ankle-amputation there is nothing but integument to protect the bone. The protective covering in that amputation is altogether peculiar, consisting as it does not merely of skin and ordinary subcutaneous fat, but of a peculiar elastic cushion of fat and fibrous tissue, specially arranged and adapted by nature for bearing direct pressure. If indeed we could, as Mr. Syme observes, obtain such a covering in other situations, it would undoubtedly be superior to aU others ; but unfortunately, in no other amputation can we obtain it; and as the dissections of old stumps have shown me that the muscular tissue retained does form a protective cover- ing more or less thick, I still think that if we can preserve it in moderate amount, and in such a position as fairly to cover the end of the bone, we shall then have a better stump than when we trust entirely to skin.