LONG ANTERIOR FLAP. 753 as a general rule, in favour of the method by a single anterior flap. In other amputations, as in those of the arm and forearm, whilst the single flap may be adopted, it has fewer advantages. From the form of the limb, and its position when the patient is lying in bed, the flap does not adapt itself, by its own form and weight, to the cut surface, but, being placed more or less laterally requires to be retained in position. In these situations a modi- fication of it answers sufficiently well. In the upper arm a stump formed by a single flap from the outer and anterior aspect of the limb, the inner aspect being divided circularly a little below the level with the base of the flap, possesses the advantage of having the great nerves divided high up and so removed from the end of the bone, which is covered by a good cushion of soft parts. The cicatrix is also placed high up on the inner side, beyond all risk of pressure. In amputation at the shoulder-joint, the method I prefer is also that by a single flap, cut in a particular direction. As a general rule and for the reasons already advanced, I consider the single flap preferable, as forming a better covering of sound tex- tures, and removing the cicatrix from pressure ; but in certain am- putations, and in particular circumstances, a modification of it, or two equal flaps, may answer better. Thus, in cases of amputation for malignant growths, I would advise the modified circular method, or two equal short flaps principally composed of skin, because in such cases we desire to avoid having any part of the flap cut from near the tumour, and the muscu.lar tissue should be largely removed, being liable to contain proliferous cells, even at some distance from the growth, and a long flap of skin, from which the subjacent muscles have been dissected, has its vascular supply impaired, and is very apt to slough. Again, in certain situations, as in some amputations of the foot, the position of the cicatrix in reference to the direction of the pressure of the boot, requires to be considered ; and finally, I need hardly remark that in cases of injury we cannot select our method of operating, but must modify it according to circumstances.