CLINICAL CASES AND COMMENTARIES 833 simple amputation of the thigh goes on so well; and whatever may be the estimate of the operation in general, or whatever may be the chances of the disease returning in some other organ hereafter, it has, for the present at least, snatched the patient from the brink of the grave and restored her to her family, and to the enjoyment of perfect health. Amputation at the Hip-Joint. M. W., aged 5 years, was admitted on May 29, 1865, into the Royal Infirmary, suffering from a tumour of the right thigh. History.—Patient's mother states, that about six months previous to admission the child complained occasionally of wandering pains in the right thigh, for which fomentations were applied. About three months previous to admission, however, the mother observed the patient wallving as if her right knee was stiff"; she had a considerable amount of pain in the limb ; was sometimes fretful and low-spirited, but her general health was good. On being asked where she had pain, the patient referred it to various parts of the thigh ; and on examining locally, the mother observed an oval lump on the outside of the lower part of the thigh, about the size of a " blackbird's egg," and said to be deeply seated. No increase of growth was observed, however, till about ten weeks before admission, when the child is said to have received a blow on the lower part of the thigh (with a chair), and since that time the tumour has been increasing rapidly. Since then, the patient has also complained greatly of pains in the limb, on account of which the part has been fomented, poulticed, and leeched, without any relief. The parents then consulted Dr. Thomson of Yetholm, who, recognising the nature of the case, prevailed upon them to send her to the Infirmary. During the last few days, the patient has been losing her appetite, is low-spirited, and complains more of pains. 071 admission into hospital.-—Patient appears to be healthy, but is un- usually quiet and reserved. Tongue slightly furred ; lungs, heart, and other organs, normal. A tumour, of oval form, b\ inches in length, and about the same in breadth, was found occupying the anterior, outer, and posterior surfaces of the middle and lower part of the femur, just above the condyles. It is of firm consistence throughout, and moves along with the femur. The superficial veins are enlarged, but the skin is not adhe- rent. Patient does not complain of pain on pressing the tumour. The in- guinal glands on both sides, as also the right cervical glands, are hard, and somewhat enlarged. \st June.—P. 86. Sleeps well, and is much better in health. Ordered alterative medicine, followed by tincture of the muriate of iron and cod-liver oil, twice daily. Qth.—P. 96. Has had more darting pains in the limb. General health continues good. Tumour not perceptibly larger since admission of patient into hospital. Itli.—-P. 80. Slept well. Chloroform having been administered,