AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 817 be operated on, so as to press upwards the soft parts, and relax those on the anterior aspect of the limb, to enable the operator to grasp and raise them from the bone, and thus to transfix with greater ease and obtain a broader flap. The limb below the knee is to be in this, as in all amputations, firmly supported by an assistant, seated in front of the patient. The surgeon trans- fixes the thigh, about an inch and a half below the point he intends to saw through the bone, and cuts out a broad and rounded flap, re-inserts the knife an inch lower than the first point of transfixion, and cuts the second flap from the posterior part of the thigh. Both flaps are retracted, and the assistant support- ing the limb raises it a little, to cause the bone to be projected fully. Then the point of the knife is used to clear the bone higher up, and the saw applied to the highest point where the bone is exposed, and close to its attachments to the soft parts. So soon as the bone is sawn through, the assistant must avoid further retraction of the flaps, lest the periosteum be dragged upwards, and leave the bone denuded. The arteries are then tied : the femoral, at any point below the middle of the thigh, will be found on the surface of the posterior flap, towards its inner side, the vein lying behind it; the terminal branch of the profunda will be found close to the posterior surface of the bone and rather to its outer side. The muscular and cutaneous branches, often very numerous, must be tied where they are seen to jet or ooze. The flaps are then cleansed, placed and retained in apposition by sutures, and supported by compresses of lint, and a roller, to support the flaps ; the line of incision over the end of the stump, being left uncovered. As regards the relative length of the flaps—in Mr. Listen's method the anterior flap is the shorter, and the posterior is cut long, to allow for its greater retraction to equalise the length of the flaps after the operation is completed. The line of his incision for the posterior flap is shown by the lower dotted line in Figure 19, Plate xl. The modification of Listen's plan which I used to practise before adopting the long anterior flap, and which I still practise in some cases, is to cut the anterior flap longer than the posterior. The