750 OPERA TIONS. mately on the posterior aspect of the thigh, and without the flap being tensely stretched over the end of the hone. In my own operations I judge of the proportion by the eye, but a flap of four inches would be found sufficient in a limb twelve inches in circumference. The soft parts on the posterior aspect of the limb are divided obliquely towards the bone, the incision be- ginning two inches lower than the level of the base of the anterior flap. Due attention must be paid to the mode of preparing the bone for section. The thigh should be somewhat elevated towards the pelvis, the soft parts retracted, and the bone cleared two inches higher up than the base of the flap. By elevating the thigh, the bone is projected to the utmost, and if sawn close to the soft parts, it will be found, on the limb being lowered, to be deeply buried, and the anterior flap hangs loosely over it. In regard to the textures composing the flap.—I generally operate as low down as possible, the lower margin of the an- terior flap being on a level with or below the patella, so that the lower part of the flap is chiefly composed of skin ; but then I cut obliquely upwards through the anterior muscles to the bone, so as to have a thicker cushion of texture directly cor- responding to the sawn end of the bone. Lastly, the great vessels must be left in the posterior part of the stump, and not included in the flap. Keeping these points in view, the opera- tion may be briefly described thus :—Supposing that the right thigh is to be amputated, the surgeon, standing on the inner side of the limb (so as to be able to grasp the distal portion of bone when sawing), inserts his knife deeply, pretty far back on the outside of the thigh, and about three inches above the pateUa. He then carries the knife downwards through the skin and fascia to a level with the lower edge of the patella, and after cutting, with a gentle curve, across the front of the limb, he carries the incision up the inside of the thigh, to a point opposite the place where he commenced it. Whilst he is making the incision, his assistant retracts the skin and fascia, and when, by a few touches with the knife, the muscular tissu.e of the thigh is exposed, the surgeon cuts obliquely through it to the bone so as to dissect up