OPERA TIONS. 652 Some surgeons, more especially ou tlie Continent, use a grooved director on which to divide the fascial textures and the sheath, but it really affords no safety, and ought to be dispensed with, as the fascia^, in the important parts of the operation are better divided with the hand unsupported and uninfluenced by a mechanical guide. The aneurism needle should be of the form shown in Plate xxvii., the point rather short from the curve. . The eye of the needle should be near the point, and well finished, so as not to cut or fray the ligature. The point of the needle should be smooth and blunt, but not thick, so that it may be easily passed under the artery without risk of piercing the neighbouring vein or other important texture. For the ligature of some deep-seated arteries— as, for example, the subclavian—when the shoulder and clavicle are much elevated, a needle with a double curve may be re- quired, the concavity of the curve nearest the handle playing on the clavicle, so as to enable the point to be passed more easily round the artery, that it may appear at the opposite side without raising the vessel from its connections. If the ordinary aneurism needle, however, be so tempered as to allow some slight degree of flexibility, the surgeon can curve it to suit particular cases. I have always had my own aneurism needles constructed on this principle, and also grooved behind the eye to receive the thread. Not that I consider this of any consequence, but finishing off the groove necessitates care in finishing the eye of the needle, which I have often seen a mere rough perforation. In cases in which we are about to apply the ligature to an artery for true aneurism, we must be careful, whilst bringing the patient under the influence of chloroform to compress the vessel nearer the heart; for when the patient struggles, and the muscles become rigid, the sac often becomes so tense that there might be a risk of its rupture taking place, unless such precaution were taken. I shall first describe the operations for ligature of the principal arteries supplying the head, neck, and upper extremity, and after- wards those of the abdomen and lower extremity.