769 SHOCK. arrested before admission. I amputated some hours afterwards, when reaction was established. There was little sound texture to form flaps, and some sloughing of the margins of the flaps took place. For a time, however, the wound looked so healthy that I was in hopes of her recovery. But ultimately she became very much exhausted, and died about eighteen days after the operation. In this case there were some peculiar conditions which probably affected the result unfavourably. Besides the injury of the limb amputated, there was a laceration of the textures over the right knee, a second source of irritation. But there was also an unfavourable state of constitution, for the injured knee had been the seat of disease, and she had pre- viously suffered from necrosis. Both these conditions had been successfully treated in my wards about a year previously ; but, of course, the state of the parts when subjected to a new irrita- tion must have reacted unfavourably on the health, tending to produce exhaustion after the amputation. The fifth, which is the first and only successful case of primary amputation at the hip-joint, so far as I know, which has yet occurred in Scotland, was performed under different circumstances. I was sent for and performed the operation in the country, so that the lad had only been removed from the railway station, where the accident happened, to his own home, a very short distance. He was carefully carried on a litter, the injured limb having been first supported by a splint. In all other respects, the conditions were certainly not more favourable than in hospital. The injury was a severe one, attended by some loss of blood, though that was arrested by the medical man who first saw him. Eight or nine hours had elapsed from the time of the injury tiU I reached him, and he was then much depressed. The operation was performed under certainly less advantageous circumstances than in hospital. For although the professional assistance I had was excellent, still I had to depend upon non-professional aid for the performance of some important duties ; and when I add that the operation was per- formed in a small room, with no other light but that afforded by