880 INJURIES OF HEAD. and at the opposite side. Fracture without depression is merely a severe form of fissure. The importance of depression in fracture of the cranium, whether simple or compound, is in proportion to the amount of displacement in the level of the bone, and consequent pressure on the brain. The extent of the depressed surface does not seem to affect the cerebral functions so much as the abrupt depression of a smaller portion, and does not in general so urgently demand opera- tive interference. It is wonderful how the brain seems gradually to accommodate itself to a very considerable depression, diffused over a large surface, unless the depression be very deep. In children and young persons, the cranial bones are soft and elas- tic, and after a time, regain nearly their normal level; but, even in adults, the effects produced by depression of a large surface, are less severe and more transitory than we might expect, and this is one reason which causes the surgeon to be chary in tre- phining in such cases untD. other means have been tried. In simple fractures of this kind, especially in the young, no interference is warrantable at first, unless the symptoms of compression are, very urgent, and resist other treatment. In such cases it will gene- rally be found, that along with the depression of the bone, there is extravasation of blood. Indeed, the result of my own experi- ence makes me doubt whether the displacement of the bone, in any ordinary depressed fracture of the vault of the cranium, ever causes complete compression. In many cases which I have seen, both of simple and compound fractures, with even abrupt depres- sion, the symptoms of compression have been almost absent, and in none have they been so well marked as they are in cases of active intra-cranial hasmorrhage, whilst in others, in which the symptoms of compression increased and proved fatal, extravasa- tion was uniformly present. In these last cases, indeed, the very progress of the symptoms enabled me to predict confidently that we would find extravasation superadded to the fracture. In fractures at the base of the cranium, the case is somewhat different, for in such injuries the broken bones are projected up- wards, and impinge directly on the most important parts of the