EPULIS. 977 Epulis is a fibrous tumour arising from the gum-texture, and resembling it in structure, but prominent and irregular on the surface. It is a perfectly simple growth, and generally arises in connection with irritation from decayed teeth and an unhealthy state of the alveolar process. In excising the tumour, it is always advisable to remove the underlying portion of the alveo- lus with the cutting pliers, to ensure complete removal of the growth, and any likely source of irritation. In some cases, when the tumour is merely cut off from the gum, it returns. This is not due to any malignant tendency, but only because the tumour takes its origin from the periosteal covering of the alveolar pro- cess, and has not been thoroughly removed ; hence the propriety of making sure by removing the portion of the process corre- sponding to the tumour. Cystic Tumours oe the Jaws are very common. In the upper jaw, the cyst is generally in the antrum, and in some cases of chronic abscess of the antrum, the general appearances and symptoms are not unlike. Indeed, in many cases, suppu- ration in such cysts often occurs in consequence of irritation. In one case of a young woman, both sides of whose upper jaw were affected, I found that the cavity on the one side contained the ordinary glairy cystic fluid, whilst on the other side the antrum was distended by thin purulent matter. The cystic tumour is distinguished from the acute abscess by the absence of febrile symptoms, and the acute cedema of the cheek, and also by the slow and regular increase of the swelling. The Treatment is very similar to that of abscess of the antrum. We open the anterior wall of the cavity, and remove a portion of it, sufficiently large to enable us to evacuate the contents of the cyst, and apply tincture of iodine or solution of nitrate of silver to the interior of the cyst, to destroy its secreting structure. The osseous walls are in general so thin, almost resembling parchment, that tliere is no difficulty in opening them with a common bistoury and removing an oval portion, with curved scissors.