LIGATURE OF AXILLARY AND BRACHIAL. 671 same point can be reached mi^cli more readily by the operation for ligature of the third part of the subclavian, without approaching so nearly the origin of the large acromio-thoracic branch. The middle, or second portion, of the axillary artery is never tied, in cases of aneurism, from the number of collateral branches coming off from it. When wounded it may require ligature, which must be effected by enlarging the external wound. The third portion of the axillary artery may be tied quite as easily as the brachial artery. In tliis case, our best guide is . the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis muscle. If we trust to the feeling of pulsation in the artery as our guide to its position, we are very apt to be misled. After dividing the skin and fascia, the first thing we should look for is the margin or edge of the coraco-brachialis. Immediately internal to it the median and internal cutaneous nerves come into view, and behind and between them is the artery. The nerves are separated slightly, the arm being relaxed, and the needle is then easily passed round the artery.* The Bkachial Artery may require to be tied in cases of cir- cumscribed false aneurism, or circumscribed varicose aneurism ; and it has in such cases been tied in the middle of the arm with success; but still I think the best plan of treating a false aneurism is to cut into it, and tie the vessel above and below, so as to prevent all retrograde circulation. The cases in which the brachial artery requires to be tied are those in which either the brachial itself or the palmar arch has been wounded. In the latter case, the general principle of securing the vessel at the wounded point in the first instance should be followed out ; but if haemorrhage result after doing this, and if the parts be in such a state that we cannot apply pressure directly on them, then we must tie either the radial and ulnar arteries, or the brachial, and apply some moderate compression on the wounded point. In wounds of the palmar arch we should enlarge the opening in the skin and fascia at first, and apply direct compression on the arch, with a bandage and pad of lint along the course of the * See Clinical Cases, page 594.