935 INJURIES OF THE FACE. surgeon often requires to make wounds in this region in operat- ing, and for their effects he is responsible. In planning his in- cisions, he must carefully consider the anatomy and functions of the parts which may be affected by his proceedings. A wound made in certain directions may paralyse one side of the face completely, by dividing the trunk of the portio dura, and then the face is distorted, and the patient loses all expression on the injured side. If a surgeon made such a wound without its being absolutely necessary, he would commit a serious error. Any incision in the cheek should, as far as possible, be made more or less parallel to the main branch of the portio dura, and the trunk should never be cut across if it can possibly be avoided. The same care must be taken in reference to the duct ot the parotid gland ; but, as an accidental wound may implicate the duct, and give rise to Salivary Fistula subsequently, we must consider how we can best prevent that condition taking place, or remedy it if it has occurred. In dealing with a wound of the face crossing the line of the duct, we must remember the anatomy of the parts. The duct runs from the ear across the cheek towards the nose, and opens into the mouth, nearly oppo- site the second molar tooth of the uppet jaw. In a wound in this part, when we see that the duct is either cut or likely to be cut, the best treatment is to complete the incision into the njouth. Wounds which penetrate the cheek into the mouth are very seldom followed by salivary fistula, for the saliva naturally tends to pass into the mouth rather than outwards, and the direction and position of the duct favour this, if the external part of the wound, be closed at once. If, however, the mucous membrane be not divided, a salivary fistula is often caused by the attempt to close the external wound over the wounded duct. The best plan, in such a case, is to complete the wound by dividing the mucous membrane, and then to close the external wound very carefully by silver sutures, whilst the in- ternal wound is left open to allow the saliva to pass into the mouth. When a salivary fistula has become established, we