LIGA TURE OF THE FEMORAL. 687 knife horizontally so as to cut out a small piece. Tlie opening so made is enlarged to the extent of an inch and a half or two inches. When this is done, the inexperienced operator might think that all he had to do was to pass the ligature, for the vessel comes into view full and rounded. But the most important steps of the operation yet remain to be performed— namely, opening the proper sheath of the vessels, and insulating the artery, for passing the ligature round it. The surgeon should raise a portion of the sheath, and open it in the same manner as he opened the fascia; and when he has, with the point of his knife, sufficiently cleared the sheath from the artery on its inner aspect, he seizes the margin so cleared with a pair of catch-artery forceps, and lets them rest on the inside of the limb, so as to fix the opening in the sheath (Fig. 2, Plate xxix.) Then, laying hold of the external edge of the opening in the sheath with the dissecting-forceps, he clears the artery from it in the same way and to the same extent as on its inner aspect, so that the armed aneurism needle may be passed without any force or undue disturbance of parts. Perhaps there is no artery in the deligation of which greater care is requisite in opening the sheath and clearing the artery than the femoral. The vein lies completely behind the artery at the point where it is usually tied, always closely, often firmly, connected to it, much more so than is the case in other vessels ; and if the artery be not properly insulated, any attempt to force the needle between the artery and vein is almost certain to wound the latter. The artery should be fairly cleared for about two lines round its circumference, so as to allow the needle to be passed easily. The opening of the sheath in front is of course larger, a quarter of an inch or so, to enable the surgeon to see the parts. The aneurism needle is generally directed to be passed from within outwards ; but as the vein lies quite behind, it is imma- terial from which side we pass it, if we only attend to the clearing of the artery already spoken of. Should the needle, by any accident, puncture the vein, it should be at once withdrawn and passed more carefully. If the thread be tied, and allowed to remain, the