FUNGUS CEREBRI. 891 tioned, and that laceration, extravasation, and most frequently unhealthy suppuration in the brain-substance underlying the protrusion, wiU be found present. These last-mentioned condi- tions were long ago pointed out by Abernethy and others, and Mr. Hill, in his Surgical Cases, details a case in which the fungus was accompanied by, and apparently depended on, abscess in the brain, and where, to relieve the symptoms, he was obliged to plunge an abscess-lancet into the brain to evacuate pus, and from time to time to shave off the fungus as it rose above the surface of the bone, and the patient ultimately recovered. My own experience is in accordance with this. In all the cases I have had an opportunity of examining, I have found a cavity in the softened brain-substance corresponding to the base of the protrusion, containing broken down disorganised clots and pus. I think it most probable that the extrava- sation at first, and subsequently the puriilent collection, have been active agencies in causing the protrusion, by expanding the superjacent brain. As to the character of the protruded mass, I believe it varies in different cases. In all there will be found cerebral matter, but it varies in amount. In some, as those in which the dura mater has been torn, and the brain rapidly projected, the greatest part of the original protrusion consists of the cerebral substance, whilst in some, where the growth is more slow, and preceded by inflammation and ulceration of the dura mater, a very considerable part of the fungus may consist of fibrous structure, plastic lymph, and blood, with a smaller proportion of brain. The state of a patient affected with fungus cerebri is always one of great danger ; indeed recoveries are exceptional. Out of several cases in my own practice I have only met with one where the patient survived. In many cases the symptoms are not of a kind to excite alarm at first, but gradually, irritability and excitement come on, with rigors, and then the patient becomes convulsed or paralysed, at last semi-comatose, and continues in that state till he dies. In cases where it follows severe injury, as in the case of gunshot wound, from which the ^ 3 N