AMPUTATION. 838 examination shows tliat even at an early period the muscles near the diseased bone are liable to be affected, it is of vital importance to plan our operations to avoid proximity to the tumour, so as to diminish the risk of retaining any morbid tissue in the flaps. Hence I prefer two shorter flaps to one very long one, as it must encroach more on the diseased parts by its greater length. In this, as in other successful cases I have recorded, the femoral vein was tied to arrest bleeding, and I believe, as I have stated else- where, that instead of being hurtful it seems rather to do good, by preventing pus or unhealthy discharge entering the venous circulation by the large open mouth of the vein, kept patent as it is by its fascial connections. The progress of the case as given in the report shows how much success in such operations depends on careful after-treat- ment, watchfulness of symptoms, and persistence in appropriate remedial measures, even when the condition of the patient seems very hopeless. It will be noticed that the urgent unfavourable symptoms in this case did not supervene till about twenty-four hours after the operation, when the risk from primary shock and reactionary haemorrhage had passed. The morning report on the 8th June was " Pulse 100 ; spent a very good night," and at my visit at noon the child presented no unfavourable symptom ; but shortly after 3 p.m. symptoms of restlessness, nausea, and a state ap- proaching to collapse, as detailed in the report, set in suddenly, and at 4 p.m. she seemed to be rapidly sinking. I believe that, but for her being very carefully watched, and the prompt and continued use of external and internal stimuli, the little patient must have soon died. The character of the symptoms was peculiar : there had not been the slightest amount of reactionary oozing from the stump, and the child had slept well after the operation. Yet the state must have been the effect of the operation on the nervous system ; although it is just possible that the tenderness of the abdomen, the grinding of the teeth, and convulsive startings, may have been due to the presence of so many large intestinal worms ;