INSTRUMENTS FOR EXCISIONS. Ill the thigh, and here we fiud the same holds good. This, as I have said in reference to amputation, seems to me to be due to blood- taint in scrofulous necrosis, and the previous loug-continued irritation and suppurations during the progress of the necrosis, so that even when the bone has separated, and the wound healed, the recurrence of the joint-disease indicates an unfavourable state of the constitution, whether for amputation or excision. Another unfavourable element in these two cases was the age of the patients, one being forty and the other forty-five years of age. In the case of the girl who died, the disease was acute cario- necrosis; and when admitted into the hospital, she was suffering from intense irritative fever. When this was subdued, the disease being limited, I considered her case suitable for excision; but I fear the state of the blood and nervous system in such cases is unfavourable for the operation, and that amputation would probably have a better chance of success. The unfavour- able conditions then are—debility from disease, or originally weak constitution, advanced age—beyond forty years of age is, as a general rule, unfavourable for excisions of the knee, and the coincidence or previous existence of necrosis is also an unfavour- able complication in my estimation. In many instances of synovial degeneration, especially in cases in which, under previous treatment, partial anchylosis has been effected; and where the patient is not much exhausted, excision of the knee-joint is suitable. But I cannot consider that gelatinous degeneration is so favourable as articular caries, owing to the state of the constitution which generally accom- panies the former condition. In cases of young lads or boys of pale, pasty-looking complexion, and in whom abscesses containing curdy or tubercular looking pus, have formed around the joint, I should decidedly give the preference to amputation of the thigh, as being attended with less risk to life. The Instruments required for performing excision of joints are—a tourniquet, to prevent bleeding during the operation ; strong, sharp-pointed bistouries, for the incisions ; a straight bistoury, rounded and blunt at the point, which may be useful