ADMINISTRA TION OF CHLOROFORM. 645 irritation and procure rest. It has been stated that, whilst the ■use of chloroform and other anaesthetics has done so much to facilitate the performance of operations and save the patient from suffering, they have given rise to greater danger after the operation, that the mortality is increased, that cases do not get on so well as formerly, and that pyaemia especially is much more heard of now than before anaesthetics were used. All this is mere assertion, without any distinct proof. And as I have had experience in performing and witnessing operations, both before and since the use of chloroform, I feel satisfied that the very opposite is true ; that operations are very much more successful in their results than before the use of anaesthetics. The patient is saved both the physical and moral shock inseparable from great operations formerly, and which depressed him and exercised an influence for evil on the result. I was amongst the first to use chloroform in a great operation in November 1847 ; and since then I have iised it, and seen it used, in almost all operations, great or small. I feel satisfied that, instead of diminishing, it has greatly advanced the success- ful results of operations. It is true, we hear more about pyaemia now than we did thirty years ago, because the name is comparatively a new one; but the same condition existed under different titles : — exhaustion, surgical fever, secondary abscesses, icteric irritative fever after operations, rigors, from exposure at " open windows" (a condition once remarkably fatal in "successful cases"), and acute sinking—will be found to correspond wonderfully in symptoms, results, and morbid appearances, to the modern pyaemia. Indeed, it is only of very recent date that some surgical authorities have admitted the term pyaemia into their vocabulary—" exhaustion," or " acute sinking," having been found to answer aU purposes equally well. 4. The Operation.—The general principles to be attended to must be very briefly stated here, for so much depends on the nature of the operation, that they are better brought out in their relation to special operations. The plan or method