808 ' OPERATIONS. ' " removed, Hey's amputation is preferable to leaving the two or three outer toes, as they gradually curve obliquely iuwards, aud impede instead of assisting progression. Partial Amputation of the Foot at the Tarso-metataesal Articulation was first proposed by Hey of Leeds. As performed by him, disarticulation of the metatarsus having been accomplished as far inwards as the internal cuneiform bone, the projecting part of that bone was sawn off, and the foot removed. Lisfranc's modi- fication of the operation consists in disarticulation throughout the whole range of the articulations. It is advisable for the student to practise Lisfranc's method on the subject, so as to gain dexterity in disarticulation. But, in operating on the living, I would advise Hey's method, in respect that it is at once easier in execution, and leaves a better stump, by removing the pro- jecting end of the internal cuneiform. The objection, that by doing so we destroy the attachments of the tibialis posticus and anticus, is merely fanciful. These tendons and their expansion are attached to the whole extent of the internal cuneiform bone. As regards the incisions, they are the same in both methods. The surgeon grasps the foot with his left hand, jDlacing his fore- finger and thumb, the one well behind the projection of the metatarsal bone of the fifth toe, the other over the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, thus marking the general line of the articulation. He then cuts obliquely, from without in- wards in the left foot, and from the opposite direction in the rif'ht foot, across the integument on the dorsum of the foot, an inch and a half in front of or below the articulation, aud by a few touches of the knife frees it so that it can be retracted beyond the joint. Next he shapes a large flap from the plantar region. This flap should be longer on the inner than on the outer side, gently rounded off at its extremity, and should con- tain all the thickness of the plantar textures. Next, the operator disarticulates, by cutting from the fifth metatarsal bone inwards, until the knife is arrested by the head of the