739 AMPUTA TION. ent plans of operating, we must first determine what are the requisites of a " good stump." I believe these may be succinctly- stated thus : that the bone be well covered with soft parts ; that it shall not be adherent to, nor bear directly upon, the cicatrix ; that the nerves be so cut as not to become involved in the cica- trix or attached to the end of the bone; and that they be so deeply covered as to obviate the bad effects produced on their cut extremities by pressure or atmospheric changes. A stump possessing these requisites will be able to bear a considerable amount of direct pressure, without becoming painful, irritable, or liable to ulceration. Having fixed a standard, I now proceed to consider how far the various methods of amputation reach or fall short of it, and what is the best mode of attaining it. In considering the gene- ral principles I shall take the amputation of the lower extremity, and specially that of the lower third of the thigh, as typical of the operation. When I first entered the profession, the methods of amputa- tion then in general use were, the flap operation by transfixion, and the old circular operation as modified by Alanson. In Edinburgh the former method, characterised by great rapidity in its performance, and strongly advocated by Messrs. Listen and Syme, had so completely gained the ascendency that I never saw the circular operation performed until I visited the hospitals of London and Paris. There I found most of the leading surgeons keen advocates for its employment, and denouncing the flap opera- tion as being much more dangerous to life, and as leading ultimately to bad stumps. My own observations, tinctured perhaps by some prejudices of education, led me to the conclusion that the flap method was decidedly the better ; although a careful examin- ation of results showed me that it did not possess all the advantages claimed for it. The chief objections I had heard urged against the flap operation by the advocates of the circular method, were first, that the redundancy of muscular tissue retained acted as a source of danger ; secondly, that this tissue was useless as a covering, because it became atrophied, and in