751 GARDEN'S METHOD. the flap from tlae femur; tlieu applying the edge of his knife to the soft parts on the posterior aspect of the limb at least two inches lower than the level of the base of his flap, he cuts them with a sweep obliquely to the bone. The assistant next retracts the soft parts, whilst the surgeon clears the bone for nearly two inches with a circular movement of the point of his knife. The femur then being elevated so as to project it fully, is sawn through close to the soft parts, immediately above its condyloid portion. The femoral artery is very easily seen towards the inner side of the posterior section of the stump, and when it and other bleeding vessels are secured, the flap is allowed to fold over the face of the stump, and is then adjusted and retained by sutures.* This plan of amputation possesses all the advantages of Mr. Teale's method, without requiring the troublesome adjust- ment of the angles of the square flaps, or the doubling back of the anterior flap upon itself Nor does the anterior flap require to be of the excessive length which is necessary in that surgeon's operation. The after-dressing is also simplified, for if union by first intention does not occur, the flap, by its own weight, naturally tends to keep in position. Another important distinction con- sists in the bone being sawn through higher up than the base of the flap. It may appear, at first sight, that cutting a flap four inches long, and then making the section of the bone two inches beyond its base, is simply equivalent to making a flap six inches in length. But it is not so. A flap, however long, does not afford that deep, permanent covering, which results when the bone is buried amongst the textures, beyond the base of the flap, after being cleared by Alanson's method, whilst the cut surface exposed is also less. In 1863, Mr. Garden of Worcester published an account of his method of amputation by single anterior flap, composed entirely of skin. The form and position of the flap are very similar to those of my method, but the base of the flap is not quite so high up, as Mr. Garden saws through the condyles of the femur, and, as I have said, the flap is composed entirely of * See Plate xxxiv.