OPERA riONS. 716 waste your time by attempting any explanation. The other case is that of the young woman with fimbriated disease of the synovial membrane, and ulceration of cartilages and subjacent osseous surfaces. In her case T expected, from the perfectly healthy state of the bones beyond the ulcerated surfaces, the limited nature of the disease, and its complete removal, and the absence of all marked strumovis diathesis, that there was less than usual risk, but she died very rapidly from irritative fever rather than pyaemia. She was excitable and nervous, and I beKeve her restlessness kept up the local, and so induced the constitutional irritation. At the same time, the question sug- gests itself, how far the diseases of the synovial membrane are favourable for this operation ? In the case of the lad who died of albuminuria, and also in the case of a female thirty-six years of age, the disease was gelatinous degeneration of the synovial membrane, which was completely and readily removed. It seems rather hard to have to count the lad's case as fatal from the excision, for I never saw a case of excision where the opera- tion was attended with less local or general disturbance, or where the wound healed more kindly. I have, however, pointed out the tendency to amyloid degeneration of the kidney, and also to congestion of the kidneys and acute albuminuria, in cases of gelatinous disease of the synovial membrane, and therefore I fear we must look to this as one of the causes of fatal issue when we are estimating the chances of success, and in all such cases it should ever be borne in mind with reference to the after-treatment of our cases. In the case of the woman, her age, and the long continuation of the disease, were also unfavour- able elements. The remaining two adult females who died after the operation, had both suffered for years from scrofulous necrosis of the shaft, which had been cured prior to the knee becoming affected. In regard to amputation of the thigh, I shall have occasion to point out to you, as the results of my experience, that the pre- existence of necrosis to joint-disease makes a marked difference on the unfavourable results of amputation at the lower third of