869 INTRA CRANIAL EXTRA VASA TION. we carefully watch its effects, seeing that we can arrest the depletion when we please. If antimony could be employed without the risk of inducing vomiting, it would be serviceable in preventing reaction after depletion ; but, unfortunately, even in minute doses, it is so un- certain in this respect, that I seldom have recourse to it. At a more remote period after the injury has been received— from the fifteenth to the twentieth day, or later—a similar train of symptoms, though less marked, sets in, depending, I believe, upon serous effusion from subacute or chronic congestion of the vessels of the membranes. In those cases, blisters to the nape of the neck or occipital region, combined with the use of mercu- rials and laxatives, wiU generally be found the most efficacious plan of treatment; but even at this stage I have occasionally had recourse to leeches with great benefit. In regard to the position of the extravasated blood, in all forms of intracranial haemorrhage, that is very uncertain. It may be between the bone and dura mater at the part struck, or at the point directly opposite, on the other side of the cranium, or it may be within the membranes of the brain, or in the sub- stance of the brain. In the cases where the blood is poured out between the bone and dura mater, the clot is more localised and circumscribed, and within reach of surgical interference, if only we had some definite indication of its position. In general, the urgency of the symptoms and the position of the seat of the in- jury, in relation to the middle meningeal artery or its branches, form the only warrant for the surgeon to have recourse to the operation of trephine to enable him to remove the clot, and so relieve the brain, but there must always be uncertainty. In a case of active intracranial haemorrhage, where the compression is complete and no amelioration follows the use of remedies, such as cold applications, depletion, and purgation, and where the seat of the injury is over or near the line of a large meningeal vessel, the operation ought to be resorted to as giving a chance for life. If the extravasation were not found there, I would even go the length of repeating the perforation at the point of contre-