AMPUTATION. 745 impossible to avoid a redundancy of muscular tissue, and this not only prevents the integuments coming readily together, but also causes the section of the bone high up to be a matter of great difficulty. In the latter the densely consolidated, almost cartilaginous, tissues composing the flaps, cannot be retracted so as to allow the bone to be cleared and sawn through sufficiently far above the point of transfixion, and therefore, in such cases, this plan of operating cannot be properly executed. To get rid of the redundant muscle in primary amputations, and more espe- cially in amputations below the knee, I used to slice off a por- tion of the muscle after the flap was formed ; and this, although a somewhat awkward-looking procedure, made a better stump. In 1846, Mr. Syme, whose writings and practice had done so much to introduce and promote flap amputation in this country, took occasion to state, in a paper on amputation of the thigh {Edinhurgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science, 1846), that his experience had led him to modify his opinion as to the advantages of flap amputation, and to recommend as preferable, in the lower third of the thigh, a modification of the circular method. This consisted in making two semilunar incisions through the integuments, which are dissected and retracted upwards for at least two inches, then cutting the muscles on a level with the retracted skin obliquely up towards the bone, the muscles on the posterior aspect being divided somewhat lower down than those on the anterior. All the soft textures are then forcibly retracted, and the bone cleared and sawn high up. This plan of operation, when it is well performed, and when care is taken to leave a sufficiency of soft parts, gives excellent results, and is especially applicable to primary amputations. I have repeatedly operated by this method in such cases, and also in others; and although at first prejudiced against it, I have no hesitation in saying, that in primary cases at least it is superior to the ordinary double-flap operation by transfixion, both as involving less risk to life, and as forming a better stump. In several cases, also, I have practised the ordinary circular ampu- tation with the same successful results. But whilst I was thus