ARTIFICIAL LIMBS. 821 and the flaps approximated. Two flat compresses of lint, sup- ported by a broad spica bandage, are applied to maintain tlie surfaces in apposition, and prevent blood accumulating in the stump. The greater part of the line of union is left uncovered, and one suture left untied to allow any blood to escape, so that attention may be at once directed to any excess of oozing which may take place on reaction. * The space already occupied by the subject of amputation forbids me entering on that of Artificial Limbs, which I felt very much tempted to do had my limits permitted. The form and use- fulness of many well-formed stumps are marred by badly-fitted artificial substitutes—wonderful pieces of mechanism sometimes, but not serviceable for the purposes for which they are wanted. I allude especially to those intended as substitutes after removal of the thigh. The mechanists in general seem slow in taking the trouble to understand the difference of adaptation required in an artificial limb for a stump, the end of which is intended to si;pport directly a considerable part of the weight of the body, and one in which the position of the cicatrix unfits it for bearing pressure, and so all are arranged on the old system for the latter class, and the advantages of a long thigh-stump, obtained by the anterior flap method, are in a great measure lost. The simplest and best artificial limb adapted for a special pur- pose is one described by Mr. Pollock, as suited for stumps formed by amputation at the knee-joint, and constructed by Mr. Blaise. I have only seen photographs of it, for which I am indebted to the politeness of Mr. Pollock ; but judging from these, it seems at once simple and perfect for the purpose, and I should think very little difficulty would be found in adapting it to suit the long thigh-stump formed by the method of amputation I have recom- mended, or that formed by the methods of Teale and Garden. In regard to artificial limbs for the upper extremity, they may be made ornamental, and, to some extent, even useful; but no one will be Utopian enough to expect that any mechanical adaptation-will form a substitute for the band.