AND SWEETS22101731649 I • I ^Med b K10225 ; '4 4MRS. C. S. PEEL’S COOK-BOOKS PUDDINGS AND SWEETSThe Simplified Series of Cook-Books By MRS. C. S. PEEL . Price I5. each. No. I. ENTREES MADE EASY. No. II. PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. No. III. SAVOURIES SIMPLIFIED. No IV STILL ROOM COOKERY: RECIPES OLD AND NEW. OTHEBS IN PBEPABATION. Each of these books contain a large number of recipes, simplified so as to avoid unnecessary extravagance either in labour or material. The volumes are arranged on the same plan as 10a. o Head for House Books and The Single-handed Cook, both of which volumes have proved extremely popular. For example, in “ Entries^ the cook is first instructed in detail how to prepare a cutlet, and when this preliminary is mastered, she is shown in terse, clear fashion how to prepare a variety of dishes in which cutlets are the chief ingredient. ENTREES MADE EASY. Contents.—I. General Introduction.—II. Cutlets, Noisettes and billets. —III. SouflBeg, Mousses, Creams, etc.—IV. Casseroles, Stews, chaufif6s. Hashes, etc.—VI. Rechauffes (con.). Minces, Rissoles, etc. VII. Cold Entrees.—VIII. Odds and Ends. PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. CONTENTS.—I. Pastry and Puddings made with Pastry. II. pudding. Baked, Boiled and Steamed.—III. Souffles, pancakes. Fritters, e^^^^ IV. Custards and Creams.—V. Jellies and Sponges.—VI. Various Sweets. SAVOURIES SIMPLIFIED. Contents.—I. General Introduction.—II. Savoury Toasts and ^routes. —III. Cases, Croustades, Tartlets, etc.—IV. Egg Savouries. V. Cheese Savouries.—VI. Various Savouries.—VII, Cold Savouries. STILL ROOM COOKERY. Contents.—I. Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, etc.—II. Bread, Cakes, Scones and Biscuits.—III. Cups, Summer Drinks, Home-made Wines and Liqueurs. IV. Jams, Fruit Jellies, Chee.ses, Syrups, and Preserved Fruits. V. Pickle.s, Vinegars and Essences.—VI. Toilet Recipes. ^ MRS. C. S. PEEL’S BOOKS ON HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT THE NEW HOME. How to Furnish on Small Incomes. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3«. 6d. TEN SHILLINGS A HEAD PER WEEK FOR HOUSE BOOKS. A Manual for the Economical Housekeeper. Containing a large number of Recipes. Crown 8vo. 3». 6<i. HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. THE SINGLE-HANDED COOK. More Recipes, Menus, etc. Crown 8vo. 3«. 6d.MRS. C. S. PEEL’S COOK-BOOKS PUDDINGS AND SWEETS BY MRS. C. S. PEEL Author of “ lo/- a Head for House Books," “ The Single- handed Cook," "How to keep House" and “ The New Home" LONDON ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO Ltd 1905There is no such thing as high-class cooking. There is merely good cooking and had cooking, and the former is generally the most simple. VvELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBnARY Cdl. wei^'^Omec Csi! No. ai5 CONTENTS CHAPTER I PAGE Pastby and Puddings made with Pastby . 7 CHAPTER II Puddings, Baked, Boiled and Steamed . 22 CHAPTER III SouPELis, Pancakes, Fbittebs, etc. . . 42 CHAPTER IV CUSTABDS AND CbEAMS ..... 65 CHAPTER V Jellies and Sponges ..... 70 Chapteb VI Vabious Sweets 80Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b281211567 CHAPTER I PASTRY AND PUDDINGS MADE WITH PASTRY. The chief points to remember in successful pastry making are that it must be made in a cool place, because the colder the paste is the lighter it will be ; it must be lightly handled and rolled for the same reason ; it must be carefully mixed ; and, finally, the oven must be properly heated. Granted attention to these points pastry-making should present few diffi- culties. There are several ways of ascertaining the temperature of the oven. Best of all is the oven- indicator, brought out by the Eagle Range Co., and known as the “^Eagle Heat Indicator , though if this is not to hand, M. Gouffe s “paper” test, which is as follows, is excel- lent :—Have ready some pieces of ordinary white kitchen paper, and try the oven by placing in it one of these every 8 or 10 minutes, till you obtain the desired temperature. If on being put into the oven the paper blackens, orPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 8 even blazes up at once, the oven is manifestly too hot. If, after a stay of 2 or 3 minutes the paper turns a dark, almost ehocolate brown, the oven is “ hot,” fit for patties and small pastry generally. If, after the same time, the paper, becomes of a Havanah or cigar brown, the over is “ quick,” and ready for tarts, vol-au-vents, and such like. If the paper ’ in the same, time, only turns a yellowish brown (the shade of a deal plank), the oven is a “ moderately quick” or “ soaking” one, ready for bread, large meat or game pies, pound cake, etc. If, lastly, when left in the oven for this time, the paper, is barely tinged with a yellowish shade, spongecakes, meringues, and such like may be put in, that require only light baking. Of course there are degrees between all these shades ; but experience soon teaehes the cook to differentiate and act accordingly. But broadly speaking these tests are reliable. When using the Indicator 450 degrees corre- sponds with ehocolate, or dark brown paper, and indicates a “hot” oven. 400 degrees corresponds with eigar-brown paper, or a “quick” or “sharp” oven. 350 degrees equals a yellowish-brown paper, or a “ steady” or “ soaking” oven. 275 to 250 degrees equals a very faint yellow, or a “ slack ” oven.PASTRY AND PUDDINGS 9 It must be remembered, however, when using these figures, that the heat indicator is always a trifle cooler than the interior of the oven, which must naturally be allowed for. Pastry is roughly divided into two classes —short pastry and puff pastry, though of course there are various forms of both of these. Good Short Crust. 1 lb. of fine, dry, sifted flour, 5 oz. clarified beef dripping or butter, or half lard and half butter, and 1 teaspoonful of sugar. Chop up the fat in little pieces and rub this into the sweetened flour with the tips of the fingers until it all looks like breadcrumbs. Make a hollow in the middle of the flour, add in some water gradually, stirring it well in as you do so with a knife, until the dough sticks together, but does not cling to the hands or to the sides of the basin ; roll it up into a lump with the weU-floured hands. Flour the paste board and roller, lay the paste on this, press it out a little with the roller, and then roll it out lightly and quickly to the required thickness, always rolling straight forward and as little as possible. Another form of short crust is made with 1 lb. of flour, 4 oz. of butter, 4 a teaspoonful of baking powder, a pinch of salt, 1 teaspoonfulPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 10 of castor sugar, the same of lemon juice, and some water (less water is needed for this form of paste than for that first described). If wanted richer, add 2 oz. more butter, the yolk of an egg, and 1 oz. of castor sugar. Prepare in the same manner as the previous recipe. Pastry without any Butter. This is economical and useful for fruit pies. Sift together 4 oz. of flour and 2 oz. of castor sugar, and mix to a smooth paste with 2 well -beaten egg yolks, with a scrupulously clean wooden spoon. This mixture needs a hot oven. About 10 minutes before it is finished, take it out of the oven, brush it over with stiffly whipped white of egg, sprinkle with castor sugar, and return to the oven to finish. Puff Paste. 1 lb. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 6 oz. each of^butter and lard, the yolk of 1 egg, some lemon juice, enough water to mix it all. Sift the flour and salt together, then mix to a smooth dough with the egg yolk and sufficient water, added gradually (about 1| gills) ; when it no longer sticks to the hands, flour the boardPASTRY AND PUDDINGS II and rolling pin, roll the dough out lightly, being eareful to keep the edges even, and rolling steadily away from you ; divide the butter and lard in three, dot one of these portions in small pieces over the dough, leaving a margin all round ; fold up the paste in three, turn it with the open ends towards you, press these together with the roller to keep the air in, roll it once or twice across the centre to prevent the air all collecting in one place, and roll it out into a strip very gently. Brush the surface over with lemon juice, fold it again, leave it to cool for 15 minutes, then repeat the process till the two remaining portions of fat are used ; after this it may be rolled out once or twice more, at the last rolling getting it to the right shape and thickness. This pastry can be made richer if required, by using more butter. Choux Pastry. Put i pint of cold water into an enamelled saucepan with 3 oz. of butter and 1 oz. of sugar ; let this boil and then stir in quickly 6 oz. of flour ; beat till smooth, let it cook till it leaves the sides of the pan clean, lift it off the fire, beat in 3 eggs separately, and flavour to taste with vanilla. Bake in a slow oven till a pale yellow.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 12 Suet Pastry. Make exactly like short crust, only use finely chopped suet instead of any other kind of fat. Gooseberry Tart (Hot or Cold). Roll out some short crust \ inch thick, to about the size of the piedish to be used ; turn the dish over on to the paste, cut round and leave a small margin, roll out the remainder of the paste and cut a strip, the width of the rim, to go all the way round, wet the rim of the dish, and lay the strip of paste right round. Half fill the dish -with goosebemes previously picked and wiped, add 3 or 4 tablespoonsful of brown sugar, put in the remainder of the fruit, piling it well up in the centre to support the crust (or using an inverted egg cup for this purpose), add a teacupful of water, lay the upper crust on, brush it all over with cold water, or egg white, and sprinkle with castor sugar, and put the tart in the oven. Any fruit can be used in this way, adding sugar according to the sweetness of the fruit. Turnovers (Hot or Cold). Roll out some short crust into rounds, wet the edges, put some fruit or jam in the middle, foldPASTRY AND PUDDINGS 13 over and press together ; bake in a quick oven for 10 or 15 minutes. Serve on a lace paper with sugar sifted over. Fruit Tartlets (Hot or Cold). Line some pattypans with puff paste, or short crust, fill with rice, and cook in the oven ; when ready, empty out the rice, and fill the tart- lets with jam. For French tartlets use sliced fruit, previously stewed till soft in thick sugar S3ump, and pour a little of the syrup over each. Cheesecakes (Cold). Fill some previously cooked tartlet cases with cheesecake mixture. Cheesecake Mixture. ^ lb. butter, | lb. castor sugar, 3 egg yolks, 2 whites of egg, the juice of 2 lemons, and the grated rind of 1. Make the sugar and butter hot, then mix in the eggs, lemon juice and rind, bring it all to the boil. Then draw it to the side of the stove, and let it simmer for 10 minutes till it thickens. Put it aside to cool. This mixture can be kept in bottles for some time if corked and put in a cool place.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 14 Mulberry Cream Tart (Cold). Line a deep open tart tin with puff paste, fill it with 1 quart of mulberries, sprinkle well with sugar, cover with pastry, brush over with beaten egg, and bake for an hour. When cold, cut the centre out of the crust, make a hole in the middle of the pie, and fill with a good custard, or whipped cream. Mince Pies (Hot or Cold). Line some pattypans with puff pastry, put in a spoonful of mincemeat, cover with more pastry, pressing the two layers of pastry well together, brush over with white of egg, dust vdth castor sugar, and bake. Mincemeat. Stone and cut up 2 lb. of raisins ; well wash and dry the same amount of currants ; peel, core, and finely chop 2| lb. of apples ; chop up very small 2 lb. of suet ; shred and chop up 1 lb. of mixed candied peel; 2 lb. of Demerara sugar ; the juice and grated rind of 2 lemons, 1 tea- spoonful of the best mixed spice; 1 saltspoonfulPASTRY AND PUDDINGS 15 of salt; ^ lb. of grated ratafias; and ^ pint each of brandy and port. Mix these all well to- gether, adding in at the last the port and brandy. Put it all into a stone jar, cover down tightly, and leave for a month before using. Apple Pudding (Hot). Line a basin with a suet paste. Peel, core, and slice sufficient apples that the dish may be well piled up in the middle. To every pound of apples allow from 2 to 3 oz. of Demerara sugar, according to the sweetness of the fruit, flavour with a few cloves, the grated rind of a lemon, and a little of the juice. When the basin is filled, cover with a lid of paste, and boil or steam for about 2 hours. If it is boiled tie up the basin in a cloth ; if to be steamed—which is by far the better plan—lay a buttered paper on top. Almost any fruit can be used in this way, of course sweetening the pudding according to the fruit used. Tourte d la Bourgeoise (Hot or Cold). Butter a tart tin or a soup plate, and line it with thinly rolled paste, short or puff. Twist a rollPUDDINGS AND SWEETS of paste round the moistened edges. Mix 1 oz. of cornflour with a flttle cold milk, adding more milk, till ^ pint is used, and stir all over the fire until it boils. Stir in a few currants, sultanas, or dried cherries, 1 oz. of butter or 2 or 3 spoons- ful of thick cream, flavour to taste with either sugar, vanilla or grated lemon peel, and finally stir in 2 well-beaten eggs. Pour the mixture into the tin, and cook till nicely brown. Open Treacle Tart (Hot or Cold). Line a tart tin or soup plate as above. Thicken some golden syrup or treacle with breadcrumbs, flavour with a Httle lemon juice and grated rind ; pour the mixture into the tin or plate, cover, if hked, with a trellis of pastry, and bake. Any jam or fruit can be used in this way. Maids-of-Honour (Cold). Blanch, peel and dry 2 oz. Jordan almonds, and pound them in a mortar with 4 oz. castor sugar, until quite fine, add in the yolks of 2 eggs, one at a time, and mix in 2 tablespoonsful of cream, 1 tablespoonful of orange flower water, and ^ oz. of cornflour. Line some tartlet moulds with short paste, put in a spoonful of the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven. l6PASTRY AND PUDDINGS 17 B Manon Tartlets (Hot or Cold). Line some plain tartlet moulds with short paste, pour into this some frangipane (see page 18), or any good fruit marmalade. Roll some fresh fruit in castor sugar (stone and halve it if necessary), place this on the frangipane, cover with some more pastry, pinch the edges well together, wipe the tartlets over with beaten egg, sprinkle with castor sugar, and bake. Cocoanut Cheesecakes (Hot or Cold). Beat together 1| oz. of butter and 1| oz. of castor sugar to a cream, add 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of rice-flour, and beat them all well together. Add in 2 oz. of desiccated cocoanut (previously soaked in a little hot milk). Line some tartlet moulds with short pastry, place a full teaspoonful of the mixture in each. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes. Eclairs (Cold). Have ready a greased baking sheet. With a bag and pipe force out finger-shaped pieces of chou paste (see page 11). Brush these over with a little beaten egg, bake in a moderate oven till well risen, crisp, and of a pale yellowPUDDINGS AND SWEETS (about 20 to 30 minutes). When baked, liollow out the under side of each finger, and when cold fill with cream. Petits Choux (Hot or Cold). These are made exactly as in the preceding recipe, save that the pastry is made into rounds. When cooked, open them and fill with cream, custard or preserve. Gateau St. Honor6 (Cold). Make a round foundation of short crust, prick it all over to prevent its rising, then with bag and pipe force out a thick roll of chou paste round the edge of this ; force out some little balls of chou paste on to a baking sheet, and when almost cooked, brush over with a little white of egg, dust lightly with castor sugar, and put in the oven to glaze ; then with a little white of egg attach them to the rim of the chou paste. Fill the centre either with any nice compote, stewed fruit, or a cream such as is described below. Pastry Cream or Frangipane (Cold). Put into a pan 3| oz. of sifted flour, 3 egg yolks, 31 oz. of sugar, and a pinch of salt ; add in I pint of new milk, and stir it over a slow fire i8PASTRY AND PUDDINGS 19 continuously till it thickens, let it almost come to the boil 2 or 3 times (if it actually boils the eggs will curdle) ; take it from the fire, stir in quickly 3 stiffly whipped whites of egg, put it back on the fire, for a minute, stirring it all the time, again take it off and stir till almost cold, and use. Apple Amber Pudding (Hot or Cold). Wash and cut up 8 oz. of apples, and put them into a stewpan with the grated rind and juice of half a lemon, and 3 oz. of sugar ; cook till quite tender, then pass through a sieve, and beat the yolks of 3 eggs into it when quite cool. Have ready a piedish lined with paste, put the fruit into this, and bake in a moderate oven till cooked. Beat the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth with | oz. of castor sugar, and put this meringue rockily on the top of the apple ; place the dish in a very cool oven until the egg white is crisp, and tinged a very pale fawn in parts. Serve either hot or cold. Marmalade Custard or Nassau Pudding (Hot). 2 tablespoonsful of marmalade, 1 oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, and 2 tablespoons- ful of milk. Some pastry.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 20 Mix together the marmalade, sugar and butter, beat up the eggs lightly with the milk, and add them to the other ingredients. Meanwhile, have ready a dish lined with paste (either puff or short paste), pour the mixture into this, and bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Manchester Pudding (Hot). Strawberry jam, 4 oz. dissolved butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. breadcrumbs, the yolks of 5 eggs, and the whites of 2. Put a layer of strawberry jam, or any other preserve, at the bottom of a piedish, and edge it with puff paste. Mix together the butter, sugar and breadcrumbs, and add into this the yolks, and stiffly whipped whites. When thoroughly mixed together, pour it into the pie- dish. Bake for 1 hour in a moderate oven. Bakewell Pudding (Hot). Made as above, only substituting 1 oz. of freshly ground almonds for the breadcrumbs. Straw'berry jam is essential for this pudding. Transparent Pudding (Hot). 5 egg yolks, 2 whites of egg, 4 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. candied peel, and some puff pastry.PASTRY AND PUDDINGS 21 Line a dish with puff paste. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs well together, mix in with them gradually the butter, previously warmed, and the sugar. Put the candied peel at the bottom of the piedish, and pour in the mixture. Bake for 1 hour in a moderate oven. Lemon Tart (Hot). 1 lb. of sugar, 3 lemons, and puff paste. Boil the rinds of the lemons 3 times till quite tender, then mince them very fine, and add to them their juice, and the sugar. Have ready a tart tin lined with puff paste or short crust, pour in the mixture, and cover it with a lattice- work of paste. Bake in a moderate oven.22 CHAPTER II PUDDINGS, BAKED, BOILED AND STEAMED There is an almost endless variety of boiled and steamed puddings, but the chief things to remember in making any of these are, if boiled :— (1) The pudding must be put into a saucepan with boiling water sufficient to cover it. (2) The water must boil all the time. (3) If boiled in a mould or basin, they must, either of them, be well greased before the mixture is put in. (4) The basin must be filled right up, and the cloth securely tied on. (5) If boiled in a cloth, directly the cloth begins to look wrinkled the pudding must be taken out of the water, as otherwise it will become sodden. If steamed :— (which is the better plan) :—(1) The pudding must be covered with a buttered paper. (2) The boiling water in the saucepan or steamer must come half way up the sides of the basin. (3) As the water boils away more must be added to prevent the pudding burning. (4) A steamed pudding requires about half an hour’sPUDDINGS, BAKED, BOILED & STEAMED 23 more cooking than if boiled. (5) The basin must only be two-thirds filled with the mixture. The cloth must always be scrupulously clean, and wrung out in hot water and well floured before being used. Suet Pudding (Hot). Chop from 2 to 4 oz. of suet very finely, and mix it with 8 oz. of fine, sifted flour, a pinch of salt, and a small teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix this to a stiffish paste with gills of cold water. Boil in a well-scalded, floured cloth for 3 hours, or steam for 3|- hours. A richer form is made by using 6 oz. of very finely chopped suet (weighed after chopping), J lb. of flour (or 6 oz. of dried and sifted bread- crumbs and 2 oz. of flour), 4 to 10 oz. of dried fruit, candied peel, chopped almonds, golden syrup, or finely chopped apples (8 oz. of this), according to the richness of the pudding ; when well mixed, moisten with 2 eggs, a little lemon juice, and, if needed, a little milk. Roly-Poly Pudding (Hot). Mix ^ lb. of flour with 6 oz. of finely chopped suet (weighed after chopping), ^ a teaspoonful of baking powder, and a pinch of salt ; makePUDDINGS AND SWEETS 24 this into a paste with 1 gill of water, roll it out, spread with jam, treacle, currants, lemon curd, etc., leaving about 1 inch margin all round ; damp this, roll up the pudding, fasten the ends, and tie it up securely in a pudding cloth, allowing for the swelling in the cooking. Boil for fully 2 hours. Plum Pudding (Hot or Cold). Mix together ^ lb. finely chopped suet, 5 oz. of breadcrumbs, 3 oz. of fine, sifted flour, 6 oz. currants well washed and dried, | lb. of stoned and halved rasins, 6 oz. of mixed candied peel, 1 oz. of chopped sweet almonds, 4 oz. of Demerara sugar, ^ the grated rind and juice of a lemon, | a grated nutmeg, and a little mixed spice ; beat up 2 to 3 eggs, according to size, with a dessertspoonful of brandy, and add this to the other ingredients, with enough milk to mix it all. Boil for 7 to 8 hours in a well-greased basin. Lemon Pudding (Hot). 3 oz. of breadcrumbs, 1 oz. of dried and sifted flour, the juice and rind of a lemon, about 1^ oz. of suet, rather less than 1 gill of milk, 2 whole eggs, and 1 oz. of castor sugar. Mix the suet, breadcrumbs, flour, rind andPUDDINGS, BAKED, BOILED & STEAMED 25 juice of the lemon together, then stir in the well-beaten eggs and the milk ; put the mix- ture into a buttered mould or basin, and steam for hours, or boil for 1. Ginger Pudding (Hot). Made exactly as above, only substituting 1 large teaspoonful of ground ginger and 1 table- spoonful of golden syrup for the lemon rind and juice. Harvest Pudding (Hot). Put into a basin 4 oz. each of flour and suet, 2 oz. Demerara sugar, 4 oz. stoned raisins, a pinch of salt, 1 egg, and mix all together with a little milk. Put the mixture into a buttered basin, and boil for 3 hours. Albert Pudding (Hot or Cold). Soak 6 oz. of brown breadcrumbs in a tea- cupful of boiling milk, beat them well together, and when cold mix in 4 oz. each of butter and sugar, a wineglassful of sherry, 3 eggs, oz. of mixed peel, | a grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Mix all well together ; butter a mould, and decorate with dried cherries ; pour the mixture in carefully, and steam for 2 hours. Serve either hot or cold with a good wine sauce.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 26 Green Gooseberry Pudding (Hot). Top and tail 1 pint of gooseberries, boil them till soft, and sweeten to taste. Leave till cold, then mix in 1 oz, of butter, and 4 well-beaten eggs ; butter a mould, and sift in sugar and breadcrumbs thickly. Pour the mixture carefully into this, so as not to disturb the sugar and breadcrumbs, place sugar and breadcrumbs to the depth of ^ an inch on the top of the gooseberries, and bake for 1 hour. When taken from the oven, cover with a cloth, and do not turn out till wanted. Chocolate Pudding (Hot). Heat 1 gill of milk, and mix into it 4 oz. of chocolate powder, 2 oz. cornflour, 2 oz. bread- crumbs, and 2 oz. of butter. Boil in a sauce- pan for 10 minutes, let it cool, flavour with vanilla, add 2 eggs well beaten, and 2 oz. of castor sugar. Put it into a buttered mould, and steam for hours. Cherry Pudding (Hot). Beat ^ lb. of butter to a cream, and mix it with i lb. each of sugar and flour, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the yolks of 5 eggs beaten till light. All these must be beaten to- gether till light, when the stiffly whipped whitesPUDDINGS BAKED, BOILED & STEAMED 27 of egg are added in. Butter a mould, line it with fresh or preserved cherries, and pour the mixture into this. Steam for 2 hours. Serve with whipped cream flavoured to taste. Muslin Pudding (Hot). , Melt together in a saucepan 1 oz. each of butter and sugar, the juice of 1 lemon, and half the rind grated ; before these get really hot, add in the yolks of 3 eggs. Stir together till thick, but the eggs, etc., must not be allowed to boil. Add in as quickly as possible the whites of 3 eggs, previously whipped to a very stiff froth, turn into a buttered mould, and steam very slowly for 20 minutes. Amber Pudding (Hot). Mix together rather more than 4 oz. of bread- crumbs, 4 oz. flnely chopped suet, 2 oz. moist sugar, 2 eggs, and 3 dessertspoonsful of marma- lade. Put the mixture into a buttered basin, and steam for 2 hours. Fig Pudding (Hot). Mix together 4 oz. each breadcrumbs, fine dried sifted flour, finely chopped suet, and 6 oz.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 28 of chopped figs ; add tj this 2 well-beaten eggs. Put the mixture into a well-greased basin, and steam for 3 or 4 hours. Banana Pudding (Hot). Mix together 8 oz. of bananas cut into small pieces, 6 oz .breadcrumbs, 4 oz. castor sugar, and 4 oz. finely chopped suet ; then add to these 2 eggs and 2 gills of milk ; beat together for 10 minutes with a wooden spoon, turn the mixture into a greased mould, and steam for 5 hours. This pudding may be served with or without a sweet sauce. Date Pudding (Hot). Mix together 4 oz. each of washed, stoned, halved and dried dates, flour, and sugar, 2 oz. of suet, and a little grated lemon peel. Beat up 1 egg with 1 gill of milk, add it to the dry ingre- dients, pour into a greased mould, and steam for 3 hours. Guards’ Pudding (Hot). Mix together 3 oz. melted butter, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. breadcrumbs, 3 tablespoonsful of apricot jam, 1 egg, and 1 saltspoonful of carbonate of soda. Steam for 2 hours. Turn out, and serve hot with apricot jam sauce.PUDDTNOS BAKED, BOILED & STEAMED Marmalade Pudding (Hot). Mix together 4 oz. each of flour and bread- crumbs, 2 oz. of finely chopped suet, and the juice and rind of half a lemon. Beat 2 eggs, add to them I gill of milk and 4 oz. of marmalade. Pour this on to the flour, etc., and mix all well to- gether. Butter a basin, fill it with the mixture, and boil for 3 hours. If liked, this can be made with water, using only 1 egg and 1 oz. more breadcrumbs. Paradise Pudding (Hot). 4 oz. each of sugar, breadcrumbs and finely chopped suet, the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon, 6 to 8 apples finely chopped, 1 tablespoonful of brandy, and a flavouring of grated nutmeg. Mix together the sugar, breadcrumbs, suet and apples, then add in the flavourings and brandy ; beat it all well together for a few minutes. Put it into a buttered mould, and steam for 3 hours. Preserved Ginger Pudding (Hot). Mix together 4 oz. each of breadcrumbs, flour, suet, and preserved ginger, 2 well-beaten eggs, 2 tablespoonsful of ginger syrup. Turn into a buttered mould and steam for 3 hours. 2QPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 30 Tapioca Pudding or Creme des lies (Hot). 1 pint of milk, tablespoonsful of tapioca, some suet, 1 dessertspoonful of orange-flour water, and sugar to taste. Put the tapioca in a piedish, with a piece of suet (the size of a nut), chopped up very fine, flavour to taste with castor sugar, and the orange-flower water, or any other flavouring preferred ; pour the milk over it all, and bake in a slow oven for 2 hours. Just before serving whip 1 tablespoonful of cream with castor sugar and 3 crushed macaroons, and lay this on the pudding. Or cover it with a meringue mixture, and just put it back into a cool oven till the meringue is slightly coloured in parts. A Baked Rice Pudding (Hot). This may be made as above, or with eggs. In that case simmer the rice gently in the milk, then add in 1 or more beaten-up eggs, and pour it all into the piedish. More milk must be alloAved for this. Rice Pudding (Hot). 2 oz. of rice and 1 pint of milk ; if skim milk is used, add a little butter. Put the milk and rice in a jar, stand in aPUDDINGS, BAKED, BOILED & STEAMED 31 saucepan of boiling v> atcr, and cook till the rice is soft and thick. This takes from 1 to hours. Tapioca, etc., should all be cooked in this way. Hasty Pudding (Hot). 2 oz. flour, 1 pint of milk, 1 egg, ^ oz. of butter, and a spoonful of jam. Boil the flour and milk together for a minute, then beat in the egg and butter, and flavouring to taste. Place the jam at the bottom of a piedish, pour in the mixture, and bake in a sharp oven till the pudding is browned. Saxony Pudding (Hot). 4 oz. of fine, sifted flour, 1 gill of milk, 4 oz. fresh butter, 2 oz. of sugar, vanilla flavouring, 5 egg yolks, and 4 whites. Boil the milk, then add it to the flour, stirring together till quite smooth ; put it on the fire, and add to it 2 oz. of butter gradually, stirring all the time, till it thickens, then lift it off the Are ; keep on stirring until quite smooth, return it to the Are, and stir in gradually the yolks of 5 eggs, 2 oz. of sugar, 2 oz. more butter, and a flavouring of vanilla ; when tliis is quite creamy, mix in the whites of 4 eggs, stiffly whipped ;PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 32 turn it into a buttered mould dusted with very fine flour and castor sugar. Stand this in a pan with boiling water to three-quarters of its depth, and bake for 25 minutes in a slow oven. Strawberry Pudding (Hot). Butter a piedish, and lay some strawberry jam at the bottom, cover this with a thick layer of breadcrumbs. Beat up 2 eggs with 1 oz. of castor sugar, and 2 or 3 drops of vanilla essence ; add to this 1 pint of milk, and stir it all over the fire till it thickens. Pour this custard over the crumbs and jam, and bake in a slow oven for 30 minutes. Chestnut Normandy Pudding (Hot). Put I lb. of chestnuts in boiling water, and leave them by the side of the Are for 5 to 10 minutes ; then peel them and break them into pieces. Meanwhile put 1 gill of milk into a saucepan with a little sugar ; when this boils, put in the chest- nuts and a few drops of vanilla essence, and keep on stirring, and adding more milk till it is of the consistency of thick cream ; take it off the fire, sprinkle a little sugar over it, and serve very hot.PUDDINGS, BAKED, BOILED & STEAMED 33 o Bread and Butter Pudding (Hot). 2 oz. of sultanas, washed and dried, 4 thin slices of bread and butter, 1 dessertspoonful of sugar, 2 whole eggs, and a pint of milk. Put the sultanas at the bottom of a buttered piedish, cut up the bread and butter into small pieces, and put it on the sultanas, sprinkle the sugar over this ; beat up the eggs and milk to- gether, and pour it over the bread and butter, etc. Bake for about 45 minutes in a moderate oven. Cabinet Pudding (Hot or Cold). Butter a plain mould or basin, and ornament it with preserved halved cherries, fill it up with alternate layers of spongecake and ratafias or macaroons, pour over this 1 pint of custard, of whatever richness preferred ; (see p. 55, Chapter IV.); cover the mould with a buttered paper, and let it stand for some time, an hour if pos- sible. Then steam for IJ to 2 hours. If to be served cold, decorate it with more fruit, and serve it with whipped cream. Of course this pudding can be made much more simply with half bread and butter and sponge- cakes, or bread and butter alone ; raisins being used instead of the cherries, or other preserved fruit.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 34 Angel Pudding (Hot). 4 oz. flour, 2 eggs, 1| gills of milk, 1 oz. of sugar, and. 2 oz. butter. Put the flour into a basin, add to this the eggs and milk, previously beaten together, and mix these all well together, then add in the sugar and dis- solved butter, stirring it all. Have ready some greased pattypans, and half fill these with the mixture. Bake from 20 to 30 minutes in a sharp oven. Serve with jam, or any sweet sauce to taste. Viennese Pudding (Hot). 4 oz. stale bread cut into dice, 3 oz. sultanas, 2 oz. chopped peel, 3 oz. castor sugar, of milk, 2 eggs, and 1 oz. of loaf sugar (for the caramel). For the Caramel. Put the loaf sugar in an iron saucepan with a teaspoonful of water and let it turn a dark brown ; then pour in the milk, and leave it to colour to a deep coffee tint. Mix the bread, sultanas, peel, and castor sugar together ; beat the eggs and mix them with the milk, and pour this over the dry ingredients. Leave the mixture to soak for 4 an hour, then turn it into a well greased mould, and steam for to 1 tcHPUDDINGS, BAKED, BOILED & STEAMED 35 hours. If cooked in little moulds, these will take about 30 minutes. If liked, this pudding may be flavoured with ^ a wineglass of sherry, but in this case i oz. more bread must be allowed. Queen Pudding (Hot). i pint of grated bro^vn breadcrumbs, 1 pint of new milk, 3 tablespoonsful of castor sugar, 1 oz. of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs, and the grated rind of 1 lemon. Boil the milk, pour it on to the breadcrumbs, add the sugar, butter, grated lemon rind, and the beaten eggs; pour this into a buttered piedish, and bake for about 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Brown Betty (Hot). 6 cooking apples, sifted breadcrumbs, 1 gill of water, 1 giU of golden syrup, 2 tablespoonsful Demerara sugar, and a little lemon juice. Peel, core, and slice the apples, and arrange them in alternate layers with the breadcrumbs in a piedish, finishing with a layer of erumbs. When the dish is full, pour over it all the water, golden syrup, and sugar mixed together with a dash of lemon juice. Bake in a moderate oven for 30 minutes. Serve with whipped cream, or any sweet sauce to taste.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 36 Frosted Pudding (Hot). 3 oz. unsweetened chocolate, 4 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. of cornflour, 4 eggs, | pint of milk, and a few drops of vanilla essence. Mix the cornflour smoothly with a little of the milk ; put the chocolate, broken up small, into a saucepan vdth the sugar and milk, stir it all over the fire till it boils ; then add the cornflour, and stir again till it boils, and becomes thick. Add 1 whole egg, and the yolks of 3 ; flavour to taste with vanilla essence. Have ready a buttered mould, put the mixture into this, and bake for 30 minutes in the oven. Meanwhile, whisk the 3 whites of egg to a stiff froth, flavour- ing them with castor sugar and vanilla. Turn the pudding out, put the white of egg over it rockily, return it to a very slow oven, and leave it till the egg white is lightly touched with pale fawn. Take it out and serve. Almond Pudding (Cold). I lb. ground sweet almonds, I oz. of bitter almonds, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 yolks of egg and 2 whites, and orange-flower water to taste. Mix the almonds and sugar well together. Beat the eggs together, flavouring to taste withPUDDINGS, BAKED, BOILED & STEAMED 37 about 1 dessertspoonful of orange-flower water, then add the almonds, etc., gradually, beating it all well for about 20 minutes. Have ready a buttered piedish, pour the mixture into this, and bake for 20 to 25 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve cold. Orange Pudding (Hot). 1 pint of orange juice, 3 egg yolks, 4 oz. castor sugar, 6 stale spongecakes, 6 macaroons, and a wineglass full of curacoa syrup. Mix the strained orange juice with the liqueur syrup, the egg yolks and sugar, and crumble into this the spongecakes and macaroons. Pour it all into a buttered mould, and bake in a rather quick oven. Danish Pudding (Cold). 1 cupful of tapioca, pints boiling water, a saltspoonful of salt, 4 oz. sugar, and 1 gill of currant jelly. Wash the tapioca, put it in a saucepan with pints of boiling water ; cook it for 1 hour, Stirling it well. Add to it the salt, sugar, and jelly, and stir till this is dissolved, then turn the mixture into a dish, and leave it to get quite cold. Serve it with whipped cream.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 38 Thatched Pudding (Hot). 3 oz. butter, 1 tablespoonful of flour, a little shred angelica, | pint milk, 4 eggs, sugar, and jam to taste. Melt the butter and add to it the flour ; when well mixed and quite smooth, add in the boiling milk, with the sugar and angelica. When all are well blended, take the mixture off the fire, and let it cool; then beat the egg yolks, and add them in one by one. Whip the whites stiffly, and stir them in. Have ready a well-buttered mould, pour the mixture into this, and bake for 20 minutes. When cooked, turn it out, and serve, spread with any nice jam, and garnish with blanched and chopped almonds. Sultana Pudding (Hot). 4 oz. flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, 1 egg, 2 oz. sultanas. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, then add the egg previously beaten, and mix this all with the flour, sultanas, baking powder, and a tablespoonful of milk till it is all quite soft. Butter a piedish, put the mixture into this, and bake for 45 minutes in a hot oven.PUDDINGS, BAKED, BOILED & STEAMED 39 Austrian Sponge Pudding (Hot or Cold). 4 eggs, 4 tablespoonsful of castor sugar, 4 tablespoonsful of breadcrumbs. Mix the crumbs and sugar together ; beat the yolks till light, then add the crumbs and sugar gradually, beating all the time. Beat the egg whites very stiffly, then stir them into the mixture. Have ready a well-buttered mould, pour the mixture into this, and bake in a very slow oven. Serve hot vdth any nice sweet sauce over it. If the pudding is to be eaten cold, pour the sauce over it hot, and leave it to soak-in till cold. Baked Batter and Cherry Pudding (Hot). 1 lb. of stoned cooking cherries, sugar, 4 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 3 yolks of egg, 3 whites of egg, a pinch of salt, and 1 pint of milk. Put the flour in a basin with the salt and half- melted butter, mix into this the milk, 3 egg yolks previously beaten up, 2 tablespoonsful of castor sugar, adding the very stiffly whipped whites just before using. Meanwhile have ready a buttered piedish, lay the cherries in this, sprinkle them with sugar, and pour the batter over them. Put the piedish into the oven, and, at first, stir it to keep the flour from settling at the bottom, and the cherries all being on the top.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 40 Batter Pudding (Hot). 1 tablespoonful of flour, 1 pint of milk, 1 table- spoonful of castor sugar, and a pinch of salt. Mix the flour and sugar very smoothly with the milk, and a pinch of salt. Pour this mixture into a well-buttered piedish. Leave it in a slow oven till cooked. On no account let it boil. Breadcrumb Pudding (Hot). 1 lb. freshly baked breadcrumbs, 1 pint boihng water, 4 oz.Demerara sugar or golden syrup, 4 oz. raisins, 1 teaspoonful allspice, and 1 pint of milk. Pour the boihng water on to the breadcrumbs (crushed whilst hot), stir this well, and soak till quite soft ; then add the raisins, sugar, milk, and allspice, mixing all well together. Rub a piedish with dripping, fill it with the mixture, put a little more dripping on the top. Bake for ^ an hour. Sponge Puddings (Hot or Cold). 2 eggs, their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar. Beat the butter to a cream, add it to the eggs previously beaten to a froth ; beat these well together, add in the flour and sugar, beating well all the time. Bake in small buttered moulds or cups half filled. Serve either hot or cold.PUDDINGS, BAKED, BOILED & STEAMED 41 Spongecake Pudding (Hot). 3 \d. spongecakes, a little milk, sugar to taste, the juice and grated rind of half a lemon, a small piece of butter, and 1 egg. Soak the spongecakes in milk till soft with a httle sugar, add the lemon juice and grated rind, butter, the egg, and a little more sugar. Beat all weU together. Bake in a quick oven. Apple Charlotte (Hot). Line a buttered tin with sHces of bread dipped in melted butter, 1 slice being cut out to fit the bottom. Cook some peeled apples to a pulp, allowing | lb. of sugar, the rind and juice of 1 lemon to 2 lb. of fruit. Place this in the lined tin, cover with a thin sHce of bread brushed over with melted butter. Bake till the bread is crisp and a nice brown. Serve dusted with castor sugar.42 CHAPTER III SOUFFLES, PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. People are very apt to confuse puddings and souffles, and often describe, and think of a souffle as a very light pudding. So undoubtedly it is, but it is also a pudding which has been lightened by adding cream or white of egg ; and one, moreover, with a cooked foundation to which has been added raw eggs, or other materials which do not need much cooking. Of course there are many different souffles, but they all must start with a foundation of thick sauce or batter, to which the eggs are added (generally in the proportion of 3 or 4 to every gill of milk used in the sauce), and finally the particular flavouring chosen. The only exception to this is the Omelet Souffle. A Mousse is simply a very light form of souffle, and for this an extra egg and a tablespoonful of cream must be allowed to every gill of liquid. Granted this is borne in mind a souffle should not present any great difflculty to the cook of average intelligence.SOUFFLES, PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 43 A souffle may be either steamed or baked, but in either case the tin must be well greased, and as the mixture rises tremendously the tin must not be more than half filled, and a band of white paper must be tied round it, projecting at least to 2 inches above the top. Vanilla Souf!16 (Hot). 1 oz. butter, 1 oz, fine sifted flour, 1 gill milk, 1 oz. castor sugar, | teaspoonful essence of vanilla, and 3 eggs. Melt the butter over the fire, add to it the flour, let it cook gently for 4 or 5 minutes, then add the milk, stirring it well in to avoid all lumps, and let it all come to the boil. Take it off the fire, mix in the sugar and vanilla, let it cool a little, then add in the yolks of the eggs one by one, beating each well in before adding the next ; finally stir in the whites of the eggs, previously beaten to a very stiff froth. Pour it all into the prepared tin or mould, and bake for 30 minutes in a moderate oven. If preferred, the souffle may be steamed, by standing it in a pan of boiling water three-quarters of the way up the tin, covering it with a buttered paper, and keeping the water slowly boiling all the time till cooked.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 44 Orange-Flour Water Souffl6 (Hot). Made exactly as above, only substituting orange-flower water for the vanilla. Chocolate SoufI16 (Hot). 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of flour, 1 gill of milk, 4 eggs, 2 oz. vanilla chocolate powder, and | oz. castor sugar. Proceed as before, only adding the chocolate instead of the vanilla essence, and stir in 4 whites instead of 3. Finish in the usual way. Lemon Souffle (Hot). 1| oz. butter, oz. potato flour, 1 lemon, 1| oz. sugar, | pint of milk, the yolks of 3 eggs, and the whites of 4. Peel the lemon very thuily, and leave the peel to soak in the milk for 1 hour in a warm place. Melt the butter slowly, and mix in the flour ; strain off the milk from the lemon, add it slowly to the flour and butter, stirring well, and let it all come to the boil. Take it off the fire, add in the sugar, let it cool a little, then add in the yolks of the eggs one at a time, finally stirring in the stiffly whipped whites. Bake for 25 minutes, or steam it.SOUFFLES, PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 45 Pineapple SoufI16 (Hot). Made exactly like vanilla souffle, only flavour- ing with the S3n’up instead of the milk, and adding in 2 oz. of pineapple cut up very small, after the yolks have been added. Rice Souffl6 (Hot). Made exactly like vanilla souffle, only adding tablespoonsful of ground rice after the eggs have been beaten in. To Cook Pancakes and Fritters. Pancakes and fritters are of course simply forms of batter mixture, but a great deal more depends on the care taken in cooking them than many people would credit. It is well to remem- ber that the fat must always be sweet and hot, the eggs very fresh, and the best flour used. The quality of both these sweets depends in great measure on their being served “ piping hot.” Batter for Pancakes, etc. There are really almost numberless forms of batter, used according to the delicacy of the dish required, but for plain boiled or steamed batter puddings, pancakes, etc., the following answers admirably.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 46 Make a hole in the middle of ^ lb. of flour, into which a httle salt has been sifted, and into this drop 2 unbeaten yolks of eggs and a little milk ; stir the flour gradually down from the sides into this, adding more milk by degrees as it is wanted, but keeping it thick enough to be able to have it all smooth, and free from lumps. When about I pint of milk has been used, beat the flour, etc., with a wooden spoon, or egg whisk, till it is all covered with air bubbles, then add another ^ pint of milk, and leave the mixture to stand for an hour if possible before using it. A richer form is obtained by using 4 eggs instead of 2, and rather over 3 gills of milk'instead of the fuU pint. For Light Fritters. For very light fritters the proportions are 1 egg to each ounce of flour, and 2 good tablespoonsful of milk, but it is made in exactly the same way. Another Batter. Another method is the following :—Put 4 oz. of flour into a basin with a pinch of salt, and drop in carefully 1 tablespoonful of olive oil, and when this has been mixed a little with the flour, add in 1 gill of tepid water by degrees, mixing it well, and beating the batterSOUFFLES, PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 47 thoroughly as before. After it has stood for an hour, just before using, the stiffly whipped whites of 2 eggs may be stirred in. Pancakes (Hot). Melt about 1 oz. of butter or lard in a small frying pan, heating it till it smokes. Pour into the centre of the pan a small wineglassful of batter (the first, or the richer form may be used), which should at once spread over the pan, if not tilt it shghtly. Let it set for about 1 minute, then raise the edges with a palette knife, to prevent its sticking to the sides of the pan. When brown on the underside, turn it, and cook the other side. Turn it out, sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice, or jam, and roU it up ; keep it very hot whilst the rest are cooking, and then serve. French Pancakes (Hot). 2 newlaid eggs, 2 tablespoonsful of milk, 1 tablespoonful of self-raising flour, and 1 table- spoonful of castor sugar. Put the flour in a basin, add the sugar, and mix it well in. Make a hole in the flour, add the eggs, previously lightly beaten, and beat it allPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 48 together. Have ready 2 buttered saucers, put half the mixture in each. Bake in a moderate oven for 15 minutes till a light golden brown, and then spread with any kind of jam, turn each over like a half moon, and serve very hot. Apple Pancakes (Hot). I pint milk, ^ saltspoonful each of cinnamon and ground ginger, 4 oz. flour, and 3 apples. Make the batter in the usual way, and after it has stood for an hour add the apples, peeled, cored, and cut into small pieces. Pour the mixture into a small frying-pan, prepared as before. Be careful in turning them, and serve either flat or rolled up. Cream Pancakes (Hot). The yolks of 2 eggs, whites, 1 gill of cream a little grated lemon rind, 2 oz. Vienna flour, and ^ oz. of rice flour. Make a batter in the usual way, using the cream instead of the milk and adding in the stiffly whipped whites of egg, after the batter has stood for some time. Cook as before, and serve very hot sprinkled with sugar.SOUFFLES, PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 49 P Indian Pancake (Hot). 1 pint of milk, 3 eggs, | teacupful of rice, 4 oz. castor sugar, preserved ginger and cherries, and a flavouring of cinnamon. Boil the rice in the milk to a pulp, add in the sugar, heat the eggs well and mix them in. Form this mixture into a flat cake, and put it into the pan ; when the bottom is cooked, hold the pan in front of the fire to brown the top, as this must not be turned. Slip the pancake on to a hot dish, and place small pieces of preserved ginger and halved cherries on the top. Fritters. Fritters must be cooked in a deep pan full of hot fat. All fruit to be used should first be dipped in castor sugar, so that the batter may adhere properly, and then evenly coated with the batter. Pancake Fritters (Hot). 2 oz. flour, 1 egg, a pinch of salt, vanilla essence, I a lemon, and sugar to taste. Make a nice batter, flavouring it with one- half the grated rind and a little lemon juice. Have ready some hot fat, and drop the batter very carefully into this in dessertspoonsful,PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 50 and fry a golden brown till quite crisp. Do not put in too many at a time. Drain, and serve dusted with castor sugar. Beignets Souffles (Hot). Flavour some cliou pastry with vanilla, or lemon, etc. Have ready some hot fat, drop small spoonsful of the pastry into this ; fry till of a bright, golden brown. When these fritters come to the top of the fat, keep them well turned to prevent their breaking. They take from 10 to 15 minutes to cook. Apple Fritters (Hot). Peel and core some apples so as to leave them in rings, roll them in sugar, coat with batter, and put them into a pan of very hot fat with a skewer ; when coloured on one side, turn them, but be careful not to let the fritters touch one another. When cooked, drain on kitchen paper, and serve very hot dusted with castor sugar. Always reheat the fat before putting in a second lot. Any fruit can be used in this way, though if preferred it can be marinaded in sugar, lemon juice, liqueur, wine, spirit, or Hqueur syrup to taste for an hour before coating it with batter.SOUFFLES, PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 51 Banana Fritters (Hot). Peel the bananas, cut them lengthways in two, or, if too big, halve again ; dip them in rum or in orange-flower water, roll in sugar, and cover with a nice batter. Have ready some very hot fat, and fry and flnish off as before. Polish Fritters (Hot). 2 eggs, 1 gill of milk, | giU of cream, | oz. of butter melted, a quarter of the grated rind of a lemon, 3 oz. flour, some sugar, a grate of nutmeg, and some currants. Grate the lemon rind on lump sugar, and then crush the sugar ; make a batter with the flour, milk and butter and flavour with the crushed sugar and nutmeg. Have ready some hot fat, drop the batter into this in spoonsful, sprinkling it with the currants as you do so. Finish in the usual way, and serve very hot sprinkled with castor sugar. Custard Fritters (Hot). ^ pint milk, 2 tablespoonsful castor sugar, 1 tablespoonful cornflour, 1 tablespoonful flour, a small bit of butter, teaspoonful of salt, 3 6ggs, and some breadcrumbs.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 52 Boil ilic milk witli tlie sugar, then add the corn- lioiir and flour, previously mixed smooth with a little milk, to the boiling milk, stir it all over the fire till thick. Beat in a small piece of butter and the yolks of 2 eggs, flavour to taste with vanilla, and add the salt. Leave the mixture to get cold, then cut in thick slices, roll these in egg and bread- crumbs, and fry to a golden brown in boiling fat. Pour over them the following ;—Mix together 1 tablespoonful of cornflour, 1 teacupful castor sugar, and i pint water ; boil this all till thick, then add 2 wineglassfuls of rum or curacoa syrup. Serve the fritters very hot. Sweet Omelet (Hot). 3 or 4 eggs, a pinch of salt, a small teaspoonful of castor sugar, flavouring to taste, and about 1^ oz. of butter. Beat the eggs well for 4 or 5 minutes, adding to them the salt and sugar. Melt 1|; oz. butter in a pan, and let it get quite hot, then pour in the beaten eggs, and leave this for a few seconds to cook over a very bright fire, until there is a thin layer of cooked egg underneath ; this can be ascer- tained by tilting the pan a little, when if ready a little steam will escape ; lift this side carefully with a broad-bladed knife, and let the still liquid egg run underneath, repeating this processSOUFFLES, PANCAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 53 till there is no more uncooked egg left. Fold the omelet over, and serve at once dusted with castor sugar on a very hot dish. The top of the omelet must only be a light golden brown, and barely set when turned out, as eggs will always continue cooking for a little after they leave the fire. An omelet must never be cooked until just before it is required to be served, and must always be made with the freshest of eggs and butter. Fruit Omelet (Hot). Made exactly as above, only just before folding the omelet over place a spoonful of jam, pre- viously heated, on it. Rum Omelet (Hot). Proceed as for sweet omelet, only adding a small spoonful of rum, and a teaspoonful of cream to the eggs when beating them. Omelette Souffl6 (Hot). 4 yolks of eggs, 5 whites, 3 oz. castor sugar, and flavouring to taste. Beat up the yolks with the castor sugar till very light, and add a little vanilla essence or any flavouring to taste. Whip the whites of egg till stiff enough to cut in half with a knife,PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 54 then mix them in with the yolks. Have ready a well-buttered piedish, pour the mixture into this, and put it into a moderate oven for 10 minutes. Dust with sugar and serve at once. Omelette Souffl6 with Ratafias (Hot). 5 eggs, 3 oz. castor sugar, 5 ratafias, a pinch of salt, and vanilla. Beat up the eggs as before, adding to them the sugar, salt, and finally the crushed ratafias. Mix in the stiffly whipped whites of egg, pour it all into a well-buttered deep dish. Cook in a moderate oven for 8 to 10 minutes, and serve at once. Chocolate Omelette Souffl6 (Hot). Made exactly as above, only substitutmg a dessertspoonful of powdered chocolate for the ratafias.55 CHAPTER IV CUSTARDS AND CREAMS Custard is the foundation of so many puddings and sweets that it is very necessary to be able to make it properly. One point is most important to remember, and that is never to allow custard to boil after adding the eggs, as this invariably curdles the eggs ; also always use fresh milk. To prevent a chance of the custard boiling it is best to cook it in a jug standing in boiling water to three-quarters of its height, in other words using a hain-marie. Proportions for Custard. The general proportions are 2 average-sized lumps of sugar to each ^ pint of milk, and 1 egg ; of course it can be made richer by using 2 egg yolks instead of the yolk and white of one, or double or single cream instead of the milk. But remember that where more egg yolks are used than whites the custard becomes harder to turn out. Moulded custards are more commonly knownPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 56 as Bavarois or cream, though properly the English cream is neither more nor less than a mixture of pure cream and fruit pulp, stiffened, if liked, with a little gelatine. Boiled Custard (Cold). I pint of milk, 2 lumps of sugar, and 1 egg. Bring the milk to the boil with the sugar ; break the Ggg into a basin and pour the milk, when it has cooled a little, on to this, stirring it well; then strain this into a jug. Place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir the milk, etc., till it is quite smooth and creamy ; when it is beginning to cool, add in a few drops of vanilla, and pour it into glasses. Of course this may be made richer by using more egg yolks, and using half milk and half cream, or by adding | a gill of cream as the custard begins to cool. If to be moulded, use about | oz. of leaf gelatine to every pint of milk ; boil it up with the milk, and strain this on to the eggs to prevent the custard turning out lumpy. Chocolate Custard (Cold). Make a custard with 1 pint of milk, 2 oz. loaf sugar, the yolks of 3 eggs, and the white of one, flavouring it with 2 or 3 oz. of vanilla chocolate powder.CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 57 Coffee Custard (Cold). Made exactly as above, only flavouring the custard with 1 gill of strong coffee to the pint of milk, and allowing 1 extra egg yolk. Baked Custard Pudding (Hot). 1 pint of milk, 2 or 3 oz. of sugar, a bayleaf, some strips of lemon rind, and 4 eggs. Boil the milk up with the sugar and bayleaf, and some strips of lemon rind. Beat up the eggs well in a basin, and pour the milk gradually on to these, beating well aU the time. Rinse a piedish out in cold water, pour the custard into this, and bake in a very slow oven. If the oven is too hot, set the dish in a tin of water in the oven. Caramel Pudding (Hot). I pint of milk, 4 yolks, 2 whites of egg, sugar to taste, and flavouring, for the custard; and 2 oz. of lump sugar for the caramel. Put 2 oz. of lump sugar into a mould with 2 tablespoonsful of water or lemon juice. Place the mould on the hottest part of the fire, stirring the sugar and water till it becomes a dark brown. Take the tin in a cloth wrung out in hot water, and turn it round and round to coat it evenly with the caramel. When this sets, in 2 or 3 minutes, strain in the custard ; stir it, place aPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 58 sheet of buttered paper on the top, put the mould in a pan of boiling water which reaches three parts up the mould ; let the water simmer till the pudding is cooked, which will be when on touching the pudding in the centre it is quite firm. Turn out and serve. Strawberry and Custard Pudding (Hot or Cold). I lb. strawberries, 2 tablespoonsful castor sugar, 3 eggs, and 1 pint of milk. Butter a piedish, lay in the strawberries, stalked and halved, at the bottom of this, dust with castor sugar. Beat up the eggs and milk, and strain this over the strawberries. Bake in the oven till the custard is set. Dust the top with castor sugar, and powdered cinnamon, if liked. Serve either hot or cold. Almond Custard (Cold). I lb. sweet almonds, j lb. castor sugar, 3 tablespoonsful orange-flower water, 3 whole eggs, 4 oz. desiccated cocoanut, oz. bicarbonate of soda, and 3 gills new milk. Blanch the almonds, and pound them to a smooth paste in a mortar ; add to this the sugar, orange-fiower water, and eggs, etc,, mixing them well together and then adding the bicarbonateCUSTARDS AND CREAMS 59 of soda ; finally mixing it all thoroughly with the milk. Have ready a buttered piedish, put the mixture into this, and bake for 40 minutes. Leave the custard to cool, and serve cold in a glass dish, covered with whipped cream flavoured with castor sugar and vanilla essence. Apple Custard (Cold). I pint apple pulp, | oz. butter, half a lemon, 2 to 4 oz. sugar, and 4 egg yolks. Stew enough apples to a pulp to produce | pint of pulp, pass this through a sieve, add the butter to it while still hot, and beat well ; next put in the sugar and flavouring to taste. Beat the eggs and mix them in. Proceed as for custard, taking care it does not boil ; when thick, leave it to cool, and then serve in glasses dusted with castor sugar. Blackberry Custard (Cold). 1 lb. blackberries, 3 apples, 1 gill sugar syrup, 2 gills milk, thinly cut lemon peel, 2 eggs, sugar to taste, and a few drops of carmine. Stew the blackberries and the apples (sliced) in the sugar syrup to a pulp, sweeten to taste and pass it all through a sieve. Meanwhile make a nice custard with the eggs, etc., flavouring itPUDDINGS AND SWEETS with the grated lemon peel, and a little cinnamon, if liked. When this is quite cold, mix it with the sieved fruit, and serve in custard glasses. Raspberry Custard (Cold). i pint raspberry juice, 4 or 5 oz. of sugar, ac- cording to the sweetness of the fruit, 4 eggs, 1 gill of cream, and dessertspoonful of lemon juice. Boil the sugar and fruit juice together for a minute or so (removing the scum as it comes to the top), add this to the eggs previously well beaten ; strain this all, put it in a jug standing in a sauce- pan of warm water, stir it till it thickens and the water boils (the custard itself must not boil) ; take it off, stir until nearly cold, then add the cream gradually, and at the very last, a dessert- spoonful of lemon juice. If this is to be moulded, dissolve a little leaf gelatine, and then add it to the custard. Strawberries, currants, cherries, etc., may all be used in this way. Pineapple Custard (Cold). 1 teacupful of chopped-up pineapple, 1 pint of milk, 1 stick of cinnamon, 3 egg yolks, 1 table- spoonful of sugar, and | oz. leaf gelatine. Boil up the milk slowly with the cinnamon, 6oCUSTARDS AND CREAMS Beat up the eggs with the sugar and a table- spoonful of milk. When the milk boils, put in the gelatine, and stir it till it dissolves, then strain it on to the eggs, stirring well, and add the pineapple. Have ready a wetted mould, pour the mixture into this, and leave it to set. Turn it out and serve with a little of the pineapple syrup with it. Canned pineapple answers very well for this. Fruit Ballettes (Cold). pints of rich custard, 1 gill of cream, ^ oz. leaf gelatine, 1 oz. crushed macaroons, and 3 oz. stale spongecake crumbs. Add the cream to the custard, and stiffen it with gelatine. Pour the custard while still hot on to the macaroons and spongecake, and flavour with liqueur syrup. Leave it to cool. Line a ballette mould with this, and when just setting fill up the centre with a compote of any fruit to taste. Gooseberry Cream (Cold). 1 pint of gooseberries, 4 oz. loaf sugar, 2 gills cream, and ^ a wineglass of brandy. Top and tail the gooseberries, and stew them with a little water and the sugar to a pulp ; 6iPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 62 pass this through a sieve, then add the cream stiffly whipped, and the brandy. Put on ice for an hour, or in a cool place. The brandy can be omitted if liked. For moulding, add I oz. of best leaf gelatine to each pint of the mixture. Ginger Cream (Cold). 1 oz. leaf gelatine, ^ pint sherry, 2 lemons, 6 oz. sugar, 1 pint cream, | teaspoonful ground ginger, and some preserved ginger. Soak the gelatine in a teacupful of water, add the sherry to this and let it stand for 5 minutes, then dissolve it over the fire, stirring it all the time. Meanwhile rub the rinds of the lemon with the sugar, add this together with the strained juice to the sherry and gelatine. Leave it to cool ; when almost cold add in slowly the cream, ground ginger, and some preserved ginger cut into dice. Pour this all into a mould, previously lined with lemon jelly, and leave on ice, or in a cold place to set. Then turn out, and serve. Strawberry Cream (Cold). Strawberries, 3 oz. castor sugar, | oz. leaf gela- tine, the juice of ^ a lemon, and 2 gills cream. Stalk the fruit, and rub enough through aCUSTARDS AND CREAMS 63 sieve with a spoonful of sugar to produce | pint of pulp, using only sound fruit. Dissolve the gelatine in a saucepan with a little warm water and the lemon juice ; when melted, add the rest of the sugar. Whip the cream, mix it with the fruit, and strain the gelatine on to this. Have ready a wetted mould, or one lined with jelly, garnish it with a few halved strawberries ; pour in the cream. Leave on ice, or in a cool place till set. Barley Cream (Cold). 2 oz. pearl barley, 1 pint cream, 5 egg yolks, orange-flower water, and sugar to taste. Boil the pearl barley in two or three waters till quite tender. Boil the cream with a little mace ; leave it to cool, then beat to it the yolks of eggs, adding the orange-flower water and sugar. Mix the barley with this, place it on a slow fire, and stir it till thick. Take it off and leave it to get cold. Orange Cream (Cold). 1 oz. leaf gelatine, the juice of 1 lemon, rather less than 1 pint of orange juice, 2 oz. sugar, i pint of cream, or 1 gill cream and 1 gill milk.PUDDINGS x\ND SWEETS 64 Melt the gelatine in a little water, add the sugar (previously rubbed on some orange rinds) to it, and the juice of the lemon and oranges ; pour this on to the cream, or cream and milk, and beat it all well together. Dip a mould in cold water, pour the cream into this, and leave to set. Vanilla Cream (Cold). 1 white of egg, 3 yolks, | pint milk, 1 table- spoonful of castor sugar, 1 pint good double cream, 1 oz. leaf gelatine, and | teaspoonful vanilla essence. Make a custard of the eggs, milk and sugar in the usual way. When cool stir in the cream, whipped to a froth, and the gelatine, previously dissolved. Pour this into a mould rinsed out in cold water. Place it on ice, or in a cool place, to set. Turn out, and serve. Chestnut Cream (Cold). Pound some boiled chestnuts, and pass them through a sieve. Mix in some whipped cream flavoured with some cura^oa syrup, and some gelatine previously dissolved in milk. Add sugar to taste. Pour into a mould and leave to set.CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 65 E Italian Strawberry Cream (Cold). 1 lb. strawberries, 4 oz. castor sugar, | oz. leaf gelatine, 1 pint milk. Sieve the strawberries, mixing the sugar thoroughly with them. Dissolve the gelatine in the milk, and add it to the strawberries. Stir over the fire till it boils for 3 or 4 minutes. Leave till cold and serve in a glass dish. Banana Cream (Cold). Bananas, 3 dessertspoonsful strawberry jam, 1 gill maraschino syrup, 1 pint packet Chivers’ lemon jelly, 1 gill cream or custard. Peel and sieve enough bananas to produce ^ lb. pulp, stir into this the sieved jam, and maraschino, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Dis- solve a packet of Chivers’ jelly in | pint of water, add it to the mixture, stirring it all together Math 1 gill of cream or rich custard. Pour it into a mould, and leave it to set. Lemon Cream (without Cream) (Cold). The juice and rind of 3 lemons, 2 yolks and 4 whites of egg, 2 spoonsful of orange-flower water, and 1 pint of water. Squeeze the juice of the lemons, pour it on to the thinly pared rinds, and leave these to steepPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 66 for 3 or 4 hours. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs well, and mix them with the lemon, adding in the orange-flower water ; pour in the water slowly, strain it all into a saucepan, and sweeten to taste. Stir it over the fire till as thick as cream, take it off, and stand it on ice, or in a cool place till wanted. Serve it in cups or in a glass dish. Chocolate Bavarois (Cold). 4 oz. powdered chocolate, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 or 4 drops of essence of vanilla, 1 pint milk (or I pint milk and ^ pint cream), I oz. leaf gelatine, and 3 egg yolks. Boil the chocolate, vanilla essence, sugar and milk together for 10 minutes ; dissolve in it the gelatine, and pour it over the yolks broken into a basin, stirring well. Pour it all back into the pan, and stir till it thickens but does not boil. Strain it, and pour it into a mould, and leave to set. If half cream is used, the ^ pint of milk should be boiled up with the chocolate, etc., and the cream whipped, and stirred in just before pouring it all into the mould. Cocoa Bavarois (Cold). Made exactly as above, only substituting 4 oz. of cocoa for the chocolate.CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 67 Italian Cream (Cold). 2 spoonsful of apricot jam, 1 cupful of cream, 2 whites of egg, and sugar to taste. Beat the cream and jam well together, whip the whites stiffly, mix them with the cream and jam ; and flavour with a little sugar stirred in at the last. Serve in glasses. Charlotte Russe (Cold). Line a Charlotte mould with sponge fingers, halved, with the cut sides inwards. Fill with a rich custard flavoured with vanilla, and stiffened with I oz. of leaf gelatine to the pint of eustard ; or, if liked, stiffened, whipped cream may be used. Leave till set, and then turn out. Apricot Charlotte (Cold). Line a mould as above. Stew some canned apricots in their syrup, till tender enough to pass through a sieve. Melt ^ oz. of gelatine in the syrup, stir this well into the fruit. Whip ^ pint of cream and add it to the apricots. Put this into the lined mould, and leave to set. These Charlottes ean be filled with any eream flavoured with chocolate, coffee, etc., or any fruit cream to taste.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 68 Empress Rice (Cold). 3 oz. rice, 1 pint of new milk, 3 oz. castor sugar, the rind of half a lemon, ^ oz, leaf gelatine, and 2 gills cream. Boil the rice in water, wash it. Put it in a saucepan with the milk, sugar, lemon rind, and a little stick cinnamon, and cook till quite tender. Take out the lemon rind, and dissolve the gelatine in the milk. Leave it to cool. Whip the cream and mix it in with the rice, etc. Put it into a mould, and leave it to set. If liked, it can be put in a border mould, and when turned out, fill the centre with any nice fruit compote, and whipped cream, and serve. Walnut Cream (Cold). 4 oz. shelled walnuts, 2 gills cream, ^ pint cus- tard, I oz. leaf gelatine, and flavouring to taste. Line a mould with jelly, and leave it to set. Meanwhile prepare | pint of rich custard ; melt the gelatine with a little water, and strain it on to the custard. Pound the walnuts in a mortar, add them to the custard, with a few drops of flavouring such as vanilla essence. Whip the cream, and add it to the mixture, stirring all well together, and when almost setting turn it into the prepared mould. Leave it to set.CUSTARDS AND CREAMS 69 Coffee Cream or Bavarois (Cold). I pint cream, 1 gill strong coffee, 1 gill milk, o yolks of egg, 1 white, and 2 oz, sugar. Make a custard with the coffee, milk, and eggs, and strain it into a basin. Melt the gelatine with a little coffee, strain it into the custard. Whip the cream, and stir this in ; when the cream is just beginning to set, turn it into the mould, and leave it to set.70 CHAPTER V JELLIES AND SPONGES Nowadays, since the introduction of good gelatine, jelly making is really quite easy, j^rovided certain points are attended to, and the chief one of these is scrupulous cleanliness. Another important factor is the quahty of the ingredients, which, to ensure success, must be of the best. The following recipes should all be made with white Leaf Gela- tine, as this is excellent in quality, and needs no previous cooking. When using gelatine the amount required depends greatly on the state of the weather, but from 1 to 1^ oz. to each quart of liquid is generally sufficient, unless the jelly is wanted especially stiff, the smaller quantity being used in the cold weather and the larger amount in hot weather. Fruit and Wine Jellies. For these 8 oz. of best eane loaf sugar is used for every quart of liquid ; and the proportionsJELLIES AND SPONGES uf liquid are f pint of juice or wine and 1^ pints of water ; or | pint of juice, 1 pint of water, and either \ pint of lemon juice or wine, aceord- ing to what the jelly is made of. To Clear Jellies. Put the sugar and gelatine into an absolutely elean saucepan, together with the liquid to be used. (The pan must not be much more than half filled.) Stir it well together over the fire till both the sugar and gelatine are dissolved, then put in the whites and crushed shells of 2 eggs. Whisk it aU together till a thick kind of scum rises to the surface, then stop whisking at once before it gets to boiling point. This scum will then begin to move slowly up and down ; when it does so, let it boil very gently for 5 minutes, then remove the pan to the side of the fire, and allow it to stand for 5 minutes more, before straining. Have ready a jelly bag or clean cloth (if the latter is used, tie it firmly on to the back of two chairs), place a basin underneath, pour about 1 quart of boihng water through the bag or cloth ; place another very clean, dry basin underneath, and pour the liquid very carefully from the pan into the bag. If it does not run clear, it must be passed through the 7iPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 72 bag two or three times. As the liquid must be kept hot, strain it in a warm place out of draughts. If the larger amount of gelatine be used, it is better to allow an extra egg white. To Mould Jellies. The mould must first be well washed out in hot water to ensure its being quite clean, and then left in cold water till wanted. The jelly when put in must be still quite liquid, though almost cold. To Turn Jelly Out. Dip the mould in water rather hotter than the hand can bear, then wipe it quickly with a cloth, shake the mould gently to free the jelly, place the dish on the open side of the mould, turn it quickly, and take away the mould. If the mould be china, it must be kept in the water a second or two longer. To Line Moulds with Jelly. Put 3 or 4 spoonsful of liquid jelly into the mould, and turn it round and round, on the slant, till it is all evenly coated.JELLIES AND SPONGES i 73 Lemon Jelly (Cold). 3 gills lemon juice, or 2 gills lemon juice and 1 gill sherry, 5 giUs water, the thinly pared rind of 2 lemons, 8 oz. best loaf sugar, 1 to 1| oz. best leaf gelatine, 2 whites and broken up egg shells, and 2 or 3 cloves. Melt the sugar and gelatine over the fire with the lemon juice, water and cloves, and clear, as directed, with the egg shells and whites. Then strain two or three times, if necessary, through the bag or cloth as directed. Turn the jelly into the prepared mould while still liquid ; leave till set, and then turn out. Orange Jelly (Cold). Made exactly like lemon jelly, only substituting 2 gills of orange juice and 1 gill of lemon juice for the 3 gills of lemon juice, and the rind of 2 oranges and 1 lemon in the place of the 2 lemon rinds. If liked, it can be garnished with quarters of oranges freed from pith and pips. Line a mould with the jelly, then lay in a row of orange sections, set with more jelly, and continue till the mould is filled.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 74 Claret Jelly (Cold). 1 bottle claret, the juice and thinly pared rind of a lemon, 1 tablespoonful red currant jelly, 1 to 1^ oz. best leaf gelatine, and | lb. best loaf sugar. Boil the claret, lemon juice and rind, gelatine, sugar, etc., together for 5 minutes. Strain through muslin, leave to cool, and when almost cold turn into a mould. Leave to set. Serve with whipped cream, flavoured with sugar and vanilla. Raspberry Jelly (Cold). Make 1 quart of lemon jelly, using only ^ pint of lemon juice instead of |. After straining the jelly, add to it the juice from 1 lb. of rasp- berries (strained). Fill a mould with this, or with alternate rows of jelly and raspberries. Prune Jelly (Cold). ^ lb. prunes, 1 oz. castor sugar, ^ the thinly pared rind of a lemon, a little cinnamon stick, ^ oz. leaf gelatine, and ^ pint each of water and claret. Cook the well-washed prunes in the claret and water till quite tender. Take the pan off the fire, strain off the liquid, pass the prunes through a sieve ; blanch the kernels and add them to theJELLIES AND SPONGES 75 fruit. Dissolve the gelatine in the liquid strained from the fruit, and mix this with the prunes. Have ready a mould lined with lemon jelly (one of Chi vers’ packets of lemon jelly does very well), pour the fruit into this, and leave it to set. Fruit Chartreuse (Cold). Line a mould with lemon jelly (made with 2 oz, gelatine to the quart), arrange circles of any fruit, such as halved strawberries, cherries, or grapes, sliced bananas, etc., on this, then another layer of jelly, and, when this is setting, more fruit, and so on till the mould is filled. Leave it till set. Serve with whipped cream or plain. Cream Jelly (Cold). Line a mould with lemon jelly, then pour in a layer of any just liquid cream flavoured to taste, then a layer of jelly, and so on till the mould is filled. Leave it to set. Ribbon Jelly (Cold). Prepare some plain lemon jelly, divide it into three parts, flavouring one with maraschino, thePUDDINGS AND SWEETS 76 second with strawberry syrup, and colour it with a few drops of carmine, the third with orange noyeau, and whip this last till quite frothy. Have ready a mould, and put these in, in layers. Leave it till set. Coffee Jelly (Cold). 1 pint strong coffee, 1 oz. gelatine, 2 oz. sugar, and flavouring to taste. Put the coffee into a pan with the gelatine and sugar, and let it dissolve. Strain it into a basin, add a few drops of vanilla, if liked; when cool, pour it into a border mould. When set, turn out, and fill the centre with whipped cream garnished with preserved cherries. Fruit Jellies (Cold). Decorate a mould lined with jelly with peaches or apricots, or any fruit to taste, and fill the mould with jelly flavoured to taste. Bananas are excellent for this. Wine Jelly (Cold). Made exactly like lemon jelly, only using 2 gills of sherry, and 1 gill of lemon juice instead of the 3 gills of lemon juice.JELLIES AND SPONGES 77 Lemon Sponge (Cold). The juice and rind of 2 lemons, 3 oz. loaf sugar, 1 oz. leaf gelatine, 1 pint water, and 3 egg whites. Melt the gelatine in the water, rub the lemons with the lump sugar, and add this, together with the strained lemon juice, to the dissolved gela- tine. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, add these to the gelatine, lemon, etc., when cool ; whisk it all together until stiff enough to support a spoon upright ; turn it into a wetted mould, and leave in a cool place till set. Raspberry Sponge (Cold). 1 pint raspberry juice or raspberry syrup, ^ to I oz. leaf gelatine, sugar to taste, and 2 egg whites. Cook enough raspberries to produce 1 pint of juice, and sweeten to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, add it to the juice, and stir it all over the fire till the sugar is quite dissolved. Take it off the fire, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and when nearly cold stir in the stiffly whipped whites of egg. Whisk it all as before, and mould.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 78 Peach Sponge (Cold). 1 tin canned peaches, sugar, 1 oz. leaf gelatine, I pint water, 2 dessertspoonsful of maraschino syrup, and 2 whites of egg. Strain the juice from the fruit, pass the latter through a sieve, then mix in the juice and sugar to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add the fruit pulp to this, and leave till almost cold, then add the stiffly whipped whites, and whisk and mould as before. Pineapple Sponge (Cold). ^ pint grated pineapple, ^ oz. leaf gelatine, 1 tablespoonful sherry, 1 tablespoonful lemon juice, 2 oz. sugar, and the white of 1 egg. Dissolve the gelatine in the lemon juice and a little water, then put it into a saucepan with the pineapple and sugar, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Leave it to cool, first adding the sherry, and when almost cold, add the whites stiffly whipped, and mould as before. Chocolate Sponge (Cold). 2i oz. chocolate powder, 1 pint milk, oz. 'caf gelatine, sugar, and 2 egg whites.JELLIES AND SPONGES 79 Put the chocolate into a pan with the milk, gelatine, and sugar ; stir until the two latter are quite melted. Strain into a basin and when nearly cold, add the stiffly whipped whites of ‘ind whisk as before. Put it into a china mould, and serve, when set, with whipped cream. Orange Sponge. Made exactly like lemon sponge, using orange juice instead of the lemon.CHAPTER VI VARIOUS SWEETS There are several different kinds of sweets, such as trifles, fools, fruit salads, compotes, etc., which come under no particular head, and which, therefore, it seems best to group in a chapter by themselves. Fruit Salad (Cold). This can be made of almost any fruits, such as bananas peeled and sliced, fresh or preserved cherries, oranges broken up into sections, straw- berries, cherries, currants, raspberries, etc. If the fresh fruit is unobtainable, use canned apricots, peaches, pineapple, etc. Stone, and cut up the fruit used with a silver knife, and let it all soak for an hour or so in liqueur flavoured S5n-up, and a little sugar. Serve in a china or glass bowl with whipped cream. 8oVARIOUS SWEETS Compote of Apples (Cold). 1 lb. of apples, 4 to 5 oz. loaf sugar, 2 gills of water, and the juice of ^ a lemon. Peel, core, and quarter the apples. If the apples are small they may be simply peeled, the core removed, and served whole. Have ready a syrup made by boiling the water, sugar and lemon juice together for 10 minutes ; put the apple into this, bring it quickly to the boil, then draw to the side, and let it simmer till the apple is quite cooked and soft, but unbroken. Take the apple carefully out of the pan, reduce the syrup by boiling it very quickly. Let it cool, and pour it over the fruit just before serving. Compote of Pears (Cold). Made exactly as above, only allowing a little more syrup, and cooking the pears a little longer. Compote of Bananas (Cold). Peel and slice some bananas, simmer them for a minute or two in a thin S3n:up. Take out the fruit, and place it on a dish. Meanwhile boil up the syrup again, and flavour with a little liqueur syrup ; when cool, pour over the fruit, and serve. 8i FPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 82 Currant Fool (Cold). 2 yolks, 4 whites of egg, ^ pint of currant juice, sugar to taste, and 1 gill thick cream. Beat the yolks and whites together, add the currant juice, sweetened to taste, to it ; mix well together ; finally stir in the cream. Keep it all well stirred over a gentle fire till it thickens, but does not boil. Take it off, and leave it to cool. Gooseberry Fool (Cold). 1 lb. gooseberries, ^ pint water, 12 oz. loaf sugar, and 1 pint of custard. Top and tail the gooseberries, and cook them till quite soft in the water, together with the sugar. Pass them through a sieve, and stir into them 1 pint of custard, cream or milk. Any fruit almost can be treated in this way. Blanc-Mange (Cold). 2 oz. cornflour, IJ pints milk or cream, 2 oz. castor sugar, and | oz. butter. Bring | pint of milk to the boil with a little grated lemon peel, draw it to the side of the fire and let it simmer. Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with 1 gill of milk, add it to the rest of theVARIOUS SWEETS 83 milk, and let it boil together for about 8 minutes, add the sugar and butter, and a few drops of vanilla essence, stir well together, and pour into a mould, rinsed out with cold water. This may be made with arrowroot, rice flour, etc. Coffee Blanc-Mange (Cold). This is made exactly as above, only using J pint of strong coffee and ^ pint milk instead of 1 pint milk. Junket (Cold). 1 quart good new milk, 1 dessertspoonful of rennet or 1 of Hansen’s junket tablets, pow- dered cinnamon or nutmeg, cream, and castor sugar. Heat the milk to the temperature of new milk (98 degrees Fahr.), add the rennet, and leave absolutely undisturbed till set. Spread some whipped or clotted cream over it, and dust with grated nutmeg or cinnamon, and castor sugar, and serve. If liked, a little brandy may be added to the milk. When properly set, junket should cut quite clean.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 84 Rhubarb Mould (Cold). 2 quarts rhubarb, 8 oz. loaf sugar, 1 teacupful of water, 1 oz. gelatine, the juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. Cut the rhubarb into small pieces, place these in a covered jar in the oven, together with the water and sugar. When all the juice is drawn out, strain it, and dissolve in it the gelatine, and add the lemon juice and rind. Boil for 4 or 5 minutes. Pour into a mould, and leave to set. Serve with whipped cream or custard. Honeycomb Cream (Cold). 3 teacupsful of milk, 1 teacupful castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, ^ oz. best leaf gelatine, 3 eggs, some jam. Put the milk, sugar, vanilla and gelatine into a pan and dissolve. Stir in the yolks very slowly and stir continuously, till it all thickens, but does not boil. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, stir them in, and turn it all into a mould, in which any jam to taste has been put. Leave in a cool place to set. Apricot Basket (Cold). Line a plain charlotte mould with ratafias, sticking them together with white of egg. HaveVARIOUS SWEETS 85 ready some just liquid lemon jelly, mix a few chopped pistachios with this, and fill up the spaces between the biscuits with the jelly. Leave till set, and fill with apricots previously stewed gently in maraschino flavoured sugar syrup, and left on ice till wanted. Whip some cream with a little castor sugar and vanilla essence, and pile it on the compote; garnish with crystal- lised fruit. Colour some of the whipped cream with a few drops of carmine, and force it out round the edge of the basket with a rose pipe. Make a handle of a thin strip of angeliea. Gooseberry Mould (Cold). 1 pint gooseberries, 2 oz. sugar, a oz. leaf gelatine, and | pint milk. Top and tail the gooseberries, and stew them with the sugar till soft. Soak the gelatine in a little milk, bring | pint of milk to the boil, pour it over the gelatine, and when this is completely dissolved add it to the gooseberries, stir well together, and pour into a wetted mould. Leave to set, and serve either with a rich custard or whipped cream. Lemon Solid (Cold). The rinds and juice of 2 lemons, | oz. best leaf gelatine, 1 pint cream, and ^ lb. castor sugar.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 86 Grate the rind into a basin, and add the juice of the lemons, leave these to soak together for 2 hours covered. Dissolve the gelatine with the cream and sugar, and stir it over the fire till it is absolutely smooth. Let this get quite cool, then mix it with the lemon. Put it into a mould, and leave till set. Tutti-Frutti (Cold). 1^ pints milk, 1 oz. sugar, a stick of vanilla, 1 oz. cornflour, 3 eggs, some fruit, a Httle rum or maraschino syrup, castor sugar,and lemon juice. Mix the cornflour smoothly with a httle of the milk, then mix in the yolks of eggs beaten up. Boil all the rest of the milk, sugar and vanilla together, then add the eggs and cornflour grad- ually, stirring all the time to keep it smooth, and free from lumps ; when the custard cools, stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Mean- while lay some fruit (such as 2 or 3 stoned and stalked cherries, strawberries, bananas, etc., or stewed or bottled fruit, or even glace fruit cut up small) in a glass dish, and pour over this some rum or maraschino S5rrup, a little lemon juice, and a dust of castor sugar ; leave it to soak in this for a little, then pour the custard over the fruit, and leave on ice, or in a cool place till wanted.VARIOUS SWEETS 87 Strawberry Pain (Cold). Crush enough strawberries to a pulp to produce 1 pint, sweeten to taste, and add a little lemon juice. Meanwhile dissolve | oz. of leaf gelatine, add this to the pulp, stirring it all well together until almost setting, then turn into a mould and leave to set. If a tin mould is used, line it first with some lemon jelly. Pain of Gooseberries (Cold). Make 1 quart of gooseberry fool. Dissolve from i to ^ oz. of leaf gelatine, and add it to the gooseberries and cream. Place in a mould lined with a little jelly. Leave it to set in a cool place. Any fruit may be treated in this way. Summer Pudding (Cold). Line a buttered mould or pudding dish with neat slices of bread, fill up with a mixture of stewed fruit to taste, such as currants and rasp- berries or blackberries and apples, etc., lay some crumb of bread on the top. Leave it till next day, then turn out, and serve either with cream or custard.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 88 Velvet Cream (Cold). 1 oz. leaf gelatine, 1 pint milk or cream, 2 eggs, 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar, and a few drops of vanilla. Soak the gelatine in the milk, then bring this to the boil; beat the egg yolks and sugar together, add these to the milk off the fire. Put the egg and milk back on the fire, and stir the custard till it becomes thick but does not boil. Strain it into a basin, flavour with vanilla, and, when almost cold, stir in the stiffly whipped whites. Pour into a wetted mould, and leave to set. Rice Flummery (Cold). 2 tablespoonsful rice flour, rather more than 1 quart of milk, a little thinly pared lemon rind and cinnamon, and flavouring to taste. Mix the rice flour with a little milk. Sweeten and flavour 1 quart of boiled milk with lemon rind and cinnamon, add this to the rice flour. Boil together till thick, flavouring to taste. Mould it, and serve with fruit either stewed or fresh. Floating Island (Cold). 2 whites of egg, 2 tablespoonsful castor sugar essence of almond, some chopped almond, and 1 pint custard.VARIOUS SWEETS 89 Whip the whites of egg very stiffly with the sugar, flavour with the almond essence, and add the chopped almonds. Have ready a greased mould, place the white of egg, etc., in this, not quite filling it, cover it and place in a saucepan of boiling water for 20 minutes. Take the mould out, leave it to get cold, and when ready turn into a glass dish, in which the custard has been placed. Almond Velvet (Cold). 2 macaroons, rather more than 1 pint of milk, 1 oz. cornflour, 1 oz .butter, and some preserved cherries. Crumble up the macaroons, and boil these in 1 pint of milk. Mix the cornflour with the re- mainder of the milk, and stir this into the macaroons and milk ; boil it all for 10 minutes more, and add in the butter. Pour it into a wetted mould, garnish with cherries. Leave it till set. Victoria Sandwich (Cold). 4 oz. flour, 3 oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs, ^ tea- spoonful baking powder, and some jam. Beat the eggs well, add to them the sugar, and finally the sifted flour, with which the baking powder has been thoroughly mixed. ButterPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 90 and paper 2 saudwicli cake tins, put half the mixture into each, bake in a moderate oven for about 15 to 20 minutes. Turn out on a sugared board, let the cakes cool, then spread the jam on one, and lay the other on it. Cut into diamond shapes or serve whole, dusted with castor sugar. Meringues (Cold). To each white of egg allow 2 oz. castor sugar. Whip the egg whites till on taking away the whisk the egg froth stands up in solid points, or is so stiff that it can be cut in two with a knife. Stop beating at once when this point is reached, stir in 2 oz. sugar, to each white of egg, lightly. Lay it in spoonsful on a baking sheet rubbed all over with white wax. Dust them with a little icing sugar, and leave them in an oven for 2 or 3 hours, or till quite crisp and dry. The oven should just feel warm to the hand. If to be filled with cream or jam, take them out of the oven before the bottoms are quite firm, press each of these into a hollow with the back of a spoon, then return them to the oven, bottom side upper- most this time, to dry them properly. When quite dry, put aside to cool before filHng them. These meringues can be kept, if packed in air- tight tins.VARIOUS SWEETS 91 Meringue for Tarts, etc. For this beat the white of egg as described above, only adding 1 oz. of castor sugar to each white in this case. Whatever pudding it is to be put on should first be quite cooked, and then the meringue put on in spoonsful, or forced out with a bag and pipe on to it, and then placed in a cool oven till the meringue is crisp, and just tinged here and there with a very pale yellow. When making meringue it must be sufficiently whipped but not too much, and must be put into a very cool oven. Peach Meringue (Cold). Have ready some meringue mixture made with 2 egg whites and 4 oz. castor sugar, force this out with a bag and pipe on to some tinned peaches, dust with icing sugar, and bake in a very slow oven for 2 or 3 hours. Serve cold with some whipped cream. Fruit Trifle. Line the bottom of a deep glass dish with sliced sponge cakes, or macaroons, pour over this some sugar syrup flavoured with lemon juice. Place on this any nice cooked fruit (or even jam will do), pour over it all a good custard, and finally some whipped cream flavoured to taste.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 92 Gooseberry Trifle (Cold). Cover the bottom of a glass bowl as before with sponge cakes sliced, pour some sherry over them, and leave them to soak. Meanwhile stew some gooseberries with sugar to taste, sieve them, and mix a little cream with them, put them into the bowl, pour some custard over it all, and then whipped cream flavoured to taste. Strawberry Trifle (Cold). Line the glass dish with slices of Madeira cake, and soak this either with cura9oa or cura9oa syrup. Meanwhile stalk the strawberries, halve them, and sprinkle with sugar, lay them in the dish, crumble with them about 2 oz. of ratafias, and cover with whipped cream coloured with a few drops of carmine. Banana Trifle (Cold). Slice some bananas, and lay them in alternate layers with split sponge fingers, in a glass bowl, pour over this some good custard. Cover with whipped cream. Snow Eggs (Cold). 4 eggs, 1 pint of milk, a little salt, vanilla pod, and 1 oz. castor sugar.VARIOUS SWEETS 93 Put the milk into a saucepan with some sugar and vanilla, and bring it slowly to the boil. Beat the whites to a very stiff froth with a pinch of salt, and drop this by spoonsful into the milk; as they set, lift them out carefully on to a dish. Meanwhile beat up the yolks with the remainder of the sugar, pour the milk in the saucepan over these, stirring all the time, then return it to the fire, and stir till it thickens. When it cools, pour over the whites of egg, and serve cold. Fruit Crofltons (Hot). Slice down some stale spongecake or Madeira cake. Stamp out some rounds of these with a cutter, soak them in milk, fry a nice golden brown in butter. Have ready any fruit to taste, fresh or tinned, boil it up in some sugar syrup, flavoured with a spoonful of liqueur syrup to taste. Place the fruit, such as apricots, peaches, etc., on these crusts, and keep it hot. Mean- while boil up the syrup again till thick, then pour it over the fruit, and serve hot, with whipped cream if liked. Melon en Surprise (Cold). Cut off the top of the melon, scoop out the contents carefully, remove the seeds and pith,PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 94 and cut the fruit into small pieces. Meanwhile stand the melon itself on ice. Marinade or soak the fruit for an hour or so, in a little liqueur syrup, lemon juice and castor sugar, then place it back in the melon with some whipped cream, replace the top, again stand on ice till perfectly cold, and serve. Pineapple can be treated in exactly the same way ; if there is not enough of the fruit to fill the pine, some tinned pineapple can be added, marinading it all in the syrup and liqueur syrup to taste. Madeira Cake with Bananas (Cold). Slice a stale Madeira cake horizontally. Mean- while peel and mash 6 bananas with a spoonful of strawberry jam, a little castor sugar, and moisten- ing it with a little lemon juice ; add to it rather more than one-third its bulk in either rich custard or whipped cream. Spread the slices of cake with this ; put them back on one another in shape, and cover with sweetened and flavoured whipped cream. Fruit Brioche (Hot). Scoop out the inside of a brioche cake (or any nice cake will do, though the result is notVARIOUS SWEETS 95 so good), and keep this hot. Decorate the out- side with “ hundreds and thousands.” Mean- while peel, seed, and cut up any fruit to taste, such as bananas, pears, grapes, cherries, pine- apple, etc. Boil this up in a sugar syrup, flavoured with maraschino, or Kirsch syrup, put it back in the cake, put on the top, and serve very hot. Iced Fruit Fool (Cold). Make any fruit fool, such as gooseberry fool, and freeze it to a thick batter in a freezer, such as the American Ice Freezer (sold at 3s. llld., and therefore well within everyone’s reach). If this is not obtainable, put it into a clean tin pail, cover down very closely, and bury it in ice and freezing salt, in the proportions of 2 parts ice to 1 of salt ; only in this case the cover must be taken off occasionally, to stir up the fruit from the bottom and sides to ensure its setting evenly and smoothly. Fruit Moscovite (Cold). Pass 1 pint of fresh fruit pulp or jam through a sieve with .3 or 4 oz. castor sugar. Make 1 pint of rich custard, and stiffen it with | oz. leaf gelatine ; when this is quite dissolved, stir inPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 96 the fruit, place this on ice, and whip till quite cold or beginning to set, then stir in | pint stiffly whipped cream, the juice of a lemon and a wine- glassful of liqueur syrup to taste. Put this into a mould, place it in an ice cave, or if this is not available, put the mould into a pail of ice and salt, cover it up tightly with its lid, or if it has not got one, cover it with the inverted lid of a biscuit tin, placing more ice and salt on this, taking great care that neither of these comes in contact with the mixture. Leave it in the ice for 2 or 3 hours, then take the mould out, dip it in just tepid water, wipe with a clean cloth, turn out and serve. Any fruit or jam can be used in this way, and any rich custard or cream, provided the gelatine is added. Coffee Moscovite (Cold). Boil 1 quart of milk, and add to this ^ tea- cupful of strong coffee, and rather over | oz. of gelatine ; when nearly cold, stir in 1| pints of stiffly whipped cream or custard, and a wine- glassful of maraschino syrup. Finish as before.97 G INDEX Almond Velvet, 89 Apricot Basket, 84 Batter, 46 Bavarois Chocolate, 66 Cocoa, 66 Coffee, 69 Blancmange, 82 Brown Betty, 35 Charlotte, Apple, 41 Apricot, 67 Russe, 67 Cheesecakes, 13 Cocoanut, 17 Mixtime, 13 Coffee, Moscovite, 96 Compote of Apples, 81 Bananas, 81 Pears, 81 Cream, Banana, 65 Barley, 63 Ginger, 62 Gooseberry, 61 Honeycomb, 84 Italian, 67 Italian Strawberry, 65 Lemon, 65 Orange, 63 Strawberry, 62 Vanilla, 64 Velvet, 88 Walnut, 68 Creme des lies, 30 Custard, Almond, 58 P,S. Custard, Apple, 59 Blackberry, 59 Boiled, 56 Chocolate, 56 Coffee, 57 Marmalade, 19 Pineapple, 60 Pudding, 57 Proportions for, 55 Raspberry, 60 Empress Rice, 68 Eclairs, 17 Fool, Currant, 82 Coffee, 83 Gooseberry, 82 Iced Fruit, 95 Floating Island, 88 Frangipani, 18 Fritters, 46, 49 Apple, 50 Banana, 51 Custard, 51 Pancakes, 49 Polish, 51 Fruit Ballettes, 61 Brioche, 94 Chartreuse, 75 CroTitons, 93 Moscovite, 95 Salad, 89 Gooseberry Mould, 85 Gateau St. Honor, 18INDEX 98 Jelly, Coffee, 76 Claret, 74 Cream, 75 Lemon, 73 Orange, 73 Prune, 74 Raspberry, 74 Ribbon, 75 To Line Moulds with, 72 To Turn out, 72 Jellies, Fruit, 76 ^Vine, 76 Fruit and Wine, 70 To Clear, 71 To Mould, 72 Junket, 83 Lemon, Solid, 85 Madeira Cake with Bananas, 94 Maids of Honour, 16 Melon en Surprise, 03 Meringues, 90 for Tarts, 91 Peach, 91 Mince Meat, 14 Pies, 14 Moscovite, Fruit, 05 Coffee, 96 Omelet, Chocolate, 54 Fruit, 53 Rum, 53 Souffle, 53 Sweet, 52 Pain, Strawberry, 87 of Gooseberries, 87 Pancakes, 47 Apple, 48 Batter for, 45 Cream, 48 French, 47 and Fritters, to Cook, 45 Indian, 49 Pastry Choux, 11 Cream, 18 Puff, 10 Short Crust, 9 Suet, 12 without Butter, 10 Petits Choux, 18 Pudding Albert, 25 Almond, 36 Amber, 27 Angel, 34 Apple, 15 Apple Amber, 19 Austrian Sponge, 39 Baked Batter and Cherry, 39 Baked Rice, 30 Bake well, 20 Banana, 28 Batter, 40 Bread and Butter, 33 Breadcrumb, 40 Cabinet, 33 Caramel, 57 Cherry, 26 Chestnut Normandy, 32 Chocolate, 26 Danish, 37 Date, 28 Frosted, 36 Harvest, 35 Hasty, 31 Ginger, 25 Green Gooseberry, 26 Guards, 28 Lemon, 24 Manchester, 20 Marmalade, 29 Muslin, 27 Nassau, 19 Orange, 37 Paradise, 29 Plum, 24 Preserved Ginger, 29 Queen, 35 Rice, 30INDEX 99 Pudding, continued— Roly-Poly, 23 Saxony, 31 Sponge, 40 Spongecake, 41 Strawberry, 32 Suet, 23 Summer, 87 Tapioca, 30 Thatched, 38 Transparent, 20 Viennese, 34 Rhubarb Mould, 84 Rice Flummery, 88 Snow Eggs, 92 Sponge, Chocolate, 78 Lemon, 77 Orange, 79 Peach, 78 Pineapple, 78 Raspberry, 77 Souffles Beignets, 50 Chocolate, 44 Lemon, 44 Orangeflower Water, 44 j Pineapple, 45 : Rice, 45 I Vanilla, 43 Tart, Gooseberry, 12 Lemon, 21 Mulberry Cream, 14 I Treacle, 16 1 Tartlets, Fruit, 13 j Manon, 17 Tourte a la Bourgeoise, 15 Trifle, Banana, 92 Fruit, 91 Gooseberry, 92 Strawberry, 92 Turnovers, 12 Tutti Frutti, 86 i Victoria Sandwich, 89 t Butler & Tanner, The Sehvood Printing Works, Frome, and London.TEN SHILLINGS A HEAD PER WEEK EOR HOUSE BOOKS AN INDISPENSABLE MANUAL FOR HOUSEKEEPERS Menus^ Recipes^ Hints and Advice for the Single Handed Cook By Mrs. C. S. PEEL Crown 8vo. 3s. ^d. Contents. Hints on General Management.—Menus for the ios. a head Housekeeper and the Single Handed Plain Cook.—Showing HOW the foregoing Menus may be managed.—Sauces.—Fish.— Luncheon Dishes.—Substantial Cold Supper Dishes.—Eco- nomical Entrees.—Vegetables and Salads.—Puddings and Sweets. — Savouries. — Sandwiches. — Breakfast Dishes. — Cakes, Scones, Biscuits and Buns. THE QUEEN.—“A most valuable manual, which will rescue many a young housekeeper from despair . . . giving plain and practical details of how to produce a really palatable and attractive menu for a sum often deerned impossible by all but the most exper- ienced housewives. She gives full details, recipes that can be under- stood even by the unlearned and carried out by the plainest of plain cooks, besides giving a wealth of valuable advice on various domestic matters that are formidable rocks to the inexperienced wife. A better gift for the young housekeeper it would be difficult TO FIND.” WOMAN.—" Her book is practical, exact, copious, and reliable. 1 have never before seen so much sense in a cookery-book/* HEARTH AND HOME.—“Mrs. Peel, who is well known to Hearth and Home readers, appreciates the difiSculties which the domestic reformer has to encounter, and her advice is based upon experience and knowledge. She has written a business-like book m a business-hke way, and each group of recipes is prefaced by a few explanatory remarks, without which many mistresses would be X ,V the ignorant mistress to better things, and it is full of shrewd advice of which the practised hand need not be ashamed to acknowledge the utility.”THE SINGLE HANDED COOK Soups, Sauces, Glazes, Batters.—The Rendering down and Clarifying of Fat.—Fish.—Meat Dishes.—Poultry and Game.—Vegetables and Salads.—Puddings (Baked, Boiled, Steamed), Shapes, Creams, Jellies, Custards, Pastry.— Savouries and Breakfast Dishes.—Cakes, Buns, Biscuits and Scones.—The Management of the Oven.—Index. HEARTH AND HOME.—“The book is well arranged, the recipes are very clearly written, and, as Mrs. Peel mentions in the preface, sufficiently inexpensive to be included in the menu of the ten-shillings-a-head housekeeper.” SHEFFIELD DAILY TELEGRAPH.— ' It is practical and absolutely reliable, and deserves to meet with unqualified success.” MORE RECIPES Mrs. C. S. PEEL Author of “ Ten Shillings a Head per Week for House Books,” etc Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. Contents. LIVERPOOL MERCURY.—“ Mrs. Peel’s recipes are charac- terised by simplicity, and in following her hints the necessity of digging deep into one’s coffers does not arise.”HOW TO KEEP HOUSE By Mrs. C. S. PEEL Author of “ Ten Shillings a Head per Week for House The Importance of Good Housekeeping.—Setting up House. —Division of Income.—Duties of the Mistress.—Servants AND THEIR DUTIES.—ThE ENGAGEMENT AND DISMISSAL OF SeR- vants.—Sanitation of the House.—Care of the Linen.- Warming and Lighting.—Hostess and Guest.—How to Clean. —Weights and Measures.—Household Ready Reckoner.— Income and Wages Table. THE QUEEN. “ The very book many harassed housemistresses have long been sighing for. A better present for a young wife setting up housekeeping would be hard to find.” THE TIMES.—" A useful and very practical manual.” Books" etc Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. Contents. HEARTH AND HOME—“ Woi by Mrs. Peel’s book will be better better members of the community.’ Women who read and are guided stter wives, better mistresses, and MORNING POST. ' advice.” This practical work offers excellentTHE NEW HOME Treating oj the Arrangement^ Decoration^ and Furnishing of a House of medium size^ to be maintained by a moderate income By Mrs. C. S. PEEL Author of “ Ten Shillings a Head per Weeh for House Books," etc FULLY ILLUSTRATED Second Edition. Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. Contents. House Hunting.—House versus Flat.—Some Hints on the General Arrangement of the House.—Methods of Lighting. —Kitchen and Offices.—Hall and Staircase.—Dining Room. —Morning Room and Smoking Room.—Drawing Room.—Bed- rooms.—Nurseries and the Schoolroom.—Box-room, House- maid’s Pantry, Linen Cupboard, Bath-room, Servants Bed- room.—Curtains, Blinds, Batterie de Cuisine, House Linen, Blankets, Plate, Cutlery, Glass, China, etc. IN this book Mrs. Peel has placed her great experience at the disposal of those who are face to face with the great problem : “ Where are we to live? ” and “ How are we to furnish a house or flat with taste and comfort at a moderate expenditure ? ” WOMAN.—" Those who feel unable to cope with the subject of ‘ the house beautiful ’ without advice, should seek guidance from Mrs. C. S. Peel, who, in her new book. The New Home, offers some delightful and practieal suggestions upon this interesting topic. Her words appeal to a very wide class, and will bring relief to many a home where a real desire for pretty rooms exists. Its many chapters, written by an acknowledged authority, eannot fail to be ^^THE ACADEMY.—“A practical work. . . . We recommend sun.—" a useful book, treating of the arrange- ment, decoration and furnishing of a house of medium size, to be maintained by a moderate income. It contains many useful hints, and by means of illustrations gives good ideas of how best to arrange a house, and to provide useful accessories.” THE DAILY GRAPHIC.—. . . “ The book is eminently practi- cal and fully illustrated, while its price places it within the reach of all-”>1y 1! . 1 y ♦ r Is'' V % I * I 4 > i \