44 BURNS. [«ooK IV. In tlie ' Etiporista' Cimolian earth, litharge and oil, and many other applications are recommended. Actuarius recommends a composition of Htharge, ceruse, wax, turpentine, and some other articles of less importance. We need scarcely mention how much the oil of turpentme has been used of late in such cases. He praises such things as are moderately astringent, such as alum dissolved in vinegar, &c. Celsus recommends at first such things as are, " mediocriter exedentia reprimentiaque," and afterwards articles of a soothing nature. To the former class belong the farina of lentUs and honey ; myrrh with urine, or the Cimolian chalk, with the baxk of frankincense; and to the latter belong all fatty apphcations, and such things as contain the dross of lead and the yelks of eggs. He also mentions turpentine rosin, as an application to foul ulcers from burning. Serapion, Uke our author, recommends appHcations which are moderately detergent, and neither very calefacient nor re- frigerant. He gives the following directions for making a preparation from lime. Take of Ume, seven times washed in sweet water and dried, oz. viij; of wax, oz. ij; of oil of roses, oz.A-j : let the wax be melted along with the oil, and well mixed with lime. This is to be rubbed into the part. He also gives a prescrintion for preparing a mixture of lime-water and oil, exactly simdar to that which is nowused in cases of burns, (vu, 28.) Avicenna, with his usual accuracy, lays down very particular rules for the treatment of bm-ns. To prevent bhsters from rising he recommends cooling tHngs; when the burning is oc- casioned by hot water, he dii-ects us to apply sandals, rose- water, and camphor: or a cloth dipped in congealed water is to be kept constantly applied, and it wiU prevent blisters from rising. Most of the applications recommended by oui' author are also mentioned by him. Haly Abbas directs us to apply a cloth cooled in rose-water. He also speaks of the ointment of lime and rose-oil, mentioned above. When the bui-mng is not severe, Alsaharavius directs us in the first place to wash the part with vinegar and salt, and then to sprinkle upon it the flour of barley or of oats. Then if blisters do not rise, but there is a sensation of burniug in the part, he recommends us to apply cloths dipped in cold water, rose-water, or snow-water,