[book VI. 482 LUXATIONS. Comm. tliree or four dilferent times. At lastj owing to circumstances ' ^ ' which it is unnecessary to explain, an intei'val of more than a day elapsed between the accident and the reduction. By this time she was become seriously indisposed, and died a few days afterwards with all the symptoms described by Hippocrates, We may mention also that Heister states that fatal con- sequences may result from the accident. (Chirurg. p. i, iii, 4.) The same thing is affirmed also by Brunus (Chirurg. Mag. i) ; by Theodoricus (ii, 43) ; and by Guido de Cauliaco (v, 3.) That species of sub-luxation described by Hippocrates, is mentioned by Guy of Cauliac in the following terms: " Man- dibnla quandoque moUificatnr." (v, 3.) SECT. CXIII. ON THE CLAVICLE AND ACROMION. The clavicle, at its inner extremity, is not liable to dislo- cation, for there it is articulated with the sternum, where it admits of no motion. Bvit if from any sudden and violent force from without, it should be torn from its place, it is to be subjected to the same treatment as a fracture. And its ex- tremity which is articulated with the shoulder does not readily fall out of the joint, being prevented by the biceps muscle and the acromion. But neither does the clavicle admit any strong peculiar motion of its own, being made solely for the expansion of the thorax, and hence man is the only animal which has a clavicle. If it should sometimes happen to be dislocated in wrestling, it is to be replaced with the hand, assisted by the application of many-folded compresses, together with con- venient bandages. When the acromion is sub-luxated it may be restored to its proper place by the same treatment. It is a small cartilaginoxis bone connecting the clavicle to the scapula, which is not to be seen in the skeletons. This, if moved a little from its place, exhibits the appearance to inexperienced persons of the head of the arm being dislocated; for the top of the shoulder appears sharper, and there is a hollow fi-om which it was removed; but the cases are to be distinguished from one another by the symptoms about to be enumerated. Comm. Commentaby. The dislocation of the outer end of the cla- '"-^ vicle from the acromion is treated of by Hippocrates, who gives