41 SECT. X.] PHLYCTiENiE. the epinyctis of the ancients was. It would appear to have been some peculiar species of eczema, now extinct. It must have been a more formidable disease than the nettle-rash, which certain modern authorities have taken for the epinyctis of the ancients. SECT. X. ON PHLYCTiEN^ OR BULL^. As Bullae when they burst spontaneously are attended with acute pain, it is proper to perforate at their under part with a sharp needle, and then to squeeze out the humour gently, suffering the skin which covers it to remain. And if the wound should close up and the buUse fill up, it is to be evacu- ated again in like manner, and pressed out; and the incum- bent skin is to be kept pressed down until the ulcer below be healed. Before the bullae break, apply boiled lentils triturated with water; or, the shoots of pomegranate, having been warmed upon hot coals, are to be applied, so as to burn the parts. But if they burst and form an ulcer, having melted axunge, and mixed levigated litharge, put into a linen cloth, and apply • or, having boiled the root of lily in water, triturate it with cerate, and apply. For epinyctis andphhjctcBna. Having triturated equal portions of litharge and sulphur vivum with vinegar and myrtle-oil, until It become of the thickness of the sordes of baths, rub with oH and wine. For hot eruptions, warm papulcc, achores, incipient mmnculus, and burns, the composition of plumbago, and that from eggs is applicable. Commentary. See Aetius (xiv, 63); Oribasius (Morb. C( < C!urat.m,23)jActuarius(Meth.Med.vi,8); Avicenna(iii, 3,1,11 ) ^ ITiis appears to be the pompholyx of Drs. Willau and «ateman. Aetms remarks, that the disease principally attacks * women whose menses are obstructed. (Bateman says, "it ' seems to affect only women.'') He recommends emmenagogues, ! laxatives, and diuretics, and forbids all acrid things. Our author copies the whole from Oribasius. Actuarius recommends nearly the same applications. Celsus describes the ^)hlyctacuaj as a variety of the pustulaj.