SECT. Lxxxii.] EXCISION OF VARICES. 407 tliread we cut the double of it, and opening the vein in the middle with a lancet, evacuate as much blood as may be re- quired. Then having tied the upper part of the vessel with one of the ligatures, and stretched the leg, we evacuate the blood in the limb by compression with the hands. Then having tied the lower part of the vein, we may either cut out the portion in- termediate between the ligatures, or suffer it to remain until it drop out of its own accord with the ligatures; then we have to put a dry pledget into the wound, and apply over it an oblong compress soaked in wine and oil, and secure them with a band- age, and accomplish the cure by the treatment applicable in cases of suppuration. I am aware that some of the ancients do not use ligatures, but cut out the vessel immediately after it is laid bare, whilst others stretch it from below and tear it out by force. But the mode of operating now described is of all others the safest. Varices on the hypogastrium may be treated in hke manner, and those on the temples as described in the operation of angiology. Commentary. Hippocrates directs us to make small punc- Comm. tures in varices of the leg, but forbids to open them freely. (De ' * ' Ulceribus, 16.) In the Hippocratic treatise entitled ' Hippi- atrica,' it is recommended to burn varices in the legs of liorses. Celsus treats ingeniously of varices on the head (aneurism hj anastamosis) on the beUy (cirsocele ?), and on the leg. With regard to the treatment, he says, in a word, that they are all either to be burnt or cut out. If the varix be straight, or if, although transverse, it consist of a single vein of moderate size, it wiU be better, he says, to burn it. If crooked and con- voluted, and if it consist of a multitude of veins, it will be more useful to cut them out. He directs us, in burning them, to make an incision in the skin, and having laid bare the vein to touch it with a slender blunt piece of iron red-hot, taking care not to bum the edges of the wound which are to be drawn aside with hooks. This is to be done at intervals of about four fingers along the whole extent of the varix, and then the dressings for bums are to be applied. The varix is cut out in this way. The vein is to be exposed as above directed, and dissected with a scalpel from the surrounding parts (care being