38 EXANTHEMATA. [book iv. Comm. ii, H ; i, 23); Celsus (v, 28) ; Pseudo-Dioscor. (Euporist. i, 106; Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 17; Pract. iv, 8). As stated in another place, the Greeks used the arm exan- thema in a much laxer signification than it is applied m Dr. WilWs ' System of Cntaneons Diseases.^ Hippocrates m par- *' . -. 1 _• 44- i-n -ircimrvllH P nSSRS OI vviiian s • oysLtjm ui x^u.i-""'-""- . „„ ticular may be mentioned as applying it to yanons classes of these affections. Alexander describes the exanthemata of the head as superficial ulcerations, which are red and rough. Does he allude to porrigo? He recommends for the cure of them a composition of litharge, ceruse, alum, the green leayes of rue, vinegar: and mjnrtle oil. t i i „ t-^ Galen says that exanthemata is a term apphed by some to all ulceratiye and rough aftections of the skin, which, according to Archigenes, stand in need of desiccatiye apphcations. in another place he mentions the exanthemata as a common symptom of the plague. Aetius in like manner giyes from Herodotus an interesting account of feyers which are accom- panied with exanthemata. Both haye been supposed to aUude to the smallpox, but we agree with Dr. WHlan, that this mter- pretation of their descriptions is altogether fanciful. Our author follows Oribasius closely. According to Actuarius exanthemata, properly speaking, axe produced by thick humours either formed in the skm or in the Ihole body; and being detained by the density of the epidermis. Celsus describes the exanthemata under the generic tei-m pustule. His words are : "Earum plura genera sunt ^Jam modo circa totum corpus partemye asperitudo qusedam fit, similis iis pustulis, qu^ ex urtic^, yel ex sudore nascuntur : tl.av^wara Gr^ci yocant. Eeeque modo rubent, modo colorem cutis non excedunt " Eor pustules of aU kinds he recommends exercise, restricted diet, and abstinence from all things of an acrid and attenuant nature, which regimen is Hkemse to be enforced upon the nurse, if the chHd be at the breast. If the patient be strong, he is also to be put into the hot bath, and rubbed with natron and a mixture of wine and oil. If this treatment does not succeed lentils are to be applied, especially if the pustules be large; and after the outer skin has been removed they are to be treated with gentle applications. Such is the plan oi cure recommended by the great Roman authority. His direc- tions respecting the diet are particularly important, and appear