146 WORMS. [book IV. Comm. water is to be given, and a clyster of warm water administered. —' He also recommends wormseed and the shavings of hart's horn. Marcellus mentions the same remedies. Serenus Sainonicus recommends hartshorn, calamint, garlic, southernwood, coriander, pennyroyal, horehound, &c. The beginning of the chai^ter of Cselins Am-eHanus on lum-T^ bici unfortunately is lost. He mentions the usual symptoms which accompany them, namely, occasional dehquium, agita- tion, grinding of the teeth, change of colour, convulsions, &c. Worms are discharged by the mouth or anus, sometimes sin- gle, and at other times in great numbers rolled up in a ball; sometimes dead, and at other times alive; and they are of various colours. For ascarides .he recommends when there is inflammation of the rectum an injection of oil, to wliich may sometimes be joined a decoction of wormwood and centaury. But if bloody scrapings of the bowels are discharged, he directs us to give a decoction of pomegranate-rind, and, if the com- plaint continue, equal parts of burnt paper and of arsenic, to the amount of six drs., with the infusion of plantain. Surely there must be some mistake as to the amount of the dose, for so great a quantity could not be injected with safety. When there is putrefaction he recommends an injection of salt water, with other suitable remedies. When comphcated with any other disorder he properly directs us to pay attention to it; after which the animals may readily be discharged by drinking oil, or a decoction of sebesten plums (myxfe), or of Hquorice : these things, he says, will obviate constriction and sweUing, while by lubricating the bowels they will promote the discharge of the worms. When complicated with relaxation he recommends astringents externally and internally, such as vinegar with honey, lupine, the sha^dngs of hart's horn, &c. Sometimes, he says, in order to expel them we must have recourse to acrid substances, such as onions, garhc, mustard, cresses, cai-damus, assafoetida dissolved in -sdnegar, wormwood, &c. In stating the detail of the treatment he mentions various other anthelmin- tics, such as the hiera of aloes, gentian, mulberries, squills, spui-ge, alkanet, colocynth, and scammony. All these things may be given bv the mouth or in injections, with a considera- ble admixture of oil. For the lumbricus latus he directs, first, an emetic of oil, and next day a clyster with nitre or salt.