[book vj. 350 TIIYMI. aeris, with lioney, or to pomegranate-rind and tare, in the form of those applications which are made upon a pledget. And if there be a hemorrhage, we must use lunated caiiterieSj which contribute to two good purposes: I mean the stoppage of the bleeding, and of the spreading sore.. But if the whole glans be consumed, having introduced a leaden tube into the' urethra, we direct the patients to make water through it. Comm. Gommentary. See a similar description in Albucasis. ■ (Chirurg, ii, 57.) Albucasis describes the mode of performing the operation on boys, as a rite of the Jewish religion. He directs the prepuce to be cut with a pair of scissors, and the part allowed to bleed freely. From the manner in which he ex- presses himself respecting the operation, there can be no doubt that he was a Jew, and it is equally clear that our author was a Pagan. Fabricius ab Aquapendente describes a similar operation. (CEuv. Chirurg. ii, .64.) Guide de Gauliaco directs us to draw the prepuce forwards, and cut it off; after which the bleeding is to be stopped with powders, or the cautery, (vi, 2.) SECT. LVIII. OF THYMI ON THE PENIS. Thymi are fleshy excrescences, forming sometimes upon the glans, and sometimes upon the prepuce; and some of them ai'e malignant, and some are not. Those which are of a mild nature it will be proper to pare away with the edge of a scalpel, and sprinkle the part with chalcitis; but when malignant, the part must be burned after they are removed. If there be thyiui on both sides of the prepuce, some internal and others external, we must not attempt all at the same time, lest by mistake we should cut off the prepuce, which is thin; but we must first cut off the internal, and, when they are healed, we may next attempt the external. Some of the modems effect a cure by cutting them off with a pair of scissors, and by binding them with a horse- hair ; as, in like manner, some burn them with the cold cautery. Comm. Gommentary. AlbucRsis copies our author's description. * ' (Ghirurg. ii, 56.) When the tumour is of a malignant nature.