KCT. VIII.] TRICHIASIS. 259 It is evident that this operation is neither more nor less than a complete division of the integuments of the head from temple to temple; of course it must even have been more dangerous tlian the operation treated of in the last section. Aetius, Haly Abbas, and Albucasis describe it in the same terms as our au- thor. The periscyphismus and hypospathismus are briefly noticed in the ' Isagoge.' Fabricius ab Aquapendente treats of these operations among tliose of the ancients, qui ne sont plus en usage (CE. C. ii, iv); oven Tagliacozzi speaks of them as being cruel and dangerous! However, a sm-gical operation, similar in principle, caUed the "long issue of the scalp,^' is still practised in certain hospitals of Great Britain. See the 'Transactions of the Provincial Association,' (vol. xi.) SECT. VIII. ON SUTURE OP THE UPPER EYELID, AND OTHER MODES OF OPERATING FOR TRICHIASIS. Distichiasis is a preternatural growth of hairs, superadded ito the natural order of hairs of the eyehds; and derives its ►origin from a defluxion, when there happens to be a flow upon Irhepart of a humour which is not pungent or acrid; for that which IS more acrid, saltish, or otherwise pungent, when it rtodges m these parts, consumes the natural series of hairs. For l^his state then we sometimes have recourse to the suture of the Supper eyehd, and sometimes also for phalangosis when the eyeUd r,.nclines inward, the phalanx or row of the hairs being inverted • and sometimes for relaxation of the eyelid, when the natural B'ow of hairs hui-ts the ball of the eye. Having placed the patient ran a seat, either before us or on the left hand, we turn the pipper eyehd outwards, and, if it has long hairs, we take hold ^t them between the index-finger and thumb of the left hand • mt If they are very short we push a needle having a thread! ^rough the middle of the tarsus from within outwards; then rtretching the eyelid with the left hand by means of his thread »nth the point of a scalpel held in the right hand, having folded mt the eyehd and everted it, behind the thread we make the mder-incision within the hairs which irritate the eye, extending the larger canthus to the smaller, along the tarsus. After