56 ABSCESSES. [book iv. au epispastic : Of ammoniac perfume, oz. vj ; of ^ wax, of tur- pentine, of eacli, oz. iv; of sulphur vivum, oz. iij; of natron, oz. iij; and tlie appHcation caUed smilium, and that from gar- lic are strongly calculated to promote tlie breaking of abscesses abeady formed. But that wbicb consists of the juice of lin- seed dissipates, changes, and bursts abscesses most aptly. For the mHder sorts of abscesses, those also which were mentioned for parotis will apply. These observations apply to an abscess following phlegmon. But, Galen says, that an abscess will sometimes take place without being preceded by inflammation, in which case, it has its origin from good blood. For at the commencement, he says, owing to some humoui-, excoriation takes place, and in process of time, the containing pai-ts are separated from those below. And, therefore, when opened, they appear to contain within them all kinds of fluid and solid bodies. For, bodies resembling dung, urine, thrombus, a honey or mucus-like humour, bones, nails, and hairs, have been found in abscesses. And even animals have been found very like to those which derive their origin from putrefaction. Nay, they afiirm that, more particularly in chronic abscesses from metastasis, bodies have been formed resembling stones, sand, shells, wood, coals, clay, the sordes of the oil of baths, the lees of oil, and the lees of wine. Wherefore, we shaU now give a succinct account of abscesses, more especially such as are seated in the external parts of the body, and those which do not admit of resolution by medicines. An abscess, then, is a cor- ruption and change of the flesh or fleshy parts, such as muscles, veins, and arteries. Of them, some are contained in a cyst, as atheroma, steatoma, and mehceris, and others are formed without a cyst, and are properly called by the generic name, and of them we have now to treat. The formation of an ab- scess then is most commonly preceded by inflammation, as we have stated, but sometimes it arises at once originally, as we have just now mentioned. An abscess, then, is attended with strong heat of the place, the swelling becomes greater and more red than formerly, and is hard, with a pungent pain, throbbing, and weight, so that it seems as if something were suspended from the part. And if the part be a vital one, fever supervenes with irregular rigors, and the pain and fever are greatest at night. Sometimes too a bubo is formed in the