WORMS. 150 [book IV. Comm. physiological doctrine. (See Hist, des Moeurs et de V Instinct des Animaux, ii, 131.) Mr. Madden, the traveller, relates that the bark of the pomegranate is still considered in the east as a specific, not only for ascarides, but also for the tape-worm. He says, " I have rarely seen it fail in the cure of ttenia. They make a decoction of two oz. of the fresh bark in a pint of watei", this they drink daily till the worm is expelled, which it gene- rally is the third day." (Travels in Egypt, ii, 371.) SECT. LIX. ON DRACUNCULDS, OR THE GUINEA-WORM. In India and the upper parts of Egypt a class of worms called dracunculi, resembling the intestinal, are formed in the muscular parts of the body, such as the arms, thighs, legs, and in the sides of children, under the skin ; and they move in a perceptible manner. Then in process of time at the extremity of the dracunculus matter is formed in the part, and the skin being opened the head of the dracunculus comes forth. But if the worm be dragged it occasions pains, and particularly when it breaks. Wherefore some say that it is proper to fix a piece of lead to the worm in order that its discharge may not take place at once, but gradually with the weight of the lead. Some disappro%ang of this practice, inasmuch as the worm is apt to break with the weight of the lead and occasion violent pains, direct the part to be put into hot water, in order that the dracunculus being warmed may come forward, when it is to be seized with the fingers and dragged forth by degrees. But Soranus is of opinion that the dracunculus is not an animal originally, but a nervous concretion, which has only the ap- pearance of moving. Whether this or the former be the true account of the matter, it appears to Soranus, Leonides, and others, that they are to be treated with the affusion of wai-m water, and digestive cataplasms made of honied water and the flour of wheat or barley; and they approve of sometimes using a plaster possessed of similar properties. "VSlierefore that from bay-berries, and the one from honey are proper. For by the use of these the dracunculus or concretion dies and falls out. But when suppuration takes place, if it does not fall out, the skin is to be divided, and the part being laid open, that which