[book IV. ELEPHANTIASIS. 12 Comm. We now proceed to the Arabians. Avicenna gives a very circumstantial account of elephanti- asis, under the name of juzam or judam, which his translator renders by lepra. He caUs it a cancer of the whole body, wHch arises from black bUe, and is sometimes attended with ulceration, and is sometimes without it. The disease, he says, is contagious : it is produced by Hving upon the flesh of asses, lentils, &c., and is endemic in Alexandi-ia. It is sometimes csRed leonina, because the face assumes the stern appeai-ance of the lion's. He states that, although it begins internally, its first symptoms are manifested on the extremities. He then describes minutely the symptoms, namely, redness of the face, inclining to Hvidity; falling off of the hairs, enlargement of the veins, affection of the breathing, thickening, and discoloration of the lips; and afterwards ulceration of different parts of the body, corrosion of the cartilages of the nose, then falling off of the nose and extremities, loss of voice, &c. The treatment he gives with great minuteness, but as it is little different from that of the Greeks, we need scarcely enter upon it. Sufl&ce it to say that he mentions early bleeding, purging with hellebore, colo- cynth, scammony, &c.; the theriac of vipers, the application of the cautery to the head, and so forth. Enough has been said to show that this description apphes to the elephantiasis of the Greeks. Considerable confusion, however, has arisen in consequence of his translator applying the term elephantia to a very different disease, namely, to an enlargement of the leg with varicose veins, now generally known by the name of the Barbadoes leg. This complaint he directs to be treated at first with local bleeding and astringents; but when ulceration takes place, it is to be remedied only by amputation. Serapion, in hke manner, describes the elephantiasis of the \ Greeks by the name of lepra. The face, he says, is swelled, livid, and covered with hard pustules, the hairs of the eyebrows fall off, the whole aspect becomes hideous, the voice is changed, the perspiration becomes vitiated, and ulceration seizes different parts of the body. The disease, he says, takes its origin from the liver, in which the office of sanguification is improperly per- formed. His remedies are bleeding, hellebore, the theriac, &c. Avenzoar describes the lepra as a cancer arising from contact ■with other lepers, or from unwholesome food. He recommends