459 ARM. SECT. XCIX.] position. If inflammation should come on (wMcli we know by the swelling and redness aroiind, and from the limb being more tightly bound than formerly), or if the fracture become de- ranged, or if, without these occurring, the bandages become slacker, or, on the other hand, tighter than proper, the band- ages are to be loosed and everything rectified. The patient is CO be laid in a supine position, with his hand upon his stomach, and a soft pillow is to be placed under the arm having a skin upon it to receive the embrocations which run from it. The part is to be bathed with warm oil every day, more especially if inflammation be present, and during the time of inflamma- tion he is to be fed sparingly, and afterwards moderately, to promote the growth of callus. He must lie quiet imtil the callus is fonned, which, in the arm and leg, takes place about the fortieth day. After this the bandages are to be loosed, and after using the bath he is to be treated with plasters suit- able to fractiu'es. This mode of procedure is appHcable in almost all cases of fracture of limbs. Commentary. Hippocrates's account of fracture of the os Comm. humeri, as quoted by Paulus, is from the eighth chapter of his '—*—' work ' De Fractuiis,' but our author has used considerable li- berties in making the extract. The mode of using the piece of wood for suspending the arm is easily understood, from his own description without the commentary of Galen. (Seep. 541, t. V, ed. BasU.) In the edition by Littre it is, moreover, well illustrated by a drawing. (T. iii, p. 445.) He directs the splints not to be applied until the seventh day, in order to give time for the inflammation and swelling to subside. He says, the bone gets consolidated in about forty days. He justly remarks, that when distortion of the arm takes place it is to the outside, that is to say, backwards. His method of bandaging for fractures of the arm and fore-arm was the same. He directs us in the first place to put a cerate to the part, and then to apply the first bandage, beginning at the fracture, and carrying it two or three turns upwards, so as to prevent the blood from falling down into the part. The second bandage is to commence above the frac- ture, and is to be carried downwai'ds. Afterwards splenia or oblong compresses, spread with cerate, are to be laid over them, and these are to be secured by strips of linen cloth. These