288 MEATUS AUDITORIUS. [book vi. i glass retain their original magnitude, but the beans and stones of carobs being swelled with the natural moisture of the body, occasion very severe pains. They must therefore be extracted by an earpick, a hook, or tweezers, or by using powerful shak- ing of the head, while the ear is placed upon some circular board. In like manner we extract bodies frequently by suck- ing them through a reed; and do the like with water when it falls into the ear, covering up the outside of the reed with wax when it is applied to the ear in order that there may be no outlet to the breath. Stones and such like bodies we extract by wrapping wool around an earpick, and smearing it with turpen- | tine-rosin, or some glutinous substance and introducing it | gently into the meatus auditorius. If it does not yield we in- | troduce a sternutatory into the nose and close the mouth and | nostrils. If it yield to none of these, before inflammation, | convulsions, and dangerous symptoms supervene, we must bring it away by a surgical operation. Wherefore, having placed the patient in a proper position with his ear turned upwards, at the base of the ear, behind what is called the lobe, we make a small lunated incision, and with the circular part of an earpick we extract the body which is lodged there. After the extraction the wound is to be sewed up, and the cure completed by the treatment applicable in cases of recent wounds. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Celsus (vi, 7); Aetius (vi, 87); Alexander TraUianus (iii, 6); Oribasius (Loc. Affect, iv, 36, 39); Galen (de Med. sec. loc. iii); Avicenna (iii, 5, 1, 33) ; Mesne (ii, 7, 8); Serapion (ii, 12); Ehases (ad Mansor. ix, 36; Contm. m); Haly Abbas (Pract.ix, 31.) Celsus gives nearly the same directions as our author, re- commending us to use wool wrapped round a specUlum, and smeared with turpentine-rosin, or a hook shghtly bent, or an ear-syringe, or sternutatories, or shaking the patient s lieaa. The last-mentioned operation he directs us to execute m tHe following manner : "Tabula quoque collocatur, media adhserens capitibus utrinque pendentibus, superque earn homo dehgati^ in idlatus versus, cujus auris eo modo l^^^J^^'f tabulam non emineat: turn maUeo caput tabula, quod pedibus est, feritur: atque ita concussa aui-e, id quod mes excidet."