SECT, cxn.] LOWER JAW. 479 more difficult to retain. The inflammation is to be reduced by tlie application of wool dipped in vinegar ; by abstinence, a spare diet, and di'inking tepid water. Afterwards friction, exercise, iind a more generous diet are to be allowed, (viii, 11.) See many curious remarks on this subject in Galen's Com- mentary on Hippocrates (de Articulis), and in ApoUonii Citiensis Scholia in Hip. et Galen.; also Avicenna (iv, 5, 1); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 101); Rhases (Cont. xxix, 2.) SECT. CXII. ON THE LOWER JAW. Beginning then again from the upper parts we shall treat of i the lower jaw. For the upper being immoveable does not admit . of dislocation; but the lower does not indeed readily admit of ( complete luxation, owing to its heads being firmly fixed to the \ upper jaw, but it often undergoes subluxation, for the muscles > which are fixed to it being relaxed by the constant exercise of 1 mastication and speaking, the jaw is readily slackened from the I most common causes. For the term used by Hippocrates sig- 1 nifies slackened. In these cases the part returns to its natural ] place without trouble. With regard to the complete dislocation I of the lower jaw, it will be sufficient to debver Hippocrates's »account, being, at the same time, brief, complete and clear. 1 He says thus : " The jaw seldom faUs out of the joint, but it l is often slackened in yawning, as many other irregular actions l of muscles and tendons do this. When it falls out of the )joint it is marked principally by these symptoms; the lower jaw projects forwards, and is inclined in an opposite direction to the luxation; and the coronoid process of the bone swells out near the upper jaw-bone, and it is with difficulty that they shut their jaws. In these cases the suitable mode of reduction IS apparent. For somebody must hold the patient's head, another grasps the lower jaw internally and extemaUy with his i fingers at the chin, while the patient yawns as much as he can : conveniently; and we must first move the jaw with the hand i hither and thither for a certain time, and order the man to re- 1 lax the jaw and separate it; and then we must attend to per- I iorm tliree evolutions at the same time, we must move the jaw ! from its distorted shape to its natural; push the jaw back-