SECT. XVIII.] 55 ABSCESSES. cocted swellings. And pitch, more especially the liquid, con- cocts all hard and unconcocted swellings, when added to the cataplasms. A compound medicine for j)rocuring the dischai-ge of the concocted matter of abscesses, so that often the pus is found on the pledget; and for thoroughly discussing what is not concocted: of pyrites, of levigated ammoniac, of each, dr. xij ; of the flour of beans, dr. vj; add to liquid pitch, and spread upon skin, and apply. But do not take away the pledget until it fall off spontaneously. The medicine must not be prepared long beforehand, as it soon becomes dry. When the tumour is no wise dissipated by these means, and matter falls into it, it is to be opened, and the matter evacu- ated, taking care not to apply to it water or oil; or, if it be necessaiy to clean the sore, it must be done with honied water, oxycrate, wine, and wine and honey; and if it become in- flamed, the cataplasm of lentils is to be applied; but if it is not inflamed, we may use some of the plasters to such open- ings, more especially that from chalcitis; but apply to them sponge or wool soaked in austere wine. But to the wound Itself, do not apply any of the oily ointments, such as the tetrapharmacon, for it stands much in need of being dried. Those things which open abscesses. Since some persons will not endure to have abscesses opened with iron, we must en- deavour to have recourse to epispastic medicines. Having triturated the root of narcissus in honied water, boil it with oil of iris, and apply; or, having triturated the tender root of calamus, and if it be hard, boil it in honied water, and apply; or, use a cataplasm of birthwort and honey. But equal parts of dry pitch and Cretan bee-glue, produce the rupture of ab- scesses and promote cicatrization. The Dionysian plaster, a ivonderful epis^mstic application for abscesses, to the breasts and to buboes, dissipating by the insen- stblepores. Of old oil, of water, of each, lb. j ; having boHed the oil and water for a little time, add of aphronitrum, oz. vj ; of misy, oz. j or ij; and boH until it does not stain the finger; then add of the manna of frankincense, of wax, of turpentine, of each, oz. vj. For abscesses of the nervous parts. Of wax, of colophonian rosm, of butter, of each, lb. j ; of dry pitch, of honey, of each, lb. ij, oz. rj; of verdigris, oz. iij ; of bird lime, q. s.—Another,