SECT. XXX.] CANTIIARIDES. 201 Those of Nonnus and Scribonius Largus are less niimerous. Comm. The Arabians treat of several substances, the nature of which it is now difficult to determine. The catalogues of Avicenna and Khases are the fullest; those of Haly Abbas and Alsaha- ravius scarcely contain so many articles; all of them, however, contain several substances which are not treated of by the Greek wi-iters on toxicology. Among these we may just men- tion that they treat of the gall of the viper, of the leopard, of an animal caUed leunza (lefena?), of the shark, and also of the extremity of the stag's tail, and bad castor. The sweat of different animals is also included in their lists. SECT. XXX. ON CANTHARIDES. The most grievous symptoms follow the administration of cantharides, for almost from the mouth to the bladder the parts are tormented with a gnawing pain. The taste resembles pitch or cedar rosm, and the patients have inflammation of the right hypochondiium, with dysuria, and frequently they pass blood by urme, and sometimes it is discharged by the intestines, as m dysentery: they fall into deliquium animi, nausea, and ver- tigo, and at last they become deliinous. The proper remedies are vomiting with water and oil, drinking milk, taking four .drachms of Cimolian earth with honied water, pine kernels, the ■ seeds of cucumber, fat beef soup, or soup of geese or of mutton; the flesh of fowls, lambs, sheep, or pigs, being tender and fat, when boiled with hnseed; much must; dr. iv of the bark of rrosemay; and after the food inject by clyster the juice of rice, | Orof chondrus, or of spelt, or of ptisan, or of maUows, or of hnseed, or of marshmaUows, or of fenugreek. And sometimes leaving cleared out the intestine with honied water and nitre, me may then inject these things, and afterwards allay the in- Iflammation with cataplasms of linseed and barley; for at first these things are pernicious. Then we may have recourse to .baths of sweet water, and give the ointments of iris and of sroses m a draught. Commentary. The symptoms occasioned by taking can- r khandcs, according to Nicander, are erosion of the whole intcs- -T'