SKCT. XXV.] POLYPUS. 291 Commentary. For an account of the treatment by medi- Comm. cines we refer to section xxiv of tlie Third Book. —' The author of one of the Hippocratic treatises, according to circumstances, recommends sawing it out, consuming it with septics, tying it with a ligatui-e, and burning it with a red-hot iron. (De Morbis, ii.) In the ' Isagoge' of Galen, it is merely recommended to cut out the tumour, and to scrape its roots. Celsus, hke our author, recommends excision with a sharp instrument of iron, and dii-ects us to apply afterwards to the pai't a tent smeared with some styptic. A proper dressing is then to be apphed for cleansing the sore, (vii, 10.) Oribasius briefly mentions excision as a proper remedy when medicines fail. Albucasis describes minutely the operations of excision and rawing out the tumour. Like our author, he directs us to seize the tumour with a hook, to pull it down, and cut it out. If any part remain, he recommends us to scrape it out with a slender instrument, and then to apply styptics, such as vinegar, water, or snow. The operation of sawing it out with a thick knotted lu-ead is minutely described by him. He also speaks of cau- terizing the part from which the tumour has been removed. Mesne describes the process of sawing out the tumour, with ome slight differences. He recommends us to use three horse- lau's, which, being tied together with knots, are to be introduced uto the nose with a leaden needle, and ouc end conveyed out jy the openings of the palate; and then, by pulUng at both ends, he tumour is to be sawed out. Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Rhases make mention of excision md the process of sawing out the tumour. Rhases relates the iistory of a case of polypus, unusually large, which he had seen ■xtracted m an hospital. He and Albucasis recommend the part o be dressed with green ointment. The veterinary surgeons appear to have depended principaUy ipon the actual cautery. See Vegetius (Mulom. ii, 38.) The method of curing polypi of the nose, by sawing them out, ems to have now faUen completely into disuse, whether de- rvedly or not we cannot, from our own experience, venture to ';cide. Fabricius ab Aquapendente disapproved of it; but he was \-idently much prejudiced in favour of the operation with a new