MUSHROOMS. 228 [book v. tliat certain savage nations upon the" Euphrates poisoned their arrows with it, which rendered their wounds immedicable, occa- sioning lividity and putrefaction. Dioscorides, Aetius, Actuarius, and, in short, all the ancient authorities, copy his account. It is very difEcult to determine the nature of the toxicum. Theophrastus describes a species of calamus by the name of toxicus. (H. P. iii, 13.) Avicenna, however, admits that he was whoUy unacquainted with its nature, (iv, 6; i, 29.) Some have supposed, with considerable probabihty, that it was a prepara- tion from the rhus toxicodendron. Schulze is only decided that it was a vegetable poison. (Tox. Vet. 19.) But it even seems doubtful whether it was a simple or compound medicme, and whether of an animal or vegetable nature. (See Schneider's note on Nicander's Alexiph. 248.) Sprengel incHnes to the opinion that it was collected from the venom of serpents. (Notse in Dioscor.) All, however, is mere conjecture on this subject. SECT. LIV. ON MUSHROOMS. Of mushrooms, some prove deleterious from their general nature, and some by the quantity tahen. They aU bnng on I suffocation resembling choking. The general remedy which is to be instantly apphed is to compel the persons affected to vomit by means of oil. They axe also wonderfully reheved by drinking of the lye from vine-shoots, or from the wood of the wild peax with oxycrate, salts, or natron. And wild pears or their leaves, if boHed with mushrooms, take away then: sutto- cative quality, and if eaten they prove beneficial. Hen's dung, drunk in oxycrate, proves beneficial to them; hkewise a drachm of birthwort, or of wormwood with wine, and honey when hcked or drunk with water; and baum with natron, or the root and fruit of aU-heal with wine, the burnt lees of wine with water, and copperas with vinegar, radish, mustard, or cresses when eaten And since certain mushrooms having been tasted ol by venomous animals occasion not only suffocation but also ulceration of the intestines, we must give in such cases plenty |. of wormwood, and the decoction of figs, and of marjoram, and honied water. Emetics, the hot liip-bath, and raw bai-lcy- flour when apphed to the hypochondiia, wiU also be proper.