PHALANGIA. 170 [book v. composed of these things^ the seed of southernwood, dill, birth- wort, wild chick-peas, Ethiopian cumin, pounded cedar-berries, the bark of the plane tree, the seed of the herb trefoil, the fruit of tamarisk; give two drachms of each of these with one hemina of wine, or a decoction of the green parts of cypress, or of its balls mixed with wine. Some say that the river crab when reduced to juice, with milk, and the seed of parsley, and given, removes the mischief. Comm. COMMENTARY. Nicander describes several species of pha- '-^'^—' langia, whose bites occasion a variety of symptoms, such as a cold horror, tremblings of the limbs, and in some instances tension of the genital members. On the phalangia, see Aris- totle (Hist. Anim. ix, 39); Xenophon (Memorab. i, 3); Pliny (H. N. xix, 9, and xxix, 27); ^han (H. A. xvii, 11); Soliuus (Polyhist. xvii); Phile. (66). The distinction between the phalangia and common spiders is thus stated by Humelbergius: "Araneorum prim^ divisione duo genera simt, unum eorum qui innoxii sunt quos Grseci arachnas, Latini araneos dicunt, quorum etiam a Dioscoride duo genera recensentur, unum quod holcon et lycon vocat, alterum vero dicit esse quod Candidas, tenues et densas telas operetur. Alterum genus est eorum qui noxii sunt, quos et Grseci et Latini phalangia vocant." (Ap^^d Apuleium.) Similar modes of treatment to that of our author are re- commended by Dioscorides (vi, 42); Celsus (v, 27); Nonnus (270); Aetius (xiii, 16); Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 10); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 22); and Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 2, 26). Sprengel allows that there is considerable difficulty in determining the nature of the ancient phalangia. He attempts, however, to refer the different species described by Nicander to their proper names in the Linnsean classification. (Comment, in Dioscoridem.) Many modem authorities, for example, Gesner, Baglivi, and Andreas Laurentius, have held that the Tarantula, so famous in the annals of the Dancing Mania, was a species of the phalan- gium. See farther Hecker's Epidem. 113. This seems to be confirmed by Rhases calUng a species of the phalangium by the name of tarantula (Contin. xx and xxii); and, indeed,