[book v. 200 DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES. Comm. wai'ds provoke vomiting once more : administer the theriac, ' ' ' rub tlie liands and feet, and wlien tlie poison appears to have descended to the intestines give clysters. (Contin. 1. c.) Rhases and other of the Arabian authorities recommend the bezoar stone as an antidote for poisons. SECT. XXIX. A CATALOGUE OP SIMPLE DELETERIOUS SUBSTANCES. Of deleterious substances, the following animals are destruc- tive : cantharis, buprestis, salamander, pine-caterpillar, the sea-hare, the toad, the mute marsh frog, and leeches when swal- lowed ; and, of seeds, the henbane, coriander, fleawort, hem- lock, and gith ; of juices, meconium, opocai^pasum, thapsia, elaterium, and mandragora; of roots, chamaeleon, wolfsbane, thapsia, ixia, hellebore, black agaric, ephemeron, which some call colchicum, because it grows in Colchis ; of trees and pot- herbs, smilax, which some callthymium, but the Romans called taxus, the strychnus furiosa, which is called dorycnium, the Sardoan herb, which is a species of ranunculus, horned poppy, pharicum, toxicum, wild rue, and mushrooms ; of animal pro- ductions, fresh buU's blood, coagulated milk, Heraclean honey 3 of metals, gypsum, ceruse, lime, arsenic, sandarach, litharge, adarce, lead, and that which is called mercmy; and of domestic articles, much wine taken at a draught after the bath, or must, or cold water in like manner. t. Commentary. Nicander, in his Alexipharmics, treats of the following deleterious substances :—1, Aconitum, or wolfs- bane ; 2, Argenti spuma, or litharge; 3, Buprestis; 4, Cantha- rides; 5, Ceruse, or whitelead; 6, Conium, or hemlock ; 7, Co- riander ; 8, Dorycnium (see below); 9, Ephemeron, or meadow saflFron; 10, Fungi, or poisonous mushrooms; 11, Hirudines, or leeches; 13, Hyoscyamus, or henbane; 13, Ixias, probably a species of chamaeleon; 14, Coagulated milk ; 15, The sea-hare; 16, Papaver, or poppy; 17, Pharicum, probably a composition from agaric (see Schneider's note); 18, the red toad and marsh frog; 19, the salamander; 20, Bulls' blood; 21, Taxus, or the yew-tree; 22, Toxicum, not ascertained. See Avicenua. The lists of poisonous substances treated of by Dioscondes, Aetius, and Actuarius are nearly the same as our author s.