454 FRACTURES. [book vi. Comm. mg. Gruels only are to be taken before the seventh day, after wliicb bread may be used. When the pain is violent he directs us to ap^ily a cataplasm made from darnel, or barley with fat figs. Should a collection of matter take place it is to be opened with a red-hot iron. "When mucus forms about the fracture, he recommends the application of the cautery. The above is but an imperfect outline of his admirable chapter on fractures of the ribs. Avicenna professedly copies from our author. Haly Abbas, Rhases, and Albucasis give nearly the same account, without the slightest addition of any importance. They all approve of making an incision and extracting the pieces of bones which may happen to be irritating the pleura. Albucasis gives a drawing of the meningophylax, or instrument for protecting membranes during the sawing of bones. SECT. XCVIl. ON THE BONES OF THE HIPS AND PUBES. The bones of the ischium or hips are rarely fractured indeed, but admit of the same varieties as those of the scapula. Their extremities, then, are sometimes broken off; there may be fi'actiu'e along their length, and the middle may be fractured by expression. They are attended with a local pain, a pungent and throbbing sensation, and torpor of the leg on that side if from expression. It is to be set in the same way as that of the scapula, only it does not admit of the extraction of broken pieces by an operation on account of the external parts. If necessary, it is to be set by the fingers, and afterwards we must apply the other convenient treatment, using embrocations, and filling up the hollows of the loins with compresses, in order that the cii'cular bandages which are put on may he even. The same things may be said with respect to the bones of the pubes, for we have nothing more partictdar to say of them. Comm. COMMENTARY. The other authorities do not treat of these cases so minutely as our author, whose account of them is sufficiently accurate. Celsus merely directs us to treat them upon general prin- ciples.