[book vr. 386 ABSCESS OF WOMB. stalk (fistula) is to be introduced, having a screw at tlie upper part, and the speculum is to be held by the operator, but the screw is to be turned by the assistant, so that the laminte of the stalk being separated the vagina may be distended. When the abscess is exposed, if it be soft and thin (which may be ascertained by touching it with the finger), it is to be di\nded at the top by a scalpel or needle, and after the discharge of the pus, a soft oblong tent well smeared with rose-oil is to be introduced into the incision, or rather external to the opening into the woman's vagina, so as not to produce compression. And externally to the alae pudendi and the region of the pubes and loins unwashed wool, or clean wool dipped in oil, is to be applied. On the third day she is to be placed in a hip-bath of warm oil or water, or of a decoction of mallows; and having wiped the parts, we introduce the tent gently into the opening, spread with the ointment tetrapharmacon, either alone or with claiified honey; its strength, however, ought to be reduced with butter or oil of roses. The external parts are to be covered with cataplasms until the inflammation subside and the sore become clean. If it is got cleansed with difEculty, an injection of the decoction of iris, of birthwort, or of honey, may be thrown up with an ear-syringe. The healing process may be promoted by the calamine ointment diluted with wine and applied upon a pledget. But if the abscess be within the mouth of the uterus, we must dechne operating. Comm. COMMENTARY. A similar description of the method of open- ■"""^— ing abscesses in the vagina is given by Aetius. (xvi, 85.) The only difficulty in comprehending his description or our author's arises from our unacquaintance with the construction of the an- cient dioptrte or specula. Drawings of several sorts of them are given in the surgery of Albucasis and by Scultet. (Arsenal de Chirurg. tab. 18.) One of the simplest of them consists of two lamina or plates so united that by turning a vice or screw they separated to the proper distance. Albucasis evidently copies our author's description. (Chirurg. ii, 71.) The account given by Haly Abbas is quite similar. (Pract. ix, 57.)