FRACTURES. [book ti. 446 a simple cerate is to be applied to the jaw along with suitable bandages. In appljdng the bandage, the middle of it is to be placed on the occiput, and the fold of it brought along by the ears on both sides to the chin, and then from the chin to the occiput again, and then again to the chin, and thence by the cheeks to the bregma, and then again to below the occiput, where the bandage must terminate. Upon these again a cover, that is to say, another bandage, is to be applied to the forehead and fastened behind the head, in order to secure the afore- mentioned bandages. Some, also, apply a light splint, or a pieqe of leather of proper size, to the jaw, and bandage it as we have described. Others use the bandage called a muzzle. If both sides of the jaws are separated at the symphysis, having removed them a little asunder with both the hands, adapt them again to one another, and having fastened the teeth together as aforesaid with a ligature, and applied the proper bandages, order the patient to be nourished with thin soups, because mas- tication is hurtful in this case. And, if you suspect that it has been deranged from its position, loose the bandages on the third dfty, and apply them again, and do in like manner until the callus be formed. The callus of the jaw-bone is generally formed within three weeks at most, because it is spongy and full of marrow. If any inflammation come on, we must not neglect the embrocations and cataplasms suitable to it; which practice is to be observed in all cases. Comm. COMMENTARY. Our author's account of fractures of the lower '—'—' jaw is taken almost word for word from Hippocrates. (De Artictdis.) He divides them into external fractures, and frac- tures caulatim (or cauledon), which, agreeably to the explanation of this term, given in the 89th section, Galen iaterprets to be a complete separation of the fractured portions. He directs us to fasten the teeth with a gold thread; and in other respects also his practice is exactly the same as our author's. His ac- count of fracture at the sj-mphysis is very correct. Soranus gives a very sensible account of this subject. A transverse fracture, he says, often takes place, but a longitudmal one seldom, and in certain cases it is not attended with any distortion. It is to be recognized by examination with the fingers, when any displacement of the parts and crepitus will