II 362 CALCULUS. [hook vi. Comm. bladder obstructing the iiriue, lie directs the surgeon to intro- " ' ' duce a finger by the incision, and extract them gradually. His next description is from an author named Sarad, whom he frequently quotes in other parts of his works. He directs the operator to introduce a finger into the rectum and push the stone outwards to the left side of the perineum, removed ||| about the size of a grain of barley from the raphe (daram), and then to make an incision into the neck of the bladder. He afterwards gives a very circumstantial account of the operation from another author called Athuriscus. He particularly directs the operator to make an incision in the left side of the perineum and to open the neck of the bladder, as a wound of the body of the bladder seldom unites. When the stone is large he recom- mends him to seize it with strong pincers and break it into pieces. When a stone sticks in the urethra he directs him to tie one ligature behind it and to secure the prepuce before the glans with another, and then to cut down upon the stone. He gives very minute directions about the after treatment, re- commending especially the removal of any clots which obstruct the passage. (Cont. xxiii.) The practice of hthotomy appears to have been reckoned a disrepiitable occupation among the Arabians, for Avenzoar mentions it as an operation which an upright and respectable man would not witness, far less perform, (ii, 3, 7.) As there are some doubts regarding the form of the incisions in the ancient methods of performing lithotomy, we will now give the words of some of the Arabian translators. Stephanus Antiochensis, the translator of Haly Abbas, has the following words : " Inter testes anumque finde et non in medi^ via sed in sinistri lateris parte ab intestiuis, sitque perallela fissura, et ah exterioribus larga, ab interioribus non." The translator of Albu- casis expresses himself thus : " Finde in eo quod est inter anum et testiculos et non in medio, ad latus natis sinistra;: fiat sectio transversa." The following are the words of Avicenna^s translator: " Cave ne scindas super commissuram quum sit malum, commissura enim secundum veritatem est locus mor- talis. ^Amplius fac super ipsum (lapidem ?) scissuram teudeii- tera ad transversum, studendo ut cadat scissura in coUo vesica;." The translator of Rhases expresses himself in the following terms : " Scinde super lapidem cum instrumento camadun ; ct II