SECT. XCIX.] ARM. 461 dinally. He directs us to spread them with cerate. He says that they support the limb. He says distinctly that all the folds of the bandages should be rubbed with cerate in order to give greater support. All his directions for the treatment of a broken limb are most judicious. When at first there is much pain and inflammation, he recommends bleeding and purging; but when the callus begins to form, he du-ects the patient to use a nourishing diet. Spiculee and scales of bone are in ge- neral to be allowed to exfoliate of themselves, and not removed forcibly by the surgeon. (Comment, and Fragment, ap. Nicetse Collect.) Celsus lays down the principles of treatment in fractures of the arm, fore-arm, thigh, and leg so circumstantially, that we can afibrd room only for an outline of them. He recommends no time to be lost in getting the displaced parts properly re- duced. For this purpose, if the limb be strong, two assistants may be reqxm-ed to pull in contrary directions; and if other means do not succeed, thongs of leather, or linen bandages, may be attached to each end of the broken limb to make ex- tension and counter-extension with them. When the ends of the bone have been adjusted, (which is known by the pain and deformity being removed,) the limb is to be wrapped in linen cloths folded two or three times, and dipped in wine and oil. Six bandages or rollers (fascije) are then to be applied. The first is the shortest, which is to be three times rolled round the hrab upwards in a spiral direction, and three times generally will be sufficient. The second must be one half longer, and is to commence wherever the bone projects; or if there be no pro- jection, at any part of the fracture; and is to be carried first downwards and then upwards, so as to terminate a little above the former. These are to be secured by a broader linen cloth spread with cerate. The third and fourth bandages are then to be applied upon the principle, that the latter is to be put on in the contrary direction to the former; and further, it is to be observed that the third bandage terminates below, whereas all the others terminate above the fracture. Upon the whole, he adds, it is better to secure the limb with many than witli tight bandages, these being apt to occasion mortification. When properly applied they ought not to be loose on the first day, yet such as not to give pain; slacker on the second, and