EMPYEMA. 330 [book VI. Comm. scription of tlae metiiod of treatment^ and also mentions that of " * ' Antyllus, which, however, is little or nothing different from our author's. Thus, he directs us first to make an incision of the soft parts down to the hone, which is to he sawn across; the skin is then to he united, and the part treated with agglu- tinants. "When the supernumerary finger grows from a joint he directs us to make the separation cautiously; and if it grows between two fingers, or contains a bone, he forbids it to be amputated, (Cont. xxiv.) Albucasis's account of preternatural fingers is e\idetitly taken from our author. (Chirurg. ii, 91.) When there is a preternatural adhesion of two fingers to one another, he du'ects us to divide it with a scalpel, and introduce a pledget wetted in the oil of roses, or a thin plate of lead between them, until the parts heal. (Ibid.) , SECT. XLIV. ON THE OPERATION OF BURNING FOR EMPYEMA. The most effectual remedy which has been discovered for empyema is burning. Wherefore, the parts are to be bmnit by applying the root of the long birthwort soaked in oil, so as to form eschars, one of which we must make between the junction of the clavicles, having stretched the skin upwards; and two small ones a little distance from the chin and remote from the carotids; two of considerable size below the mammae, between the third and fourth ribs; two others between the fifth and sixth, inclining a little backwards; another at the middle of the sternum, and another above the mouth of the stomach, and three behind, one at the middle of the back, and two on each side of the spine, higher up than the eschar in the back, and not very superficial. Others, as Leonidas says, having passed a knobbed cautery, heated in the fire, through the interstice between the ribs to the absQpss, have carried the burning down to the pus. Some have dared to operate upon them by making a transverse incision, or one a httle obliquely in the skin, between the fifth and sixth ribs, then perforating with a knife the membrane Hning the ribs, and thus evacuating the pus; but they and those who burn with iron to a considerable depth either occasion immediate death,