SECT. XVI.] HYDRUS. 185 oiir author at the beginning of this section must be corrupt • Comm but we have not ventured to deviate from it, as we could not hit upon a conjectural emendation to satisfy us. None of the others mention contractions of the interstices or porous parts of the body, and all state that there is a discharge of blood from the pores of the skin. Now it is not probable that our author should have omitted a symptom so striking as this cuta- neous hemoiThage, and substituted one which the others take uo notice of. Sprengel makes the dipsas to be the coluber prester and the luemorrhus the C. cerastes. That they were both vipers is (imte obvious from the ancient descriptions of them, and more especiaUy from the account of them given by Galen. (1. c.) SECT. XVI. ON THE HYDRUS, OR WATER SERPENT. When a person has been bitten by a water serpent, the rvound becomes broad, large, and pale, and a black, copious, L'lnd fetid discharge, as from a spreading ulcer, takes place, and I he cure of the mischief is accompHshed only after a length of lime and with difficulty. Wherefore powdered marjoram mxed with water is to be applied to their bites, or oak ashes nixed with oil, or barley-flour with melted honey is given to ;nnk, and birthwort to the amount of two drachms in diluted me or two cyathi of oxycrate; and afterwards the juice of .orehound, or its decoction with wine, or wild cresses, or the ^■uit of asphodel, or the flour or the seed of hog's fennel, with ine. A fresh honeycomb may also be eaten with vinegar. Commentary. This section is taken almost word for word Comm com Dioscorides. The chersydros, says Nicander, is like the ^ !P, and Its bite is followed by mahgnant symptoms. The iin about the wound becomes parched and putrid, along with «at and pams aU over the body. Isidorus says of it: <' Hy- cos aquatihs serpens a quo icti obturgescunt." (Orig. xii, I.) .e also Pbny (H. N. xxix, 22.) Haly Abbas says, it occa- 'ms Imdity of the part, from which a black fetid discharge cos place. (Theor. viii, 21.) liochart makes this to have been the serpent which so