[book VI. CATARACTS. 280 resemble gypstini and liailstones are over-compacted. After ascertaining these circumstances^ as directed by Galen, having placed the patient opposite the light, but not in the sun, we bind up carefully the sound eye, and having separated the lids of the other, at the distance from the part called the iris to- wards the small canthus, of about the size of the knob of the specillum, we then with the point of the perforator mark the place about to be perforated ; and if it is the left eye we ope- rate with the right hand, or if the right eye with the left; and turning round the point of the perforator, which is bent at its extremity, we push it strongly through the part which was marked out, until we come to an empty place. The depth of the perforation should be as great as the distance of the pupil from the iris. Wherefore, raising the perforator to the apex of the cataract, (for the copper of it is seen through the transparency of the cornea,) we push down the cataract to the parts below, and if it is immediately carried downwards, we rest for a little, but if it reascends we press it back again. After the depression of the cataract we turn round the perfo- rator and extract it gently. After this, bathing with water and injecting into the eye a little Cappadocian salts, we apply externally some wool soaked in the white of an egg with rose- oil, and bind it up, and at the same time bind up the sound eye, that it may not move. Then lodging the patient in an apartment below ground, we order him to remain in a state of perfect rest, and upon a spare diet; and the bandages are to be kept on, if nothing prevent, until the seventh day, after which we, loose them, and make trial of the sight by presenting him with some object : but this we disapprove of during the operation and immediately after it, lest by the intense exertion the cataract reascend. If the inflammation become urgent we loose the dressing before the seventh day, and must direct oiu" attention to it. r. CoMMENTAEY. See Cclsus (vii, 7); Galen (Ars Medica, 35 ; Isagoge); Aetius (vii, 53); Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 23), Caiamusah (vi); Avenzoar (i, 8, 19); Mesne (de ^gr. Ocuh; 15); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 28); Jesu Mali (Tract, de Ocuhs, 68)Avicenna (iii, 3, 4, 20) ; Rhases (ad Mansor. ix, 27, and Cont. ii); Vegetius (Mulom. ii, 17.)