HAND AND FINGERS. 465 SECT. CI.] pended in a broad soft sling, and that the hand be placed Comm. neither too high nor too low. Hii^pocrates takes notice of' ' fracture of the olecranon, as will be explained afterwards. Oribasius gives a description and drawing of a laqueus cal- culated to retain the spKnts, and secure the fore-arm in cases of fracture. (De Laqueis, 2.) Celsus directs us to sling the arm, with the thumb a little inclined, towards the breast, in a convenient napkin (mitella), the broad part being applied to the arm, and the narrow ends tied behind the neck. Albucasis treats of this case of fracture very accurately. He calls the ulna the larger of the bones. He directs the arm to he suspended with the thumb uj)permost. Wlien the fractured pieces of bone , occasion irritation, he advises us to make an in- cision aild extract them. When a troublesome pruritus seizes the arm, he recommends us to remove the bandages and bathe with hot water. Rhases gives proper directions about not applying the band- ages too tight or too slack. When the hand swells he recom- mends them to be slackened. ' The accounts given by Avicenna and Haly Abbas are quite similar to om* author's. Avicenna cautions us not to make the splints too long lest they hurt the hand. None of the Arabians, w o believe, have noticed the fracture of the olecranon. Like most imitators, they often fall short of their originals! SECT. CI. ON THE HAND AND ITS FINGERS. The bones of the carpus, metacarpus, and of the phalanges of the fingers, being of a spongy and porous nature, are often crushed but rarely fractured. The patient then being placed on a high seat, we are to direct him to lay his hand prone upon an even table, and the fractured pieces being stretched hy an assistant, we arrange them with two fingers, that is to say, the thumb and the index-finger. A tight bandage is to be used at the time that inflammation prevails, for, owing to the porous nature of the bones, a redundance of callus is formed. If the phalanx or finger be simply broken, and it be the large one, called also the thumb, after suitable bandaging, H. 30