SECT. LX.] VENESECTION. 323 but makes hardly any addition to the ancient stock of infor- Comm. mation. We can scarcely venture upon an abstract of his im-" " ' portant chapter on phlebotomy. We may just mention that as a general rule he approves of bleeding after any accident. He disapproves of bleeding both at the onset and the crisis of a disease. In constitutions requiring bloodletting he holds that spring is the best season for it. Even in cases in which there is a deficiency of blood, but there is congestion in some partictdar part, he permits blood to be abstracted, in order to produce revulsion, the patient's strength being recrxiited after- wards by a nourishing diet. When the colour of the blood is dark, and it is thick in consistence, a larger amount is to be abstracted than when it is thin and of a light coloiir. He makes the important remark, that bleeding sometimes kindles up a fever. He forbids the bath immediately before the operation, and food or exercise immediately afterwards. Wlien a piece of fat obstructs thd flow of blood, he directs that it should be gently pushed aiside, but not cut out. (i, 4, 20.) No author, ancient or modern, has described the modes of performing venesection in all parts of the body more accurately than Albucasis. Bleeding from the jugular vein he describes in much the same way that it is now practised by veterinary surgeons, namely, by placing a sort of scalpel, bent at the point, ■ which he calls fossorium, upon the vein, and striking the instru- ment with a hammer, or some such body. He gives drawings of variously-shaped lancets for opening the veins of the arm. (Chirurg. ii, 97.) The reader is also referred to Haly Abbas for a copious ac- count of the operation, and the circumstances under which it may be performed. It is contra-indicated, he says, when the bowels are loaded with vitiated faeces. He allows it to be per- formed even after seventy years of age, provided the patient be of a vigorous constitution. (Pract. ix, 3.) Rhases, with admirable judgment, condenses all the informa- tion supplied by preceding authorities, and mixes it up with his own personal observations. He forbids us to give food imme- diately after bleeding, as the empty veins will absorb the chyle before it is properly digested, which will prove a pabulum of disease. For the same reason, he, like the others, forbids bleed- ing when the stomach is loaded with crudities, lest they should