408 [book VI. EXCISION OF VARICES. CoMM taken not to hurt it); a blunt hook is then to be introduced ' ' below it; and the same thing is to be done at the same interval as mentioned above. When this has been performed wherever there are varices, the vein is to be cut asunder at one of the hooks, and drawn towards the next hook, and then torn out. The leg being in this way cleared of the varices, the Hps of the wound are to be united, and an agglutinative plaster applied above, (vii, 31.) It will be remarked that our author makes mention of this method of treatment but disapproves of it. Aetius describes the excision of varices in exactly the same terms as our author. He also makes mention of the treatment by the actual cautery, (xiv, 84.) The operation of extracting varicose veins is briefly described in the ' Isagoge' of Galen. Albucasis describes accurately the different modes of operating upon varices. He says there are two methods of performing the operation with the knife, that is to say, by incision or by extraction. The former method is done by applying a piece of fillet round the upper part of the thigh, and at the inferior part near the knee, and then opening the vein in one, two, or three places, and evacu- ating the blood in it : the limb is then to be bound up. la performing extraction, the veins are first to be made to swell by putting the limb into hot water, applying fomentations, and taking strong exercise ; and then a longitudinal incision is to be made in it, either at the knee or the ankle. The vein is afterwards to be dissected from the neighbouring parts and sus- pended with a blunt hook. The vein is to be laid bare in like manner at the distance of three fingers' breadth, and in more places if required. At last, it is to be cut asunder at the ankle and drawn out. Afterwards wool dipped in wine and rose-oil is to be applied. When the varix consists of a congeries of tortuous vessels he recommends us to dissect it out entire. (Chirurg. ii, 92.) Haly Abbas briefly inculcates the same treatment as Albu- casis. (Pract. ix, 64.) Avenzoar considers the complaint nearly incurable. Rhases directs us, in the first place, to bleed and purge, aud then to expose the vessel or cut it out. He also approves of compression. (Cont. xxviii.) It is related that the operation here described was performed