SECT. XVIII.] CERASTES. 187 the jaculus of Lucan. Yet Lucan treats of the jaculus and Co cenchris separately. (Phars. ix.) «— SECT. XVIII, ON THE CERASTES AND ASP. According to Galen, there are three kinds of asps: that called the land asp, the cheHdonian, and the third the ptyas, which is the most pernicious of all; for, stretching its neck, and mea- sunng a convenient distance/with great sagacity, it disgorges the poison into the body. This is said to be the kind of asp which Queen Cleopatra, when Augustus, having vanquished Antony, wished to seize on her, took and applied to her left breast, and being bitten by it she died very quickly. When a person is bitten by the cerastes the part becomes tumefied, with hardness and bKsters, and from the bite there flows an ichor which is sometimes black and sometimes pale, and Hke leeks • the whole system becomes of a dark pale colour, with erection ot the pnvy member, and mental aUenation; then dimness of si^ht comes on, and they die at last convulsed, as in tetanus When a person is bitten by an asp, the bite resembles the prick ot a needle, bemg very smaU in appearance, and without tume- taction, and it discharges blood not copiously but in smaU quantity, and of a black colour. Straightway dimness of the eyes seizes them, and various pains aU over the body, which are altogether slight, and not without enjoyment, supervene; where- tore Nicander has properly said, - and without suflFering dies the man. The colour is changed and becomes as green as grass, there is a gnawing pain at the orifice of the stomach, the forehead is constantly drawn upwards, the eyeUds are moved insensibly as m sleep, and with these symptoms death cuts off the man before the third part of a day has passed over. In both these cases speedy amputation of the extremities averts the «evil. Wherefore the bitten part is to be amputated without < delay, if possible, or the flesh is to be cut off immediately down to the bone, m order that the poison may not pass through the .parts which are bitten and the adjacent ones. Then what .■remains is to be seared by cauteries. For the poison of these, ,like hat of the basihsk and bulFs blood, quickly coagulates 'the blood and spirits in the arteries