SPRAINS. [book IV. 86 Comm. heating medicines. When the pain of the bowels is violent '—*—■ in cases of tympanites^ he allows medicines containing opium, which are to be given by the month if the small intestines be affected, but are to be administered in a clyster if the large in- testines be the seat of the disease. When the disease is in a muscular part, he directs us to use a combiaation of attenuants and emollients. In certain cases he recommends dry-cupping. Oribasius, Aetius, Actuarius, and Nonnus, adopt the views of Galen, without any alteration. For tympanites, Scribonius recommends cumin internally, Avicenna, like oiu' author, in ordinary cases recommends combiaations of attenuants and calefacients, diy-cupping and the like, for dispelling the spirit; but when the disease arises from contusion of the muscles, he directs us to use resolvents and paregorics. Serapion approves of similar treatment, Alsaharavius recommends attenuant and calefacient remedies externally and internally. In the translation of his works, the disease is called uiflatio. Ehases recommends friction with calefacient oils; he remarks that the disease occurs most commonly in the stomach and intestines. He calls it by the name of apostema inflatum. SECT. XXIX. FOE SPRAINS AND CONTUSIONS. Sprains of the joints and contusions are remedied by un- washed wool, or a sponge soaked in vinegar and oil, and ap- plied ; by the tender parts of boiled bulbous roots mth honey, by the leaves of the chaste tree, salts, and roasted nitre, tritu- rated with cerate. The affusion of sweet water, or of hot sea water, mav be used. But after the inflammation and pains have subsided, apply rubbing to the sin-ained parts. Comm. Commentaby. SecAetius (xiv,71); Oribasius(Synops.vii,14); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 35) • Scribonius Largus (§ 209); Rhases (Divis. i, 140.) Aetius makes mention of all the remedies recommended by our author, with the exception of the affusion of water; which, however, is a method of ti-eatment desendng of attention. Oribasius mentions particularly the affusion of hot sea water.