MAD DOGS. [book v. 1(52 Comm. difPerent from those of tlie Greeks, especially of Dioscorides, "—'—' who is the great authority upon theriacs. Haly Abbas allows bleeding when the poison is distributed over the body, and like the others also, makes mention of cup- ping with heat and of amputation. He also joins in the gene- ral praise of the theriac. Alsaharavius recommends strong ligatures, cupping, and, in urgent cases, amputation. He also approves of applying the bodies of hens still warm. Serapion approves of bleeding under the same circumstances as the others, and of the same general treatment that they recommend. Rhases recommends sucking and cupping the wound, and the application of stimulant di-essings, such as a plaster consisting of mustard, lime, and pitch. He, and most of the ancient authorities on toxicology, recom- mend salt as an appUcation to the wound. Most of them also join Dioscorides in recommending the application of caustic leys. They also in general direct us to prevent sleep. The ligature to prevent absorption is recommended by Rhases, as it is in fact by most of the ancient authorities. As a matter of course all of them speak highly of the theriac, and acquiesce in Galen's celebrated eulogy upon its vu-tues. (Ad Pison. u, 457, ed. Basil.) . The Arabian authorities notice cursorily the treatment ot poi- soned weapons of war, more especiaUy of the Armenian arrows Galbanum and assafoetida administered internally, and apphed to the wounds in various forms, are the two articles which are most generally approved of by them. They also recommeml sucking th? wound, as in other cases of poisoning by a wound. (See further, B. vi, 88.) SECT. 111. ON PERSONS BITTEN BY MAD DOGS, AND ON HYDROPHOBIA. We have placed the account of persons bitten by mad^ogs before all the others because these animals are numerous and domestic, and are frequently seized with madness ; because the complaint is difficult to guard against, and the danger mevita, ble unless one have recourse to many and suitable remedies.