SECT. LVII, LVIII.] WORMS. J^9 suppUes anything new. He in particular copies freely from Comm Aetius and our author. The same may be said of Serapion ^^ ho recommends wormwood, bitter lupines, calamint, peach leaves, cabbage, onions, thyme, colocynth, &c. Averrhoes says tliat the lumbnci in general are removed by bitters, such as ormwood or wormseed, but that the cucurbitini (t^ni^) require strong medicines. Of the pinese nuces he says, "Occidunt vermes qui sunt in ventre.- (ColHg. v, 42.) Probably this lunt may have led to the use of turpentines for the cure of t;enia. Avenzoar attributes the formation of worms to ill- ligested food in the stomach, and recommends much the same emedies as the Greeks. Haly Abbas describes the three spe- •les of worms, and details the symptoms of them. He remarks hat these animaJs are to be kiUed by medicines of a hot and Iry nature, such as bitters. He recommends wormwood, fern nd the like, pounded with honey, vinegar, &c. The remedies aentioned by Alsaharavius are oils, bitters, and drastic pm-ga- n-es. He treats of lumbrici very fully. Rhases recommends general terms bitters j for the round, wormwood, for the 'ad, (taeniae, caUed by him semina cucurbita) seriphium bitter ipmes, narcissus, &c. And for the ascarides he directs us to l)ply a suppositoiy of wool dipped in the gall of a bull He ■marks that they occur most frequently in autumn, being en- >udered by fruit. He states correctly that they often bring ' epilepsy, and looseness of the bowels. He much commends le oil of unripe oHves. Vegetius recommends nearly the same medicines for remov- g the vermes of cattle as those already mentioned, namely, ^rmwood cresses, coriander, fenugreek, and the like, boiled in 1. and administered by the mouth and in clysters. (Mulom M.; see also Columella vi, 25.) According to Michaelis and Sprengel the ancient Brahmins n acquamted with the anthelminthic properties of the doH- s prunens, We have stated above that the most celebrated of the ancient believed in the spontaneous generation of animals. This • rrme, although generally rejected at the present time, has n advocated by many modern naturalists of great eminence, ^ti as Baron BuflFon and Professor Rudolphi. Virey gives a y impartial statement of the argiiments for and against this Ji