93 STRUMA. SECT. XXXIII,] occasioned loss of speech. (De Loc. Aff. i, 6.) For an account Comm. of the operation see the Sixth Book. "—'—' Part only of our author's applications are derived from Oribasius. A very minute account of these complaints is given by Aetius. He divides strumas into the mild and the malignant. The mild are without inflammation or pain, and are attended with a moderate degree of hardness; the malignant are accom- panied with inflammation, and a throbbing pain, feel unequal, have enlarged veins, and are exacerbated by handhng or medi- cines. The latter are said to be incurable. He mentions, upon the authority of Leonidas, the accident related by Galen' He approves, however, of the operation in general. Incipient strumas, he states, may be discussed like scirrhi, by a combi- nation of emollients with discutients. He gives a long list of prescriptions for removing scrofulous tumours. One of them contains arsenic mixed with the fat of a goat or ox. With regard to the general treatment, he recommends laxatives, re- stricted diet, emetics, and the theriac. Actuarius and Nonnus, as usual, borrow from our author. Celsus remarks that strumas occur most frequently in the neck, armpits, groins, sides, and the female breasts. He re- presents them as indolent aflfections of the glands, which come slowly to maturity and prove very troublesome to the physi- cian. Some, he says, give white hellebore in these cases, and use applications for bringing them forward or for discussing them. Others have recourse to caustics, and when the eschar IS removed, they heal the ulcer upon general principles. When the sore becomes clean he recommends exercise and a nourish- ing diet. Scribonius Largus, Marcellus, and Myrepsus give nearly the same prescriptions as our author. Arsenic is an ingredient in the septic applications of Myrepsus. Avicenna recommends emetics, phlegmagogues, bleeding in the arm, attenuant food, and avoiding aU gross things and repletion. As a discutient he and Serapion commend the diachylon plaster. Haly Abbas likewise mentions this appli- cation, and also directs the swellings to be burnt with caustics. Alsaharavius briefly recommends excision or burning. Serapion erldently copies from our author. Avenzoar gives a very full