CANCERS. SECT, xxvr.] 79 Procopius mentions the anthrax as one of the symptoms of Com the great plague which he describes. (Persica, ii.) For the carbunculus or anthrax, Brunus and the other winters of that age recommend, at first, bleeding and restricted diet, with maturative applications, such as figs and mustard, or the yeast cataplasm, with oil and salt. When the part becomes black, Theodoricus directs us to have recourse to the actual cautery! (m, 12.) Municks rather disapproves both of purging and bleeding, but strongly commends the actual cautery, which he gi-eatly prefers to the potential. (Chirurg. i.) Vigierius, how- ever, prefers a paste made from quicklime and soap. V. Manget. (Bibl. Chirurg. i, 374.) The learned Schelhammer spetks favorably both of the potential and the actual cautery. (De Humoribus.) SECT. XXVI. ON CANCERS, Cancer occurs in every part of the body; for it takes place m the eyes and uterus (as we have stated when treating of those parts), and in most other parts of the body; but it is more particularly frequent in the breasts of women, because owing to their laxity, they readUy admit the thick humours which occasion it. For cancers are formed by black bile over- heated ; and if particularly acrid, it is attended with ulceration. On this account, they are darker than phlegmons, without bemg attended with the same degree of heat. The veins are filled and stretched around Hke the feet of the animal called cancer (crab), and hence the disease has got its appeUation. But some say that it is so called because it adheres to any part which it seizes upon in an obstinate manner like the crab. Owing to the thickness of the humour which occasions It, cancer is an incurable disease, for it can neither be repelled nor discussed; not yielding to purging of the whole body, re- sisting the milder appHcations, and being exasperated by the stronger ones. It may be possible, however, to prevent inci- pient cancers from increasing, by evacuating the melancholic humour before it becomes fixed in the part. We may eva- cuate, first, if nothing prohibit, by veusection, and afterwards by purging at the commencement, with the simpler purgatives.