SECT. CXVII.] SPINE. 495 are called aselli. They are axles turned upon an erect piece of wood, which is placed at each extremity of the large board or bench, at the feet and head of the patient, and the thongs are to be wrapped round them. While the extension is thus made, we press down the prominence of the back with the palms of the hands, and if necessary we may sit upon it without ap- prehension. If the spine is not thus made straight, and the patient can endure pressure, we may scoop out from the adjoin- ing wall a furrow opposite the prominence of the back, so that the length of the furrow may not be greater than a cubit, and it must be in a situation neither much higher nor lower than tlie patient's spine. But this furrow ought rather to be pre- pared beforehand, and on this account we directed the board at first to be placed near the wall. Then one exti'emity of a board is to be introduced into the furrow, while we press the other downward until it is clear that the spine is rectified. According to Hippocrates, extension alone without the board, and again the treatment with the board alone, is sufficient to accompHsh the purpose. If this be true it will not be impro- per, in cases of dislocation anteriorly and laterally, to make the aforesaid extension without the compression. After the reduc- tion, a thin piece of wood three fingers in breadth, and of such a length as to comprehend the dislocated part and some of the sound vertebrae, is to be wrapped round with a piece of linen or some flax, on account of its hardness, and applied to the spine with suitable bandages. And the patient must be kept "IJon a spare diet. If afterwards any remains of the protube- rance are to be discovered, we must use relaxant and emollient applications, with the pressure by means of the plate. Some use a plate of lead. Commentary. Our author's account of dislocations of the Comm. '■pine is entirely condensed from Hippocrates's work ' De Ar- —' '•ulis,' and the commentary of Galen on the same. The de- '•ription of the methods of reduction is so plain, that we need "ot take up time in illustrating it. It will be remarked that lie makes mention of a mode of reducing these dislocations by ineans of axles or aselli. In the days of Hippocrates they were acquainted with only three of the mechanical powers, "amely, the lever, the wedge, and the axis in peritrochio. The