[book IV. 90 SCIRRHUS. Comm. Cgmmentahy. See Galen (De Tumoribus; Metli. Med. ""^^—' xiv; Tlierap. ad Glauc. ii); Oribasius (Synops. vii, 34); Aetius (xv, 3, 4) ; Leo (vii, 4); Actuarius (Metb. Med. iv, 16); Serapion (v, 23); Avicenna (iv, 3, 3, 12); Haly Abbas (Pract. iii, 31); Alsabaravius (xxix, 1, 15); Rbases (Antid. i, Cont. xxvii, Antidot. i.) Tbis section is entirely taken from Galen (Tber. ad Glauc. 1. c.) Galen's account, bowever, is somewbat fuller tban oiu' autbor's, aud contains a case treated upon tbe principles wbicb be lays down. It was a case of bard swelling in tbe tbigb, arising from an erysipelas wbicb bad been improperly treated by astringent and cooling applications. Galen informs us tbat lie began by pouring upon tbe limb an attenuaut oil, namely, tbe Sabine; after wbicb be caused it to be rubbed witb maiTows and fats medicated witb bdellium, masticb, ammoniac perfume, and tbe like. After tbis be batbed tbe wbole limb witli a solution of ammoniac in very acrid vinegar. Wben tbe swelling bad been lessened, but not completely removed by tbese means, be afterwards applied one of tbe pitch medicines, and at lengtb effected a cure. In anotber place be states tbat scirrbus is sometimes allied to cancer. Oribasius likewise recommends a combination of emoUients witb discutients; and Actuarius approves of tbe same prac- tice. Aetius bas a valuable cbapter upon tbis subject. Besides tbe articles mentioned by our autbor, be recommends various rosins, turpentine, frankincense, and tbe like. He forbids tbe use of aluminous, sulphureous, and chalybeate baths. For indurations of tendons he recommends things possessed of at- tenuaut and cutting properties combined with emoUients, such as ammoniac dissolved in vinegar witb melons. The Arabians treat of scirrbus in much the same terms as tbe Greeks. Avicenna properly directs us to bleed wben there is congestion of black blood in the part, and afterwai'ds to use applications of a solvent and emollient natiu-e. He and Serapion mention tbe same identical remedies as those of Paulus. For dissolving bard tumours be recommends an oil containing fenugreek, cyperus, and aromatic reed. Haly Abbas ascriljes tbe formation of scirrbus to tfic same causes as om- author, and recommends relaxant aud emollient apphcatious.