490 [book VI. LUXATIONS. course to stronger extension, sucli in particular as that de- scribed by Hippocrates for a fractured arm, where he has recourse to the piece of wood adapted to a spade. Some of the moderns manage the matter thus : Two assistants stretch- ing the arm as aforesaid, the one holding at the armpit, and ■! the other below at the wrist, the surgeon, standing opposite the patient, grasps the arm with the palms of both his hands near the joint, }md giving orders to bind a long folded robe or broad swathe round his hands and the arm of the patient, and to pull outwards and downwards towards the hand, whilst he, fol- lowing the same course, drags the parts with his hands thus secured until they pass the articulation of the joint. The arm should be first anointed with oil, to render the part slip- pery and easily moved with the palms of the surgeon's hands. Thus the dislocated parts being violently pulled by the hands of the assistants will return to their proper place. After the reduction the arm is to be bent to an angular position, and treated with oblong compresses and suitable bandages. Comm. Commentaky. No author, ancient nor modern, has given * ' so complete a view of the accidents to which the elbow-joint is subject as Hippocrates. In his works (De Fracturis, De Ar- ticTilis, and Mochhcus,) he has treated of this subject with surprising accuracy and skill. He describes the following in- juries of the elbow-joint: 1 st. Complete luxations, laterally, anteriorly, and posteriorly. 2d. Luxations of the radius, anteriorly, posteriorly, and laterally. 3d. Fracture of the olecranon. 4th. Fracture of the apophysis of the humerus. "We must give his description of the last-mentioned injury in his own words: " It sometimes happens that the head of the humerus is broken at its apophysis; and this, although it ap- pear a more serious accident, is, in fact, less so than many other injuries of the joint." It is singular that this distinct account of a very common injury of the joint should have been overlooked or misunderstood by aU his commentators and the surgical authorities down to the present day. We have often met with it in our own practice, and seen many instances iu which it had been misapprehended in the practice of other surgeons. It is only within the last five or six years that it has been described in any modern work on surgery. Lateral