501 IIIP-JOINT. SECT. CXVIII.] its place. This mode of reduction is simpler than any of the others, being performed without much apparatus, but many now reprobate it as dangerous. If the dislocation is outwards, the extension is to be made as above, but the thong at the perineum is to be passed by the opposite parts, I mean the groin and clavicle. The surgeon is to propel the limb from without inwards, the lever being fastened into one of the furrows for- merly prepared, and an assistant fixing the sound nates that the body may not yield. In dislocations forwards, the patient being stretched, a strong man is to apply the palm of the right hand to the affected groin, and press down with the other hand, so that the depressing force may be exerted downwards, and to the knee. In dislocations backwards, the man is not to be stretched so as to raise him up, but he is to lie upon a hard body as in dislocations outwards; and, as we mentioned with regard to dislocations of the vertebra backwards, the man is to be laid on his face upon a board or bench, and the ligatures are to be ap- phed, not to the loins, but to the leg as mentioned a little above. But the depression, by means of a board, is to be applied at the buttocks, where the dislocated bone is lodged. And thus much respecting dislocations at the hip-joint occasioned by some ex- ternal cause. But since dislocation sometimes takes place at the hip-joint, as at the shoulder, owing to a collection of hu- mours, we must, in this case, as we mentioned in the other, have recourse to burning. Commentary. Although the descriptions given by the me- Comm. dical authorities who preceded and followed our author will be found in the main exactly the same as his, we are induced to give a brief outline of them, in order to illustrate by every means in our power a subject so important as the one now on hand. Every subsequent author is indebted to Hippocrates for his lucid and correct exposition of dislocations at the hip-joint. He says truly that the thigh-bone is dislocated in four direc- tions, namely, inwards, which occurs frequently; outwards, the most frequently of all; baekwards and forwards, both very rarely. The following are the symptoms of dislocation in- wards, as described by him. The leg is longer than natural, the buttocks outwardly appear hollow; the knee, foot, and leg