LICHEN. 24 [book IV. SECT. III. ON LICHEN. Licten is formed by tte mixture of a thin and acrid iclior with otlier gross humours, and passes readily into leprosy and psora; wherefore it requires to be treated by the most desicca- tive applications. After general depletion, if necessaiy, the fol- lowing simple medicines will be proper : cliict-peas, hellebore, the urchin which dwells among rocks, pitch mixed with cerate and rosin, the dung of the land crocodile, that of starhngs fed solely upon rice. And many have cured the complamt when occurring on the chin, or other parts of the body, by this appli- cation alone : take several grains of wheat and place upon a stithy red-hot, and taking the fluid which flows from them while yet warm, anoint the part afi-ected with Hchen. The lichen of childi-en is to be rubbed frequently with human sahva. Ibe gum of the plum tree, when rubbed in, is beneficial m these cases. When the complaint is protracted, the leaves of the chaste tree, triturated with vinegar, are to be apphed, or the leaves of capers in hke manner. The following are compound applications : Dissolve sulphur with rosemary in ^anegar, or with ammoniac, and anoint. A trochisk for lichen: Of artificers glue, di'. iv; of frankincense, dr. iij ; of vinegai'half a cyathusj dissolve in vinegar, and &riomt.—Another: Of chalcitis, of gum • of each, dr. viij; of sulphur vivum, of misy, of each, di'. vj ; of the flakes of copper, of acacia, of each, dr. ij; anoint with vinegar.—Another: Of sulphur ^dvum, of spuma nitn, ot each, dr. iv; of the seeds of rosemary, Ix; triturate with vmegax, and anoint only the part which is afi'ected, not touching the sound skin. When diy, wash it away with cold water. Another : Of white heUebore, dr. viij ; of the flom- of lupuies, of burnt shell-fishes called buccina, of natron, of each, one choBnix; rub with it diy. They call that variety of hchen agrius which is nowise remedied by moderately desiccative ap- phcations, and is exacerbated by more acrid ones. These cases are therefore to be treated by apphcations which ai-e sufficiently strong, without being pungent, such as this : of horned poppy, of frankincense, of alcyonium, of bitumen, of sulphur, of gum, of each, oz. j; anoint with vinegar. Boil African pitch with vinegar, and, when dissolved, anoint.—Another, for Hchen and