WEAPONS. [book VI, 426 Rliases gives sensible directions for the management of these cases, but they are so similar to those of our author that w c need not dwell upon them. If the size of the wound permit, he directs us to introduce a forceps to the iron head and draw it out. If the opening be too small, he recommends us to en- large it. When the weapon has nearly passed through the limb, he ad\dses us to push it out at the opposite side. Thorns and such like sharp things are to be removed by the applica- tion of extractive plasters. (Ad Mans, vii, 25.) Avicenna gives a literal translation of the present chapter of Paulus, and supplies nothing additional of much interest, (iv, 4, 2, 10.) The account given by Haly Abbas is full, but like that of Albucasis. He mentions that he had seen cases in which an arrow had been lodged in the intestines, and although faeces were dischai'ged by the wound, the patient recovered. He adds that others relate cases in which recovery took place although the liver or omentum had been wounded. (Pract. ix, 15.) The rules for the extraction of weapons laid do^vn by Theo- doricus and all the earlier authorities are mostly copied from the ancient authors, (i, 22.) It would be naturally expected that we should give some account in this place of the surgery in the heroic ages, as far as it can be learned from the poems of Homer and the Com- mentary of Eustathius. The Commentator remarks that three methods of extracting weapons are mentioned by Homer: 1. By evulsion or pulling the weapon backwards, as in the case of Menelaus. (Iliad, iv, 214.) 2. By protrusion or pushing it forwards, as in the case of Diomedes. (Iliad, v, 112.) 3. By enlarging the wound and cutting out the weapon, as prac- tised by Patroclus in the case of Eurypylus. (Iliad, xi, 218.) He further remarks that it appears to have been a common practice to suck a wound with the mouth; and, he adds, that this method ■was still in use among a barbarous people in his days. (IHad, iv, 219.) The weapons used in the Trojan war were swords, spears or javelins, stones flung by the hand or by a sling, hatchets or axes, as used by the Trojans on certain occasions (Iliad, xiij 590), and arrows. Eustathius remarks, however, that there would appear to have been very few bowmen. In