SPINE. 493 SECT, cxvn.] SoraetimeSj he says, the radius is dislocated, while the ulna re- Comm. mains in its place, and sometimes the ulna is dislocated while ' " ' the radius remains. He describes the process of reduction with machines. AlLucasis, Avicenna, and Haly Abbas describe very accu- rately the dislocations forvyards and backwards. They state that immediate reduction is peculiarly required in the case of this accident. Avicenna recommends a strengthening plaster to be put on the part before the splints are applied. When 1 the joint, after reduction, is found to have lost the power of ! motion, Albucasis recommends us to pour hot water upon it ! and apply friction. Rhases states that the ulna is more apt to be dislocated se- i parately than the radius, which generally undergoes fracture I rather than luxation. The fingers, he says, are mostly dislo- I cated inwards. SECT. CXVII. ON THE VERTEBRA OF THE SPINE. The vertebrae of the spine, when completely dislocated by i accident, occasion instant death; for the spinal marrow under- ! goes extraordinary compression; and even when one of its ■ nervous processes is compressed, it brings on dangerous symp- * toms. It often suffers sub-luxations, and when this takes place forwards it gets the name of repandation; when back- wards, that of gibbosity; and when sideways, that of wry-necked- ■ ness. When there is a small sub-luxation of many vertebrae T together, the distortion occasions a circular flexure of the spine, and in this case some are apt to be deceived, and take it for a I complete dislocation of one spine, whereas a complete disloca- 1 tion of one spinal vertebra does not produce a circular but an ' angular flexure of the spine, which is attended with more dan- i; ger. When the dislocation is inwards, it cannot be reduced ^ because no counter-pressure can be made on the belly. But 1 those who imagine that they can effect anything in this case ! by stretching the patients upon a ladder, by apply cupping in- " struments, or administering sternutatories, or by producing f coughing, or by inflation, are sufficiently exposed by Hippo- f crates. But since, often the breaking off of some of the small