SECT. LXIV.] CmSOCELE. 371 being a species of aneuiism, Leonides forbids us to operate upon it for fear of a bemorrhage^ wbicb cannot be restrained from taking place at tbe time; but, there being two kinds of it, the one occasioned by the four vessels which nourish the testicle, and ithe other by the arteries of the darti and scrotum being af- ; fected, the moderns refrain from meddling with the latter, but operate upon the former. We distinguish them from one an- other, inasmuch as that which arises from the arteries is easily made to disappear upon pressure with the fingers, whereas that . from the nutrient vessels of the testicles, not at all or with much ' ti-ouble. We operate upon it as for cirsocele, taking up each i of the veins and securing it with a thread. Commentary. Celsus thus describes the cirsocele : " VeuEe Comm. iintumescunt; eseque intortse conglomerataeque a superiore ^"^ ' ipai'te, vel ipsum scrotum implent, vel mediam tunicam vel : imam: interdum etiam sub ima tunica, circa testiculum ner- a-xmique ejus, increscunt." (vii, 18.) He describes the operation <at great length afterwards. If the varicose tumour is upon t the scrotum he directs us to burn it with slender and sharp : irons, which are to be applied to the veins themselves, but in - such a manner as to burn them alone. Then suitable dressings lare to be applied for producing cicatrization. When the I varicose veins ai-e situated above the middle timic, an incision is to be made in the groin, the tunic drawn out, and the veins -separated from it with a finger or the handle of a scalpel. The veins are afterwards to be tied with a thread above and below; then they are to be cut below, and the testicle restored to its place. When the disease is situated above the third tunic ;tunica albuginea?) the middle one must be cut out. Then f only two or three veins are in a varicose state they may be led, as above directed, at the groin and where they join the i esticle and cut out. When the disease is situated between \ he mtemal coat and the testicle, he says, there is no other j -emedy but the removal of the testicle. For this purpose he iirects us to secure the arteries and veins with a thread, divide ^hem, and then to cut the nerve by which the testicle is suspended ithe cremaster?). (vii, 19 and 22.) He does not treat of oneumatocele. It must be obvious that the pneumatocele of •ur author was an aneurismal varix or erectile tissue. We see