327 CUPPING. SECT. XLI.] persons are afraid of the flame in such cases. Those which are Comm. made deep attract more strongly than such as are shallow; in-' * ' struments of the latter description are to be applied to the head. Before using them he recommends us to warm the part viith fomentations and cataplasms. Upon the authority of Herodotus he enumerates the beneficial effects which may be derived from cupping; such as evacuating the matters fixed in the part, diminishing inflammation, recalling the appetite, strengthening the stomach, determining to the surface, provok- ing menstruation, and so forth. (Med. Coll. vii.) Aetius gives a similar but less copious account of this sub- ject, (iii.) Actuarius forbids us to apply cupping instruments until after general evacuation, when, he says, they will be useful by pro- ducing revulsion of the noxious humours. He also approves of cupping for strengthening the stomach when it has lost its tone, and to discuss flatulence in the bowels. (Meth. Med. iii, 4.) Albucasis gives a most circumstantial and interesting account of the methods of cupping every part of the body. He parti- cularly recommends cupping the nape of the neck in affections of the brain and eyes. He gives a full account of dry cupping. He recommends it to be applied when the disease is seated in places which do not bear cupping with scarifications, such as the region of the liver and spleen, the kidneys, the bowels, and the joints affected with gout. In applying the instrument he directs us either to create a flame in it, or to fill it with hot water. He gives drawings of various instruments for cupping. (Chiriu'g. ii, 98.) He also treats fully of leeching, which, however, he recommends only in cases in which the cupping instrument cannot be applied. When the bleeding continues longer than is desired, he directs a piece of cloth soaked in cold water to be apphed to the place, or if that does not prove effectual, styptics, such as galls, beans without their skins, and the Hke. When the leeches will not take, the place is to be smeared with fresh blood. When it is desired to make them drop off, poAvdered aloes, salts, or ashes are to be sprinkled upon them, (ii. 99.) Haly Abbas gives an ample enumeration of the cases in which cupping is applicable. He recommends it particularly in such cases as do not admit of general bleeding, for ophthal-