450 FRACTURES. [book vi. Comm. the bone a compress three times folded, and moistened in Avine and oil; or, if the bone is broken into many fragments, a splint formed of cane (ferula). If the bones incline to the common position, the arm is to be fixed to the side, but if the outer end has a tendency upwards, the arm is to be tied to the neck. The man is to be laid on his back.' All spiculse of bones are to be cut out, if it is found that they are wounding the flesh. Albucasis follows our author closely. He particularly enjoins the surgeon when there are any projecting spiculse, to make an incision and cut them out; after which, a suture may be used to heal the integuments, provided the wound is large. A com- press, soaked in rose-oil, vinegar, and wine, is to be applied to allay inflammation. He dii'ects the patient to sleep on his back with a pillow under his armpit. E,hases, Avicenna, and Haly Abbas give exactly the same account of the accident as Albucasis and our author. SECT. XCXIV. ON THE SCAPULA. The scapula is not fractured in its broad and tabular part, but a fracture may sometimes take place at its spine. The fracture being sometimes what is called by expression, some- times a simple fracture, and sometimes a piece is broken ofi'. The expression, then, is ascertained by the touch, exhibiting a hoUow, and occasioning torpidity of the adjacent arm and a throbbing pain. Simple fracture is known by its roughness and local pain. Both are to be managed according to the anti-inflammatory plan of treatment. When a piece is broken off", which also may be ascertained by the touch, if it gives no disturbance it may be fixed by a convenient bandage, but when it moves about and produces irritation, it is to be removed by an incision, and sutures used, as described above. Bandages like those for the clavicle are to be appUed, and the patient is to be laid on the opposite side. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates has not treated particidai'ly of ' '' this fracture. Celsus treats in general terms of the cheek-bone, breast- bone, the broad bone of the scapula, the spine, os sacrara, &c.