HEMORRHAGE. 128 [book IV. done, either apply a ligature around it, or cut the vessel asunder, by which means you will restrain the blood. Sometimes, too, we are obliged to apply a ligature to large veins, and also occa- sionally to cut them asunder transversely. We are sometimes driven to this necessity with regard to veins which arise from a deep-seated place, more especially when they run through a narrow passage or important parts, for thus the portions will be retracted on either side, and the wound will be blocked up and covered by the parts above it. But the safer practice is to do both these things, applying a ligature to the root of the vessel and then dividing it. Having done these things, the wound is to be incarnated as quickly as possible, before the ligature slip from the vessel. For if it is not speedily incar- nated, but the emptied portion is dilated, the disease called aneurism is formed. You may know whether it is a vein or an artery that pours forth the blood, from this, that the blood of an artery is brighter and thinner, and is evacuated by pulsations, whereas that of the vein is blacker and without pulsation. The most excellent of all the incarnative medicines which we know, is that used with safety for hemorrhages from the menin- ges of the brain, and which may be used in wounds of the neck, even for those of the jugular veins; for it will restrain the bleeding from them without a ligature. It contains of the fat- test frankincense, p. j; and of aloes, when apphed to soft bodies, p. ss; but when too hard, an equal quantity, and instead of the frankincense manna is to be substituted. These are to be mixed with the white of an egg until they become of the con- sistence of honey, when it is to be applied iipon the soft down of a hare to the vessel and the whole wound; and a bandage is to be put on externally, the first four or five turns of which we are to make upon the bleeding vessel, and from thence ex- tend to the root of it. Then having loosed it on the third day, if the medicine should still be properly applied to the wound, we are to put on another one all around, soaking it, as it were, and then bandaging. JBut if the first pledget come away of itself, the finger is to be pressed gently upon the root of the vessel, so as to prevent all discharge, and it is to be removed softly and another pledget apphed. Thus it is to be treated until the vessel heal up, the upright posture being still pre- J