SECT. XXI.] ERYSIPELAS. C9 which salt or vinegar may sometimes be added. It is only at this time that quicklime may safely be added to the applica- tions; for it would prove highly prejudicial at first. With respect to the general treatment, he approves strongly of chola- gogues, but does not think bleeding necessary in ordinary cases. When erysipelas arises from ulcers or any obvious causes, he recommends scarifications and cataplasms of barley flour. He recommends much the same plan of treatment in his 'Therapeut. ad Glauc' ii. Pie speaks highly of early incisions. Aetius, as he professes, merely copies from Galen. Oribasius recommends, at first, such things as are cooling without astringency; namely, henbane, nightshade, &c. When themflammation subsides, he directs us, before the part becomes hvid, to apply a cataplasm of barley flour; but when it does become Hvid, he recommends free incisions, and afterwards cataplasms and fomentations with fresh water, or water with salt and brine. Actuarius states the danger of carrying refrigerant and re- peHent appHcations too far, and recommends something discu- tient to be added to them. Octavius Horatianus approves of bleeding (unless contra-indi- cated by the want of strength), and of cholagogues, with free mcisions and fomentations. Avicenna states that bleeding in general does no good, un- less the humour be seated between the two skins. He approves most of cholagogues and of applications strongly refrigerant • only he cautions us not to carry this plan too far, lest the disease be determined to an internal part, or terminate in gangrene Serapion treats of the disease very accurately by the name ot al massive, but in nearly the same terms as Galen He approves decidedly of cooUng and repeUent applications at the commencement. Serapion and Avicenna notice the eruption 01 bullae in erysipelas. Haly Abbas directs us, when eiysipelas is not attended with swelling, to use cooling and repellent applications to the part, and to administer gentle cholagogues, such as myrobalans, ta- mannds, and prunes. But if sweUing be present, and if there IS nothing to contra-indicate venesection, he recommends us to Diced and apply cataplasms. Alsaharavius describes three varieties of erysipelas; namely.