SECT, x.xxvi.] LEECHES. 207 of semen. They are easily remedied, however, after vomiting, by taking a large draught of undiluted wine, and two drachms of the root of sweet cane, or the same dose of cyperus. We must also compel them to exercise themselves strenuously in walking and running, on account of the torpor which is upon them; and they ought to take the bath every day. CoMMENTAUY. Nicaudcr says the bufo apricans super- Comm. induces upon the body difficulty of breathing, fetid breath, and colour like that of the thapsus; he means probably jaundice. His remedies are, the flesh of frogs boiled or roasted, pitch mixed with sweet wine and the spleen of a marsh frog. Phny says a decoction of marsh frogs in vinegar is an effectual remedy in this case and against salamanders. (H. N. xxxii, 5.) Dioscorides recommends emetics, wine, and active exercise. Avicenna, Rhases, and Haly Abbas recommend nearly the same treatment. Haly approves of friction, especiaUy over the stomach. (Pract. iv. 49.) See a learned dissertation on the Poi- sonous Rankin Schneider's Notes on Nicander (Alexipharm.); see also Gorrseus^ Commentary on the same. Schneider inclines to think that it must have been the bufo cormitus. ^lian states that when the blood of the phrynus is given with wine, it proves a very fatal poison. (H. A. xvii, 13.) It ^woukl appear from two passages in the Satires of Juvenal that iin his time criminal acts of poisoning were generally performed 'by means of this substance. (See Sat. i, 510, and vi, 659.) Pans and Fonblanque, however, deny that any species of toad vB poisonous. See also Pennant, (B. Z. iii, 17.) He calls the IRana rubeta the natter-jack. SECT. XXXVI. ON LEECHES. If leeches have been swallowed with water, and have stuck tto a part m deglutition, you may ascertain that this has happened rrom the mouth of the stomach being, as it were, sucked and iitten, which 18 a symptom of the leeches having been swallowed sometimes florid blood is spit up by hawking when the leeches lave fixed to the windpipe. They may be rejected by swallowing '. ine, or the leaves of beet with vinegar, or by di'inking snow