18 LEPROSY AND PSORA. [book iv. Comm. of alphos, and when the melancholic, of melas. Lepra affects mostly the deep-seated parts, and psora the superficial, i or all these complaints he recommends a mixture of lime and water and some other such things. In the 'Euporista/ generally ascribed to Dioscondes, theic is given a long list of medicinal articles for lepra, such as the flour of darnel mth sulphur, heUebore with vinegar, verdigris, cantharides, &c. , vxr „ Aetius, copying from Archigenes, thus marks the difference between lepra and its cognate diseases. Lepra differs trom leuce and alphos, inasmuch as lepra is distingmshed by roughness and a sense of itching, and yet the skin only is affected, and when it is removed, the flesh below is discovered to be sound ■ but in leuce, the flesh below assumes an unnatui-al degree ot whiteness, while the surface of the part is very smooth, and when rubbed it soon becomes red, especially in those who are readily cured; and alphos is altogether superficial, having the appearance of a scale fastened to the skin. Lepra differs fi-om psora, inasmuch as in psora the substances which appear on the skin ai-e of a furfm-aceous nature, while in lepra they resemble the scales of a large fish. He omits the constitutional treat- ment so judiciously stated by om- author, but his local apphca- tions ai-e little different. They contain hellebore, sulphur, misy, verdigris, liquid pitch, cantharides, natron, copperas, myrrh, galls, vinegar, &c., mixed in various proportions. Actuarius states that lepra is next to elephantia in malignity, and that it is distinguished from psora by spreading deeper and having scales of a circidar shape like those of fishes; whereas, psora is more superficial, and its scales are farfuraceous and of no determinate shape. Both are attended with asperity of the skin, and itching. Leuce holds the same place to alphos that lepra does to psora, that is to say, leuce is more deep-seated, and affects the colour of the hair, while alphos is more super- ficial, aud the hair is in general unchanged. For all these affections he recommends an application containing copperas, black hellebore, arsenic, and cantharides, mixed with oil, cedar resin, or rose oil. Psellus states correctly that the scales in leprosy assume a circular shape. Nonnus marks the distinction between these diseases very