ARM. ^ECT. XCIX.] ^63 the manner already described, the splints are to be applied, pro- Comm. vided no swelling nor inflammation be present, for in that case ' ' ' tliey are to be deferred for a few days. These splints are to be constructed from the middle part of the alcanna, or of pine, or of the palm-tree, or of a tree which he calls calingi. Avicenna directs us to form the splints of the wood of al- ranna, or of oleander, or of pomegranate tree, or the like. The length of the splints is to be made equal to that of the limb, and their greatest breadth about three fingers. They are to be secured with another bandage and pieces of tape made of linen cloth. There is to be an interval of a finger's breadth between each spHnt. He says, it is best to apply four splints of such a length as to reach from joint to joint. They are to be smooth and even so as not to injure any part. In cases of fracture of the OS humeri he directs us to surround the nearest joint with the bandages, and, if the fracture be in the middle, to make them take in both extremities. He recommends ns to foment the limb with vinegar and water, or water alone. The arm is to be fastened to the side and the hand laid on the stomach. Haly Abbas, in giving directions for the treatment of frac- tures in general, recommends the splints to be made of pieces of alcanna, or any hard wood. Afterwards he directs the limb to be laid.upon a table having a pad (pannus) placed on it, which last is to be secured with fillets. He gives particular directions not to apply the splints over the processes of bones, and when inflammation comes on he forbids splints to be used at all; in that case the patient is to be kept upon restricted diet. The bandages are to be removed in the course of three ; days. The directions given by the experienced Rhases about the . bandages and splints are very similar to our author's, and there- L: fore need not be repeated. See an account of the ancient splenia, or compresses, and of tthe ferulse, or splints, in Scultet's 'Arsenal de Chirurgie.' (29, ?30.) Seealso Van Swieten's'Commentary,'(354.) Van Swieten rremarks, that although the eighteen-tailed bandage be supposed modem invention, a similar one is described by Hippocrates, (De Fract.) and by Galen in his commentaries on the same. Le Clerc gives a pretty full description of the Celsian method »of ti-eating fractures. (Hist, de la Med.) See also Fabricius ab