SECT. XC] 435 HEAD. gether preventive; that is to say, that he had recourse to the Comm operation in order to prevent inflammation and swelling of' the brain, and not to remove the effects of them. He holds that severe contusions without fracture and fissures are more dangerous than injuries attended with depression and consider- able separation of the fractured portions, and it is in the former class of cases that he recommends trepanning. When the bone is broken into several pieces, he says it stands in no need of the trephine. One of the varieties of fracture, which he describes ^vith stirprising accuracy, is the separation of the bones at a suture. It, he adds, seldom requires the use of the trephine. He remarks, that convulsions often occur in consequence of injuries of the head, and that the convulsions are in the opposite side to that in which the injury of the brain is seated. He gives an excellent account of erysipelas of the face supervening upon injury of the head, and recommends it to be treated with cholagogues. Altogether, his work ' On Injuries of the Head' bespeaks extensive acquaintance with the subject, and we need have little hesitation in pronouncing it to be one of the most valuable relics of antiquity. In one of his aphorisms, he states that concussion of the brain occasions loss of speech; that is to say, as Galen explains his meaning, superinduces apoplectic symptoms. Galen mentions three sorts of instruments for operating upon the cranium, namely the cyclisci, the lenticulars, and the nar- row raspatories. Fractures are classed by him into those which extend only to the diploe, and those which penetrate to the inner surface of the bone. He likewise divides them into sim- ple fissures, contusions, and depressions inflicted by the body, which occasioned the injury. "When the fissure extends down only to the diploe, he directs us to scrape down the bone with raspatories, and then to apply the medicines called cephalics, consisting of Illyrian iris, the farina of tares, manna, birthwort, and panacea. Of the fractures which extend to the meninx, if a simple fissui'e, it may be treated in the same manner by ras- patories ; but if attended with contusion, by perforating it all round with an auger (trepan ?), and then using the scalpel, or by means of the cycHsci at once. Some, he says, instead of these instruments, use the abaptista, which had a circular bor- der projecting a little above the sharp extremity of the per-