132 [book IV. WOUNDS OF NERVES. Comm. room for a few remarks. He recommends stupefying things, ' '' ' cold water, exposure to cold, escliarotics, and the actual cau- tery. He also directs in extreme cases the vessel to be cut across, or a ligature to be applied, namely, a flaxen thread. His description of the process of taking up and tying an artery has quite a modern complexion. He also recommends the application of a compress with tight bandaging when the ligature cannot be apphed. Rhases makes mention of the cautery, of the application of snow, of the ligature, of styptics, and of cutting the vessel across. He mentions that Galen in certain cases approved of two ligatures, as it sometimes happens that the inferior por- tion will pour forth blood. He further speaks of his having occasionally used two or three ligatures for the sake of greater security. He also mentions torsion of the artery. Haly Abbas gives an interesting account of hemorrhage, and makes mention of bandages and the ligature. He and Serapion agree in recommending strongly as a styptic a mixture of one part of frankincense, with a half part of aloes, apphed upon the down of a hare. This is the application called the plaster of Galen, and is much recommended by Zacutus Lusitanus (Pract. Admin, i, 85), by Scultet (Arsinal de Chirurg. Tab. 33), by Brunus (Chirurg. Maj. i, 12), and Lanfrancus (Cliir. parva. 5.) The early modern writers on surgery make mention of all the ancient methods of stopping hemorrhage. Guy of CauHac recommends the hgature upon the authority of Galen and Avicenna. (iii, 1, 3.) It is also recommended by Brunus (i, 12), Theodoricus (i, 13), Rolandus (ii, 1), and Lanfrancus (iii, 1, 9.) It appears, therefore, that the use of the ligature for stopping hemorrhages was well understood by the ancients, and had never been lost sight of even in the darkest ages. SECT. LIV. ON WOUNDS OF THE NERVES. When the nerves are wounded or pricked, they experience great inflammation and pain owing to their great sensibihty; and therefore fever and convulsions supervene upon them, and in some cases delii'itmi, owing to the continuity of the nerves with the brain. And sometimes phlegmons and abscesses form