27 PRURITUS. SECT. IV.] taining roses, myrtles, galls, sandals, camphor, and the Hlce. Comm. They attiibute the complaint to profuse perspiration. In certain '""^^—' cases, Khases directs us to allay the pruritus or tingling, with hot water and the flesh of melons. He also approves of purging with tamarinds and myrobalans. (Cont. xxxvi.) See also ad Mansor. (v, 30). Mercurialis is of opinion that Virgil alludes to the sudamina in the following lines : " Verum etiam invisos si quis tentarat amictus, Ardentes papulae atque immundus olentia sudor Membra sequebatur." (Georg. iii, 565.) We shall briefly notice in this place the singular disease of the face which prevailed in the Eoman empire during the reign of Tiberius, called mentagra by PHny, in his curious description of it, but which he says was named lichenes by some. He re- presents it as a contagious disease, which was readily propagated by kissing. It attacked principally the higher class, the lower and middle ranks and women having generaUy escaped it. The seat of it was commonly the chin, but it sometimes spread over ^e whole face, and afi^ected even the neck, breast, and hands. The only means of cure was burning with caustics down to the bone. (H. N. xxxvii; see also MarceUus, 19.) We are inclined to think that it must have been some variety of elephantiasis. Modem authorities have ranked it under sycosis, but it would appear to have been a much more intractable disease. The sycosis is distinctly described by Celsus, among the diseases of the han-y parts. He recommends for it elaterium, Hnseed, or ngs boiled in water, &c. (vi, 3.) SECT. IV. ON PRTOITUS, OR PRURIGO. occurring in old age is not to be thoroughly cured but may be alleviated by the remedies mentioned below: buc that which anses from a cacochymy in other ages, is to be i Zl ^VTr''?^ ^''^^ ^ °r pituitous humoui- that has become putrid, or by a saltish one. It is ■ Known by attending to the age, temperament, diet, season of prevail in the blood contained in the veins, we must begin with