[book IV. 10 ELEPHANTIASIS. Comm. pearance resembling that of a satyr : and in his work entitled 'DeCuratione ad Glauconem'he ranks elephantiasis with cancerous swellings, and says that the disease is common about Alexandria, owing to the heat of the place and the food of the inhabitants, which consists principally of lentils, snails, pickles, the flesh of asses, and the hke, all which things have a tendency to engender the melancholic humoui-. The temperature of the place like- wise, he shrewdly remarks, determines the superfluities of the system to the skin. He recommends the treatment which we have already had occasion to mention, namely, bleeding, purging, and the theriac of vipers. In the 'Isagoge,' the black and white hellebores are particularly commended. Galen elsewhere calls it contagious. (Lib. ii, Simpl. de carne viperiB.) Oribasius gives no description of the disease, but briefly re- commends the theriac of vipers, and in certain cases purging and bleeding for the cure of it. The account given by Aetius is principally taken from Ar- chigenes, and is very circumstantial. The disease, he remarks, has been called by the several names of elephantiasis, leontiasis, and satyriasis. Suspicions, he says, have been entertained of its being contagious, and he is of opinion that it is unsafe to hold intercourse with those who are ill of the disease, as the air becomes contaminated by the effluvia from their sores, and by their respiration. The disease, he says, is insidious, for it be- gins in a concealed manner internally, and does not make its appearance on the skin until it is confirmed. Men are more subject to it than women, and intemperate climates predispose to it. The first symptoms of the disease are torpor, slow re- spiration, constipated bowels, urine like that of cattle, continued eructations, and strong venereal appetites; and when it is deter- mined to the skin, the cheeks and chin become thickened and of a livid colour, the veins below the tongue are varicose, and eminences are formed all over the body, but especially on the forehead and chin. The body becomes increased in bulk, and is borne down by an intolerable sense of heaviness. Those af- fected with it become pusillanimous, and shun the haunts of men. Though the disease, when confirmed, is of the most hopeless description, he forbids us to abandon the sick at the commencement. His treatment is almost the same as our author's : venesection at the beginning, purging with colocjoith