399 FISTUL/E IN ANO. SECT. Lxxvrir.] mends a powder composed of equal parts of quicklime, can- Comm. thaiides, arsenic, sandaracli, sal ammoniac, and ginger. (Cont. ' " xxviii.) SECT. LXXVIII. ON FISTULA IN ANO. Fistulte in ano are discovered, if they are bli7id, from their being attended "with pain, although no orifice appears; from there being a purulent moisture about the anus, and in most cases from their being preceded by symptoms of abscess; or, if they are open, by the introduction of a sound or swine's bristle; for the instrument will pass down into a cavity and meet the index-finger introduced into the anus if the fistula has penetrated to the inside; but if it has not penetrated, the instrument does not come in contact with the finger but the intermediate substance between them remains imperforated. The fistula is known to be crooked and winding from the in- strument's passing down but a short way, while a great quantity of pus is discharged in proportion. Those near the intestines are known by an abdominal worm or fseces sometimes pass- ing through the mouth of them. In almost all cases some callus appears about the orifice of the fistula. A fistula is in- cui-able that perforates the neck of the bladder, or extends to the joint of the thigh, or to the rectum. A fistula is diffi- cult to cure when it has no orifice, is blind, ends with a bone, and has many windings. AU the rest are, in general, easily cured. We proceed with them thus: having placed the patient in a supine posture, with the legs elevated, so that the thighs may be bent iipon the belly, as when an injection of the bowels is administered, if the fistiila terminate superficially, having introduced a sound or ear-speciUum through the orifice of it, we cut the skin which covers it at one incision. But if the fistula terminate deeply in the anus, having introduced a specillum into the mouth of it, and if we find that it has per- forated the gut, by introducing the finger into the anus oppo- site the affected buttock, we take hold of the head of the specillum, and bending it, bring it to the outside, and with one simple division cut asunder the parts which lie over the sound. If the fistula is found not to have as yet perforated the gut,