344 [book VI. GASTR0RAPH15. soft is itself first broken. In the same manner, passing the needle too near the lips of the wound, occasions often a rupture of the remainder which is too narrow. But if too much is taken in, much of the skin remains ununited. These obser- vations apply to the treatment of all ulcers, but are more especially to be observed in gastroraphe; and, as aforesaid, we must act, forming a conjecture as to the adhesion of the peri- toneum with the abdomen, from the circumstance that the latter being membraneous seldom adheres ; or, as some do, by bringing together the parts of the same kind; that is to say, peritoneum to peritoneum, and abdomen to abdomen. Or, it may be done thus : in the same manner as above, we must pass a needle from the side of the abdomen nearest us, from without inwards, and through it above; then passing both lips of the perito- neum, we must again turn the needle from without inwards tlirough both lips of the peritoneimi, and again turning it from within outwards, pass it through the opposite part of the abdo- men. This mode differs from the common and vulgar one, inasmuch as the needle is passed through the four lips at one perforation, and exactly conceals the peritoneum within the abdomen. The proper applications are those formed of the same materials as the applications for recent wounds; but in order that no vital part may be affected sympathetically, some tender wool is to be dipped in moderately hot oil, and the whole space between the groins and ai'mpits wrapped in it. It will be better, also, to evacuate the bowels by a clyster of warm oil. But if any of the intestines be wounded, dai'k austere wine, iu a tepid state, should be injected, more especially if it be per- forated quite through. The large intestines are easily cured, but the small ones with difficulty, and the jejunum is utterly incurable, from the multitude of its convolutions and the mag- nitude of its vessels, and owing to its coats being thin and nervous; besides, it receives all the bile in an undiluted state, and is nearest to the liver. The under and fleshy parts of the stomach we may attempt to cure, for we may succeed, not only because these parts are thicker, but because curative medicines are more readily applied to them, owing to their situation. The parts, however, about the mouth of the stomach and oesophagus are affected by the medicines only in passiug down ; and the exquisite sensibiUty of the mouth of the stomach is au obstacle