[book VI. 39G FISTULA. SECT. LXXVII. ON FISTULiE AND FAVI. The present occasion requiring us to treat of fistula in ano, it will not be improper to give an account in the first place of fistulte in general. A fistula then is a callous sinus, attended with little or no pain, and forming in most parts of the body. It generally originates in abscesses not properly healed. The callus is compact and white, the flesh dry, and therefore insen- sible, neither vein nor nerve passing to it. Sometimes the sinus is dry and sometimes filled with a discharge. The dis- charge is sometimes constant, and sometimes at intervals, the mouth of it being at one time shut up, and at another time open. Sometimes the fistula terminates on a bone, sometimes on a nerve, or some other important part; and it is either straight or crooked; has either one orifice or many. Those therefore that terminate upon large arteries, or nerves, or tendons of considerable size, or the pleura, or any important part, are cither not to be meddled with at all, or with great and skilful caution; but the others may be operated upon in this manner. We first examine them if they be straight with a sound (specil- lum), or if crooked with a double-headed specillum of a very flexiljle nature, such as those made of tin, and the smallest of those made of copper. When there are two or more orifices, we must not trust to the examination with a speciUum, but in- jecting the sinus by one of its openings we ascertain from the manner in which the injection comes out whether it be one fistula with many orifices, or if there be several fistulas. After the examination, if the sinus be superficial and naiTow, it is to be distended by the introduction of a specillum, and the callus is to be cut off with a properly-shaped scalpel, or pared with the nails or the point of a scalpel. If it is also broad the re- dundant parts are to be dissected away. If it is not superficial, but deep and straight, we must cut ofi" the callus all around as far as we can make incisions, and if any pai't remain, destroy it with a caustic medicine; or if the callus be large, and do not yield to medicine, we must form a slough by burning it with hot irons. If the fistula terminate with a bone, and if it is not diseased. M e need only scrape it, but if it is carious, or otherwise coi-rupted, the whole diseased portion is to be cut