PTERYGIA. [BOOK VI. Comm. Liston could not recommend a bolder plan of treatment in such cases. Theodoricus, Guy of Cauliac, and the other surgical writers of that age, follow closely in the footsteps of the ancients, especially of the Arabians. When the mortified part is near to a joint, they recommend amputation at it. In other cases they direct us to make an incision between the sound and the dead parts, to saw the bone with a fine saw, and to stop the bleeding with a heated iron. Theodoricus recommends stupifying medi- cines, such as opium, hyoscyamus, mandragora, or cicuta, before the operation, Ambrose Pare has undoubtedly the merit of in- troducing the use of the hgature into modern practice in ampu- tations, and, in fact, Archigenes seems to be the only ancient authority who mentions it in such cases. We have shown, how- ever, in another place, that the hgature was freely used by the ancients for stopping bleeding from woimds. SECT. LXXXV. ON PTERYGIA ABOUT THE NAILS. The pterygium is a fleshy excrescence about the nails, covering part of the nail, and being commonly formed in the large fingers and toes. But those in the feet arise most commonly from an accident, whereas, those in the hands arise from whitlow, the inflammation being neglected and turning to pus. For, the pus being allowed to remain, corrodes and corrupts the root of the nail, and often destroys the whole of it, but generallv the one half, while a portion of it uncorroded is left at the root of the nail, and sometimes the whole root is left uncoiToded. Sometimes, too, it corrupts the bone, when a disagreeable smell arises from it, and the extremity of the finger becomes sweUed and appears livid. They are to be treated, then, by cutting and removing aU the remaining part of the nail with the point of a scalpel, and then bui-ning both the ulcerated and cut part with cauteries. For, the pterygium is a spreading disease, and does not stop unless burnt, so that, if neglected, it afi'ects the whole finger. If, while the nail and bone remain sound, the inner angle of the nail sink down and pierce the adjacent flesh, it occasions inflammation ; and in this case the irritating portion is to be raised upon a thin probe, or some such thing