410 [book VI, AMPUTATION. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates and Galen recommend ampu- ' • tation to be performed in general at a joint. (Do Articulis, Gaieni Comment, t. v, p. 650, ed. Basil.) Hippocrates says com- plete excision may be performed at tbe joints of the hand and foot, and at those of the wrist and ankle, and generally with safety, unless the patient be cut off by fainting, or continual fever supervene on the fourth day. When gangrene attacks a fractured limb, his rule of practice is to let the parts drop off, and he remarks, many persons thus recover, even when the fracture is seated in the femur. When gangrene comes on without being preceded by fracture, he directs the soft parts, as soon as they have lost all sensibility, to be removed at the nearest joint below, and the surgeon is to wait until the bone also separates. He says he had seen the bone of the thigh thus separate on the eightieth day; in that case the limb below had been removed at the knee on the twentieth day. In a similar case of gangrene of the leg, the bones separated on the sixtieth day. He pronounces gangrene of the extremities to be more formidable in appearance than in reality. He recom- mends a mild and anti-inflammatory treatment, and that the limb should be laid in an elevated position as long as there is any fear of hemorrhage. Violent attacks of dysentery are apt to come on, but do not generally prove obstinate. (De Artie. 69.) It would appear from Thucydides and Lucretius that it was not uncommon to amputate in cases of gangrene in the days of Hippocrates. (See their Descriptions of the Plague of Athens.) In cases of gangrene Celsus directs us to make an incision of the flesh, between the sound and corrupted part, down to the bone, which is to be sawed across, and after the asperities have been removed from the end of the bone, the skin is to be brought over the stump, (vii, 33.) He gives us no particular de- scription, however, of amputation of the extremities. We turn, therefore, to the celebrated fragments of the works of Archi- genes and Heliodorus, preserved in the collection of Nicetas, published by Cocchius. (Chirurgici Grseci, Florent. 1756.) Archigenes begins by stating the circumstances which requii'c recourse to be had to amputation. They are, the presence of some intractable disease, such as gangrene, necrosis, putrefac- tion, cancer, certain callous tumours, and sometimes wounds inflicted by weapons, and the like. Before attempting the