438 FRACTURES. [book VI. Comm. be stopped by a sponge dipped in vinegar^ or by compresses, '"""^ ' while the head is elevated. In cases of fracture and fissure of the cranium, the ancient surgeons, he says, had immediate recourse to instruments for cutting out the part; but he recommends the surgeon, in the first place, to try the effect of applications for allaying the irritation, such as suitable plasters, with wool soaked in vinegar, proper bandages, and the like. This treatment is to be continued for five days, and on the sixth the part is to be fomented with a sponge soaked in wai'm water. If the skin begin to heal, and the fever to abate, and if the appetite return, with sound sleep, he recommends perse- verance in the use of these applications. In this manner, he adds, fissures will often be filled with callus; thus, also, bones more extensively fractured may become united with callus, which forms a much better cover to the brain than the common in- teguments after a piece of bone has been cut out. But if, ou the other hand, fever set in at the first with disturbed sleep, a copious discharge from the wound which shows no appearance of liealing ; if the glands of the neck swell, or if violent pain comes on, with loathing of food, the surgeon must proceed fortbwith to the operation. Dangerous consequences, he adds, may arise either from a fissure or a depression. A fissure may allow fluids to descend to the membrane of the brain, and thereby give rise to pain and inflammation. A depression in like manner may occasion irritation, and spiculfe of bones by wounding the brain may prove particularly troublesome. As a general rule, he recommends as little of the bone as possible to be removed. If the one edge overtop the other, it will be suflQcient to remove with a raspatory the prominent part; for when it is taken away there will be a sufficient opening for the cure. If the edges are firnily compressed together, a hole is to be bored with a wimble (terebra) on its side, at the distance of a finger's breath, and from it two lines are to be cut to the fissure with a raspatory (scalpel), in the form of the letter V, so that its vertex may be at the bole, and its base at the fissm-e. If the fracture be long, more of these holes must be cut out. In cases of depression the whole depressed portion must be re- | j moved. In whatever way the pieces of bone are cut they are all to be removed by means of a suitable forceps. But we Avill not occupy more space in explaining his method of operating, li