SECT. Liv.] MUSHROOMS. 229 Commentary. Nicander mentions suffocation as the com- mon effect of taking mushrooms. His remedies are radishes, rue, the flowers of copper, natron, mustard, lixivial ashes, &c! Om- author copies from Aetius. Simeon Seth recommends honey with tepid water, and a moderate quantity of natron. Ruffus (ap. Oribas. Med. CoUect. vHi, 24) recommends clysters of natron, wormwood, the juice of radish, and the decoction of •ue. Dioscorides recommends emetics of oH, natron, &c., and ifterwards ^dnegar and stimulant decoctions. Avicenna's reme- dies are nearly the same as those of our author. Alsaharavius du-ects us to give at first emetics, and then calefacients, such as pepper, cumin, wine, and, if necessary, the theriac. Haly Abbas, lu like manner, recommends emetics, and then wine with honey^ the theriac, &c. The symptoms, he says, are cold sweats, faint- mgs, and embai-rassment of breathing. All the ancient authors affirm that mushrooms act upon the organs of respiration, and Ave remark that a sense of suffocation is generally mentioned in the cases reported by modern writers. For a fuU report of fungi, or mushrooms, see Dioscor. (iv 53) Plmy (H. N. xxii, 46); Schulze (Tox. Vet. 14); Sprengel' (Comment, m Dioscor.); Schweighaeuser (in Athen. Deipnos ii 59); Schneider (ad Nicand. Alex. 521). Diphilus, as quoted l)y Athenseus, states that all mushrooms which are black, Hvid dnd hard, or which grow hard after being boiled, are of a dele- terious nature. He recommends us to give mulse, oxymel, uatron, and vinegar, so as to produce vomiting. Dioscorides gives the following characters of poisonous fungi • Mich as grow near rusty nails, or putrid rags of cloth, or near [he lodgmg-place of reptiles, or by trees which have bad fruits, are deleterious; such have a glutinous coagulum (membrane ulhenng to the cap?) and when gathered soon become putrid uid melt away. (M. M. iv, 83). According to Sprengel, these .uaracters are not universaUy applicable (1. c.); but considering he experience which the ancients had in the use of these arti" ; cs, they are no doubt generally so. The amanita muscaria, he uffarzcus necator, and many other species, may be set down IS belonging to the ancient list of poisonous mushrooms.— r-hulze, who appears to have.paid great attention to the sub- ct, enumerates the poisonous mushrooms of the ancients as Hows:—!, Agaricus muscarius; 2, Agaricus piperatus; o