.SECT, cxvm.] 503 HIP-JOINT. Ti-anslation of Oribasiiis (Ap. Med. Art. Princip.), or in Comm. Littre's Edition of Hippocrates (iii, and iv.) There is one curious passage in the commentary of Apollonius, which we must not pass by. He says that Hegetor, one of the followers of HerophUuSj had maintained that dislocation of the thigh being attended Avith rupture of the tendon fixed into his head (ligamentum teres) it was impossible ever afterwards to keep the ball of the femur in the acetabulum. This, Apollonius correctly argues, is contrary to experience and the authority x)f the ancients. (Ed. Dietz. p. 35.) Celsus describes the different modes of dislocation at the hip-joint in the following terms: " Femur in omnes quatuor partes promovetur, saepissime in interiorem; deinde. in exteri- orem; raro admodum in priorem, aut posteriorem. Si ia in- teriorem partem prolapsum est, crus longius altero et valgius est: extra enim pes ultimus spectat. Si in exteriorem, brevius va- rumque fit, et pes intus inclinatur; calx ingressu terram non contingit sed planta ima; meliusque id crus superius corpus, quam in priore casu, fert, minusque baculo eget. Si in priorem crus extensum est, imphcarique non potest; alteri cruri ad calcem par est, sed ima planta minus in priorem partem inch- natur: dolorque in hoc casu prsecipuus est, et maxime urina supprimitur. Ubi cum dolore inflammatio quievit, commode ■ ingrediuntur, rectusque eorum pes est. Si in posteriorem, ex- tendi non potest erus, breviusque est; ubi consistit, calx quo- que terram non contingit.'' His statement, however, that dis- locations inwards are of most frequent occurrence of any is at issue with that of Hippocrates, who more correctly states that the dislocations outwards are the most common of all. He likcAvise describes clearly the methods of reduction. If the •muscles of the limb be weak, it will be suflacient to make ex- tension by means of thongs applied at the groin and the knee; but if strong, it will be better to fasten them to the upper ex- ' tremities of two sticks loosely fixed in the ground, and to make • counter-extension by pulling the ends of the sticks in opposite ' directions. A more powerful method is by stretching the limb ' upon a board having axles at both ends with thongs fastened 1 to them, by turning which such powerful extension could be I made as would be sufficient even to break the muscles and \ tendons. When these are stretched, if the bone is dislocated