[book IV. WOUNDS OF NERVES. 136 applications in such cases, as the plaster from metals, those called barbarous, and the cissinum, that from groundsel, the me- lanchlorum, the indicum, harmonica, and athena, the composi- tion of "which, and the manner of using them you will find described in the Seventh Book. And since some very wealthy people are fond of using expensive applications to wounds of the nerves, Galen has described the following for punctures of the nerves : Of cinnamon, oz. j ; of dittany, oz. 3 ; of marum, oz. j ; of amaracus, dr.ij ; of wax, oz. viij ; of opobalsam, oz. x ; of turpentine, oz. x.—Another: of cyrenaic juice, oz. j; of wax, oz. iij ; of opobalsam, oz. xij. This is an application for exposed nerves : Of wax used for ointments, oz. iij ; of the oint- ment called spicatum, or foUatum, or that of nard, oz. xij ; of washed pompholyx, oz. j ; of spikenard, oz. j ; of amomum, oz. j ; of the leaf (malabathrum), oz. j. And these, Galen says, are superlatively excellent. Comm. COMMENTARY. Galen has devoted a whole book of his work ' ' ' ' De Med. sec. genera' to the consideration of wounds of ten- dons, membranes, ligaments, and nerves properly called, and he also treats of them more generally in the sixth book of his work 'Meth. Med.' He professes to have had ample expe- rience in the treatment of these cases while attending wounded gladiators. As our author has given a very comprehensive abstract of Galen's piinciples of cure, it will be unnecessary for us to enter into any minute detail of them. He states very decidedly that cold applications, especially cold water, are highly dangerous, and inculcates that calefacient oils are the most pro« per appHcations. He particularly praises oils medicated with spurge, or sagapene, or turpentine-rosin. They are to be ap- plied upon soft wool. In certain cases, he says, I have mixed the powerfully desiccant substances, such as quicklime, misy, chalcitis, pompholyx, arsenic, and sandarach, with the oils or cerates. "When tendons are cut across he directs us to unite the ends together by sutures. Wounds of membranes and ligaments are said to be less dangerous than those of tendons. In general he further recommends either bloodletting or purging. Oribasius, Aetius, and, in short, all the subsequent authori- ties, like our author, copy everything from Galen. As a spe-