S13CT. LTir.] HEMORRPIAGE. 127 the fruit of henbane triturated and sprinkled upon the part Mix the pounded root of calamus with honey, put it into a piece of linen, and use in great quantity; it will speedily extract them. Commentary. This subject wiU be more fuUy treated of in the Sixth Book. Our author copies from Oribasius. (Synops. vii, 17.) Most of the articles here enumerated are mentioned by Dios- condes as possessing strongly attractive properties. Avicenna Rhases, and Haly Abbas, speak of similar articles, without any new remedies of consequence. See in particular Haly. (Pract IV, 24.) '' ^ The applications mentioned by PHny are ridiculous (H N XXX, 42, and xxxii, 43.) SECT. LIII. ON HEMORRHAGE FROM VEINS AND ARTERIES. In cases of hemorrhage from parts, the contrary position to that for sinuses wiU be the proper one, that is to say, the up- right, but that must not be in too great a degree, for there is danger of pain being excited, and of the blood bursting forth from the vessel again; for nothing produces hemorrhage and mcreases mflammation more than pain. Wherefore apply your finger immediately to the part from which the blood flows put- tmg It gently upon the orifice of the opening in the vessel, and pressing it so as not to excite pain, for by this means you wiU restrain the bleeding, and block up the opening with a throm- bus, and should the bleeding vessel be deep-seated you will thereby ascertain most correctly its situation and magnitude and whether it be an artery or a vein. After this, if the ves' sel be small we must use some of the styptics. The best of these are the obstruents, composed of roasted rosin, of fine flour ot wheat, and of gypsum, and such like, mixed up with the white of an egg and applied upon the down of a hare. When t the vessel is large seize it with a hook, stretch and twist it 1 moderately. When the bleeding is stopped, endeavour if it is ' a vein to restrain the blood without a ligature, by the same medicines. But if it is an artery, one of two things must be