462 [book V]. FRACTURES. . loose on tlie tHrd day. They are then to be removed and ' again applied, and a fifth bandage is now to be superadded to them; and again, these are to be taken off on the fifth day, and six bandages put on, in such a manner that the third and fifth may terminate below, and all the others above. When- ever the bandages are taken off, the limb is to be bathed with hot water, and proper fomentations applied to allay the inflam- mation, which will generally be found to have subsided about the seventh or ninth day. Then the bandages are again to be put on as directed above, and ferulte or splints are also to be added, taking care to put on a stronger and broader splint at the side to which the fractured bone has a tendency to be protruded. These must all be rounded where they come in contact with a joint, to avoid injuring it; they are only to be secured -ndth such tightness as to keep the bones in their place, and when they get loose their thongs are to be tightened. The bandages are to be removed gradually. These are his general directions for all fractures of the extremities, and it is to be remarked that his mode of treatment is essentially the same as that of Hippo- crates. He afterwards describes at considerable length the method of setting the broken ends of the os humeri. After this is accomplished he directs us to bind the arm gently to the side. With regard to the splints, he properly recommends the longest to be applied externally; shorter ones on the braflni of the arm (over the biceps muscle ?), and the shortest under the armpit'. He advises us to remove them frequently when the fracture is situated near the fore-arm; and at these times the arm is to be bathed with hot water, and rubbed with a soft cerate. It will be seen that the methods of Hippocrates and Celsus, although the same in principle, differ in the following respects. Hippocrates uses three bandages, Celsus six : Hippocrates uses small compresses, Celsus large pieces of Hnen : Hippocrates uses cerate, Celsus wine and oU. The Arabians conducted the treatment in much the same way as the Greeks. In cases of fractm-e of the arm, Albucasis di- rects us to make the bandages of soft, thin linen cloth ; but of broader and firmer linen if the thigh or leg is to be treated. Below them is to be applied a smooth cloth spread with a suit- able liniment. After the under bandages have been put on m