50-1 DISLOCATIONS. [book vi. Comm. forwards, some round body is to be placed in the groin, and the knee is to be suddenly carried over it, for the same reason and in the same manner as in dislocations at the shoulder. In the other cases the surgeon is directed to push the bone towards its place, while an assistant propels the hip-joint. Oribasius mentions the four varieties of dislocation at the hip-joint. In three of them, he says, the leg is extended and cannot be bent; but in the dislocation backwards, it is bent and cannot be extended. He has described the method of re- ducing these dislocations by machines, of which he gives plates. Albucasis describes the four varieties of dislocation and the methods of reduction in much the same terms as Paulus. His modes of reducing them are : 1st. By rotating the limb in all directions. 2d. By making extension and counter-extension Avith the aid of two assistants. 3d. By suspending the patient, and getting a strong assistant to grasp the affected leg and swing himself by it. 4th. By making extension with ropes fastened to two sticks or pieces of wood as recommended for dislocations of the spine. When the dislocation is forwards, the surgeon is to press down the prominent part with his hands; but if backwards, a board is to be used in the manner described by our author. Avicenna agrees with Hippocrates, in opposition to Gelsus, that dislocation outwards (on the dorsum of the ihum) is of more frequent occurrence than the dislocation inwards (on the foramen ovale.) His description of the modes of reduction is evidently taken from Paulus. Haly Abbas describes the four varieties mentioned by Hip- pocrates, and recommends much the same treatment. The account of them given by Rhases is exactly the same. The earlier modern writers on surgery, describe the four varieties of dislocation at the hip-joint in the same terms as the ancients. They evidently follow the Arabians. See Theodoricus (ii, 51); Guido de Cauliaco (v, 2, 7.) Prom the contents of this section it wHl be clearly seen how erroneous is the statement made by the late Sir Astley Cooper, that the profession was entirely ignorant of the nature of these acci- dents until within these last few years.