ABSCESSES. [book IV. 54 M. A plilegmon, says Haly Abbas, is a sanguineous collection, arising either from an external cause, sucb as a bruise, a blow, a wound, or tlie like, or from an internal cause, namely, a de- fluxion upon the part. He attributes the collection which takes place in a part to its debihty, which makes it unable to cast ofl" the load which is thrown upon it. When seated in a vascular part, phlegmon, he says, is attended with a throbbing pain. He approves of fi-ee and bold incisions. Alsahara^ius treats of phlegmon at great length, but there is nothing original in his views. Uhases recommends at first bleeding, purging, and applications of a cooling and astringent nature. But when suppuration has commenced he properly forbids depletion, lest it only protract this process. He remarks that phlegmons are often occasioned by disorder of the stomach, and the use of too much food and drink. He recommends in general matui-ative apphcations, to which, if ^accessary, narcotics may be added. SECT. XVIII. ON EXTERNAL ABSCESSES. If it appear to you impossible to prevent suppuration, boil bread in water and oil, and apply it as a catasplasm; or apply barley flour prepared in hke manner; and bathe the pai-t with an infusion of marshmallows. But when the sweUing is difficult, either to convert into pus or to dissipate, you may use a cataplasm of dried figs. But sweet and fat figs are to be dissolved by boiling in water, and made like thin honey, and barley flour added to it. And if the swelling is resolved but imperfectly, you may boU with the figs hyssop or mar- joram ; or, if you wish to increase its strength, add sahs to the decoction. But you must attend that the part be not dried too much, for thus wiH it be rendered hard. If you perceive any such thing, you must boil with the water the root of wild cucumber, or of marshmallows, or of bryony. But the root of the dracunculus is stronger than these and more discutient; and the medicine formed from the di-acunculus itself is very discutient. Sometimes, therefore, you may apply de- coctions of these things alone; but at other times you may add dried figs, and mix polenta with fat. And the oil of dill is dis- cutient, and adapted for concocting crude humours, and uncon-