VENOMOUS ANIMALS. [book v. 15S ing also the surrounding parts ; for the poison is forced back out of the body along with the spirits and blood -which are drawn out. The part in which the wound is situated ought also to be burnt and eschars formed on it, and amputation of the extremities may then be seasonably practised if the animal that inflicted the bite be of a deadly nature, such as the asp, the cerastes, the viper, and the like: as Galen relates that a certain vine-dresser being bitten by a viper, and knowing the animal, immediately cut off the finger that was bitten with his pruning hook, and was entirely freed from the danger. But if the poison be abeady distributed over the body, venesection ought to be had recourse to immediately, especially if the per- son bitten be plethoric; and pepper and garUc given to eat with the food, and strong wine to drink, whereby the system will be filled with fresh vapom-s and a suitable heat. After- wards cataplasms are to be applied that can warm and stimu- late the bite, such as a mixture of the ashes of cabbage or of fig with vinegar, or with the strained lye, or with the sauce of pickle. Likewise onions may be mixed with polenta or bread, and strong leeks with salts, or wai-m Hquid pitch with salts, or cedar-rosin, or goat's dung. It will also be proper to pour upon the parts hot vinegar in which calamint has been boiled, or with vinegar and sea water, or with brine. We are to apply to the part fowls, more especially hens, cut up and still warm, or other such animals, for they absorb the poison and soothe the pains. And we must have recourse to plasters, such as that formed from salts, that from rosemary and adarce, and on the whole such things as are of an acrid nature. And in ge- neral all persons bitten or stung by any venomous animal ought, unless the deep-seated parts are wholly unhurt, to take in the first place potions containing endive, heath, or astraga- lus with vinegar, or bitumen and Christ's thorn in like manner, or a decoction of Christ's thorn; or two drachms of dried weasel with wine, which is a cried-up remedy; or the blood of the sea-tortoise, or a di-achm of castor with diluted wine, or a drachm of frankincense, or of Sicyonian root, or the juice of leeks, or ground pine, or alsander, or cinnamon, or birthwort, or the seed of the chaste tree, or cypress balls, or seseli, or pepper, or the seed of trefoU, or bay berries, or river crabs roasted or boiled. Use the following compound theriac.