SECT. LXIV.} HELLEBORE, ETC. 239 belly, for it often bit it with its mouth, and grasped it with its Comm hands." (Ad Mansor. viii, 42.) ■—^ Haly Abbas gives a similar account. Mercurj^, he says, in its natural state, is not poisonous, and merely occasions some tormina in the belly; but when kiUed (oxydised ?) it is dele- terious, and is to be remedied by giving emetics of oH and dill and afterwards oily clysters, &c. (Pract. iv, 53.) See a similar account in Avicenna (iv, 6,1, 2.) Mercury that has been killed, or sublimed, that is to say attenuated, produces, he says, grave symptoms, such as pain of the bowels, a bloody flux, reten- tion of mine, and so forth. He recommends, after vomiting, myrrh in wine, with honied water, &c. Serapion mentions that fumigations with mercury are very prejudicial by superinducing nervous affections and paralysis (De Simpl. 385.) Alsaharavius is, we beheve, the only ancient author who has mentioned that rubbing the body with mercury occasions swelHng of the mouth, tongue, and throat, with ero- sion of those parts. He directs us to wash or gargle with the decoction of diU, camomHe, or mint. (Pract. xxx, 3.) Pliny mentions milk as a remedy against gypsum, ceruse, sulphur, and mercury. (H. N. xxviii.) Not having access to the unpubHshed mss. of the ancient bcnptores Chemici,' we cannot pretend to determine whether or not they had acquired any considerable skill in analysing and detecting poisonous substances. See an interesting account of these MSS. in Pabricii 'BibHotheca Graca,^ xiii, p 747 •Consult also Vossius ' De Natur^ Artium,' v. 9; Sir Wnham Drummond^s Papers in the ' Classical Journal' on the Literature of the Ancient Egyptians; and Doutens 'Dec. de Modern.^ ip. 176 The only original work on the chemistry of the . ancients which we have read with any attention is the ' Chemia' . of Geber which contams much curious information regarding tthe metals, although nothmg that suits our present p4ose. »8ECT. LXIV.-ON WHITE HELLEBOEE, THAPSIA, ELATEKITJM, BLACK AGARIC, WILD RUE, GITH, AND THE DOWN OF THE CACTOS. _ We must be guarded in the administration of certain medi- ;einal substances, which often occasion as great danger as poisons