20 LEPROSY AND PSORA. [book iv. CoMM.rosio major est, celerius et latius procedit, certioribusque etiam quam prior temporibus et fit et desinit. Tlubra cognommatur. His tWrd species bears some resemblance to the lepra nigncans of WiUan and B ataman Tertia etiamnum detenor est: nam et crassior est et durior, et magis tumet, in snmma cute fin- ditnr, et vehementius rodit, ipsa quoque squamosa sed nigra, &c. Nigr^ cognomen est." His account of the fourth species seems to refer to the lepra vulgaris " Quartum genus est quod cura- tionem omnino non recipit distans colore : nam sub-albidum est \ et recenti cicatrici simile: squamulas habet pallidas, quasdam sub- albidas, quasdam lenticulge simUes: quibus demptis nonun- quamprofluit sanguis." For all these diseases he recommends a composition containing sulphur, natron, and rosm. Scribonius Largus describes several compositions, "adlepram, quje quasi impetigo est cum prurigine cutis," and for scabies. They contain sulphur, JSthiopian cumin, vinegar, frankincense. Serenus Samonicus makes mention of a few popular reme- dies for scabies, prurigo, and papula, but he gives no descrip- tion of these complaints. Octavius Horatianus recommends for scabies (meaning, we suppose, the psora of the Greeks,) bleeding, purging, frequent baths, and external applications containing natron, frankincense, and sulphur. He does not mention lepra by name, nor does he seem to allude to it at all. Marcellus recommends for lepra a composition containing equal parts of natron, frankincense, litharge, and sulphui- pounded with vinegar. Vegetius says that the scabies of cattle " contagiosa est et ■'! transit in plures." Probably Virgil alludes to the scab of sheep in this line: " Nec mala vicini pecoris contagia Isedant." (Eel. i.) He mentions, as remedies for it, sulphur, litharge, pitch, helle- bore, &c. (Georg. iii, 449.) See also Geopon. (xvi, 18, sviii, 15); Columella (viii, 5); and Gratius (Cyneget. 413). Isidores gives the folloAving definitions of the complaints we have been treating of: " Lepra vero cutis asperitas squammosa lepidi similis unde nomen accepit: cujus color nunc m nign- dinem vertitur, nunc in alborem, nunc in ruborem. Scabies tenuis asperitas et squammata est. Impetigo est sicca scabies; prominens a corpore cum asperitate et rotunditate formte. Hanc valgus sarnam appellat."