[book v. VENOMOUS ANIMALS. 156 banum, and with a little of the shavings of hart's horn, or Ethiopian cumin. The leaves of mallows triturated with oil when rubbed on the skin protect in an especial manner from bees and wasps. Comm. COMMENTARY. The following is a list of the ancient au- " ' ' thorities on Toxicology : Nicander (Theriaca et Alexipharmaca); Dioscorides (Liber de Venenis); Celsus (v); Scribonius Largus (47, et seq.); Galen (Ther. ad Pison.; Meth. Med., De Antid.); Aetius (xiii); Pliny (Hist. Nat. pluries) ; Oribasius (de Morb. Curat, iii); Solinus (Polyhist. 40) ; Serenus Samonicus; Nonnus; Simeon Seth (de Alimentis pluries); Actuarius (Meth. Med. v); Vegetius (de Mulo-medicina, iii, 77); Avicenna (iv, 6); Rhases (ad Mansor. vui, and Cont. xxxv); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, Theor. viii); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx); Serapion (pluries); Anonymi Fragmentum apud Bernardi Reliq.) The work of ^lius Promotus on Venomous Animals and Poisonous substances, which exists in MS. in the BibUotheca Vaticana, has never been published as far as we know. It is quoted by Hiero- nymus Mercurialis (Var. lect), and is noticed by Albertus Fabricius (Bibl. Gr^c. xiii, 780.) Fabricius supposes it to be the production of ^schrion Empiricus. It is proper to state that whenever we quote the work, it is from the extracts given in Schneider's Annotations on Nicander. It is to be borne m mind that the work on Poisons, usually pubHshed as the production of Dioscorides, is not held to be genuine by his latest editor, Sprengel; stiU, however, it is acknowledged by all to be a work of considerable antiquity and of great authority on the subject of ancient Toxicology. The work ' Euporiston,' wliich is also pubHshed with the works of Dioscorides, is generaUy admitted not to be genuine. It con- tains, however, some valuable matter on Toxicology and other medical subjects. These directions of our author for driving away reptiles are mostly taken from Nicander, who recommends fumigations with hartshorn, gagate-stones, sulphur, bitumen, galbanum, juniper, and other such articles. (Ther. 35.) See also Diosco- rides (M. M.); Orpheus (de Lapidibus); Geopou. (xui, 8) ; and