SECT. VIII.] TRICHIASIS. 261 the eye by an injection of eggs mixed with milk. When the ligatures slacken we cut and extract them. I know a certain person who having made the dissection of the skin of the eye- lid, as mentioned above, did not have recourse to sutures, but effected the cure with a healing ointment. For when the wound cicatrised, the eyelid being somewhat contracted, forced the hairs to incline outwards. In like manner, another person not practising the dissection of the eyelid, nor the two external in- cisions, but only making the under-incision, stretched with his fingers or by a hook the fold of the eyelid, two reeds or plates of the same length as the eyelid, and as broad as for venesection, he twisted a hgature round it at both its extremities; and thus the whole skin behind not being nourished, and on that account being deprived of hfe, feU off within ten, or at most fifteen days along with the reeds or plates, so as to leave scarcely any scar. Commentary. On suture of the upper eyelid, and other Comm. methods of operating for distichiasis, see Hippocrates (de Victu acut 66) ; Aetius (vii, 71, 72); Celsus (vii, 7); Albucasis (Chir. 11); Rhases (Divis.i,30; adMansor. ix, 26; Contin. ii 3) • Avicenna (iii, iii, 3, 32); Avenzoar (i, 8, 6); Serapion (ii,' 7) • -Vesue (11, 18); Jesu Hah (ii, 10); Canamusali (vi, 26); Haly -Ibbas (Pract. ix, 19); Vegetius (Mulom. ii, 15.) The description of the operation given by Aetius fromLeonidas being nearly the same as that described by our author, we shall confine ourselves to an abridged account of it, and merely make I few remarks to illustrate the description of Paulus. In order :o facilitate the operation, he recommends the operator to have :wo assistants instead of one, as directed by om- author He ilso recommends him, in the first place, to mark with ink the 'ortion of skin which requires to be cut out. He then directs ■ m to make the under-incision, by which he seems to have aeant an incision within the ciUary hairs along the tarsus, and Ucndmg from canthus to canthus. He recommends it to be aade pretty deep, and even in certain cases suggests the pro- u-.oty of makmg two under-incisions, one as above described vithin the ciiary hairs, in order to relax the tarsus; and the ■ther upon the preternatural hairs. He next directs first a ransverse incision to be made along the eyehd above the cHiarv airs, and then a lunated one beginning and ending like the