'^^^ FRACTURES. [book vr. Comm. fracture of tlie dorsal vertebrae, it is remarked that there is paralysis and insensibility of the lower extremities, and that the alvine and urinary discharges are passed unconsciously, he, in like manner, pronounces the case to be desperate. When a piece of bone is broken off and occasions great irritation, he recommends us, like our author, to make an incision and take it out. Haly Abbas and Avicenna borrow everything from Paulus. Rhases gives many curious remarks upon injiuies of the sjpine, but several of them are borrowed from Galen. (DeLocis Aft'ectis.) Galen relates many cases to show that retention of the urine and faeces is a common effect of an injmy of the spine. He also mentions that loss of speech is sometimes the consequence of the upper part of the spine being injui-ed. Ehases relates the case of a man who lost the sensibility of his arms from an injury of the last vertebra of the neck, pro- duced by a fall from a horse. He states, that when the injury is below the neck the respiration is never aflPected, He incul- cates that whenever there is paralysis of th.e limbs, or of any part after a fall, it arises from some injury of the spine. (Cont. i.) When the sacrum or os coccygis is fractured, he directs us to replace the parts by introducing the finger per anum. (Cont. xxix.) SECT. XCIX. ON THE AKM. WTien the arm is broken Hippocrates makes the extension thus : he says, " We must take an oblong piece of wood, such as that which is put into the holes at the end of spades, and fastening ropes to its extremities, suspend it transversely fi'om some beam, and placing the man upon some elevated object more^ erect than what is called the erect sleeping posture, we pass his hand over the above-mentioned piece of wood, so that the middle of the wood may be fitted to the ai'mpit, and his arm being bent at a right angle, an assistant stooping doAni takes hold of the hand, and then some heavy object, such as a stone, a leaden ball, or the like, is to be fastened to the elbow, and being allowed to hang suspended, in tliis way you must