FRACTURES. [book VI. 442 M. tlie sun, wind, frequent baths, and the free use of wine until the wound is healed. Aetius recommends bleeding and laxative clysters, (vi, 47.) HeHodorus recommends abstinence at first, and afterwards spare diet, water for drink, bleeding, when the inflammation is violent and the patient full, light dressings, cataplasms of mehlot, linseed, and oil, and fomentations with decoctions of fenugreek or mallows. Archigenes directs us when there is a fungous tumour projecting above the bone, to remove it with septicsor the scalpel, and then to apply pledgets. (Nicetaj Collect.) Avicenna and Albucasis repeat our author^s directions. Haly Abbas follows in the same strain, recommending us to remove any cause of irritation, to pour refrigerant oils on the place, and to have recourse to venesection. (Pract. ix, 85.) Our author having alluded to the pulsatory motion of the brain, we will state briefly the opinions of the principal ancient and modern authorities on this matter. Besides our author, Hippocrates, Galen, Oribasius, and Aetius, among the ancients, mention a certain movement of the brain, namely, a sweUing up during expiration, and a falling down dm-ing inspiration. Fallopius, Vesalius, Voltherus, Goiter, and Boerhaave main- tained that this opinion is unfounded. But Columbo, Piccolo- mini, Dulaurens, Biolan, Littre, and more recently, Schliting, Lamure, Haller, Lorri, Vic d^Azyr, and Dumas, have reproduced this ancient truth. We once had an opportunity of observing the pulsatory motion of the brain in the case of a poor boy who had lost a considerable piece of the skull by exfoliation. This would appear to be the most suitable occasion which we shall have to introduce an account of the osseous timiour, nearly all the information regarding which is derived from a fragment of Heliodoms. He describes it as a hard resistant tumour, immoveable, without pain, or change of colour. He says it occurs on all parts of the body, but more especially on the head, about the temples, when if one is formed on each side they are called horns. He directs that the tumour should be cut out from the very base, and the bone scraped with a raspatory. The wound is to be healed by glueing (the first in- tention?), if possible, but otherwise by suppurative applica- tions. (Ch. Vet. 124.)