I -SECT. Lxxv.] SECUNDINES. 393 imembranes being separated from the womb, the whole are to Comm. I be extracted along with whatever coagulated blood may be in" :thc uterus, (vii, 29.) Our author merely abridges a fuller account of the subject {given by Aetius from the works of Philumenus. (xvi, 24.) " ISIoschion reprobates the ancient practice of using sternuta- tories, pessaries, and fumigations, and of suspending scales or weights from the cord, because these means sometimes occasion liemorrhage. He recommends the midwife, if the mouth of the womb be still open, to introduce her left hand, and to take hold of whatever part of the placenta presents : then, if it does not adhere to the fundus uteri it is to be extracted; but if it is not separated it is to be moved gently hither and thither 'without violence. When the mouth of the uterus is con- 'tracted, he advises her to use those liquors and injections which ;are applicable for inflammations of the womb. (Section liv.) I His method of securing the umbilical cord after delivery is I nearly the same as that now adopted. After the child has heen > allowed to lie on the ground for a few minutes, two ligatures ! are to be applied round the cord, the nearest being four fingers ) from the belly; it is then to be cut with a scalpel or any sharp 1 knife. He disapproves of using instruments of wood, glass, or i reeds, and hard crusts of bread, as practised by the ancients. • (Ixv.) He directs lacerations of the perineum to be treated by .-applying ointments composed of wax, oil of roses, litharge, c ceruse, and alum, with suitable bandages. (Ivii.) The practice of Soranusin these cases is most judicious, and such as can scarcely be improved upon at the present day. He disapproves of all violent attempts at extraction, but when the placenta cannot be got otherwise removed from the womb, he approves of introducing the hand well lubricated to extract the ^ secundines gently. He directs us when the mouth of the womb i is shut to open it if possible with the fingers in a gentle man- tner. This is the case now incorrectly called the hou.r-glass c contraction. Avicenna repeats the directions given by Paiilus and Aetius, Ibut seems to have considered the introduction of the hand into tthe uterus as a painful, and, in general, an unnecessary ope- rration. (iii, 21, 2, 16.) Albucasis follows our author's practice. (Chiriu-g. ii, 78.)