AMPHISBJilNA. [book v. 180 Tatius i.) One of Atlieuseus's authorities, however, questions the truth of it. (Deipn. 1. c.) According to Sprengel, the Asiatic iy^'i^va is the coluber ^gyptius; the t^iq, probably the Cr ammodyfes; and-the European iy(l^va, the C. berus. (Gomment. in Dioscor.). It is clear, however, from Nicander's description of the viper, that the term 'iy^ig was apphed to a considerable variety of ve- nomous snakes. It must not then be supposed to apply in aU cases to the coluber ammodytes. It is also certain, as will be seen under their proper heads, that other serpents, to which specific names were given, such as the cerastes, the hsemorrhus, and the asp, were merely varieties of the vipera. The seps is not treated of by the Greek authorities on Tox- icology, except Nicander, but is briefly noticed by the Arabian under the name of famusus. Avicenna states that the treat- ment of the viper apphes to it. (iv. 6, 3, 48.) From the de- scription of it given by Nicander, it would appear to have been a variety of the hfemorrhus. (See Theriac, 320, with the Com- mentary of Eutecnius.) SECT. XIII. ON THE AMPHISBiENA AND SCYTALA. The same symptoms follow their bites, and the same reme- dies are applicable to them; therefore it is unnecessary to treat of them particularly. Commentary. Nicander says that the amphisbsena is a smaU serpent with two heads, and smaU eyes. The scytala, he says is like the amphisbsna, but thicker and larger towai-ds the 'tail Avicenna doubts whether the amphisbsena moves both ways. He says it is a serpent of equal thickness at both extremities, which probably gave rise to the supposition that it had two heads. He calls it a snake of the fragile nature which description evidently points to the blind-worm. (See fm-thev Matthiolus, Comment, in Dioscor.) We suppose tte altahban and alhnidia of Alsaharavius are the amphisbaena and scytala. rPvaPt XXX 2 19.) He recommends general treatment, namely, L I gatur;. 'cupping, scarifications, with cold -ter to drlni Sprengel inclines to think that the scytala was the