[book VI. DISLOCATIONS 510 Comm. of medicine as to the danger attending these accidents. Com- " ' ' pound luxations at the wrist, he says, prove fatal if reduced, but if let alone they generally get better. (De Artie. 64.) Compound dislocations at the knee are said to be particularly dangerous. (Ibid. 66.) Celsus follows the line of practice recommended by Hippo- crates. In cases of compound dislocations at the shoulder and hip-joint, he states that the danger is great if they are left un- reduced, but pronounces death to be certain if they are re- duced. Like Hippocrates, he approves of immediate reduction only in dislocations of the bones of the feet and hands. Even these, however, are not to be interfered with while the parts are in an inflamed state. He approves of bleeding, a spare diet, and rest. When a naked bone protrudes and cannot be got restored to its place, he advises it to be sawed off. (viii, 35.) Galen gives his unqualified sanction to the practice of Hip- pocrates. See his commentary on the work ' De ArticuHs' and ' Nicetse Collectio.-" Albucasis, like our author, recommends gentle attempts at reduction before swelling and inflammation come on, and soothing treatment afterwai'ds. The practice of Haly Abbas differs nothing in principle from that of our author and Albucasis. If reduction has not been performed early, he forbids it until the inflammation has sub- sided. Rhases appears to have copied his rules of treatment from our author. He recommends us, if possible, to replace the parts before inflammation comes on, but forbids it while they are in that state, for fear of occasioning convulsions and death. SECT. CXXII. ON DISLOCATION COMPLICATED WITH FRACTtTBE. ■ If a dislocation be attended with fracture without a wound we must apply the common extension, and replacement by the hands, as described for simple fractures. But if complicated with a wound, we must apply the suitable treatment from what has been said of fractures with a wound, and dislocations in particular.