252 HYDROCEPHALUS. [book vi. Comm. favorably of the operation only in cases in which the water is "—*—' collected externally to the bone. In the ' Isagoge/ generally ascribed to Galen, it is directed, when the water is collected below the skin on the pericranium, to evacuate it by making two or three straight incisions; and when immediately below the bone, to perforate it; but the case in which the fluid is seated between the membrane and the brain is pronounced to be utterly incurable. Rhases borrows his account mostly from AntyUus and om- author. Upon his own authority, however, he recommends bandages with compresses. He also approves of applying the actual cautery over the sutui-es. He further recommends fric- tion and burning the temporal veins. Avicenna borrows freely from Aetius and our author, and supplies no new views of practice. When water is collected in the anterior ventricles of the brain, Avenzoar, although in general no advocate for the actual cautery, directs us to apply it over the sutures. Albucasis says that he had only known hydrocephalus in- ternus in infancy, and in every case it had proved fatal. How- ever, he describes the operation of evacuating the collection in much the same terms as the Greeks. He warns the operator to avoid wounding an artery, lest the evacuation of blood should occasion immediate death. Alsaharavius mentions the frequent occurence of the disease in sheep. Haly's treatment is the same as our author's. The hydrocephalus externus is now scarcely mentioned, and the existence of such a case has been even questioned. Van Swieten aUows the reality of it, but says that it is of rare oc- currence. (Comment. 1317.) We are disposed to think that the cases described by our author must have been collections of lymph, or pus occasioned by external injuries forming be- tween the integuments and the bone. Modern pathologists admit the reahty of collections of serum and pus between the bone and the dura mater. We may further mention that the earlier modern authorities approve of the cautery in the present case. See Guido de Cauhaco (ii, 2, 10.) The late Baron Larrey was a decided advocate for the application of moxa in this complaint. Henricus Regius di- rects us to evacuate the water slowly by making a small m-