SECT. LII.] 345 GASTRORAPHfe. to the cure of wounds of it. When, from a rupture of the peritoneum, the omentum is prolapsed, and either becomes livid or black, the part anterior to the black portion may be included in a ligature, for fear of hemoiThage, and then the part behind the ligature is to be cut off, and the extremities of the ligature allowed to hang from the under part of the sewed wound of the abdomen, in order that they may readily escape when cast off by the suppuration of the wound. Commentary. The description of gastroraphe here given will Com be suflBciently intelligible upon an attentive perusal. It is taken ' ^ from Galen. (Meth. Med. vi, 4.) By abdomen, in this place, is to be understood the abdominal parietes, namely, the skin and muscles. Galen explains that sTnyaarpiov is used in this sense. Celsus gives a long description of a somewhat different method of performing gastroraphe. He uses two needles, (vii, 16.) Several modes of performing the operation are minutely de- scribed by Albucasis. He relates the history of a case in which he practised gastroraphe. (ii, 87.) Haly Abbas recommends the warm bath, to facilitate reduc- tion. The method of performing gastroraphe which he directs, is similar to the suture now practised upon dead bodies after dissections. (Pract. ix, 43.) Ehases describes various modes of gastroraphe. He speaks of performing the operation with the string of a harp. (Cont. xxviii.) That the strings of the ancient harp were made of the guts of a sheep is clearly proved from the following passage in the Odyssey of Homer : . b)Q OT dvrjp ipopn'iyyoQ iiriaTafiivoQ (cat doi5rjc pri'iS'iuiQ iravvaat v'tif) kni koWotti xopSs^v, dipag dfKpOTspui^cv IvarpeiplQ ivrtpov oibg. OStig- (p ' The modes of gastroraphe described by Galen and Celsus ai'e explained and commented upon by Van Swieten (Comment, cccxi), and by Fabricius ab Aquapendente. (Q5uv. Chir. ii, 53.) A complete history of the operation is given by Sprengel. (Hist, de la Med. xviii, 21.) Ambrose Pare performed the operation exactly like Galen.