CANCER. 333 ^ECT, XLV.] Celsus describes, we fear but too truly, the general result Comm. of every known method of treating cancer. He says, some '—"—' use coiTOsive applications, some burning irons, and others ut it out with the scalpel; but medicines are of no avail, )urning only exasperates the disease, and excision only re- moves the part affected, for the disease immediately returns. V, 28.) Galenas sentiments are partly explained by our author. He -tates, that the disease is curable only at its commencement. U hen it has attained any considerable magnitude, he says, it admits of no remedy without a surgical operation; and when lie tumour is cut out all around there is danger of hemorrhage, >vhich, if restrained by ligatures, may give rise to the disease u the neighbouring parts, whereas, if cauteries be used to omn the roots of the vessels no inconsiderable danger may ■esult from their appHcation so near to the vital parts. Therap. ad Glauc. ii; Meth. Med. xiv ; (Isagoge.) Aetius gives from Leonidas the following description of the )peration on cancerous mammae. Laying the patient in a upine position, he says, I make an incision into the mammee ibove the cancer, and immediately apply a cautery until an ■schar be produced to stop the bleeding. I then make another acision deep into the substance of the mamma, and again im-n the parts, and so proceed—first cutting and then bum- iig alternately, in order to restrain the bleeding. In this way liere is no danger of hemorrhage. After the amputation is ompleted I again burn the parts until they are quite dry. 'he first burnings are for the sake of the bleedings, and the ist with the intention of eradicating the disease, (xvi, 45.) 'his operation, described in nearly the same words, occurs in L)ranus. (61.) He says, when the disease is scrofulous the liming may be omitted. (Ibid.) Avicenna mentions that after the excision of a cancerous art the actual cautery may be required. And yet, he adds, liere may be danger from the burning provided the part ffected be near any vital organ, (iv, 3, 3.) Rhases says, that they who make an incision into a cance- ls part merely produce ulceration thereof, unless it be so atcd tliat the disease can be completely removed and the ifts afterwards burned. (Ad Mansor. vii, 9.) In another