[book VI, CALCULUS. Comm. of tlie navel, turning it to one side or another according as it " " ' encounters obstruction. He states that it is best to have the openings of the catheter in its sides as they are less likely to be obstructed by clots than when in the extremity. He also men- tions that he was sometimes in the practice of using a ductile instrument of lead which accommodated itself to the passage. Both Serapion and Rhases mention the operation of punc- turing the bladder. Rhases says that when there is retention of the urine and the bladder is inflamed, if the case be urgent, and there be reason to apprehend that the introduction of the catheter would aggravate the symptoms, it may be proper to make an incision in the perineum into the side of the bladder, and to di-aw off the urine with a canula. Both add, however, that there is danger of the wound not closing. (Cent, xxiii, 2.) The ancients seem to have fancied that it M'as necessary to fill up the internal cavity of the catheter with wool, or some such substance, in order to produce a vacuum when drawna out, believing that the catheter in this case acted upon the princi- ple of the syphon. See Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Prob. ii, 59.) It is singular that they should have fallen into this mistake, when Galen, as we have mentioned above, had so clearly ex- plained that the evacuation of the bladder is accomplished by the action of its expulsive powers whenever its retentive faculty is suspended or overcome. The earher writers on surgery like- wise adopt the notion that the cavity of the instrument requires to be filled up with wool. See Guido de Cauliaco (vi, 2.) They describe stricture of the urethra under the names of hypersar- cosis and caruncula in meatu urinario. See Henricus Regius (An. Med. 44.) SECT. LX. ON CALCULUS. The cause of the formation of stones, and that in children they are formed most readily in the bladder, and in adults m the kidneys,—all this having been explained in another place, j; we now proceed to the method of performing lithotomy, but jl shall fii'st give the symptoms of stones lodged in the bladder. 1 The patients then void urine of a watery consistence with a p sandy sediment; and from constant itching the member is