I 232 HERACLEAN HONEY. [book v. Comm. concur in recommending first an emetic of hydromel, and after- ' ^ ' wards wine with pepper. Sprengel accounts for tlie deleterious effects of curdled milk in the same manner as he does for those of bulls' blood, and re- marks, that the acid contained in the rennet of certain animals especially of hares, is well calculated for dissolving and evacu- ating the coagulum (Comment, in Dioscor. 1. c.) The Arabian authorities treat, among the deleterious sub- stances, of flesh and fish which have been cooked and hung up in a wet place until they have become unwholesome. When eaten in this state, Rhases says they bring on violent vomiting and purging, and may prove fatal unless the proper remedies are applied. For these symptoms he recommends repeated emetics and then purgatives; after which wine and pepper is to be given; and, in the end, the remedies for poisonous mush- rooms. (Ad Mansor. viii, 27, 28.) See also Alsaharavius (Pract. XXX, 2, 15) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. iv.) Haly Abbas recommends vomiting by means of tepid water, oxymel, and salt. They treat, in like manner, of rancid fruits; which they state act as poisons when eaten in large quantity. For the cure of these they recommend emetics, the rob of bitter grapes, and medicines to whet the appetite. Rhases (ad Mansor. vii^ 30); Avicenna (iv. 6; i, 30.) Avenzoar relates, at considerable length, the history of a case in which delirium and other bad symptoms had been brought on and kept up by drinking out of a cup which had been poi- soned with some putrid meat, (i, 9, 9.) SECT. LVII. ON HERACLEAN HONEY. Those who eat or drink the honey formed in Heraclea, of Pontus, experience the same symptoms as they who have drunk of wolfsbane, and the same remedies will be applicable. They are readily relieved by drinking frequently of mulse, having the leaves of rue mixed with it. Comm. COMMENTARY. This section is taken from Dioscorides. —' Avicenna makes mention of a poisonous kind of honey pro- duced in Arabia, for which he applies much the same remedies as those recommended by oxir author, (iv, 6; i, 32.)