297 SECT. XXX.] ANTIADES. Alsaharavius mentions that the operation is sometimes ne- Comm. cessaiy. (Pract. ix, 35.) "—'—' SECT. XXX. ON ANTIADES, OR INDURATED TONSILS. As indurated glands are called strumse, so the almonds of the ears when inflamed, swelled, and as it were, dried, occa- sioning difficulty of deglutition and of breathing, are called antiades, from theii- being placed opposite one another. When therefore they are inflamed we must not meddle with them; but when the inflammation is considerably abated, we may operate, more especially upon such as are white, contracted, and have a narrow base. But those which are spongy, red, and have a broad base, are apt to bleed. Wherefore, seating the person in the light of the sun, and directing him to open his mouth, while one assistant holds his head, and another presses down the tongue to the lower jaw with a tongue spatula, we take a hook (tenaculum) and perforate the tonsil with it, and drag it outwards as much as we can without drawing its membranes along with it; and then we cut it out by the root with the scalpel suited to that hand, called ancylotomus, for there are two such instruments, having opposite curvatures. After the incision of one we may operate upon the other in- versely in the same manner. After the operation the patient must gargle with cold water or oxycrate; and if any hemor- rhage come on he may use a tepid decoction of brambles, roses, and myrtle-leaves; or if the blood flows copiously we must give for a gargle the juice of plantain and comfrey, and the trochisk from amber and the Lemnian earth, dissolved in oxy- crate. When the hemorrhage stops, the parts on the next day may be anointed with the flower of roses, safi-ron, and starch with mHk, or with water, the white of an egg, or hydrorosatum. When sordes coUect about the ulcers, we may use injections and Hnctuses made from honey. Commentary. Celsus directs us when the tonsils are indu- Comm rated to scrape the membrane with the finger, and tear it out; or, if this does not succeed, to seize' the tumour with a hook or tenaculum, and cut it out; then the wound is to be washed Mith vinegar, and a styptic medicine applied to it. (vii, 12.)