CUPPING. [book VI. 326 Comm. Celsus mentions two kinds of cupping instruments^ the one ' • ' being made of horn, and the other of copper. Those of copper were open at one end and shut at the other. Those of horn had a larger opening at one end and a smaller at the other. A piece of cloth was set on fire and thrown into the copper one, and its mouth was then fitted to the body and pressed on until it fast- ened. In applying the one made of horn, the air was exhausted by sucking at the smaller end, which was then covered up with wax, and in this state it would fasten to the part. He remarks that when the part to which the instrument is applied had been previously scarified, blood is discharged, but otherwise nothing but spirits. He states that the principal use of the cupping instrument is to remove any local affection when the general constitution is sound. Upon the whole, he considers it to be a safer but less efficacious remedy than venesection. Cupping, he adds, is to be had recourse to in chronic diseases, in order to remove any corrupted matter which may be seated in a part; and in acute, when the strength will not aUow of venesection. According to Galen, cupping is useful after evacuation, but does not answer when there is plethora.. In inflammation of the braia and its membranes, therefore, he forbids cupping at the commencement, and also in inflammation of other parts, until the defluxion is stopped and the general system has been evacuated; and states that the object of cupping in such dis- eases is to move and determine the inflammatory particles out- wards. In general, he advises us not to apply the instrument to the part affected, but to the adjacent part, with the view of producing revulsion, de hirud. revuls. cumrb., &c. He like- wise gives an interesting account of leeches. He recommends their tails to be clipped off when it is wished to abstract much blood by means of a few leeches. (Ibid.) Oribasius is the ancient author who discusses this subject at the greatest length, and to him Paulus is principally indebted. He mentions that cupping instruments are made of glass, horn, or copper Those of silver, he says, are to be rejected; those of copper are in most general use ; those of glass answer best when we wish to see the quantity of blood that flows into the instrument; and those of horn are to be applied to the head because copper ones are difficult to remove ; and besides, tmnd