FRACTURES. [book VI. 452 Comm. Celsus directs tliis fracture to be treated upon general priu- ' ciples, as explained in tlie preceding section. Tlie Arabians evidently follow our autbor. Albucasis speaks of applying thin splints. Tbe reader will find, upon reference to the ninetieth section, that a fracture by expression is a comminuted fracture with depression. SECT. XCVI. ON THE RIBS. Of the ribs, called also spathse, those which are long admit of a fracture in any part, but the false only at the spine, be- cause there only they are of a bony natiire ; for at their an- terior part they are cartilaginous, and are liable to be crushed, but not fractured. The diagnosis is not difficult, for an in- equality presents itself to the fingers of the examiner, and there is crepitus with derangement at the fractured part. When the fractured parts incline inwards there is a violent pungent pain, more severe than that in pleurisy, from the pleui'a being wounded as with a sharp instrument; there is difficulty of breathing, cough, and often vomiting of blood. The other modes of displacement, then, may be rectified by the fingers, but in that inwai'ds this cannot be done, owing to the difficulty of applying distension. Wherefore, some direct us to give much flatulent food, in order that by the inflation and disten- sion occasioned by it the fracture may be propelled outwards. But this is not necessary, for there is no communication be- tween the chest and the organs of nutrition, and besides, the inflammation will be augmented hy repletion. Others ap- ply a cupping instrument, which is not amiss, unless a collec- tion of humours should be occasioned by the suction, and the fracture be thereby pushed more inwardly. Wherefore, Soranus says, " Let the parts be covered with wool dipped in hot oil, and let the intercostal space be filled with compresses, in order that the circular bandage applied, as in the case of the sternum, may lie smooth. And let everything be done, as in pleurisy, according to the degree of accident. But if any great necessity compel us, owing to the pleura being irritated, we must divide the skin and lay bare the broken part of the