4 ELEPHANTIASIS. [book iv. lettuce, the radish, leeks, and cabbage sweetened in Wo waters, and capers. Of sea animals, he may take oysters pelondes, ui'chin, all shell fishes, hmpets boiled with beets, and old pickle in place of medicine. But let him abstain from wine dui-mg the whole continuance of the complaint, and from vencY; only be may take a httle thin watery wine at the time of his re- covery from the purging, at which season all acrid substances must be abstained fi'om, except condiments. Give him ptisan, eggs and chondrus, milk and honey, with bread, maUows, dock sSret, and fishes with tender flesh; and of fowls, those which containwholesome juices; and of fruits, the fig,grape,and raisms: but of sweetmeats, those which are prepared from pme kernels, toasted almonds, or bastard saffron. He may take food twice a day, as it is injurious to subsist upon one meal. After takmg care of the internal parts, let him use detergent omtments (smegmata) in the bath, from the decoction of beet, or ot fenugreek with aphronitrum, soap, or myrobolan, and sometunes apply depilatories. Purslain triturated with vinegar is detergent and also the slender houseleek, and the roots of dock boiled m vinegar, and alum with salts, and red ai'senic in equal propor- tions with wine and oH of lentisk. Also the composition for alphos, consisting of alcyonium, nitre, myrtle, sulphur, and the dried leaves of the wild fig, being rubbed in dry with vinegar; and that from the bui-nt shell of the cuttle-fish, and pumice, nitre, and burnt Cimohan earth, gum, unripe gaUs in equal quantity, sprinkled dry, or rubbed in with vinegar. And this one is admirable : Of the roots of dock a bunch to the amount of a handful, of natron, dr. xl; of frankincense, dr. xxv; of sul- phur, dr. xxv; it is rubbed in with Egyptian vinegar. And this one is efiacacious: Of arsenic, dr. x; of sulphur vivum, dr. viu; of costus,dr.xii; of quickhme, dr. iv; of wax, dr. iv; of dried bay berries, dr. xii; these things are mixed with the juice of white poplar leaves, or with a thick decoction, and they ai-e rubbed in, having the consistence of honey.—Another: Two fasciculi of the roots of dock are to be boiled in vinegar, pounded in a mortar and tritmvated, then of alcyonium, lb. j; of aphro- nitrum, oz. viij; of sulphur vivum, lb. j; of the bui-nt sheUs of cockles, oz. iv; of chamseleon with its roots, oz. iv; these things are pounded together until they are of the consistence of the Bordes of the baths, and are then rubbed in often in the sim,