269 SECT. XIII.] ANABROCHISMUS. to cut it out with a broad scalpel. If this incision does not Comm. relieve the eyelid, he directs us to take the specillum (radius) """^^ and applying it to the incision, to evert the eyelid with it, and then to make two incisions in the inner surface of the eyelid so that they may meet at an angle below, like the Greek letter A. Then this triangular portion is to be dissected out, and the edges united by a suture with a woollen thread. When the disease arises from a cicatrix he directs us to divide it, and ! then to keep the lips of the wound separate by the application ' of a pledget. He concludes with the remark that, as the I disease puts on various forms, a prudent surgeon will show his t skill by restoring the parts to their natural state. Haly Abbas evidently borrows his description from Aetius (or our author. The operation here described is very similar to the one I practised by the late Sir William Adams. In the days of i Fabricius this operation was condemned as cruel and trouble- I some. It will be remarked that the V operation of modern t times is a modification of the operation now described. SECT. XIII. ON ANABROCHISMUS AND BURNING WITH IKON. When the hairs which irritate the eye are not numerous, kbut only one, two, or at most, three, close to one another, we approve of the operation called anabrochismus. Taking, there- fore, a very slender needle, we pass through its ear (eye ?) a woman^s hair or a fine flaxen thread, and unite the two extre- mities together in such a manner that the thread or hair which 18 passed through may have a double loop ; and we pass another such thread or hair through the loop, and pushing the needle through the tarsus where the preternatural hairs appear we introduce the hair or hairs into the loop by means of an ear- specillum, and draw it upwards. And if the hair of the eye- lash be fixed in it, we draw up the loop; but if one or more all out, we again, by means of the one at first introduced draw own the loop, and once more introducing a hair or hairs -aw them upwards. But if there is only one slender hai? hat irritates the eye we draw up another of the ciliary hairs long with It, anointing them with gum or some other gluti ous substance, and bending them until thcv unite to the skin