64 [book IV. HERPES. Comm. tiiles, wliich Spread most commonly about the neck, but some- '—*—' times affect also tbe bands and feet. Galen gives a very full account of tbe nature and treatment of berpes. According to bim tbe complaint arises from yellow bile separated from tbe blood and fixed in a part. Wben it is tbickisb it ulcerates tbe skin down to tbe bone, and forms tbe disease called by Hippocrates heri^es exedens. But if tbinner, it only burns as it were tbe surface, wben it is called by tbe generic term of berpes. Of tbe otber two varieties, tbe one, as bas been said, is called exedens, and tbe otber miliaris, because it is attended witb many small buUse (pblyctjense) Hke millet- seeds. As our autbor's treatment is entirely derived from bim we sball not enter into any detailed exposition of bis practice. We may mention, bowever, tbat be decidedly recommends pur- gatives for proper berpes. Wben tbe ulceration is of a maUg- nant nature and attended witb putridity it requires tbe most acrid medicines, and sucb as in power resemble fire, namely, misy, cbalcitis, arsenic, quickUme, and sandaracb. For, be adds, tbese medicines burn like fire, and often wben tbey fail, we must have recourse to fire itself. Aetius gives an accurate account of berpes, but it is pro- fessedly borrowed from Galen. Like bim be divides tbe disease into tbree varieties, tbe berpes proprius, tbe berpes exedens, and tbe berpes mibai-is, tbe last being cbaracterized by an erup- tion of vesicles (pblyctsenae). We sball bere notice wbat Dr. Bateman says respecting tins division of berpes :—" The ancient division of berpes into tbree varieties, mibary [Kty^piaq), vesicular (^Xuktoii^wS^jc), and eroding [kaQioiitvoq), maybe pro- perly discarded, for there appears to be no essential difference between tbe first two, which differ only in respect to tbe size of the vesicles." This is evidently an incorrect account of the ancient division, in which no distinction was made between the berpes mibaris and tbe herpes pblyctamodes. Palladius makes mention of only two varieties of tbe disease, namely, tbe proper, and tbe eroding berpes. (De Febribus 3.) Leo briefly refers to Galen's account of tbe disease (vii, 3.) Actuarius mentions only tbe proper berpes, and tbe herpes mibaris. This is, perhaps tbe best division of any, as the herpes exedens is evidently a disease of a very different nature from tho other varieties.