[book IV. BURNS. 42 Comm. There is nothing particular in the treatment recommended by ' * ' Avicenna. Thucydides mentions small ijhlyctfense and ulcers among the symptoms of the plague of Athens. (De Bello Pelopon. ii.) Hippocrates gives the name oi pemphyx to the cutaneous ei-up- tion, by which the plague of Athens was distinguished. (Epidem. vi.) ' See Galenas Comment, (v, 453, ed. Basil.) Procopius also takes notice of black phlyct^n^ among the symptoms of the great plague which raged in the reign of Justinian (Pers. u.) See also Diodorus Siculus (Biblioth. xiv.) Some suppose, however, that by phlyctsense were meant petechie. See Prselect. Marc. p. 301. SECT. XI. ON BURNS. Burnt parts require applications which are moderately de- tergent, without being decidedly heating or cooling. Where- fore, Chian, Cimolian, Cretan, and every Hght earth, when rubbed in with vinegar not very acrid, or mixed with water, are excellent applications, and prevent blisters from forming; also a whole raw egg immediately appHed upon soft wool, for it cools moderately, and dries without being stimulant. And anoint the part with black ink, or with frankincense dissolved in water, or use a cataplasm of boiled lentils, or of tares, lor burning with hot water, before bhsters arise, pour frequently on the part the brine of pickled olives, or apply olives them- selves triturated with polenta; or, triturate stone-alum with vinegar, and rub it in; or, anoint with bull's gall dissolved with much water ; or, pour on the part strained ley with sauce of pickles, or brine; or, triturate the bulbous roots of hhes, hyacinths, or narcissi with rose-oil, and having made it of the consistence of the sordes of oil in baths, anoint with it. But Marcellus gives the following composition : havmg smeared a rag with honey, and wrapped it around barley, burn it, and mix of the ashes, di-. viij; of ceruse, dr. iv; of butter, dr. viii; of wax, dr. xvj ; of goat's fat, dr. xvj; of rose-oil, dr. x^^. For burnt parts already blistered, ha.dng triturated sumach and polenta with vinegar, apply it; or, mix qmckhme with cerate, put it on a rag, and apply. And the medicnie called