^ECT. XLii.] JUICE OF THE POPPY. ' 217 blance to the theory Lately advanced by Mr. Morgan and Dr. Addison. "We shall now have no diflficulty in understanding the ideas of the ancients regarding the operation of opium. Galen and Avicenna believed that the poison exerts its primary influence upon the heai-t, and impairs its vital heat. Of course they con- ^ sidered its operation on the brain as secondary. They called the action of narcotics frigorific or congealing, no doubt because I they remarked that it was attended with a diminution of vital heat, and to this they attributed the loss of sensibility and i muscular energy. I leave it to the reader to judge whether I this theory or the modification of it lately proposed by Messrs .Morgan and Addison be the more plausible." (Edinburgh : Medical and Surgical Journal, No. 103.) But although the ancient physiologists maintained that the ipnme organs of the animal frame suffer sympathetically in cases cot poisoning, they did not hold, it will be remarked, that aU 1 poisons exert their primary action on the nervous system. This lis the hypothesis lately advocated by Messrs. Morgan and Ad(hson, but which is, in fact, only a revival of that maintained t by Schulze m his ' Toxicologia Veterum.' He thus states Hs r theory of the action of poisons,—" Omnia symptomata et le- tliales venenorum effectus hoc unum quam luculentissime demon- ^trant, ab omnibus venenis nervos ipsos graviter affligi. Nervea igitur vis sen vitalis, a veneni stimulis commota, aut majori impetu agit, aut prsevalente veneni vehementia prorsus silet nexusque omnes sensorii communis cum reliquis nervis tur- T^^l' f^""^^^" ^""^ ^^'^^^"^ periclitante, aut prorsus n t ntura/^ (Toxic. Vet. vii.) Dr. Mead also, in his last edition of his work on Poisons, advocates this hypothesis. It appears to us, however, that this theory, although very 'imp e and p ausible, is somewhat too exclusive. And that there ire other modes by which poisons operate than through the brain irid nerves appears to be demonstrated by the fact now clearly .stabhshed that poisons act upon vegetables as well as upon unmals. (V. Annales de Chimie, t. xxix.) Now as vegetables .re possessed of neither sensibility nor motion, it seems pre- -osterous to suppose that they have any nervous system Perhaps then, we cannot do better than revert to the old octnne delivered by Alsaharavius. Sometimes, he says, poisons