GASTRORAPHE. ^ECT. LIT.] 343 water, and then squeezed it out, foment the intestine there- with. In the meantime let hot austere wine be prepared, for it is more heating than water, and communicates strength to the intestine. If, after having had recourse to all these things, the intestine remain inflated, we must divide as much of the peritoneum as the prolapsed intestine requires. The straight instruments called syringotoma, used for operating upon fistulse, are very proper for this incision. A recumbent position of the patient is the best when the wound is in the lower part; and when in the right side, he may lie on the left, and when in the left, on the right; and this is common both to great and small wounds. But the replacement of the intestine into its proper place when the wound is large, requires a skilful assistant. For lie must take hold of the wound externally with his hands, and contract and compress it a little, so as to expose always a small portion to the sewer, and also must compress moderately what is sewed until the whole is sewed. What is the most proper mode of performing the operation called gastroraphe, we must uext explain. Since the abdomen must be united with the peritoneum, we have to begin by passing a needle through the kin from without inwards; but when it has transfixed the skin and the whole rectus muscle, passing by the adjacent perito- neum, we must push the needle from within through the other l)cirt of the peritoneum, and so hence from within outwards, through the rest of the abdomen ; and when it has passed out Ave must push the needle again from without inwards through this part of the abdomen, and, passing by the adjacent portion the peritoneum, and beginning again from the opposite side of this membrane, perforate it from within outwards, and at the ^ame time all the other parts of the abdomen; then beginning :rain from this, sew it with the opposite membrane, and after- A ards transmit it from the neighbouring skin outwards ; and do this repeatedly until the whole wound be sewed up. The pace between the sutures required to keep the under parts 1 ogether must be very small, but the interval between those required to keep the skin fi-om falling asunder need not be so small. Excess in either respects must be avoided, and a me- dium chosen between the two extremes. And a medium is likewise to be observed as to the consistence of the thread, for rliat which is too hard breaks the soft skin, and what is too