SECT. XLIV.] ULCERS. 11 powder of the wild myrtle, and thcit from paper; also the com- position from oxymel called coracion, the trochisk of Andron and the like, will answer with all spreading ulcers. The same things also apply with phagedsena; for phagedtena is an ulcer that spreads by eating. For fold and fetid idcers. The Lemnium sigillum (Lemnian eai-th) mixed with vinegar, oxymel, oxycrate, or wine, until it is of the consistence of clay, may be rubbed on them with advantage; or the leaves of cypress, its shoots, and tender balls (pilulje), or the ashes of diied gourd bm-nt, or of the burnt bai-k of the plane tree, or of burnt diU in like manner, or of foul wool burnt, or of plaintain; also woad by itself or with polenta, or the dried root of hog^s fennel. Commentary. It will be remarked that the milder appli- ^ cations mentioned in this section are all powerful desiccants and astringents. Most of them are mentioned by Dioscorides as possessing these properties. Galen recommends the compound appHcations mentioned by our author, containing verdigris, squama teris, &c. For these spreading and putrid sores Aetius, among other prescriptions, gives one which would no doubt be appHcable in the worst cases : " Of crude misy, of crude chalcitis, a dr. viij ; of ochi-e, dr. iij ; of sandarach, dr. ivj of quicklime, dr. ij ; of the scales of copper, of alum, a dr. ij; of diphryges di-. iij ; m.'' These caustic and escharotic medicines enter into the compo- sition of many of his appHcations. Some of them contain as- tringents and desiccants, such as sumach, galls, alum, fossil salts frankincense, calamine, birthwort, pomegranate rind &c In short the mgredients in his appHcations correspond with Celsuss Hst of corrosive substances: Rodunt, alumen Hqui- dum, sed magis rotundum, aerugo, chalcitis, misy, squama ^ris, sed magis rubri, «s combustum, sandaracha, galla, thus, auri- pigmentum, calx, nitrum et spuma ejus, alcyonium, resina, squama fern, athrumentum sutorium, veratrum, &c. Ihe other authorities give only combinations of these sub- stances; for a full account of which preparations we refer the reader to Galen. (Med. sec. gen. iv.) Octa^dus Horatianus recommends lentils boiled and mixed with honey; the leaves of cabbage, coriander, or ivy, aU mixed with honey.