JUICE OF THE POPPY. ■ CT. XLII.] 213 as the common symptoms of poisoning by opium, mandragora. Comm. or conium. >—^— Schulze rauks, among ancient mistakes, the assertion of Galen, :that nai-cotic substances may, in some instances, become di- gested and prove nutritive. But Dr. Christison says, that both vegetable and animal poisons may become digested, of which lihe gives an interesting example with regard to opium (On FPoisons, p. 53.) SECT. XLII. ON THE JUICE OP THE POPPY. When one has cbunk of the juice of the poppy drowsiness 3omes on, with coldness and intense itching, so that often .vhen the medicine takes effect such an itching comes on that ;he person is roused from sleep thereby. The smell of the medicine too is emitted from the whole body. The remedies in such cases, after rejecting the substance taken by vomiting •vith oil, and evacuating downwards by a stimulant clyster, are «xyinel drank with salts, or honey with warm rose-oil, and much undiluted wine with wormwood and cinnamon, and warm i/inegar by itself, and natron with water, and marjoram with ■ye, the seed of rue and pepper given with castor, and oxymel, avory, or the decoction of marjoram with wine. We must >ho rouse by aromatics, put the person into a hot bath, and oment on account of the pruritus which supervenes; and after ^ne bath we may use fat broths, with wine or must. Marrow Iso drunk with oil is useful. Commentary. According to Nicander, the symptoms of poi- Comm. omng by poppy-juice are coldness of the extremities, eyes fixed .eavmess of the eyelids, profuse and fetid perspiration, pale' -ess, swelhng of the hp, relaxation of the under jaw, slow re. ;nration cold breath, and the usual precursors of dissolution, . amely, distortion of the nostrils, hvidity of the nails, and hol- hw eyes. His remedies are emetics, such as the oil of iris or f roses, wine and honey; hot drink and rousing the patient .y ones, stnkmg his body in different places, and wrapping it I cloths smeared with oil and hot wine, and the hot bath as ^- restorative, '