50 [uOOK IV. GANGLION. Comm. lie says, is white at the root, and it gets enlarged at the ex- ^ tremity. The myrmecia he defines to be a hard^ rough excres- cence of a callous nature, hut bloody at its extremity. The acrochordon is thus described by an intelligent modem author : " Est verruca subcutanea durior et asperior, callosa, atque plerumque teres, cute concolor, in basi tenuis, summitatis vero latioris, fabse magnitudinem raro excedens, juniores maxime infestans." (Mangeti Bibl. Chii'urg. i, 73.) The tenns, thy- mus, myrmecia, and acrochordon, have now fallen into disuse. SECT. XVI. ON GANGLION. GangUon is a round tumour of a nerve (tendon ?) ai-isiug from a blow or pressure, in many parts of the body, but par- ticularly in those parts which are moved, such as the extremi- ties of the hands and feet. In this case, says Archigenes, apply quick lime with the grease of geese and tui-pentine. But Poles uses the medicine from agate stone, and Oribasius the following : of ceruse, of pine rosin, of old oil, of each, oz. j; of ammoniac perfume, of galbanum, of each, oz. j ; of wax, oz. iv ; or, he says, apply a thick plate of lead, hke the vertebrte, and larger than the ganghon, and bind it on; for by its weight this dissolves it in process of time. This we have used. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Hippocratcs (Dc Ai-tic. xxvi); Galen (Comment., de Med. Simpl. ix); Celus (vii, 6); Oribasius (De Virt. simpl. ii, in voce Plumbum) ; Aetius (xv, 9); Actuanus (Meth. Med. ii, 11); Avicenna (iv, 3, 3, 6) ; Albucasis (Chirurg. ii^ 50); Ehases (ad Mansor. vii, 15 : Contin. xxviii.) ' Hippocrates points out the danger of opening these tumours indiscriminately. They consist, as Galen remarks, of a viscid and mucous fluid. Galen and Oribasius agi-ee with our author in dii-ecting a piece of lead to be bound upon the ganglion. Nearly the same plan of treatment is recommended by Aetius, who directs us to bind a piece of lead upon the tumoui-, and after some days to remove it, when the ganghon wiU be found much softened; it is then to be squeezed firmly between the thumb and the fingers, by which means it .viU be speedily dis. solved. Albucasis approves of extirpating the tumour, unless it