SECT. LIII.] HEMORRHAGE. I3j twisted moderately. If the flow of blood is not stopped thereby Comm he recommends us, if the yessel is a vein, to endeayour to '-^ restrain it without a ligature by means of styptics, or things of an obstruent natui-e, such as roasted rosin, the fine down of wheaten flour, gypsum, and the like. But if the vessel is an artery, he says, one of two things must be done,—either a liga- ture must be applied to it, or it must be cut across. He adds, we are even obliged sometimes to apply a ligature to large veins and cut them across. From this extract of Galen's practice, it will be readily perceived how much our author is indebted to Him. He makes mention of the ligature in many other pai-ts of his works. He also recommends the actual cautery. To stop bleeding, Oribasius directs, in the first place, cooling and astringent applications to be used, and if these do not succeed, caustics, such as misy, chalcitis, copperas, or the actual cautery. Upon the whole, his account of hemorrhage is nearly the same as our author's, only he says nothing of the ligature Aetius treats of this subject in the same terms as Galen re- commending the ligature under the circumstances mentioned by him. Some of his styptics are powerful escharotics and astringents, such as copperas, chalcitis, alum, galls, quicklime rosm, and frankincense. He informs us that Ammonius the famous Alexandrian lithomist, used a composition of arsenic sandarach, chalcitis, and quicklime. ' Actuarius recommends a composition containing burnt cop- per, chalcitis, galls, frankincense, &c. PaDadius, in his Commentary on the ' Epidemics' of Hippo- crates, treatmg of hemorrhage says, we often stop the bleeding by applying a ligature to the divided vessel Albuca^is mentions four methods of stopping the discharge of blood from an artery: 1, by the cautery; 2, by dividing the ar eiy across; 3, by using the ligature; 4, by styptics apphed upon a bolster or compress, and tightly bandaged Averrhoes recommends to stop bleeding by ;typtics, the cau- terj^ or the hgature. He says distinctly, that when the bleed- ing cannot be stopped, the artery or vein is to be secured with a thread. Avicenna treats of all the modes of stopping hemorrhage with singular accuracy, but at so great length that we can only aff-ord •