174 [book v. SCOLOPENDRA. Comm. higUy venomous species of scorpion, whicli they call scorpius >—' rastellans, carrareti, and algreta. See in particular Khases, Haly Abbas, and Alsaharavius, SECT. IX. ON THE LAND AND SEA SCOLOPENDRA. When one is bitten by a scolopendra the general symptoms are lividity of the parts around tlie bite, and swelling; some- times it is of a feculent appearance, and sometimes, though rarely, red; and a painful and ill-conditioned ulcer takes place, beginning with the part that is bitten; and in addition to these, there is a sensation of pruritus over the whole body. Those bitten by the sea scolopendra in particular have a watery and transparent swelling, whereas that occasioned by the land scolopendra is red. It is proper therefore to apply to the wound pounded salts, or levigated rue, or ashes mixed with vinegar, or squills. Bathe the part with vinegar and brine; but Archigenes directs it to be done with much hot oil, and thus to apply the things formerly mentioned; and to administer potions containing birthwort with wine, or wild thyme, or calamint, or wild rue, or trefoil, or the juice of the root of asphodel to the amount of half a hemina with wine. CoMM Commentary. Nicander says, that the scolopendi-a has two heads, and walks in both directions upon its many feet. Avicenna admits that he was wholly unacquainted with it. See in particular ^han (H. A. iv, 23; and vii, 35.) Our author and Actuarius copy almost every word fi-om Diosco- rides. See also Aetius (xiii,15); Nonnus (273); Alsahai-aAaus (Pract. XXX, 2, 23); Avicenna (iv, vi, 3.) Avicenna caUs them, saculufudurni; and Alsaharavius, alhatrabay. Alsaharavius approves of wine with birthwort, rue, mint, &c., internally; and of salt, with honey, vinegar, &c., externaUy. The Pseudo- Dioscorides recommends salt with vernix, pitch, and honey. (Euporist. ii, 131 •) We need have no hesitation in deciding with Sprengel and the other authorites on this subject, that the land scolopendra is the scolopendra morsitans, and the sea, the aphrodite oculeata, L.