296 CONSTRICTION OF TONGUE. [book VI. therefore who have this affection naturally are distinguished hy being slow in beginning to sjieak, and by having the frajnum linguje larger than its moderate size, and that -without any previous ulceration. When the complaint is occasioned by a cicatrix it is easily recognised. Wherefore the patient is to be placed on a proper seat, the tongue raised to the roof of the mouth, and the membranous frsenum cut transversely. But if the curvature is occasioned by a cicatrix, we transfix the callus with a hook and draw it upwards, and making a cross incision free the bent part, taking care not to make deep inci- sions of the parts; for hemorrhages which have been found difficult to stop have thereby been occasioned. After the ope- ration the part is to be washed with cold water or oxycrate; and after all these things the cure is to be completed with relaxing and incarnative applications. Commentary. Celsus thus describes the treatment in con- genital affections : " Horum extrema lingua vulsella prehen- denda est, sub eS,que membrana incidenda, magna cwck habita, ne venae quae juxta sunt, violentur et profusione sanguinis noceant." (vii, 12, 4.) Aetius's plan of treatment is quite similar to oui' author's, (viii, 38.) Albucasis gives a similar account of the operation. He cautions against opening the artery below the tongue, for fear of hemorrhage. Should this accident occur he dii'ects the surgeon to use the actual cautery. (Chirurg. ii, 34.) Rhases recommends when the frsenum extends to the tip of the tongue that it be divided, so as to allow freedom of motion. However, one of the authorities quoted by him directs us to pass through the frEenum a needle armed with a thread, which is to be tightened so as to divide the intermediate space. He recommends this method in order to obviate the fear of he- morrhage from the incision. Rhases himself states that a dangerous hemorrhage will result from opening the green veins below the tongue. (Cont. vii, 1.) Avicenna also recommends the operation with the ligature. (iii, vi, 11.) . f r • Halv Abbas describes very distinctly the operation ot ani- ding the frsenum. (Pract. ix, 35 )