338 DROPSIES. [book VI. tube a small quantity of fluid proportionate to his strength; and thus, in like manner, until very little be left, avoiding, by all means, a sudden evacuation. For some ignorant persons ha^dng evacuated the vital spirit with the fluid have immediately killed the patient. Some for the sake of greater security ha^dng evacuated a small quantity of the fluid by the operation so as to relieve the powers of the system from its great load, procure the discharge of the remainder by hydragogue medicines, by burying the patient in heated sand, by insolation, abstinence from liquids, giving desiccative food; and they have recourse likewise to burning over the stomach, liver, spleen, and hypo- gastrium ; and make five eschars about the navel, some by slender cauteries of iron, and others by those substances called iscae, or some other such like material. And many have been rather cured by this method alone, sometimes without paracentesis having been had recourse to at all. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocratcs declares in one of his Aphorisms, ' ' ' that the sudden evacuation of the matter in empyema, or of the water in dropsy, proves fatal. He speaks of evacuating the fluid with an instrument called rpuTrai'rpw-yXnrjj'piov, which Camper thinks must have been a kind of trochar. Galen, in his Commentary on the Aphorisms of Hippocrates, (vi, 7) remarks, that in his time the operation of paracentesis was in general use, instead of burning. He states, however, that he had seldom seen recovery take place after the operation. (See in particular Meth. Med. xiv.) Aristotle alludes to paracentesis near the conclusion of his work on the ' Generation of Animals.' Cjelius Aurelianus mentions that Erasistratus, Evenor, and Thessalus were advocates for paracentesis, but that Asclepiades, Themison, and Soranus disapproved of it. He himself approves very much of the operation, and answers all the objections which had been made to it. He says, it relieves the fulness and difficulty of breathing, and prepares the parts for the action of the remedies. He agrees, however, with the other autho- rities, that a sudden evacuation of the water is attended with danger. (Pass. Tard. iii, 8.) Celsus gives a good description of the operation. Some, he says, perform it at a spot four fingers' breadth below the navel