SJ5CT. LIX.] WORMS. J51 is contained in it is to be taken out, when a tent is to be put into the skin, and then the treatment for suppurations is to be applied. Commentary. The foUowing authors treat of the vena Comm. medinensis, or dracuncidus, now generaUy called the Guinea worm : Galen (De Loc. Affect, vi, 3; Isagoge;) Aetius xiv, 85); Pollux (Onomast. iv) ■ Plutarch (Symp. viii, 9); Theophi-astus (H. P. ix); Actuarius (iMeth. Med. vi, 8; iv, 16); Avicenna (iv, 3, 2, 21); Avenzoar (ii, 3, 20); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 18) • Alsaharavius (Pr. xxviii, 12); Ehases (ad Mansor. vii, 24 ; Cont! xxvi.) Galen admits that he had never seen the dracunculus, and that therefore he could not be positive respecting its origin and nature. He had known many persons, however, who had seen it, and was inclined to beHeve that it is of a nervous na- tui-e, and resembles lumbrici only in coloui- and thickness. The author of the Isagoge states that dracunculi resemble varices, and that when they project or move about they occasion great pain, and are to be removed by making an incision of the skin as for varices. Plutarch briefly mentions the dracunculus as being a disease which had newly attacked the inhabitants of the countrv ad- joining the Red Sea. Aetius professes to derive his account of the dracunculus from Leonides. He says, like our author, that it is formed most commonly m the legs and muscular parts of the arms in India and Ethiopia, and that the generation of it is not dissimilar to that of intestinal worms. He adds, that in process of time suppuration takes place at the end of the worm, when an open- ing is made m the flesh, and the head of the dracunculus pro- trudes. If dragged out considerable disturbance is produced especially if the worm should be broken, for what remains occa- . sions the most excruciating pains. He directs us, therefore, to put a ligature round the arm, and to tighten it every day so that the dracunculus may come forth by degrees Avithout break- ing. The part is to be washed with honied water, with oil in which wormwood or southernwood has been boiled, or >vith some such anthelminthic decoction ; but all acrid things are to be avoided for fear of inflammation. He recommends us to forward