486 LUXATIONS. [„ook vi. then wrapped its end with linen rags, in order that it may be softer, we adjust it under the head of the humerus in the arm- pit, and stretching the hand along the wood, we bind it at the arm, fore-arm, and wrist; then bringing the hand with the wood over a transverse piece of wood, fastened between two erect pedestals, or again over the step of a ladder, so that the armpit may be fitted transversely to the step, we draw the hand downwards, and allow the rest of the body to hang suspended on the opposite side; for then the limb will return to its place. After the reduction, we must apply to the armpit a secm-e and moderately-sized ball of wool, which, if there is no inflam- mation present, is to be dry, but if there is inflammation, it is to be dipped in oil. Around this, the shoulder, and the other armpit, a bandage is to be put on in the form of the Greek letter X, so that the decussation may take place above the affected shoulder; and the arm is to be bound to the sides; and the elbow and hand are to be slung by the neck, so that the limb may not fall out again while the dislocation is recent. After the seventh day or later, having loosed the bandages, we must have recourse to moderate friction, so that the body being rendered firmer, the joint may become less liable to luxations. But if the limb is often dislocated, either owing to its humidity (flabbiness), or from its being long subject to the accident, we must proceed to burning, as formerly described. But since sometimes the foetus in utero or the child, while growing, sustains a dislocation of the part which is not reduced, the flesh upon the shoulder is nothing reduced from the natiu-al, nor is the hand obstructed in any of its operations, but the bone remains shorter, not increasing in size; and such persons are called weasel-armed. But in the case of the thigh, the bone does not grow and the limb wastes; for, not being able to sustain the weight of the body, it is not exercised. And with regard to all the other members, if they remain unreduced the parts below are greatly impaired. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates delivers his opinions respecting ' ' ' dislocations at the shoulder-joint with singular modestj'^ and a remarkable air of truth. He says, that he had never met with a case in which the head of the humerus was not lodged in the armpit, and expresses a doubt whether in reality there