FRACTURES. [book VI. 440 Albucasis enumerates the same varieties of fracture as our author,, and his descripton of the operation is little different. The drawings which he gives of the surgical instruments used by the ancients in operations on the head are interesting, as they tend to illustrate the descriptions of Paulus and the other authorities. We may remark, by the way, that his abaptista, which he calls terebru non profundantia, are a sort of spear- shaped instruments, having a globular ball a short way above their extremity. They, therefore, had no resemblance to a modern trephine with a conical crown. Avicenna gives a very full account of injuries of the head, but it is taken almost word for word from Galen and oui- author. Nearly the same may be said of Haly Abbas. Avenzoar states that trepanning the skull Avill be proper when there is fracture with depression; but laments that in his time it would be difl&cult to find a surgeon capable of per- forming the operation. Averrhoes likewise intimates that he did not know a surgeon who covild trepan the skull. This is an additional proof to what we have mentioned in the section on amputation that the Arabians in general were very timid operators. Rhases strongly inculcates the propriety of having recourse promptly to the operation, when the bone is fractured and de- pressed, before dangerous symptoms have come on. Unless there be pressure on the brain, however, he does not approve of having immediate recourse to the operation. It will be remarked that Celsus affirms, and our author denies, the occurrence of fracture by repercussion. It is the game as la fracture par contre-coup of tbe French medical authors, or the counter-fissure, namely, the fractura per resoni- tum of the earlier authorities. Soranus, who, like Celsus, be- lieves in its occurrence, defines it to be a fissure which takes place in the part of the cranium opposite to that which received the blow. (Nicetse Collectio.) Hippocrates himself makes mention of the counter-fissure, and pronounces it to be in- curable, as the surgeon has no certain data to discover its existence. (Vul. Cap. viii.) Tulpius, Pare, and Van Sweiten have related cases of the counter-fissure. (See Comment, in Boerhaav. Aph. 254.) Heister also believed in its occurrence. (Chirurg. i, 1, 14.) For cases of it lie refers to D. Wagnerus,