BRUISED NAIL. ^ECT. LXXXVI.] 415 put under it, and removed with the point of a scalpel, and the excrescence eaten down with an escharotic medicine. And most cases are cui-ed by being treated in this way. But if larger, it is first to be cut out with a scalpel, and then the medicine is to be u^ed. Commentary. We have given an account of the ancient Comm. treatment of pterygia by medicines towards the end of the ' " ' Third Book. Celsus recommends excision with the knife and the appli- cation of cauteries or strong caustics afterwards, (vi, 19.) Aetius and Oribasius trust to septic and caustic applications \nthout an operation. Antyllus (apud Ehasis Cont. xxxvi,) recommended excision and burning when the discharge from the ulcer is fetid. Albucasis, like our author, recommends us to cut off the piece of nail that is attached, and then to apply a burning iron to the part. The burning, he adds, is of great consequence. When the bone is diseased he directs us to take it out, which generally may be done at the joint. (Chirurg. ii, 9.) Haly Abbas likewise directs us to cut off the piece of nail and apply the cautery. He says, if this be neglected the bone is apt to become diseased. When pus is seated below the nail, he recommends us to introduce the head of a probe under it, and cut upon it with a knife; after which a caustic medicine is to be applied to the flesh. (Pract. ix, 66.) SECT. LXXXVI. ON A BRUISED NAIL. Since, owing to nails having been bruised by accidents, 1 pains supervene, which compel us to operate upon them, it »will be sufficient to give you Galen's account of the matter. He says, then : " When the nails are contused we have found t the evacuation of the blood a palpable remedy for soothing the [I pain, when it and the throbbings are very violent. But we n must make an oblique incision, not straight from above down- » wards, with a sharp scalpel, so that when the blood is evacuated t the divided part of the nail may serve as a cover to the parts ! under it. But if you make a straight incision from above