SECT. CXX.] ANKLE AND TOES. 507 elude the posterior tendon which is inserted into the heel. And the man is to be kept fi'om walking for forty days; for those who attempt to walk before the cure is completed impair the actions of the part. If from a leap, as commonly happens, the bone of the heel is moved from its place, or if any inflammatory state is brought on, it is to be remedied by gentle extension and reduction, anti-inflammatory embrocations and secure bandages, the man being kept also in a quiet state until the part is restored. And dislocation of the toes, as we said with regard to the fingers, may be remedied without difficulty by moderate extension. In all these luxations and sub-luxations, after the reduction, and rest for a sTutable number of days, any inflammation or swelling which may remain in the joints, and occasion a protracted im- pairment of the function thereof, is to be cured by emollient applications, the materials of which must be known to every one who is conversant with the matters relative to our art. Commentary. Hippocrates states that dislocation at the Comm. ankle is generally produced by leaping from a great height. ' " ' He remarks that the accident gives rise to excessive swelling of the part. When the parts have been reduced, he directs us to apply a bandage to retain them properly in position, which, he says, it requires some address to perform in a suitable manner. He recommends us to reduce dislocations of the toes and of the bones of the foot like those of the hand. His account of dis- locations of the astragalus and of the os calcis is curious, but there is some difficulty in clearly apprehending his views. We need scarcely say that it is a subject still requiring eluci- dation. According to Celsus, dislocations at the ankle-joint may take place in all directions. He recommends us to reduce them with the hands, by making extension and counter-extension. He advises us to make the patient lie in bed longer than in ordi- nary cases. Oribasius makes mention of only three modes of dislocation at the ankle; namely, inwards, outwards, and backwards. According to Albucasis, dislocation at the ankle can only take place inwards or outwards. When the bones of the tarsus are displaced, he directs us to restore them by making the patient i