[book IV. 144 WORMS. until the affection is completely removed. Give also of theriac, when not prevented by strong fever. LVIII. ON ASCARIDES. Ascarides, as we formerly mentioned, are a kind of intestinal worms resembling earth-worms, being formed about the ex- tremity of the rectum and the beginning of the sphincter aui, and occasioning a great itching of the paxts. This species is formed by bad diet, cold, and indigestion of the food. Where- fore they are to be discharged, in children, by suppositories of honey with a moderate quantity of salts or natron; but in adults by acrid brine, or a decoction of centaury with natron and honey, or of colocynth, or of wormwood, or of chamseleon, or . of alkanet, or of bastard saffron, or of hyssop, or of pennyroyal, or of calamint, or of lupines. After the injections we may anoint the rectum with these simples : Acacia, or hypocistis with natron, or Syriac sumach ^vith liquid alum; and in those which are bound, with Lemnian earth in wine, and with these com- pound medicines, the trochisk of Andron and the like. And we may -ive them an injection of cedar-rosin with a syringe having many perforations, such as those used for the uterus; or salted flesh is to be adapted to the part and secured with a bandage, as long as it can be allowed to remain, and changed often. In general aU those infested with worms derive benefit from fumi- gations with the hairs of ichneumon. The food should contain wholesome juices, and such as are easily distributed over the system, neither increasing the cause which engenders the worms, nor allowing the strength to sink; and on that account we may give some dHuted wine. And we must give food frequently on that account, and in order that the worms may not bite the in- testines for want of their food. The best time for takmg food is when the worms are full. If there be a defluxion of the beUy you may be sure that the worms are on the increase, the food not being properly distributed, and we are to give soups with a mixture of astringents, such as pears, apples, and pomegranates, more especially such as are acid; and we may apply to the beUy, externally, astringent remedies as mentioned above.