DISLOCATIONS 508 [book VI. Comm. put Ms foot upou the ground; and the surgeon, by placing his foot upon it and standing erect, is to push them into their place. After reduction, a splint is to be put under the sole, and secured with bandages. Rhases, Avicenna, and Haly Abbas e-\ddently copy from our author. They give the same account as Hippocrates of dislocation of the astragalus. Luxations of the tarsal bones are described in Sir Astley Cooper's 'Surgical Lectiires,' and other modern works. Modem authors are agreed that dislocations may take place in all di- rections, and that they may be complete or incomplete. It will be remarked that Paulus makes mention of sub-luxations. This is the place where we shall be expected to give some account of the knowledge possessed by the ancients of the nature and treatment of Cltjb-foot. It is singular that Hippocrates is almost the only ancient author who has treated of the subject in an interesting manner, and of him one need have little hesi- tation in affirming, that he displays more practical acquaintance with it than any other writer until the time of Stromeyer. He states that there are more than one variety of this imjyediment; that it is not, properly speaking, a dislocation, but a declination of the foot from its natural position; and that most cases of congenital club-foot admit of cure, if it be attempted before the limb is much wasted. He gives minute directions for restoring the limb to its proper shape by the fingers, and for seeming it with waxed bandages and compresses, above which a piece of stout leather or a plate of lead is to be bound. Over aU a leaden boot, like the Chian shoes, may be apphed if necessary. By these means, he does not hesitate to declare that the de- formity may be generally overcome more readily than one would have beheved, " without cutting or burning, or any other com- plex mode of treatment." (De ArticuHs, 62.) Galen's commen- tary on this chapter is of use in illustrating the text of Hippocrates, but supplies no additional information for any practical purpose, (v, 642, ed. Basil.)