SECT. II.] VENOMOUS ANIMALS. 159 A theriac for venomous animals, and deleterious substances, and for persons bitten by vipers and scorpions. Of bryony, of opoponax, of Illyi-ian iris, of the root of rosemary, of gingei^ of each, dr. iv ; of birthwort, dr. v ; of frankincense, of wild rue, of each, dr. iij; of the flour of tares, dr. ij; form trochisks with wine, and give three oboli with wine. Purging will also be proper for them, with sudorifics, and taking the theriac of vipers. Commentary. These general directions are mostly taken from Dioscorides, who is greatly indebted to Nicander. Nei- ther of them, however, makes mention of venesection among his remedies. The remedial means recommended by Dioscorides are scari- fication, cupping, sucking, excision; and in extreme cases, amputation; clysters, and acrid applications to the part in order to clear out the venom; pure wine, must, or acrid sub- stances to extinguish it and counteract its effects; and finally as adjuvants of these means, purging of the bowels, sweating, and some other particular remedies as stated under their proper heads. The general remedies mentioned by Nicander ai-e, sucking the wound, applying cupping instruments to it, and afterwards strong stimulants, hot irons, and leeches. He directs that the person who sucks it should not be fasting; from which it may be inferred that he had a correct idea that the vessels absorb most readily when in an empty state. This physiological doctrine was lately announced as a new discovery; but frequent : allusions to it are to be met with in the works of Galen, our 'author, Avicenna, Avenzoar, Averrhoes, and Haly Abbas. The dangers resulting from an empty state of the vessels, iwhether produced by fasting or venesection, is well expressed by (GorrjEus in his Preliminary Dissertation on the Alexipharmics cof Nicander: ''Nec vero id tantum incommodi habet fames, ssed in multo majus periculum adducit hominem, quando et Tvenae plurimum exinanit£e et cibum vehementer appetentes, wenenura avidius ad se pertrahunt et in intima viscera, cor- ddisque arcem immittunt.^' "Quod si quis etiam abundare rvideatur, et nihil eorum repugnet quee sunt in venjEsectione observanda, sanguinem audacter mittamus, non quidem per