SECT. II.] LEPROSY AND PSORA. 15 It appears that the disease in its ancient form is still preva- Comm. lent in certain parts of the world; as, for example, in the Sar- dinian States, where it is still looked upon as being both con- tagious and hereditary. It is also endemic in Norway: nay, it is reported to have broken forth with all its ancient character in the province of New Brunswick. In the East, elephantiasis and leontiasis are still considered as aggravated forms of leprosy. (See Heber's Travels, ii, 50; and Niebuhr's Travels, xxvii, 11.) We may be allowed to add, in conclusion, that a great mass of misapprehension has prevailed in modern times regarding the elephantiasis of the Greeks and Arabians. We trust the above sketch will remove the difficulties which formerly beset this subject. SECT. II. ON LEPROSY AND PSORA. Both these affections consist of an asperity of the skin, with pruritus or wasting of the body, having theii- origin from a me- lanchoHc humour. But leprosy spreads over the skin more deeply in a cii-cular form, throwing out scales which resemble those of fishes. But psora is more superficial and vai-iously figured, and throws out furfuraceous bodies. In these cases M-e must premise venesection when the body appears inore than usuaUy plethoric; but, if not, we must by aU means purge with those things which evacuate black bile. Externally we may use in common either of the heUebores; and have washed Hrae dned, and, when going to use it, we may dilute it in water until It attain the thickness of the wrestler's sordes, and anoint. —Another : Of sage, of the tears of Ethiopian olive, of each, fh-. viij; of the bark of capper's root, of gum, of each, dr. xiij ; momt with vinegar, in the sun. Anemone, when applied, and :he root of the white vine particularly, remove psora. But the oUowmg are compound remedies: Of the flour of darnel, one ■hoenix; of the white cardamom, dr. iv ; of the scum of natron, Ir. j; of copperas, dr. viij; of the middle roots of asphodel, dr. iv; 'Jmng triturated them in vinegar, and made of the thickness 'f a cerate, anoint, having first applied nitre to the part; and laving removed it, (which do about the third day,) and washed ■ ith cold water, again anoint.—Another : Of the juice of kings'