FRACTURES. [book VI. 434 prohibit it, or to a diet suitable for inflammation. We must also use topical remedies, such as warm embrocations with hot rose-oil,, and bathing the part with the decoction of marsh- mallows, or of fenugreek, of linseed, of camomile, and such like, and cataplasms of raw barley flour, or of linseed with the afore- mentioned decoction and the grease of a fowl; and irrigations with wool to be poured upon the head and occiput, and some anti-inflammatory oil is also to be poured into the meatus auditorius. The viscera also are not to be neglected, but suit- able cataplasms are to be applied to them. And care is to be taken of the whole body, putting the patients into warm baths and anointing them. If the inflammation continues and nothing else prohibit, Hippocrates directs us to purge them with cho- lagogue medicines. On blackness of the meninx. When the meninx turns black, if the blackness be superficial, and has been brought on by me- dicines which have that property, we may remove it by applying three parts of honey with rose-oil upon pledgets, along with the other suitable treatment. But if the blackness has come on spontaneously, more particularly if deep-seated, and be attended with other dangerous symptoms, then we must refrain from using them, for these appearances indicate a dissolution of the natural heat. I knew a person who had his skull trephined a year after the accident, and recovered. The fracture was from a weapon, and was situated on the bregma, and the discharge having an outlet, the meninx was thereby preserved free from injury. Commentary. Hippocrates very properly lays it down as a rrde that no injiu'ies of the head are to be considered as trifling, since wounds aff'ecting only the integuments wiU sometimes prove dangerous if neglected. He treats distinctly of fissures, contusions, and fractures of the cranium, which is an excellent arrangement of these accidents. Our limits, however, will not allow of our entering minutely into an explanation of his modes of treatment. In fractures of the head he forbids liquid appli- cations, especially wine. He calls the trephine by the name of rpviravov; and makes mention of a raspatory {^var^p). I* Avould appear that his object in applying the trepan was alto-