80 [book IV. CANCERS. such as giving dodder of thyme to the amount of oz. ivss ; in whey or honied water, and afterwards hiera, containing the black hellebore. The juice of strychnos may be applied to the tdcerated parts without exciting pain, a linen rag being folded and wetted in it, aad laid on ; but externally to this, we must apply soft wool, which also has been soaked in the juice, and care must be taken that they do not become dry, by frequently pouring on some of the juice. In all carcinomatous ulcers of a chronic nature, one may use the preparation from pompholyx; and those remedies which were mentioned in the Third Book for cancers in the womb may be appHed with advantage. For carcinomatous and malignant ulcers, for rugose ulcers on the fundament, and for inflammations on the pudenda, testicles, and breasts. In a leaden mortar, and with a leaden pestle, having triturated the Lemnian earth with oxycrate and honied water or milk, so that it become black, or having triturated rose-oil, or the oil of unripe olives, or the juice of house-leek, or that of wall-pennywort, or of lettuce, or of fleawort, or of unripe grapes in like manner, anoint with them. The pa- tient's diet should consist principally of the juice of ptisan and the whey of milk, and from among pot herbs, of maUows, orache, blite, and gourd, of the fishes which live among rocks, and of all kinds of fowls, except those that live in marshes. From Archigenes, for carcinomatous and malignant ulcers. Levigate equal parts of burnt river crabs and calamine, and sprinkle or apply the ashes of crabs with cerate; or apply the seed of hedge mustard triturated with honey. Commentary. See Hippocrates (Epidem. v); Galen (de Tumoribus ; Meth. Med. xiv ; Therap. ad Glauc. ii); Celsus (v, 28); Scribonius Largus; Aetius (xvi, 43); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 28); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 16) ; Avicenna (iv, 3, 2, 15) ; Serapion (v, 24); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxix, 1, 16); Avenzoar (ii, 7, 27); Haly Abbas (Pract. iii, 32); Rhases (ad Mansor. vii, 9; Contin. xxvii.) Hippocrates relates a fatal case of cancer in the breast, at- tended with a sanious discharge, but he does not explain the nature of the treatment. Our author's description of cancer is abridged from Galen