4H7 SECT. CXIV.] SHOULDER. be dislocations inwards or backwards. " I will not affirm/' Comm. he adds, " whether or not dislocation forwards may take place, ' * ' only this I can say that I have never seen it." (De Articulis.) Galen, in his commentary on this work, mentions that he had seen five cases of the uncommon kinds of dislocation, fom- of which were dislocations forwards. They occurred mostly among the athletae. In one case, of which he relates the par- ticulars, he efiected the reduction Avith his heel placed in the armpit. Galen states distinctly, that it is the retraction of the muscles which proves the great obstacle to reduction. (Ed. Basil, V, 585.) Hippocrates has described several methods of reduction, most of which are mentioned by our author. By the fist placed in the armpit, as described by our author. By the heel, as likewise described by him. He adds one ad- vice not distinctly given by our author, to apply the ball placed in the armpit on the side within the head of the humerus, and not upon it. The process by suspending the patient upon the shoulder of another person is next described by him. Those by the pestle and ladder are afterwards clearly described. He then describes the ambe and the application of it to the reduc- tion of dislocations in nearly the same terms as our author. We may here mention, by the way, that the description of the ambe given by Boyer, does not correspond exactly to the in- strument recommended by Hippocrates. See drawings of Hippocrates's ambe in Heister's ' Surgery' (x, 4); in Scul- tet's 'Arsenal de Chirurgie' (xxii, 1); and in Littre's edition of Hippocrates (iv, 91.) Hippocrates describes other less im- portant processes of reduction with a Thessalian chaii', and a door. He remarks, that persons in a reduced habit of body are most liable to dislocations, and illustrates this position by some very acute observations on the occurrence of these ac- cidents in cattle. After reduction, he directs that a ball of soft wool should be placed in the armpit and secured with a bandage and a sling; and he attaches great importance to well-regulated friction afterwards. Celsus mentions two kinds of dislocation at the shoulder- joint, namely, downwards and forwards. He describes the methods of reduction by the hand, and by a wooden instrument (spathula lignea) resembling the ambe of Hippocrates. His description of the latter method is very distinct. His mode