26 LICHEN. [BOOK iv. COMM. aypla by the Greeks, and ia it the skin is more rough, red, and corroded. The more it departs from the circular form the less tractable is it, and, unless removed, it is said to pass into im- petigo. From this account it is clear that the lichen ot the Greeks, in its original form, was different from impetigo. Celsus recommends friction with the saliva of a fasting person, and also mentions a composition containing natron, frankincense, sulphur, &c. The translator of Serapion improperly renders the name ot this affection by the term impetigo. His remedies are nearly the same as our author's, namely, the saliva of a person fasting, compositions containing hellebore, natron, the ashes of star- lings, &c. In the translation of Avicenna it is likewise described by the name of impetigo. It is called a species of dry achor, by which is no doubt meant papula. It is stated that it has a tendency to pass into lepra or psora. The remedies which are recom- mended are human saliva, the chaste tree, capers, leeches (which are not mentioned by the Greeks), likewise gum arable dissolved in vinegar, mustard and vinegar, salt water, the roots of king's spear, &c. Haly Abbas recommends stimulant hni- ments of a similar kind. Ehases briefly recommends lotions of vinegar and ammoniac, and, when it becomes inveterate, leeches, strong friction, &c. His translator also misapplies the term impetigo to it. The hchen appears to be the cutaneous complaint which Alsaharavius describes by the name of alcoab. He represents it as a superficial ulceration, and mentions four species of it. Dr. Willan confirms the statement of the ancient authorities, that the disease has a tendency to pass into lepra and psora. The species called lichen tropicus by Dr. Willan, seems to be the hidroa of Hippocrates (Aph. iii, 21); the sudamen of Pliny (xxiii, 45); one of the essere of Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 17); one of the alsara of Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 8); and the hascf of Avicenna (iv, 7, 3, 8). See also Galen's 'Commentary' (v, 261); ed. BasH. Galen says it is attended with prm-itus, asperity, and ulceration. A^dcenna and Ehases particularly commend bleeding, cleansing the skin, and the cold bath. Most of Rhases' authorities in his ' Continens,' recommend for the asuf, or sudamen, coohng and astringent applications, con-