HEMORRHAGE. 130 [book IV. its mannaj dr. xvj; of roasted rosin^ dr. viij ; of burnt gypsum, dr. viij.—Another, an escliarotic styptic : Of chalcitis, of burnt copper, of copperas, of roasted naisy, equal parts. And the medicine called the Rhodian, and that called the yellow, are excellent styptics. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Cclsus (v, 26); Galen (Meth. Med. v, et alibi); Oribasius (Med. Collect, x, 23; Morb. Curat, iii, 36; Synops. vii, 20); Aetius (xiv, 51); Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 4); Palladius (Comment, in Hippocr. Epidem. ed Dietz. ii, 189) ; Albucasis (Cliirurg. i, 58); Avicenna (iv, 4, 2,16); Averrhoes (in Avicennte Cantic. ii, 2, and CoUig. vii, 23) ; Serapion (v, 16); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 21); Rhases (Divis. i, 139; Contin. xxviii. Contrary to what is often stated in modem works on sm*- gery, the ancients appear to have been very well acquainted Avith the proper treatment of hemorrhage. Celsus directs us when a dangerous hemorrhage is apprehended from a wound, to fill it up with dry pledgets, then to apply a sponge squeezed out of cold water, and to make pressure with the hand. If the bleeding does not stop, he directs us to change the pledgets often, and if dry ones do not answer to soak them in vinegar. For fear of inflammation he recommends us not to use caustics and escharotics except in urgent cases. When all other means fail, he directs us to seize upon the vessels (venae) which pour forth the blood, and having tied them in two places about the wound, to cut them asunder, so that they may conti'act and still have their mouths shut up. If circumstances prevent this from being done, they are to be burnt with a red-hot iron. He also speaks of stopping bleeding by re\Tilsion, as for exam- ple, by applying a cupping-instrument to the hindhead for bleeding in the forehead. Galen has treated of this subject at great length in the Fifth Book of the ' Meth. Med.' When blood is discharged from a wounded artery, he directs us to apply a finger to the orifice of the vessel firmly, yet so as not to occasion pain, and thus a thrombus will be formed that will stop the flow of blood. When the vessel is deep-seated he advises us to examine accm-ately into its situation and size, and to ascertain whether it be an artery or vein; after which it is to be seized with a hook and