[nooK VI. 332 CANCER. SECT. XLV. ON CANCER. • Cancer is an uneven swelling, rough, unseemlj'-, darkish, painful, and sometimes without ulceration (which Hippocrates called also concealed cancer), and if operated upon, it becomes worse, and sometimes with ulceration, for it derives its origin from black bile, and spreads by erosion; forming in most parts of the body, but more especially in the female uterus and breasts. It has the veins stretched on all sides as the animal the crab (cancer) has its feet, whence it derives its name. Wherefore, the treatment of it by medicine has been suffici- ently delivered by us in the Fourth Book; and cancer of the womb has been treated of in the Third. But since putrid parts and such as are simply altered from theii' natural state require amputation, cancers in the womb, indeed, it is neither possible nor expedient to operate upon; but of those of the external parts, and especially of the breasts, we have now to explain the surgical treatment. Some, then, have consumed' the whole redundant matter by cauteries; but others first make an excision of the whole breast, and then burn the place. But Galen approves only of the excision, writing thus of the oper- ation : " If ever you attempt to cure cancer by an operation, begin your evacuations by purging the melancholic humom-, and having cut away the whole affected part, so that not a root of it be left, permit the blood to be discharged, and do not speedily restrain it, but squeeze the surrounding Veins so as to force out the thick part of the blood, and then cure the wound like other ulcers.^^ Such are the words of Galen. And other mahgnant and "putrid ulcers, such as phagedena, gangrene, and the like, must be treated in the same manner. Comm. Commentaby. Hippocratcs forbids the surgeon from inter- ^""^ ' fering with occult cancers, that is to say, with such as have not ulcerated, remarking that if healed the patient soon dies, whereas, if let alone, he may live a long time. (Apli. vi, 38.) Upon this his commentator, Theophilus, remarks that even if the disease is eradicated by cutting or burning, many untoAvard symptoms follow, and the strength of the patient does not stand out. (Ed. Dietz. ii, 506.)