SECT. XX.] 61 HERPES. venesection, if the strength permit, and of a restricted diet; and, afterwards, astringent food and drink are to be given. He also recommends, for gangrene, applications containing arsenic, quicklime, chalcitis, and the like (v, 22.) The practice of the Arabians is little or nothing different from that of the Greeks. Avicenna at the commencement approves of Armenian bole and terra sigillata with vinegar; but if these have not the effect he directs us to empty the part by scai-ifications, leeches, or opening the veins which lead to it. He then recommends us to apply the flour of beans and the other remedies mentioned by the Greeks. When the disease proceeds, free incisions and the actual cautery must be had recourse to. Alsaharavius recommends us to bleed at first, if the strength permit; then to use powerful caustics and escha- rotics such as arsenic, quicklime, and subHmed quicksilver; or if these do not succeed, the actual cautery. He approves of early incisions, and of amputation, if the mortification spread. He describes a species of gangrene which seizes the hand and spreads upwards; and relates a case of it in which he refused to amputate for fear of hemorrhage. The same case is related by Albucasis, which certainly amounts to a strong presumptive proof that Alsaharavius was the same person as Albucasis. Rhases inculcates in the strongest terms that when an infiam- mation threatens to terminate in mortification, it is to be treated by scarifications, stimulant apphcations, and the cautery. The earher modem surgeons foUowed the ancient practice of applying the cautery in cases of gangrene. SECT. XX. ON HERPES. When yellow bile, unmixed with any other humour is fixed m a part, the affection is called herpes : but if it is thicker and rather acnd it ulcerates the whole skin as far as the subjacent flesh, and is called herpes exedens; but if it is thin, less acrid and hot. It raises small blisters on the surface of the skin like millet-seeds, and hence has been called herpes miliaris. Accord- ing to Oribasius, a mixture of phlegm, with yellow bile, produces the herpes miliaris. Wherefore we may evacuate the whole body with cholagogue medicines, and apply cooling and de-