ANEURISM. [book vr. 312 Comm. unskilful slu'geon in opening a vein at the bend of the arm, opens an artery at the same time. It proceeds, he says, either from rupture or dilatation, and its contents are blood and spirits. The symptoms of an aneurism are a swelling of a smaller or larger size, without change of colour, free from pain, of a spongy softness, disappearing upon the pressure with the fingers, and returning again when they are removed; this last symptom being particularly characteristic of aneurism from dilatation. But when it arises from a wound the tumour is not equally soft, as the blood becomes coagulated. With regard to the treatment, he declares that aneurisms in the neck and head ought not to be interfered with; but when the disease arises at the bend of the arm he directs us to proceed in the following manner. In the first place having marked the course of the artery from the armpit to the fore-arm, we are to make a simple incision, three or four fingers' breadth below the armpit along the inside of the arm, where the artery is most superficial; and having laid it bare and separated it from the surrounding parts, to seize the artery with a blunt hook and bind it with two ligatm-es; after which it is to be divided between them, and the wound filled with fine frankincense, and a suitable pledget of hnt bound over it. The swelling at the bend of the arm may then be opened without any fear of hemorrhage. "V^Tien the coagula have been cleared away the artery from which the blood was discharged is to be seized with a hook, seciu'ed and divided like the former; after which the wound is to be filled with fine frankincense, and suppuration promoted, (xv^ 10.) Albucasis treats of aneurism in the following terms. 'When an artery is diwded, and the skin heals over it, a tumour fre- quently is the consequence, and the same thing sometimes happens from the wound of a vein. Aneurism of an ai'tery is characterized by a deep-seated tumour in the situation of an artery, the swelling subsiding when pressed upon by the fingers, and being attended with a hissing sound. When it arises from the wound of a vein it is round and exposed. He adds, to open such tumours, especially if seated in the armpits, groins, and neck would be a fatal mistake. When the aneurism ai'ises from dilatation of the artery^ we are to make a longitudinal in- cision, and having dissected away the artery from the sur- rounding parts, to pass beloAv it a needle armed with a double