SECT. 11.] LEPROSY AND PSORA. 21 Justin applies the terms vitiligo and scabies to the diseases treated of in this chapter. See Hist, (xxxvi, 2.) We now tiu'n to the Arabians. In the Latin translation of Serapion, lepra and psora are de- scribed under the generic term of "impetigines in quibus ex- conatur et scinditui- cutis;" but they are further distinguished from one another by the specific titles of albaras nigra and pruritus. The former is characterized as arising from the me- lancholic humour, and as casting off round scales. The latter is said to consist of pustules, which appear on different parts of the body, are variously figured, and cast off furfuraceous scales. The leuce is described by the name of baras, as arising from viscid, pituitous blood, and being produced by a defect of the assimilative faculty. In it the flesh itself is said to be changed to a white colour. If, when pricked with the head of a needle It bleeds, there is a probability of cure; but if it does not bleed It IS incurable. The two alphi are described by the names of morphea alba and nigra. The morphea alba resembles the white albaras (leuce) only that in the latter the affection of the skm IS more deep-seated, and the hairs in it are turned to a white colour; but in morphea the only change is in the external appearance of the skin. The morphea nigra (melas?) is said to resemble the albaras nigra (lepra nigricans ?) only that it is more superficial. In the Latin translation of Avicenna by BuUonensis, alphos albus and niger are distinguished by the names oi morphea alba (or alguada), and morphea nigra; leuce by that of albaras; and lepra by those of albaras nigra and impetigo excorticativa The specific differences between them are stated with gi-eat precision, ihe morpheme are superficial affections of the skin, but the albaras affects also the flesh, penetrating sometimes down to the 'Jone. All these diseases are said to arise from a weakness of ■ he assimilative faculty. In the albaras nigra, or leprosy, the ^.km is said to be covered with scales, Hke those of a fish. Like he authorities formerly quoted, Avicenna states that in alguada alphos albus) the hairs do not change their colour, but that hey do so in albaras. The puncture of a needle likewise ex- tracts blood from the guada, but not from the baras. Avenzoar makes mention of the morphea alba and nigra but I'as not described them particularly. These authors seem to