HYPOPYON. [book VI. '278 Comm. The Operation with the ligatures is briefly described in the " " ' ' Isagoge/ generally ascribed to Galen. Haly Abbas and Albucasis describe the operation with the cross threads in nearly the same terms as our author. The latter, however, makes mention of puncturing the apex of the tumour after the application of the ligatures. Jesu Hali gives nearly the same account of the operation. Although Scarpa condemns in strong terms the use of the needle and ligatures, this method of treatment is sanctioned by the authority of Mr. Travers. This operation was approved of by William of Saliceto. Scultet explains the descriptions given by Celsus and Paulus, but they are sufladently plain of themselves. (Arsen. de Chirurg. tab. 32.) It will be perceived that the ancients applied the name sta- phyloma to two distinct, or at least considerably different dis- eases, namely, to enlargement with protrusion of the cornea, and to prolapsus of the iris connected with ulceration of the cornea. Heister, Wenzel, and other continental writers, use it in the same sense as the ancients. Scarpa and our English ocu- Hsts apply it only to protrusion of the cornea, without ulceration. SECT. XX. ON HYPOPYON OF THE EYE. Regarding hj^jopyon of the eyes it will be sufficient to de- liver Galen's account, which is to this effect:—" A certain oculist of our time, named Justus, cured many cases of hypo- pyon by shaking the head. Placing them, therefore, erect upon a chair, and grasping their head on both sides obliquely, he shook them so that we could see clearly the pus descending downwards; and, owing to the weight of the substance, it remained below, although cataracts will not remain unless fixed carefully." And again, he says below, " oftentimes we evacuate the pus freely by dividing the cornea a little above the place where all the coats of the eye unite. This place is called by some the iris, and by others the corona.'' These are the words of Galen in his work, ' On the Method of Cure.' After the discharge of the pus, we clean the ulcer with injections of honied water, or of the juice of fenugreek Avith the addition of some honey, and then apply the other treatment conformably.