SECT. XXXI.] 299 UVA. but whitish, we must operate upon; for the inflammation of them soon subsides. We must only take away as much of the uva as exceeded its natural size; for the complete ex- tii'pation of it proves greatly injurious to the parts about the chest, and occasions the loss of voice. Wherefore, having placed the patient on a seat in the rays of the sun, and directed him to gape wide, we seize with the forceps adapted for this inirpose, or a common tenaculum, upon the redundant part and drag it downward, and cut it out with the instrument called staphylotomus, or the scalpel used in the operation for the suture of the upper eyelid. After the operation the same things are to be done as are recommended for angiology. But since often, from the timidity of the patient, or the fear of the hemon'hage,or the success attending the treatment by medicines, lie declines the operation by instruments, we may rather con- sume it by means of a caustic medicine. Wherefore, taking the caustic used for burning the eyeUds, or some such, we are to fill with it the hollows of the instrument called staphylo- caustos, and directing the patient to gape wide, and getting the tongue pressed down with a tongue spattxla, we open the instrument sufficiently and grasp with it as much of the uva as we cut ofi" in the other operation. The medicine must neither be of too liquid a consistence, lest it run down from the uva improperly, and burn the adjoining parts (and, there- fore, we direct the patient not to swallow during the whole jperation of burning), nor very hard, that it may soon act upon he uva. And if from one application the extremity of the iva become black, this wiU be sufficient, but if not we must ise it again. During the whole time of its action the patient nust sit with his head bent forwards, in order that the saliva ■vhich is melted down with the portions of the medicine may low from the mouth. The part becomes dead in one hour, md faUs off about the third or fourth day. After the burning' laving wrapped the index-finger round with soft wool or tow' ve wipe the parts about the uvula, or direct the patient to rargle with water. But after this operation, and also that on he tonsils, soothing fomentations from the oil of camomile are o be applied around the neck, and in like manner we may use irgles and liniments.