SECT. XXXV.] STRUMA. 307 SECT. XXXV. ON STEUMiEj OR SCROFULOUS GLANDS. The chceras, or scrofula, is an indurated gland, mostly form- ing in the neck, armpits, and groins, deriving its name either from a Greek word, signifying a species of rock, or from swine, because they ai-e fruitful animals, or because swine have swell- ings of the neck. The strumas are formed either on the anterior pai-t of the neck, or on either side of it, or on both, and they consist of one, two, or more, all contained in their proper mem- branes, like the steatoma, atheroma, and meliceris. Those, there- fore, which are painful to the touch, and on the application of medicine, ai'e of a malignant nature, are to be considered as carcinomatous and it is obvious that they do not readily yield to a surgical operation. But such as are mild to the touch and the seasonable application of medicines, may be operated upon in this manner. To such as are superficial and incline to- wards the skin we use a simple section, and free them from the surrounding bodies, and stretching the skin with hooks we flay the hps of the incision, as we said in describing the operation of angiology, and by degrees remove them entirely. But such IS are larger, having transfixed them with hooks, we raise up, md dissecting away the skin from them in like manner, we must ree them entirely from the surrounding bodies, avoiding in )articular the carotid arteries and recurrent nerves. If any livided vessel obscui-e the operation, we may include it in a igature, or cut it asunder, if not large. And when the base )f the scrofulous tumour runs out into a narrow point, we nay cut it away readily, and introducing the index finger search f there be any other strumse lying there, and remove them in he same manner. But if we suspect that a large vessel or essels are situated at the bottom of the scrofulous tumotir, we leed not cut it out from the base, but include it in a ligature, 0 that it may fall off spontaneously in pieces without danger, V lien we may effect the cure by the application of lint; but f cut away at once we may unite tlie lips of the incisions. The ncisions are to be made direct, and if there be nothing re- lundant we may immediately sew them up. But, if owing to he size of the scrofulous swelling there be a redundancy of kin, having cut away a part of it like a myrtle-leaf, we may