JUICE OF THE POPPY. 215 SECT. XLII.] Perhaps the ancient opium may have been weaker than that Comm. no^y in use. '—v—' It is worthy of remark, that most of the ancient authorities recommend vinegar in cases of poisoning by opium, but we are inclined to think that none of them administered it at the commencement, nor until the poison had been removed from the 1 bowels. This practice agrees very well with the rule of treat- iment laid down by Orfila, Paris, and Christison, who state I that vinegar is prejudicial, if given at first, by favouring the 1 solution of the poison, but proves useful afterwards by acting as a restorative to the system. None of the ancient authorities recommend venesection. In another work we have thus explained the ancient theory (of the action of opium upon the human frame. " In order to lunderstand properly the ideas entertained by the ancients re- sspecting the modus operandi of opium, it will be necessary to ssay a few words in explanation of their opinions upon certain fpoints of physiology. Aristotle taught that the prime cause of aaU the operations of life is mind, and that the prime instrument Iby which it performs them is heat, which, therefore, he deno- Dminates the co-cause {(jwacnov). He illustrates his meaning by ceomparing the mind to the artificer, and heat to the wimble or ssaw by which he performs his work. Having remarked, no idoubt, that the heart is the warmest part of the body, he appears t to have considered it as the spring which turns the whole ma- chinery of the animal frame, the brain and nerves deriving their ^origin and influence from it. (I need scarcely mention how »well these ideas accord with the ingenious hypothesis lately ad- vanced by M. Serres.) Many facts, indeed, seem to point out the supreme importance of the heart. It is, as the ancients remarked, the primum movens et ultimum moriens; and, along rwith its accessory organ, the lungs, it is evidently the part •which, in the higher classes of animals, renders them indepen- ident of the many variations of heat and cold to which they are isubjected. It is this wonderfiil organ which, under the guid- ance of the principle of life, preserves the heat of the body unaltered in all the different gradations of temperature, from tmorc tlian 100 degrees above the boiling, to as many below the rfrecKing point of the thei-raometer. It seems, in fact, a real *Proraethcus that steals the fire from heaven. The connexion