[hook VI. BURNING THE HIPS. 394 Comm. Haly Abbas directs us to introduce the hand well lubricated " ' with, oil of violets, or the like, into the uterus, and extract the placenta if it be separated; but if it still adhere it is to be moved from side to side, and not pulled straight downwards. He adds, that when not extracted, it becomes putrid. (Pract. ix, 59.) Rhases directs us when the secundines do not come aAvay after delivery to make the woman sneeze, and if they are still retained, to pare the nails, and having introduced the hand into the uterus to pull cautiously so as not to give pain. AVhen they cannot be removed in this waj^, he recommends us to throw injections into the womb so as to promote putrefaction of the placenta. In another place he mentions, that Avhen long re- tained, the placenta putrefies and comes off in pieces. (Cont. xxii.) SECT. LXXVI.— ON OSURNING THE HIPS. As in the case of the shoulder, so also the hip-joint getting dislocated from acoUection of humours requires burning. Where- fore Hippocrates says ; " When dislocation at the hip-joint takes place from long-continued ischiatic disease, tlie leg wastes, and the patients are lame unless burnt." Burning, therefore, is to be performed more particularly at the place where the joint is dislocated, for thus the redundant humour will be dried up, and the part being condensed by the cicatrix will no longer be able to receive the bone, wherefore the burning should be carried to a considerable depth. The moderns form three eschars by burning; one behind in the hollow of the buttocks, another a little above the knee on the outside, and a third on the outside of the ankle in the fleshy part. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates recommeuds us to burn the parts ' ' over tlie hip-joint with crude flax. (De Aff'ectionibus.) The author of another of the Hippocratic treatises directs us to burn the bony parts with fungi and the flesh with a red-hot iron. (De Aff'ect. Int.) Aetius, upon the authority of Archigenes, recommends burn- ing in this case with irons, the roots of fuller's herb and birth- wort, or with goat's dung, (xii, 3.) Ccclius Aurelianus, in cases of ischiatic disease, speaks of form-