178 VIPERS. [boost. equal parts of myrrh, gentian, and bay-berries mixed with honey. The following is an admirable remedy of Oribasius for persons bitten by vipers : Of anise, an acetabulum; of pepper, dr. iv; of the bark of birthwort, of opium, of castor, and of myrrh, of each, dr. y, triturate with must, and form to the size of a Grecian bean, and give according to the patient's strength in three cyathi of diluted wine.—Another, from the works of Lycus, a medicine for the bites of vipers : Of myrrh, of castor, of pepper, of purslain, of each, dr. j; of the seed of dill, an acetabulum; triturate in must, and give.—Another, from the works of Archigenes: Pound carefully twenty crabs with a sufficient quantity of wheaten flour in a mortar, and having mixed some calamint and salt with it, form trochisks of it, and dry. Use in a cataplasm with milk, and give one in a draught with honied water. But, says he, if you have not river-crabs, use sea-crabs. Goat's dung appHed externally to the wound with wine is a powerful remedy; or bay-leaves boiled with oil, or bay-berries, or calamint, heath, rue, parsley, southernwood, galbauum on a pledget, green marjoram pounded; also young fowls torn in pieces, and applied warm and frequently changed, the flour of tares mixed with wine, the pounded bark of radish, boiled squHls, raw barley-flour in oxymel, the leaves of the wild cucumber with fine polenta, the lees of wine in hke manner with fine polenta, rue with salts and honey, bran boiled m vinegar, ashes with vinegar, cedar-pitch with salts, liquid pitch with salts Bathe also with the decoction of trefoU, or of penny- royal or with vinegar and brine. When the blisters become bloody let out their contents without taking off the skin, then bathe with much water, and apply a cataplasm of boiled lentils with honey tiU the cure is completed. The antidote of vipers is particularly efficacious, both when taken in a draught and appHed externally. CoMM Commentary. Most of the ancient authorities appear to have considered the echidna the female viper; but, as mil be seen below, there is reason to suppose that it was a different species altogether. It is the colubra of Celsus. (y, 27, 6.) Our author's description of the symptoms is closely copied from Nicander, who also recommends similax treatment. Dioscorides in like manner directs us to give wine, and various