^'i-] PHALANGIA. Igg Commentary. See a similar plan of treatment recom- mended by Aetius, Dioscorides, Nonnus, and Eliases. Simeon Seth recommends the decoction of mallows, which appears to have been a domestic remedy generally used in such cases. See also Geopon. (xii, 12); and Pliny (H. N. xx). Virgil alludes to this practice ma passage which has been often misunderstood (Georg. IV, 230.) Haly Abbas recommends cold water or snow' also Ai-meman earth with vinegar, and other appHcations of the same nature. (Pract. iv, 34.) Alsaharavius mentions the same remedies as Haly, but expresses himself sceptical as to their efficacy. (Pract. xxx, 2, 29.) Rhases, among other applications mentions a composition of camphor and vinegar; and another contaimng- opmm, henbane, and camphor, to be used along with a cloth moistened in snow-water. The Arabian winters on hus- bandly also recommend the composition from maJlows and oil as a preservative of the face and hands from the stings of bees and wasps. (Casiri, Bibl. Arab. Hisp. 335.) SECT. VI.—ON THE PHALANGIA, OR VENOMOUS SPIDERS. When a person has been bitten by a phalangion the part -Itself appears red, and as if pricked by a sharp-pointed instru- .ment, but it does not swell, nor is it very wai^m, but it is mo- . derately red, cold, and itchy. Those who have been stung ex- ipenence a great sense of cold, trembling, heaviness of the body B-a cold sweat, constant pain, paleness, and a perpetual desire to rmake waterj m some cases there are dysuria, erection of the .?emtal member, humid eyes, and spasmodic distension about :he groms and thighs, a violent gnawing pain of the stomach, .OSS of taste m the tongue, vomiting of water, or of substances tesemblmg webs, and sometimes these substances are discharged ny the urine or bowels. By going into hot water they are .reed rom pam, but the pain returns again with violence. They relieved by the application of the ashes of figs mixed with .alts tnturated m wine, or of the pounded root of the wild 'omegranate. or of birthwort with barley flour mixed .vith wiegar. Bathe the ulcers with hot sea-water, or with the eecoct.on of baum, the leaves of which may also be applied recourse must also be had frequently to baths, and potions