SECT. XLIX.] FISTULA. 123 dr. j; mix with ammoniac and use, and when the callus is throAvn off, cleanse with verdigris and eight times the quantity of the purest honied water; but after the discharge of the callus, incarnants must be used. An incarnative collyrium: of aloes, of myrrh, of ammoniac, of the cinders of egg shells, equal parts; having triturated with water form collyria, and apply-—Another .• Of myrrh, of aloes, of frankincense, of pome- granate rind, equal parts, mix with water; but some use bull's gall. The oil of unripe olives is incarnative when injected. I knew a person who injected cedar-rosin into fistula, and suc- ceeded surprisingly. After it is incarnated we must have re- course to the agglutinative medicine, according to the plan described for other sinuses. " When the fistula is narrow and long," says Galen, "and does not appear to me to contain caDus internaUy, but only sordes, I first inject lye into it, and then allowing it to remain in the fistula until I expect that the sordes has faUen completely off, I afterwards apply the medi- cine." It was the one from the oil of palma Christi, mentioned above. Commentary. We shall have occasion to refer to the comm Hippocratic treatise ' De Fistuhs,' in the Sixth Book. Celsus treats of fistulse with more than his wonted mi- nuteness. This is his definition : " Id nomen est ulceri alto, angusto, caUoso." He has described aU the complications of it with great accuracy. He directs us to commence by making an inspection with a probe or sound, so as to ascertain the state of the parts and of the discharge. If a soft body is felt at the bottom, we conclude that the fistula terminates in the flesh, but if a hard one is felt, we know that it ends with a bone. If the probe slide readily over the bone, it is free from caries, but if it does not so, and yet no inequalities are felt on It, caries has taken place, but it is still smooth: if it feel unequal and rough, the bone is eaten with caries. For a sim- ple and recent fistula, not deep-seated or in a joint, the plaster for recent wounds will be sufficient, provided salt, or alum, or • the scales of copper, or verdigris, or any of the other metals, be added to it. The application is to be made upon a piece ' of hnen, and a sponge soaked in vinegar is to be put over it, ! and is to be removed on the fifth day. The patient must live