AMPUTATION. [book VI. 412 Comm. In no other of the Greek medical works which have come ' * ' down to us is there any description of amputation of the ex- tremities. Avicenna mentions the operation of sawing off the bones of the extremities^ but in such general terms as gives us no in- formation in what manner it was performed, (iv, 4, 4, 10, 11, 12.) The description given by Haly Abbas is more complete. A limb, he says, is amputated thus. The operation is to com- mence with first cutting the skin, and then when the bone of a limb is to be sawn, you must not cut through the whole flesh at once, lest an immoderate discharge of blood take place from the veins and arteries so as to occasion the death of the patient and interrupt the process of sawing the bone ; except the flesh of the limb be wasted or putrid. But you ought first to divide that part of the flesh where no great arteries and veins are situated, cutting them down to the bone, which is to be sawn across as quickly as possible, the fleshy parts in the mean time being retracted with a piece of linen, lest the saw should tear them and occasion bleeding and pain; when the bone is sawn across, whatever portion of the flesh remains un- divided is to be cut, and then the veins and arteries are to be burned. When the bleeding is stopped a pledget with suitable bandages is to be applied. (Pract. ix, 65.) Albucasis represents amputation as necessary in cases of mor- tification, as indicated by the smell and discoloration. When the disease is seated in the hand, he recommends us to ampu- tate at the fore-arm; when in the forearm, at the elbow; and if the arm itself be affected, he pronounces the case to be hopeless. In like manner, with regard to the lower extremities, he pro- nounces all cases incurable in which the disease is seated above the knee. In performing the operation he directs us to apply two bandages around the limb, the one above and the other below the place at which it is to be cut off". These bandages are to be pulled, the former upwards and the latter downwards, by two assistants, so as to put the skin upon the stretch; the fleshy parts are then to be divided with a large scalpel down to the bone, which is afterwards to be cut out, or sawed across, and during this part of the process a piece of linen is to be applied around aU the fleshy parts, to prevent them from being injured