455 VERTEBRAE, ETC. SECT. XCVIII.] Albucasis recommends the same plan of treatment as our Comm. author, with the addition of splints made of wood or leather. " ' ' These, however, cannot be very much required. He directs the patient to lie on his back or on the sound side. Avicenna does not treat of these cases of fracture. Haly Abbas and Rhases abridge our author's account. SECT. XCVUI. ON THE VERTEBRAE, SPINE OP THE BACK, AND OS SACRUM. The round bodies of the vertebrae may sometimes be crushed, but rarely undergo fracture, in which cases the membranes of the spinal marrow or the marrow itself being compressed, sympathetic nervous affections take place, and death speedily follows, more particularly if the vertebra of the neck be affected. Wherefore, having first given warning of the danger, we must, if possible, attempt to extract by an incision the compressing bone, or if not we must soothe the part by the anti-inflam- matory treatment. But if any of the processes of the vertebrae, of which the spine, as it is called, consists, be broken off, it will readily be felt upon examination with the finger, the liroken piece yielding and returning again to its position, and, there fore, we must make an incision of the skin externally and ex- tract it, and having united the wound with sutures, pursue the treatment for recent wounds. When the os sacrum is frac- tured the index-finger of the left hand is to be introduced into the anus, while with the other we manage as we best can the fractured bone; or if we feel any piece broken off, we make an incision and lay hold of it, and apply bandages and suitable treatment. Commentary. Celsus remarks that when a piece of one of Comm. the vertebrae is broken off a hollow is felt in the place, it is " ' ' attended with pain, and the person is compelled to bend in- wards. The treatment is to be conducted upon general prin- ciples, as explained under fractures of the scapula. Albucasis lays it down as a rule that when a fracture of the cervical vertebrae produces paralysis and insensibility of the arms, the case may be abandoned as hopeless. When, after a