[book TV. 36 STIGMATA. COMM SECT. VVl. ON STIGMATA, PROM THE WORKS OP ARCHIGENES. You may remove stigmata by rubbing in that which sticks to a chamber-pot, along witli the most acrid vinegar,, or rub of quicklime, p. j ; of red natron toasted, p. ss; with water, in the sun : but when it ulcerates let it be healed like an ulcer. But Crito says, for stigmata, having first scrubbed the part with nitre (soda), cover it with an application of turpentme ; then having bound it, let it remain for six days, and on the seventh perforate the stigma with a needle, and having wiped away the blood with a sponge, after a little time nib vdth some powdered salt. Then, having apphed the medicine, aUow it to remain for five days. It is this: of frankincense, of nati-on, of the lye of quicklime, of wax, of each, di-. iv j of honey, dr. viij; having loosed it, you wiU find the blackness upon the apphcation.—Another ointment: Of pepper, dr. ij ; of rue, dr. iv ; of realgar, dr. iv; of orpiment, dr. j; of honey, q. s. Anoint with it, have previously scrubbed the part with natron, and done otherwise in like manner as for the former. Taking it away after three days, and cleaning away the black- ness, anoint with it again; for, he says, it removes the com- plaint in twenty days, without ulceration or cicatrix.—Another caUed Criticum: Of frankincense, dr. iv; of nitre, di-. ij; of copperas, dr. iv; of wax, dr. vj; of pepper, dr. iij ; of lime, dr. iij ; of thapsia, di-. iij ; of orpiment, dr. iss ; of realgai", dr. iij; of honey, q. s; use as the former. Oribasius says, that crowfoot (ranunculus) if applied, or the leaves of capers, take away the marks. But if they be deep seated upon only a small extent of skin, form an eschar by a cold cautery, and thus remove them. Commentary. Consult Aetius (viii, 12); Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 8); Scribonius Largus (§ 331); Avicenna (iv, 7, 2, 7): Pseudo-Dioscor. (Eupor. i, 116.) _ ' Aetius explains that by stigmata are meant the marks of in- juries on the face or any part of the body. To eradicate them he recommends compositions containing quicklime, natron, arsenic, &c.