■^^•^ LUXATIONS. [BOOK v.. bones of the spine leaves a hollow appearance (as has been mentioned when treating of fractures), some have taken this for a dislocation forwards; and it being speedily healed, (for its callus is soon formed,) they have given out that a disloca- tion forwards is readily cured, although in fact it be wholly in curable, or difficult at least, to cure. For retention of the urine and faeces takes place, with coldness of the body; but this state is followed afterwards by an involuntary discharge of the excrements. These symptoms arise from the nerves and from muscular sympathy, and the patients soon die, more espe- cially if the upper parts and the vertebrae of the neck be afifected But that gibbous state of the spine which mostly takes place from infancy, is a protracted affection and not speedily fatal; but, as Hippocrates has shown, it leads to disease and is in- curable. But when this state occurs from an accident, the contrivances to remedy it with a ladder, suspending the patient erect, and inflation with a bladder, are altogether ridiculous. But the method of rectifying it, recommended by Hippocrates, will be alone sufficient. For, he says, a board, in length and breadth such as to contain the man, or a bench equal to it, is to be iilaced near a wall, being extended along the wall, and not more than a foot distant from it, and some robes are to he spread over it to prevent the body from being injured. Then the man, being bathed, is to be laid on his face along the board or bench, and a thong is to be twice passed round his breast by the armpits along the back; and the extremities of the thong are to be fastened to a pestle hke a piece of wood erected on the floor at the extremity of the board or bench, and this to be given to a person standing behind the patient^s head to hold, so that when the lower parts are secured oppositely, and the upper pulled towards the head, extension may be made at the proper time. Then another thong being bound round both the feet above the ankles, and again another above the loins, so that its two ends may meet upon the haunch-bone, the ex- tremities of these thongs are to be again united together, and bound to another pestle-like piece of wood resembhng that al- ready described; and this pestle, like the former, is to be erected near the extremity of the board or bench at his feet; and then we are to order the assistants to make counter-extension by these pieces of wood. Others effect this part of tlie operation by what