SECT. LiiT.] TOXICUM. 227 the phrenitis. The other authorities recommend similar treat- Comm. raent. . \ . There is great disagreement among the ancient writers on toxicology respecting the nature of the pharicum. (See the notes oi Gorrseus and Schneider on Nicander.) The former remarks tliat many suppose it a species of nard. Dioscorides (Prsef. vi) :uid Galen (Antidot. ii) make it to be a herb. Scribonius Largus, and Hesychius consider it to have been a compound medicme. After balancing aU the statements Schneider comes to the conclusion, that most probably it was a composition from agaric. Schulze is wholly undecided as to its nature. (Toxic. ^ et. 21.) Sprengel, in like manner, can come to no certain conclusion respecting it. (Notse in Dioscor. 1. c.) SECT. LIII. ON TOXICUM. The toxicum seems to be so called because the barbarians yaointed their darts {ro^e^^ara) with it. When a person has Irunk of It, inflammation of the lips and tongue comes on, also iresti-amable madness leading to various fantasies, so that in he treatment of them they are difficult to cure, and it is rare hat any of those who have drunk of it can be saved. How- ■ver, they are to be forcibly bound with hgatures, and com- celled to drink sweet wine with rose-oil, and to vomit. Turnip eed. also, drunk with wine wiU be proper for them, and the cot of cmquefoil, the blood of a he or she-goat when taken, ak bark, that of the beech or ilex triturated with milk; also uinces when eaten, or triturated with pennyroyal and drunk 1 water; and ammomum, and the fruit of balsam with wine. Hit if any escape the danger they remain for a long time con- ned to bed, and when they get out of it they spend the rest t their hves m a state of timidity. Commentary. The symptoms detailed by Nicander are much Comm c same as hose enumerated by our author, namely, swelling ^ t tJie mouth and throat, with violent internal pains. His medies hkewise are much the same, namely, forcingthe patient or he is well secured, to drink wine until he vomit, and mak- 'K' hirn take bruised apples, rose-oil, oil of iris, &c. He says u