[book v. 238 MERCURY. Comm. " Ultima ratio est, plumbeis fistulis ducere, quse aquas noxias ' ' reddunt; nam cerusa plumbo creatur attrito, qu£e corporibus nocet bumanis." (ix, 11.) Vitruvius also mentions that water impregnated with lead is deleterious. (Arch, viii.) Pliny notices the deleterious eJffects of the exhalations from lead mines. (H. N. xxxiv, 50.) The Greek writers on toxicology do not treat of copper as a poison; but the Arabians have done so in brief terms, all agreeing in recommending the same treatment as.in cases of poisoning with arsenic. (See Avicenna, Rhases, Haly AbbaSj and Alsahara\ius.) These authorities, likewise, lay down in very succinct terms the treatment of poisoning by iron, which they direct to be conducted upon general prin- ciples. They in particular recommend laxative and demul- cent medicines. (See Avicenna iv, 6, 18.) As a shght novelty in their practice we may mention that he recommends the affusioir of vinegar with oil of roses, violets, &c., upon the head. Averrhoes recommends from i to 1 dr. of balsam. (CoU. V.) SECT. LXIIT. ON MERCURY. Mercury, when swallowed, brings on the same symptoms as litharge, and the same remedies are to be used in this case. A copious draught of milk seems to be beneficialj and vomiting ought to be produced. Comm. COMMENTARY. Dioscorides, Galcu, and Aetius give the """" ' same imperfect account of this important medicine, and poison as our author gives, and supply no additional information of any importance. The Arabians were better acquainted with its properties, having ascertained that it might be taken in its metallic state with impunity. Rhases says, " I do not think that any great harm will result from drinking mercury when it is pure, unless it be pains in the stomach and intestines. It afterwards passes out in its natural state, especially if the per- son who swallowed it moves about. I gave a draught of it to an ape, nor did I perceive any inconvenience arise from it, ex- cept, as I have mentioned, that it appeared to be pained in its