CUPPING. SECT. XLI.] 325 up, we scarify and apply the cupping instrument again. If we wish to make but a small evacuation we must be satisfied with one incision, but if we wish much we must make several. And if we apprehend that the contained blood is of a thinner con- sistence we will make superficial scarifications, but if of a thicker, deep-seated. When we wish to evacuate coagulated blood, occasioned by a blow, we must be regulated as to the depth of the incisions by the thickness of the skin above. Some have devised an instrument for this purpose, by joining three equal lancets together, so that by one application it may pro- duce three incisions, but we consider it inconvenient, and use a simple lancet. Others have used cupping instruments of glass, in order that the quantity of blood which is evacuated may be seen; but those made of copper have a more powerful attraction, as being able to endure a stronger fire, whereas those of glass are apt to break. But such as draw out the blood by sucking with the mouth through horns, evacuate less, but do not dry, like those applied with fire. [f necessary, when we are about to apply the cupping instrument, having placed the limb in an erect posture, we fasten it to the side; for if we apply the lamp above when lying, the wick falling upon the skin with the flame burns in a painful manner, whereas there is no necessity for this. Sometimes the size of the instrument is proportioned to the part on Avhich it is applied; and on that account there is a great variety of cup- ping instruments with regard to smallness and greatness of size. For the same reason, those which are made with longer necks and broader bellies are possessed of a stronger power of attraction. We must avoid applying the cupping instrument near the breasts, for sometimes they fall into it, and swelling greatly, render the removal difficult, and in that case sponges out of hot water are to be applied round the cupping instru- ment, which make it relax. But if even with this it do not fall off we must perforate it. Commentary. On this mode of abstracting blood, and of Com altering its determination, the records of ancient surgery are ^ so full of information that our only difficulty lies in selection. It appears that the father of medicine and his successors practised cupping. (De Articulis, 49, and de Medico, 6.)