234 CERUSE. [book v. Comm. dently selenite, or crystallized sulphate of Hme, See Mattlii- ' " ' olus (Com. in Dioscor.) Dr. Kidd gives the following account of the varieties of the ancient gypsum :—" It was, by the general description of it, an earthy compound of lime; but the ancient naturalists seem to apply it to sulphate of lime, the gypsum of the present day, and sometimes to a calcined carbonate of lime, or quickhme, which they called calx." (Mineral, b. i, p. 70). Sir John Hill gives a full account of the ancient gypsums in his notes on Theophrastus (de Lapidibus.) " Gypsum," he says, "is nothing more than a selenite less elegant than the rhomboidal or plated kinds." There can be no doubt that the yvipog Sta^aVrjc of Philoponus (Com. in Aristot. de Anima. ii) was pure selenite. It is singular that our recent authorities on toxicology have not included gypsum in the list of poisonous substances which they treat of, although there is good reason to believe that the powder, if given in any great quantity, is highly deleterious. We know for certain that gypsum, or stucco, is often used for poisoning rats and mice. It is further deser\dng of remark that all the earlier modern authorities on medicine, down at least to the middle of the 16th century, treat of gyp- sum as an active poison. All the ancient authorities, it will be seen, represent it in this light. Pliny makes mention of a case of suicide committed by means of gypsum (H.N. xxxvi, 34.) SECT. LIX. ON CERUSE. Ceruse, owing to its colour, cannot be mistaken, and Avheu taken voluntarily it whitens the palate, tongue, and the intervals between the teeth. It also brings on hiccup and cough, dry- ness of the tongue, and coldness of the extremities, with dis- order of the intellect and diflBculty of moving. In this case it will be ]3roper to give honied water or the decoction of figs, or of mallows, or hot milk, or sesame triturated with wine, or the lye of vine-shoots, or the oil of marjoram, or of iris; also the bones of peaches, with a decoction of barley or frankincense, or the gum of prunes, or the juice of the elm which is contained in its follicles, along with tepid water ; but let them immedi- ately vomit. The juice of thapsia Avill also be proper for them,