473. SECT. CVII.] WITH A WOUND. use hooks and sutures^ and effect the cure by the treatment for recent wounds, having first cut out any broken pieces of bone which move about and produce irritation. But if a large bone project, which, for its size, cannot be brought into con- tact by the extension, it will require consideration. Hippo- crates, then, in fractures of the thigh and arm, dissuades from replacing at once the protruding bones, predicting danger from it, owing to the inflammation or perhaps spasm of the muscles and nerves which are apt to be brought on by the ex- tension. But time has shown that this attempt will sometimes succeed. Of whatever bones, therefore, we endeavour to re- place the protruded ends, we must not meddle with them when in a state of inflammation, but on the first day, before inflam- mation has come on, or about the ninth day, when the inflam- mation has gone off. We may set them by an instrument called the lever. It is an iron instrument about seven or eight fingers' breadth in length, and of moderate thickness that it may not bend during the operation; with its extremity sharp, broad, and moderately bent. Its sharp extremity, then, is to be put under the protiniding prominence of the bone, and by pushing at the other end while moderate extension of the limb is made, we bring the extremities of the fracture together; or, if we cannot do so, we must cut off the projections by counter-perforators (chisels), or saw them off in the manner desciibed when treating of fistulse. Having removed the spiculae of bones and set the limb aright, we cure the wound by dressing with pledgets. But in those members which are double or in pairs, we must take care when the bones of either of them are sawn off, that no contraction of the limb take place, but that it be kept of its proper length by extension. The bandaging is to be thus applied: the circular folds are to be arranged on both sides of the wound, and oblique ones ac- cording to the length of the sore, so that they may intersect one another in the form of the Greek letter X, and prevent the lips of it from gaping. And when the ulcer is foul, we must apply dressing with cleansing ointments; but if clean, with incarnating, and the other articles of known efficacy. Hippocrates used the pitch-plaster, which is said to have been the same as the ointment, tetrapharmacon, called also basilicon. After the sore has incarnated we apply splints. Some apply