TRICHIASIS. 262 [book VI. Comm. Other, after wliich the skin, thus separated, is to be dissected —' out. He recommends the edges to be united by means of five sutures, one in the middle and two at each extremity of the in- cisions. The other steps of the operation are exactly the same as those described by our author, and cannot be misunder- stood. Hippocrates describes an operation for trichiasis, which Heister thought the same as that recommended by Aetius, but the description is so obscure that we must confess our inability to explain it. Celsus describes three methods of ciu-e for trichiasis. 1. By burning the roots of the hairs. 3. The anabrochismus, which will be explained in the 13th section. 3. The anarrhaphe or suture, as described by Aetius and our author. As the steps of the operation described by him are almost exactly the same as those of Aetius, we need not dwell upon the explanation of them. Lest, however, there should be any misapprehension about the under-incision, we shall give his directions about it in his own language : " prseter hoc, in superiore palpebra sub piHs ipsis incidenda linea est ut ab inferiore parte diducti pih sursum spec- tant; idque si levis inclinatio est, solum satis est." Instead of five sutures, as directed by Aetius, he recommends only three. Albucasis states that there are four modes of curing trichiasis. 1. By the acttial cautery. 3. By the potential cautery. 3. By incision and the suture, which operation he describes at great length. He directs us in the first place to evert the eyehd, either by taking hold of the cihary hairs, or by passing a needle, armed with a hair, through the tarsus, and raising the eyelid with it. He then, Uke the others, directs us to make the under- incision within the cihary hau-s, from the greater canthus to the smaller, to cut out the redundant skin of the eyehd, and unite the surfaces with sutiires. In short, his operation is exactly the same as our author's. He mentions, however, another me- thod of making the incision by elevating the redundant fold of the skin with hooks or a trident, and cutting it off with a pair of scissors. 4. The fourth method consists of making the un- der-incision, as in the last operation, and then twisting the redundant skin firmly about reeds or small pieces of wood until it mortifies: after wliich the wound is to be cured upon general principles. Serapion's account of the operation is defective, and need