SECT. XI.] BURNS. 43 Sphjeria is applicable in such cases. The parts which are ulcerated, may be covered with pounded leeks; or, triturate purslain with polenta, and apply; or, put pigeon's dung into a rag of hnen, burn it, and mix the ashes with oil, and use; (this is an excellent application:) also the bark of pine and of spruce fir, or dried maiden-hair levigated, or the burnt leaves of myrtle, are to be triturated and sprinkled upon the part. Each of these things answers well, when applied with cerate. But a good application is formed by triturating together of the dried roots of the red alkanet, oz. iv; of white wax, oz. ix; of rose-oil, oz. xviij; and also that made of ceruse, with a small quantity of stag's marrow. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Ulceribus.) Celsus Comm. (v, 27); Galen (de Simpl. Med. et alibi.) Aetius (xiv, 64); Pseudo-Dioscor. (Euporist. i, 178) ; Actuarius (Meth. Med! vi, 6, 8); Nonnus (240); Serapion (v, 11); Avicenna (iv, 4, 2, 12); Haly Abbas (Pract. 4, 25); Alsaharavius (xxix, 2, 8); Rhases (Antid. i, 27); (ad Mansor. vii, 18); (Div. i, 136.) The author of the Hippocratic treatise referred to above, re- commends various appHcations to burns, such as old axunge rubbed into the part, and the root of squills applied above; or a mixture of old axunge, rosin, and bitumen, spread upon a rag and heated at the fire; or the roots of the ilex boiled in white wine at a gentle fire until it be of the consistence of a liniment. Dioscorides, Avicenna, and Galen, agree in praising Cimolian earth as an application to recent burns. Galen says that cop- peras, especiaUy when dissolved in vinegar, forms an excellent apphcation for the ulcers occasioned by burning. Aetius treats bums upon nearly the same principles as our author. When blisters rise he forbids an early opening to be made m them. As an application to them he recommends a um with water and the white of an egg. Some of his ap- phcations can only be supposed proper for the foul ulcers left by burmng. Such is that consisting of verdigris and litharge, pounded with wine and oil. For healing ulcers he recom- mends a composition containing ceruse, litharge, toasted barlev pounded, wax, and rose or myrtle oil.