[book IV. ULCERS. 114 Comm. ■ COMMENTARY. Celsus gives the following list of the more ""^^ active articles of this class: Crustas ulceribus tanquam igne adustis inducunt, prsecipue, chalcitis, utique si cocta est, flos ffiris, ssmgo, auripigmentum, misy, et id quoque magis coc- tum. For a variety of applications suitable to this class of ulcers, we refer the reader to Galen's 4th book of ' De Med. sec. gen.' The ingredients of them are powerfally desiccative, astringent, and escharotic. Many of our author's prescriptions will be recognized in it. For an account of the isis, and the other compound medicines mentioned towards the end of this section, we refer the reader to Galen (1. c.) and to the Seventh Book of this work. Galen, in another place, and after him Aetius, give the following important directions for the use of these applications. The ulcers to which this mode of treatment is applicable, being very foul and filled with a vitiated discharge, are first to be wiped clean with a soft linen cloth, and then the cavity of them is to be filled with the medicine, and a splenium (oblong compress) applied externally. Then having put a piece of linen above the splenium and bound it on, we are to place over it a sponge squeezed out of cold water or wine, endea- vouring to keep the sponge cold during the whole time of the treatment, which may easily be done by pouiing cold water upon it without loosing the bandages. They are not be re- moved until the third day. Galen states that the articles which answer best in such apphcations are galls, pomegranate- rind, alum, chalcitis, misy, and the like. A simdar mode of treatment, without any material altera- tion, is described by the Arabians. Haly Abbas remarks, that cicatrizing medicines are powerfully desiccative with some astiingency, such as galls, alum, and the like. SECT. XliVI. ON THE MALIGNANT ULCERS CALLED CHIRONIAN AND TELEPHIAN. ' Old ulcers which axe difl&cult to get cicatrized are called chironian, as if requiring Chiron himself to cure them ; and telephian, from Telephus having long laboured under such a