ECT. L.] SARDONIAN HERB. 225 vcnium. Oiir author, Aetius and Apuleius, make it to be LC same as the strychuos furiosa, which is generally held to e either the solanum sodomeum, or the atropa belladonna. ;u this subject, see Galen (de Med. sec. loc. x, 3); Pliny jitl. N. xxi, 105); Apuleius (de Herb., 32). Schulze affirms, |ihat none of the ancient poisons is so little known as the do- rcnium. He is undecided as to its nature, except that it longed to the diadelphous or leguminous plants, and he is ichned to think that it was an astragalus. (Toxicol. Veterum, .) Sprengel inclines either to the convolvulus cneorus, L., rr the con. dorycnium, L. But as far as we can see, the most wobable conjecture that can be made regarding it is, that it jras either the solanum sodomeum, or atropa belladonna. SECT. L. ON THE SAKDONIAN HERB. The herb called the Sardonian is a species of ranunculus, bhen drunk, or eaten, it brings on disorder of the intellect, and Dnvulsions with contraction of the lips, so as to exhibit the ap- »arance of laughter. From this affection that iU-omened ex- ression, the Sardonian laugh, took its rise. In these cases, aerefore, after vomiting, it will be proper to give honied water id milk, with embrocations and lubrications of the whole )dy, by calefacient remedies; and to have recourse to hot- iths of hot oil and water, and to anoint properly and rub cm after the baths; and, upon the whole, to conduct the eatment as for convulsions. Commentary. Dioscorides and our author are perfectly c :veed as to the symptoms and treatment. Aetius recom- cnds, likewise, castor with sweet wine. Solinus, like our ithor, says that it brings on contractions of the muscles and e nsus Sardonicus. Avicenna acknowledges his ignorance the nature and proper treatment of this herb, but supposes ;it it belongs to the class of acute poisons. There seems, )\vever, no reason to doubt that it was a species of ranun- lus. Schulze makes it the ranunculus sceleratus, L., which i'3 the English name of celery-leaved crowfoot; and'we are arly of the same opinion, although Avicenna seems to make 15