SECT. LXVI.] 377 BUBONOCELE. liernial tumour ai'e either intestines or omentum. The omen- Comm. tum, he adds, is the intestine most commonly found in ruptures. ' * ' He says the peritoneum {sifac) lines the whole intestines and surrounds the testicles. Antyllus, from whom he gives a sub- sequent extract, states in like manner that the peritoneum de- scends to the testicles and forms the tunica elytroides, i. e. vaginalis. Antyllus also affirms that hernia arises from relax- ation of the passage between the cavity of the abdomen and the testicles. This opinion regarding ruptures is maintained by several of the authorities quoted by Rhases, (Contin. xxiv.) Sprengel says of Rhases : " Sa theorie des hernies propre- ment dites est infiniment preferable ^ celle des Grecs.^^ (Hist, de la Med.) The account which Rhases gives of ruptures is, no doubt, very correct; but there is every reason to suppose that it was entirely taken from the works of the Greek surgeons. The operations practised by the ancients for the radical cure of hernia cannot but appear to us extremely cruel and hazardous; and yet the danger attending them must have been less than is generally supposed, otherwise they could not have been so fre- quently performed as they were about two centuries ago. Fa- bricius ab Aquapendente mentions that a celebrated rupture doctor of his time informed him that he used to operate upon 200 patients at an average every year. Fabricius, however, prxidently recommends us not to perform the operation except in extreme cases, and to be content in general with supporting the parts by means of a truss. The ancients never operated to relieve strangulated hernia. SECT. LXVI. ON BUBONOCELE, OR INGUINAL HERNIA. Enterocele arising from distension commences as bubono- cele ; for at first the peritoneuin being stretched the relaxed intestine is protruded as far as the groin, and forms this dis- ease, which the ancients operated upon in this manner. After making the incision to the extent of three fingers' breadth transversely across the tumour in the groin, and removing the membranes and fat, and the peritoneum being exposed in the middle where it is raised up to a point, let the knob of a probe