SECT, X.] LAGOPHTHALMOS. 265 and washing until the eschar drop off; after which it wiU be proper to complete the cure by means of pledgets of charpie and emollient collyria. CoMMENTAKY. Nouc of the Other authorities describe this method of cure so minutely as our author, except Haly Abbas, who evidently copies from him, (Pract. ix, 71.) Rhases andAlbu- casis, however, also mention the operation. They direct us to bum the part with a preparation of quicklime and soap, with the addition of some caustic lixivia, or leys. These aicient leys, or lixivian ashes, appear to have been preparations of potass more or less pure. We need scarcely remark that these appUcations must have resembled the caustic paste, now used for forming issues. The method of treatment here described IS, m principle, much the same as that performed by Quadri with sulphuric acid. A caustic paste very similar to that now used IS described by Guy of Caulico. (vii, 1.) The strained ley, of which mention is made by Paulus was probably the same as the calx colata of C^lius Aurelianus (Tard. Pass, v, 1.) It appears to have been an impure pre- paration of potass with the addition of some lime. It is the same, we suppose, as the TrpwrdaraKrov mentioned in the Third Book of this work. The calx colata would seem to have been identical with the Vienna paste now used in the treat ment of varix. A composition for burning the eyelids, men- tioned by Jesu Hali, contains Hme, prepared beans, nitre, and -sal ammoniac, formed into a paste with the water of soap and pure myrrh. Jesu, however, does not much approve of this method of treatment. SECT. X.—ON LAGOPHTHALMOS OR HAEE-EYE. Those persons are said to have hare-eyes who have the eye- Uds drawn upwards. This complaint arises either naturally or from the cicatrix of a wound, and this may have occurred spontaneously, or from the operations of the suture or burning as just mentioned) having been improperly performed • ^ ^ hich case even a moderate relief can only be accomplished vhcn the eyehd is sufficiently thick. For we must divfde the