S15CT. CII.] 467 THIGH. lies thus, witli his leg extended, we arrange the fracture. Pieces of bone which irritate the parts, as has been often said, are to be taken out from above; and the rest of the treatment we have already described in the section on the arm. The thigh gets consolidated withia fifty days. The manner of ar- ranging it afterwards will be described after delivering the treatment of the whole leg. Commentary. Hippocrates has correctly stated the diffi- culty attending the management of a fractured thigh-bone, and the disgrace which an ill-managed case entails upon the surgeon. He directs him to make extension and counter-ex- tension, and to apply the bandages and splints in the manner formerly described. He recommends a few turns of the band- age to be brought about the loins, in order to prevent the skin at the top of the thigh from being injured by the splints. He points out the extreme importance of attending to the position of the heel, as if improperly laid, it is capable of deranging the fracture entirely. It gets consolidated, he says, in about fifty (lays. (De Fracturis.) Celsus pronounces it impossible to heal a fractured thigh- bone without deformity. The patient, he says, must ever afterwards tread upon his toes; and yet, he adds, the case will be worse if neglected. Albucasis holds forth greater encouragement. He describes the process of treatment very minutely, directing the surgeon to stuff up all the hollow places ia the limb with soft pads be- fore applying the splints. He also recommends him to sur- ound the whole limb with a bandage from the heel to the nates. We are inclined to think, although the language of (lis barbarous translator is not sufficiently precise, that his -plints extended the whole length of the limb. Rhases, and we believe, he alone of all the ancient authori- ties, directs the thigh to be laid in a somewhat bent position, !ind for this purpose he recommends something suitable to be; put below it. Haly Abbas and Avicenna, as usual, borrow everything from )ur author.