[book VI. 300 PHARYNX. Comm. COMMENTARY. It appears from tlie Hippocratic treatises that * excision of the uvula was sometimes performed in early times. (Prognost. de Morbis, ii; De affect.) Celsus recommends us not to meddle with the operation when the uvula is red and enlarged, for fear of hemorrhage; but when it is slender, sharp, and white, or when it is pale and thick below, but slender above, it may be extirpated with- out danger. For this purpose he merely directs us to seize upon it with a forceps and cut it out. (vii, 12.) Galen describes fully the operation by medicines, but says nothing of excision. (De Med. sec. loc. vi.) Aetius describes the operation in nearly the same terms as our author. He directs us to grasp the enlarged uvula with a forceps and cut it off, using afterwards some astringent gargle, (viii, 44.) Oribasius briefly mentions the operation, which he directs to be performed with extreme circumspection. (Med. Collect, xxiv, 10.) Albucasis describes the operation similarly to the Greeks. He dii-ects the operator to get the patient's tongue pressed down by an assistant; when the operator is to seize upon the uvula and cut off as much as is proper of it. He gives a drawing of an instrument for the operation with caustic medi- cines. (Chirurg. ii, 37.) Avicenna's desci-iption is to the same effect, but not so cir- cumstantial, (iii, 9, 15.) Mesne directs us to perform the operation with a heated scalpel of gold. (De Mgr. Gutturis, 3.) Rhases states that when the uvula is enlarged, but is not red, the operation may be performed without danger. He men- tions that some preferred the actual or potential cautery, but that he preferred excision. He describes, but not distinctly, an instrument for applying the caustic medicines. He states that loss of the entire uvula impairs the voice and exposes the lungs to danger from cold. (Contin. vii; and Divis. i, 49.) SECT. XXXII. ON THORNY SUBSTANCES FIXED IN THE PHARYNX. Thorns, or the bones of fishes, or other substances, are often swallowed in eating, and fix in different places. Wherefore, such as can be seen we are to extract with the forceps for that