[book IV. ELEPHANTIASIS. 14 Comm. cations of a stimulant nature, among whicli lie mentions buiy- ■""^^—' ing the leg in liot sand. The translator of Rhases also applies the term lepra to the elephantiasis of the Greeks. The colour of the eye, he says, is changed, the voice becomes rough, the face is swelled, hke a bladder, and red with nodes, the hairs fall off, and the extre- mities at last become sweUed and ulcerated. There is nothing peculiar in his treatment. He describes, likewise, the swelled leg by the name of elephantia or elephas. He says that, when tubercles arise on it, it is utterly incurable; but that when simply enlai'ged, it may be remedied by bleeding in the arm, cupping, emetics, attenuant food, and the like. In his ' Continens,' he calls the lepra (elephantiasis) hereditary and contagious. He says, it is a general cancer, arising fi-om black bile. For the swelled leg he recommends, as in his other work, bloodletting and emetics, with stimulant apphcations, contain- ing pearlashes, sulphur, &c., and also tight bandages. Such is the history of elephantiasis given by ancient authors. The earlier of om* modern writers on medicine, describe elephantiasis as a species of lepra, of which they enumerate foiu- varieties, namely, elephantia, leonina, alopecia, and tyi-ia. This arrangement is evidently taken from Alsaharavius. Such is the accoimt which Platiarius gives of these diseases. In like manner, the Pseudo-Macer ranks elephantiasis with lepra: " Est leprfE species elephantiasisque vocatiir," &c. Upon this passage Cornarius makes the following annotation: " Vulgus medicorum Arabas in hoc secuti lepram cum elephantiasi con- fundimt. Immo lepram pro elephantiasi accipiunt." Guido de Cauliaco's account of the disease is also nearly the same as that of Alsaharavius. He states decidedly that the disease is contagious, and recommends bleeding, purging, the actual cautery, the theriac of vipers, (vi, 1.) Rogerius remarks that the disease is contracted per coitum. (i, 15.) And here, by the way, we may be permitted to state that we have long been convinced that the syphilis of modern times is a modified form of the ancient elephantiasis. This opinion is maintamed by several of the writers of the Aphrodisiacus, and also by the learned Sprengel, who gives a very interestiag disqmsition on Syphilis in his ' History of Medicine.'