SECT. XIV.] HYDATIDS, 271 with our fingers, we separate the fingers, the intermediate space sAveUs up. They are most troubled with defluxions about day- I)reak, and cannot look direct against the rays of the sun, but shed tears and are subject to continued ophthalmies. Where- fore, having placed the patient in a proper position, we com- press the eyelid with the index and middle fingers a little separated from one another, so as to form a . collection of the srateiy contents between the fingers, and direct the assistant, who stands behind and holds the head, to stretch the eyelid moderately at the middle of the brow; then taking a lancet used for bleeding, we make a transverse incision through the middle, not longer than that made in venesection, and of such a depth as to divide the skin or even to touch the hydatid itself; but this is to be done with due circumspection. For many plunging the instrument too deep, have either divided the cornea or wounded some muscle of the eyelid. If the hydatid immediately appear, we draw it out, or if not, we again make a slight incision. When it comes in sight we seize on it by the fingers, with a soft cloth, and moving it hither and thither and round about, we di-aw it out. After the removal of it we soak a double compress in oxycrate, and bind it on the part Some apply levigated salts, upon the knob of a specillum to he incision, m order that if any part of the hydatid remain t may be dissolved. After the removal, should there be no nflammation, we accomplish the cure with coUyria in the form Imiments, or with lycium, horned poppy, or safi-ron. But .hen there IS inflammation we treat it with suitable cataplasms md the other remedies. CoMMENTAEv. Celsus describes them by the name of vesicae Comm ungues gravesque. It is clear that they are different from ^ he tumours to which modern surgeons apply the name. They .ppear to have been encysted tumours, or perhaps enlargements .f the sebaceous glands. Celsus directs us to apply pressure uth two fingers, and the skin being stretched to make a ransverse incison, taking care not to wound the bladder or rs . The tumour is then to be seized with the fingers and ulled out He remarks that when the cyst is opened, and s contents evacuated, it renders the operation more difficult V hen such a thing liappens he recommends us to encourage ippuration. ""vgo