275 SECT. XVIII.] PTERYGIA. Commentary. The nature of the acrochordon is explained Comm. in the Fourth Book. '—'—' Celsus, like our author, directs us to seize the encanthis with a hook, and cut it out, taking care not to interfere with the angle of the eyelid. He then recommends us to apply a pledget sprinkled with calamine or atramentum sutorium (sul- phate of copper ?) between the eyelids, (vii, 7.) Aetius recommends us either to use a forceps, or if the tumour is large, to transfix it with a needle armed with a thread, and to tie it at its base, and to twist the thread round it. Albucasis and Haly Abbas evidently copy from our author. Avenzoar prefers reducing the fleshy tumourwith septics. Rhases mentions that some recommend septics in cases of encanthis, but he prefers excision. After the operation he recommends squama seris to the part. (Cont. ii.) Jesu Hali directs us to remove it with septics. (ii, 33.) It will be remarked that our author's operation is the same as that recommended by modern authorities. SECT. XVIII. ON PTERYGIA. This disease is occasioned by a nervous (tendinous) mem- brane beginning for the most part at the great canthus, and -radually spreading inwards. It proves injurious to the eye Ijoth by obstructing the motion of the ball, owing to the con- tractions it produces, and because when it advances forwards it covers the pupil. Those therefore which are thin and of a ^vhlte colour being easiest to cure, we operate upon in this manner: having separated the eyehds, and seized upon the pter}^gia with a hook-Uke instrument, having a small curva- ture, we stretch it, and taking a needle having a horse-hair and a strong flaxen thread in its ear (eye ?), and a little bent at the extremity, we transfix it through the middle of the ptery- ^num, and with the thread we bind the pterygium and raise It upwards, whUe with the hair we separate and saw as it were tlie part at the pupU away unto its extremity; but the remain- rler of it at the great canthus we cut oft' from the base with he scalpel used for the operation by suture, but leaving the latural flesh of the canthus, lest there be a running of the eye vhen it is taken away. Some stretching as aforesaid with a