iicT. Lxxvi.] BURNING THE HIPS. 395 iQg issues over the hip-joint by the actual and potential cau- Comm. eeries. His potential cauteries, with which he mentions that" ' ' sschars were burnt, appear to have been the ashes of herbs, that i3 to say, impure preparations of the caustic alkah,to which quick- lime was sometimes added. They must, therefore, have been ijiearly the same as the calx cum kali of modern use. He states, 'hat some bui'ned the part with the root of fuller's herb; others vith pieces of iron shaped like the letter T; that some raised j he skin in a fold and transfixed it with heated irons ; that some ; )urned it with fungi, and others with a piece of linen cloth ; bided and laid on the part. (Pass. Tard. v, 1.) j But the fullest account which we have of the ancient modes i )f burning the hips for diseases-of the joint is that which is [; p.ven in the book ' Euporiston,^ ascribed to Dioscorides. Men- i ion is there made of the methods of burning with goat's dung, i'.ind with wool smeared with oil. Some, it is said, form a ball I »f clay, and, having laid it on the place, apply to it a burning. ! • taff as long as it can be borne. Others, having stretched the j kin over the affected joint, transfix it with a heated style or i vriting pen. The Libyans performed the operation with shavings ; :»f the lote tree, sulphur, and elaterium. The Marmaridaj are ;; aid to have done it with green pieces of the wood of olive trees. ;i Che Parthians used a leaden tube, the extremity of which they i 1 meared with dough, in order to prevent the oil in the inside ; i'om escaping; then hot cauteries, to the number of forty or j ifty, were introduced, and the burning continued as long as it ;ould be well endured. Care in the meantime was taken to ;ool the face with cold water; and it was attended to, that ■ he tube was not over-filled with oil, lest it should run over. iEuporist. i, 242.) Albucasis describes minutely the process of burning Avith s-ed-hot irons. (Chirurg. i, 43.) Haly Abbas in like manner directs us to bum an eschar over the joint, and to keep it open or a considerable time. (Pract. ix, 81.) Asclepiades (apud Nicetse Collect.) mentions that he had seen itwo cases in which dislocation had taken place at the hip-joint ^eithout any accident. The editor of this work, Anthony Cocchi, States that he had met with only one such case in the whole asourse of his practice. We need scarcely remark that such rases, however, are by no means of rare occurrence.