FRACTURES, [book VI. 436 Comm. forator. Some^ lie says, from timidity, use only the instrument ' ' ' called choenix (modiolus). Of all modes, however, he prefers that by the lenticular, as stated by our author. He then de- fines the engeisoma and camerosis, vrhich vp^e have translated the depressed and the arched fractures, the former being attended with depression, and the latter with elevation in the middle of the fracture. These are to be taken out entire by means of a lenticular or bone forceps. This, by the way, was the practice of the celebrated Heliodorus, of whose opinions on this subject we will give a short abstract below. (Nicetse CoUectio.) Such is Galenas general treatment of fractures of the skull. In a word, he lays it down as a rule, that parts which are greatly comminuted, must be entirely removed; but that fi'agments, which extend far, must not be followed to their extremities. He forbids the use of bandages. He mentions having tre- panned the head occasionally, but states that he generally left this task to the Roman surgeons. Sprengel remarks, that Galen was averse to the use of the trepan, and preferred the two instriiments called by him (^a/cwTog and k:uk:X/(j/coc. The latter, he remarks, was, properly speaking, a hollow chisel (un ciseau creux), which he drove in with a hammer. The former was a true lenticular-knife, resembling that described by Petit and Bell (Hist, de la Med., 18.) We will now attempt an abstract of Celsus's lengthy account of these accidents. When the skull has been struck, he recom- mends us in the first place to inquire whether the person has vomited bile, has experienced dimness of vision, with loss of speech, or a discharge of blood from the nose and ears; whether he fell down at the time, and if he lay in a comatose and sense- less state. These symptoms, he says, indicate a fractm-e of the bone, and the accident is to be looked upon as serious. But if torpor has come on, with mental aberration, paralysis, or con- traction of the tendons, it is probable that the membrane of the brain has been injured, and little hopes of recovery need be entertained. In order to ascertain whether or not the bone be fractured, nothing answers better, he says, than making an examination with a specillum (sound), that is neither too sharp nor too blunt. If the bone is felt to be everywhere smootli, we are certain that it is sound; but if roughness is detected, we know that it is occasioned by a fractm-e. He warns us, III