'ECT. XCVI.] RIBS. 453 rib; aud then putting the instrument for protecting mem- )ranes under, to prevent the pleui-a from being wounded, cut tf properly, and remoA^e the irritating pieces of bone. After his the parts which are not inflamed are to be united and , Lired as recent wounds ; but such as are inflamed are to be covered with pledgets dipped in oil. The diet and treatment must be anti-inflammatory, and the patient is to be laid in the easiest posture." Commentary. Hippocrates gives a full and accurate ac- count of this accident. He remarks that when the broken uds of the bone are not pushed inwai-ds, it seldom happens that fever or any unpleasant symptoms supervene. "When fever IS not present he thinks that abstinence by occasioning an empti- ness of the belly, proves rather prejudicial by removing what otherwise tends to support the part affected, which is thereby made to hang unsupported. In this case a slight bandage w ill be sufficient. The ribs, he says, become united in about twenty days. "When the skin about the ribs is bruised by a blow or any other such cause, much blood, he says, is often \ omited up. Galen, in his commentary on this passage, states that when the vessels of the pleura are wounded and blood ffused into its cavity, a spitting of blood may take place ■Ithough the lungs themselves have not been injured. The treatment recommended by Hippocrates consists of bleeding at the elbow, enjoining silence, applying folded compresses with broad bandages, neither too tight nor too loose. He directs us to use a double-headed bandage, and to commence at the seat of the fi'acture. He approves of gentle aperients and restricted diet for ten days, after which period nourishing food is to be given. He adds, that when the proper treatment is neglected, even if no other inconvenience should result from it, a viscid collection is sure to form in the part. When, in addition to this swelling, a chronic pain gets seated in the part, he advises the actual cautery to be applied. (De Articulis.) Celsus, with his characteristic elegance and terseness, ex- pounds the rules of practice delivered by Hippocrates. He directs us to apply a bandage, to bleed from the arm, to open the Ijelly ; to avoid noise, speaking, tumultuous passions, smoke, dust, and whatever is calculated to excite coughing and sneez-