ECTROPION. SECT. XTI.] 267 SECT. XII. ON ECTROPION^ OR EVERSION OF THE LOWER EYELID. Ectropion of the under lid is occasioned by the same causes as lagophthalmos of the upper, only that it does not occur naturally, but arises sometimes from relaxation produced by medicines possessed of this property, which have been applied for inflammation; and sometimes the eversion is occasioned by the suture or burning having been improperly performed. Takmg, therefore, a needle, armed with a double thread, we perforate the fleshy mass, pushing it through from the left canthus to the right, and then by means of the thread fastened to both of its extremities, we stretch the skin with the needle, and cut down upon it with a scalpel, removing the needle at the same time. Then, if the eyehd resume its proper shape and IS turned inwards, this operation will be suflacient. But if the eversion continue after the removal of the flesh, we apply the back of the speciUum to'the divided eyelid; and on the inside of the eyeUd, having made two incisions, beginning at the two angles of the incision formerly made, and terminating in an acute point, and meeting together like the Greek A, we remove this substance, so that its acute point may be below at the eye, and the broad above at what is caUed the tarsus Afterwards we unite the separated parts with a needle con- tainmg a woollen thread, being satisfied with two sutures liut It the ectropion be occasioned by the operation of the suture or burning we make a simple incision along the first cicatrix below the hairs of the tarsi, and having separated its hps we fiU up the wound with pledgets, using the same methods as for lagophthahnos (except fomentations) until the parts which have been stitched unite. Commentary See Aetius (vii, 74); Celsus (vii, 7); Albu- Comm casis (Chirurg. li, 14); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 20 ) ^ Aetius gives a full account of the treatment of ectropion from Demosthenes and Antyllus. When the disease is occa >ioned by fungous flesh on the inner membrane of the eyelid lie recommends us to bum it down with escharotics, such as -uisy, chalcitis, &c. (See the Third Book.) He describes the