EMBRYULCIA. [hook vj. 388 tervals. Then introducing the index-finger or more fingers besmeared with fat between the mouth of the womb and the impacted body, we must lubricate it all around. When the hook comes down properly it must be changed to a part above, and so- on nntil the foetus is completely extracted. When a hand presents, and is so impacted that it cannot be returned, we must wrap a cloth round it so that it may not sUp, and pull it so far, and when it is properly fallen down it should be cut off at the shoulder. The same thing is to be done when two hands fall down into the vagina; and in like manner, when the feet come down, and the rest of the body does not come along, we must amputate at the groins, and then en- deavour to txirn the rest of the body. If the impaction take place owing to the head being larger than natural, if it be a hydrocephalous foetus, we must open its skull with a polypus- scalpel, or a needle, or a sharp-pointed knife concealed between the fingers, in order that it may collapse when evacuated; but if it be a naturally large head, we must open the skull in lilce manner, and break down its bones with a tooth-forceps or a bone-forceps, and if the bones project they ought to be ex- tracted. If, after the head has been delivered, an impediment should take place at the chest, the parts about the clavicles should be divided down to the cavity of the thorax with the same instrument, so that the thorax may collapse when its fluid contents are discharged; but if it do not collapse we may divide the clavicles and extract them, when the thorax vrill collapse. If the belly be inflated, owing to the death of the child, or its being dropsical, we must evacuate its contents with the intestines in the same way. In presentations by the feet the wrong direction may be easily rectified at the mouth of the womb. But if the foetus stick at the chest or beUy, we must wrap a cloth about it and draw it down, and making a dinsion in the same manner, evacuate its contents. If, after the other parts are cut ofi", the head retreat backwards and is retained, we must introduce the left hand, and if the mouth of the womb be open, push up the hand to the cavity of the womb, and having found the head, bring it down with the fingers fixed in the mouth, and extract by one or two hooks fixed in it; but when there is inflammation at the mouth of the womb we must use no violence, but lubricate the parts with unctuous