SECT. IV.] PRURITUS. 29 of the oil in baths; and adding separately of sulphur vivum pulverized, oz. y, and mixing properly, use in the bath with much friction. Wlien tbere is a greater redundance of hu- moui-s, it will be better to mix the ingredients in equal pro- portions. Commentary. See Hippocrates (Aphor. iii, 31) ; Galen Comm. (Comment, et aKbi); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 22); Aetius (xiv, 20); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 11); Nonnus (237); Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Probl. i, 24); Myrepsus (pluries) • Pliny (xxviii, 5); Octavius Horatianus (i, 31); MarceUus (de Med. 4); Isidorus (Orig. iv, 8); Serapion (v, 6); Avicenna (iv, 7, 3, 6); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 17, and Pract. iv, 6) • Alsaharavius (Pract. xxxi, 5); Rhases (Divis. 121); Avenzoar (ii, 7, 2.) The prui-igo of Dr. Willan is here distinctly described, and a suitable method of treatment recommended. Hippocrates remarks that prurigo is common in old age. The reason which Galen assigns for tbis is, that the superfluities of the system are then not properly discharged by the skin. He says in another place, that pruritus may either be produced by external substances, such as nettles, squills, &c., or it may arise from indigestion and the neglect of cleanliness. Onbasius gives an account of the disease not very different from our author^s. Among other applications, he recommends one consisting of opium mixed with Hquid cerate. Aetius speaks highly of the sulphureous bath for the cure of this disease. Actuarius characterizes the disease very well, when he says that It IS allied to lichen, and that when rubbed either nothing runs from the place, or some slight humidity of various colour and consistence. He assigns, as a reason for its frequency in old age, that the pores of the skin then get constricted. Alexander Aphrodisiensis assigns, as the reason why the ' waa-m bath proves useful in cases of pruritus, that it dispels the ' phlegm, which is the cause of the complaint. Celsus gives a particular account of scabies, but says nothing of prurigo. Octavius Horatianus recommends us, when the patient is young, to bleed, purge, and use baths medicated with frank-