SECT. L.] DROPSIES. 337 about burning over the stomach in afFections of it. Aetius's Com account is similai* to our author's. He calls tlie iscae the '—^ medullaiy part of the wood of walnuts, (vii, 91.) They are mentioned likewise by Haly Abbas, who says they are called ducamwi in the Persian language. (Pract. ix, 77.) Albucasis directs us to burn with iron. (Chirurg. i, 28.) SECT. L. ON DROPSIES. The formation of dropsical swellings, their varieties and causes, how they are to be distinguished from one another, and their treatment by medicine, having been explained in the Third Book, and it having been there shown that ascites alone falls under the province of surgery, we are now going to give an account of it. Wberefore we must make tbe patient stand erect; or if that cannot be done, we must cause him to be seated; or if h.e be so weak that this cannot be done, we must abandon the operation entirely. If then the man be standing erect we give orders to the assistants standing behind to press with their hands and push downwards the swelling to the pubes. Then taking a sharp-pointed knife or lancet, if the' dropsy is among the intestines, in the perpendicular line of the navel, and about three fingers^ breadth distance from it we divide the hypogas- tiium as far as the peritoneum. But if the liver be primarily affected we must make our incision on the left side of the navel; or if the spleen, on the right, for we must not make an in- cision in that part on which the patient is disposed to lie. And having dissected with the point of the instrument the skin that lies over it, we divide the peritoneum a little above the first in- cision until the insti-ument comes to an empty space. After tliis we introduce through the incision of the abdomen and pe- ritoneum a copper tube, having an opening like those of writing- pens, and by this we must abstract the fluid in proportion to the strength; fcehng the pulse, and then removing the tube, Nve stop the flow of the fluid, (for it will stop immediately from the alteration of the incision,) and, for the sake of security, we introduce a twisted tent into the incision of the abdominal pa- l ietes alone; and having placed the man in a recumbent posture and recruited him, we may next day again evacuate through the