413 . Lxxxiv.] AMPUTATION. by the sawing. Should any hemorrhage occur during the opera- Comm. ti'on, he directs us to apply the cautery, or a styptic powder; and after the operation he recommends us to bandage the limb in a suitable manner, until the stump is healed. He relates a case, from which the timidity of his own practice is rendered very apparent. A person who had a spreading mortification in the foot, cut it off at the ankle-joint himself, and was cured for the time. The disease next attacked the hand, upon which he applied to Albucasis, requesting that he would cut it off in the same manner, but this he refused to do, for fear that the man's strength might not be able to endure the operation. He after- wai'ds learned that the man had cut off his whole hand, and had recovered. (Chirurg. ii, 89.) The history of this case proves decidedly that the operative surgery of the Arabians, in the days of Albucasis, must have been very defective; this he him- seK frankly confesses, for he declares that all knowledge of this art had been lost, except what vestiges of it had been preserved in the works of the ancient authors, whose descriptions, he com- plains, had been mutilated and corrupted. (Prefatio.) We men- tion this, in order that the ignorance which prevailed in his time may not be imputed to all preceding ages, nor may be used as an argument against the genuineness of the extracts from the works of Hehodoi-us and Archigenes, given above. Ehases makes some interesting remarks on the sawing of bones. He directs us to stretch the flesh upwards and down- wards, with a piece of cloth, so that it may not come in the way of the teeth of the saw. When it is necessary to saw a rib or a bone, near any important membrane or organ, he recommends us to use a plate (tabeUa), to protect the soft parts from the saw. When the bone connected with a joint is diseased, he directs us to extract it at the joint. When the os brachii, or tibia, is diseased, he recommends us to extract it entire, but forbids to meddle with the head of the femur or the vertebrae. In another place he declares it as his opinion that when a joint is swelled, and the bone diseased, (in cases of white swelling ?) it will be impossible to effect a cure unless the whole diseased portion of the bone be cut out. (Cont. xxix.) Erom these passages it is quite obvious that the ancients practised excision of the bones of joints. See also what our author says on this subject in the seventy-seventh section of this book. A Cooper or a