SECT. II.] LEPROSY AND PSORA. 19 accurately. Lepra arises from a corroding humour, and hence scales fall from the surface of the skin, and it is attended with pruritus. But lepra is more deep-seated, and affects the skin cu-culai-ly; whereas psora is more superficial and variously figm-ed. Leuce and alphos albus and niger, he says, are allied j but leuce is deeper seated, so as to change the colour of the hairs, whereas the alphi are more superficial affections. Pollux, like most of the others, states that in leuce, when the skin is pricked, it does not bleed, and that the disease is chfficult to cure. Alphos and melas, he says, are easily cured. Although Mp-epsus has not described these diseases, he gives prescriptions for various compositions to remove them. The most active ingi-edients in them are heUebore, natron, sulphur, quicksHver, sal ammoniac, quicklime, bay-berries, &c. _ Alexander Aphrodisiensis mentions psora among the conta- gious diseases, but says that lepra and leuce are not contagious. Chiysostom aUudes to the common opinion that psora is a contagious disease. The poet ^schylus gives a short description of leprosy m his 'Choepher^^ by the name of lichenes. (1. 277.) Celsus nowhere uses the terms lepra and psora, and therefore there is considerable difficulty in comparing his account of these cutaneous affections with the descriptions of the Greeks. Alphos, melas, and leuce, he describes very intelligibly, connecting them together by the generic term of vitiligo. We shall give his own characteristic description of these diseases :—""AX.^oe vo- catur ubi color albus est, fere subasper, et non continuus, et qusedam quasi guttse dispersse esse videantur: interdum etiam latius, et cum quibusdum intermissionibus serpit. MiXag colore ab hoc differt quia niger est et umbr^ simiHs: cetera eadem sunt. Leuce habet quiddam simile alpho, sed magis l lnda est et altius descendit; in efique albi pili sunt, et lanugini Mmiles. Pnora curationem non deficiUimam recipiunt: ultimum MX unquam sanescit.^^ Another class of cutaneous affections he connects by the generic term of impetigo, and it is to be re- niJirked that they are all squamous diseases, and not pustulai-, like the complaints to which Drs. Willan and Bateman have ■ipphed the term. His second species of impetigo (as Bateman l omarks,) appears to be the psora of the Greeks Alteram '^enus pejus est, simile papulae feraj, sed asperius rubicandiusque, (iguras varias habens: squamulte ex summa cute disccdunt.