50C [book VI. DISLOCATIONS. ^ cation at the knee, and deny the possibility of a dislocation ' forwards.. Both evidently copy from our author. The earlier modern surgeons, as usual, adopt the views of the Arabians, and accordingly deny the possibility of a dislocation forwards. See Theodoricus (ii, 52.) They would appear to have been wholly unacquainted with the works of Celsus, and to have derived all their information from the Arabians. Dislocations at the knee-joint are now found to be of much rarer occurrence than they are represented to be by the ancient authorities. In fact only a very few cases have been reported in modern times. We wotdd beg, therefore, to refer our readers to a case related in the ' Medical Gazette,' Dec. 16, 1842, by the author of this Commentary. It is necessary to remark, however, that several typographical mistakes occur in the Re- port, which are partly corrected in a subsequent number of the same periodical. SECT. CXX. ON DISLOCATION AT THE ANKLE, AND ALSO OF THE TOES. The articulation at the ankle, if but a little displaced, is remedied by moderate extension; but if completely dislocated, it requires greater force. We may endeavour therefore, in this case, to make strong extension by the hands; but if reduction does not take place, having stretched the man on the ground in a supine posture, we are to fasten into the floor a long and strong peg, between his two thighs, so as to prevent the body from yielding to the extension by the foot; or rather let the peg be fastened before the man is laid down; or if we have the large board at hand on the middle of which, as we said, a wooden peg a foot long is fastened, we may make the extension upon it. An assistant then grasping the thigh, and making counter- extension, another assistant is to pull the foot with his hands or by a thong, and the surgeon is to rectify the dislocation with his hands, while some other person keeps the other foot down below. After the reduction it is to be bound carefully, some folds of the bandage being carried along the front of the foot, And some towards the ankle; but we must take care not to in-