[book IV. 72 PHYMA. otlier applications may be transferred from om' account, in tlie Third Book, concerning parotis, and from what has been lately delivered, more especially respecting phlegmons. And in like manner the cure of phygethlon may be learned from what has been stated respecting them and erysipelas. But the herb aster atticus, which, on this account, they call bubonium, not only in the form of a cataplasm, but also when bound round the part as an amulet, is believed to be of use for buboes. Phymata may be discussed by the following applications in par- ticular : maiden-hair; orache; pellitory of the wall; the root of marsh-mallows, boiled in wine; ammoniac, softened with honey, and applied; birdlime, with the rosin cerate. But bee- glue, bitter lupins appHed with vinegar, the root of the wild cucumber added to turpentine, and in hke manner root of capers, and nitre with leaven, or figs, promote the rupture of these tumours. Comm. COMMENTARY. The account here given of these glandular ' ' inflammations is taken from Galen (ad Glauc. ii.) See also * de Tumoribus' and ' Comment, in Hippocrat. Epid.^ vi. Celsus describes phyma as resembUng furuncvdus, but as being larger, and turning to pus. According to Eayer, his description of phyma applies better to the boil than his account of anthrax. (Malad. de la Peau, p. 339.) The phygethlon, he says, is a tumour not high, but broad, and containing something resembling a pustule. It occurs mostly in the armpits, neck, or groins. He proposes appHcations of a repellent and refri- gerant nature; but if the swelling is hard, digestives must be had recourse to, such as dried figs bruised, &c. He also re- commends a composition of sal ammoniac, galbanum, bee-glue, and mistletoe, with a small proportion of myrrh. His treatment is considerably difi'erent from our author's. "When matter is formed, he directs us to let it out by medicines or the lancet, but he decidedly forbids the use of cerates. In another place, how- ever, he recommends an apphcation containing lime, spuma nitri, round pepper, galbanum, and salt mixed with rose cerate. Scribonius Largus recommends a malagma containing pitch, aphronitum, pine-rosin, wax, bay-berries, axunge, ammoniac, Illyrian iris, galbanum, and white pepper, for discussing phy- gethlon.