SECT. XTX.] 59 GANGRENE. the limbs are to be opened by a straight incision, but those Comm. about the ancles by a circular, as they are apt to terminate in ^ fistulie. He recommends it to be made at the lower part of the abscess, but mentions that Galen prefers the thinnest part. SECT. XIX. ON GANGRENE AND SPHACELUS. When the inflammation is neither resolved nor converted into pus, it often passes into gangrene and sphacelus, of which we shall now treat. Wherefore, we give the name of gangrene to mortifications arising from the violence of the inflammation, when they are not yet formed but forming; and if such a state is not speedily cured, the afi'ected part readily dies, and the disease seizing upon the sui-rounding parts, kills the person. But when the parts thus afi'ected become totally insensible, the affection is no longer called gangrene, but sphacelus. This affection happens also to the bones when the fiesh that sur- rounds them engendering noxious humours impregnates the bones therewith, and causes them to putrefy. When, there- fore, the part is completely mortified, it must be speedily cut away, where it joins the sound part. Gangrene is to be cured by evacuating as much as possible of the blood in the affected part; and we may either procure the discharge of the corrupted blood by opening a vein, when the vein of the part is large, or we may divide the whole skin by many and deep incisions, so that the blood may be permitted to escape; and we may apply some of the medicines suitable to mortifications. These are, the flour of tares, or of darnels, or of beans with oxymeL When wishing to apply stronger ones we may add salts, or use the trochisk of Andi-on, or the like. Old walnuts are good applications for gangrene. The nettle also cleans them, and the juice of spurge, when applied in season and in proper quantity. The decoction of bitter lupines, poured on the part, IS also beneficial. Some after the incision, for the sake of security, apply the cautery, in which cases we must use salt with leeks : afterwards, in order to remove the eschar, we may apply a cataplasm of bread, or of barley, or of wheaten flour boiled in water and oil; or the diy cephalic powder with honey, and the tetrapharmacon; and that called the Macedonian may