SECT. iiv.J WOUNDS OF NERVES. I33 in the other parts adjacent to the wound, arising from the wounded nerve, owing to their continuity with it. Wherefore we must preserve the wound of the skin from adhering that the ichor may escape by it. And in punctm-es, if they appear bhnd, the part must be divided by two incisions intersecting one another. With regard to the treatment, if the body is plethonc, and the inflammation strong, it wHl be proper to begin with venesection; and when the body appears to be in a state ot cacochymy, purging must also be had recourse to. We must apply to the wound medicines for aUaying pain, and for increas- ing the discharge, more especiaUy if the cross incisions have not been practised. It is necessary to know that warm water, which IS most applicable to other inflammations, is inimical in these eases, and it is better to bathe the part with a thin oil which has no astnngency and is warm to the feeling; for nothing either very cold or very hot can be applied without detriment Ot medicines turpentine-rosin is beneficial by itself in the case of children, women, and persons of tender flesh, but softened with euphorbium for those of a firmer fibre; and if it become too hard It IS to be mixed with some of the thinner oils. To nerves in a state of mflammation and mortifications, we may use ca- taplasms consisting of the flour of barley or of beans, or by boihng that of tares in trained lye with oxymel. But with- out boiling we may use the following cerate for punctures • of wax oz. iij; of euphorbium, oz. j ; or of pigeon^s dung; for harder parts, of oil, oz. ij; and sometimes of turpentine, oz i When you wish to give the medicine the form of a plaster, you ^ay add to the preparation from euphorbium, of wax, of boiled TbeVftt oz. vj; but you will make anulvin. V ^'"^^^y punctured nerves, Sriuf of fl7?ri^''"'^"^' ^'-^^^^ Of vinegarone Lt melt dT.'"'! r ""^^^^ hav. Puncrures n - ^PPli^^ble to punc ures of the nerves not aUowing the moiith of the puncture to close up, as in the case of persons bitten by rabid animals it does not permit the wound to cicatrize. But answers only with hard bodies, and when you wish to apply It to the punctures of children, or of persons of soft skin, you