424 WEAPONS. [book VI. Comm. an instrument invented by Diodes, of whiclx lie gives a descrip- " ' tion. Another class of weapons wliicli must sometimes be extracted are leaden balls, stones, or any such thing which breaks the skin, and is buried within. In all such cases the wound, he says, must be enlarged and the body extracted with a forceps. A complication which increases the difficulty of extraction arises from the weapon being lodged in a bone, or between two bones at a joint. When lodged in a bone it is to be moved about until loosened, when it is to be grasped with a forceps and extracted in the same way that a tooth is pulled out. It rarely happens that the weapon cannot be re- moved in this way; bxit if it remain fixed in the bone, it is to be struck with some iron instrument until it be shaken from the place where it is lodged. When other means do not suc- ceed, the bone is to be perforated with a trephine. "When the body is lodged in a joint between two bones, the two members about the wound are to be wrapped round with strips of cloth, or leathern thongs, and thereby sej)arated by pulling in oppo- site directions, by which means the space between them will be slackened, and then the weapon may be removed without diffi- culty. When the weapon had been poisoned, these things must be done with all possible despatch, and the remedies ap- plied which are used when a poison has been swallowed, or a person has been stung by a serpent. The wound from which a weapon has been extracted requires no other treatment than what is applicable for ordinary injmies. (vii, 5.) Albucasis borrows mostly from our author the account whicli he gives of the construction of weapons and the symptoms oc- casioned by the wounds which they inflict. He also relates some interesting cases of recovery from very severe wounds. An arrow entered at the root of a man^s nose and was extracted by Albucasis behind his ear j and the man recovered without having sustained any injury to the eye. He extracted another large arrow which had lodged deep below the eye of a Jew; and in this case also the sight was not impaired. He extracted a barbed arrow which had lodged in the throat of a Cluistian, by enlarging the wound, and the man recovered. An arrow had lodged in a man's belly, so that, at first sight, Albucasis con- sidered the case as hopeless; but, after thirty days, as no mortal svmptoms had supervened, he enlarged the wound and