SECT. XXXI.] BUPRESTIS. 203 been sometimes brought on by the external apphcation of can- Comm. thandes, in which case he recommends the tepid bath and emoUient fomentations. His treatment is Hke that of his other countiymen; for example, he joins them in approving of inject- ing rose-oil into the bladder. It would appear that cantharides were sometimes used by the ancients for the purpose of committing suicide. Accord- ing to Cicero, it was by this means that C. Carbo destroyed him- self. (Ad Famihar, ix, 31.) Ambrose Pare, Matthiolus, and aU the earlier modern writers on toxicology, follow the treatment laid down by the ancients. Notwithstanding the concurrent testimonies of all these autho- rities. Professor Orfila, in the last edition of his ' Toxicologic' and Dr. Chiistison, in his late work on ' Poisons,^ affirm " that oil IS the reverse of an antidote." Yet, in a case lately pub- hshed, the free administration of oHve-oil was foUowed by copious discharges, both upwards and downwards, of cantha- ndes mixed with the oH. (Edinb. Med. and Surg. Joum No. 104, p. 214.) And surely, if laxatives are to be adminis- tered at aU, oHy ones are to be preferred, as producing least irritation, and not being Hkely to be absorbed. It can scarcely admit of dispute, that the mi/labris cichorei lis the same as the ancient cantharis. It is still used in Turkey :and India for the composition of blistering plasters, being pos- ssessed of much the same properties as the Spanish fly SECT. XXXI. ON THE BUPKESTlS. Those who have drunk of the buprestis experience a taste rresembhng fetid natron, which is followed by violent pain of t.he stomach and bowels; there is swelHng of the abdomen, re- sembling dropsy and the skin of the whole body is distended, the unne also bemg suppressed. They are reheved by the «arne remedies as are given to those who have taken cantha- ndes; but they derive benefit in particular after evacuations by vomiting and by the bowels, from taking dried figs, and drink- mg the decoction of them with wine or milk, or a mixture of mvme and honey, and they may eat all kinds of pears, and take