SECT. LXXIV.] EMBRYULCIA. 387 SECT. LXXIV. ON EMBRYULCIA AND EMBRYOTOMY. We have described the treatmeBt of difficult labours in the Third Book. If the process of parturition be not rectified by the means there laid down, we must proceed to the surgical operation, after having formed a probable conjecture whether the woman will siu'vive or not j and if she may be saved, then we are to operate; but if not, we must decHne attempting the operation. Those in a dying state are affected with coma, lethargy, and loss of muscular motion; they are difficult to rouse, or if roused by loud cries, they return a feeble answer, and again sink into a comatose state. Some have convulsive contractions, or subsultus tendinum, or insensibility to food. The pulse is found to be greatly inflated, but obscure and feeble. Those who are to recover have none of these symptoms. Having placed the woman in a supine posture, with her head rather depressed, her thighs are to be kept elevated by women on each side, or by certain assistants; or if they are not at liand, her chest is to be first fastened to the bed by ligatures, so that when the foetus is pulled the woman's body may not follow, and diminish the force of the pulling. Then the al® pudendi being separated by an assistant, we must introduce the left hand lubricated with some unctuous substance, the fingers being contracted, to the mouth of the uterus, and dilate it, ;tnd having got it relaxed by lubricating it with oil, we seek for the most convenient place for fastening the hook (embry- ulcus). The most convenient places in presentations of the head are—the eyes, the occiput, the roof of the mouth, the . chm, the clavicles, and the parts about the sides and hypo- «chondrium; and in feet presentations, the bones of the pubes, tthe middle of the ribs, or, again, the clavicles. The hook is to I be held m the right hand, and its curvature grasped with the I fingers, and it is to be gently introduced with the left band, land fixed on some of the afore-mentioned places, being pushed : to tlie cavity of the uterus. And another is to be applied oppo- site to It m order that the pulling mav be straight down and not to one side. Then we are to pull gently, not only straight- ^forward but also from side to side, as in the extraction of teeth; .and there ought to be no relaxation of the pulling in the in-