[book v. BULLS' BLOOD. 230 Comm. 3, Agaricus emeticus; 4>, Boletus versicolor; 5, Boletus laricis. ' ' ' (Toxic. Vet. xiii, 5.) SECT. LV. ON bulls' BLOOD. The blood of a newly-lolled bull brings on dyspnoea and suffocation^ obstructing tlie passages about tbe tonsils and the parts concerned in deglutition with violent spasms; the tongue, in such cases, is also found red; the teeth are staLued, and there are clots between them. In this case we must avoid giving a vomit, because the grumous blood will be more firmly fastened in the stomach by being raised upwards with the contractions. We must give those things which are calculated to dissolve the coagulated blood and loosen the belly; green figs, therefore, are to be administered when filled with juice, along with oxycrate and natron. All kinds of rennet are also proper with vinegar, and the root of laserwort, with its juice in like manner; also cabbage seed, the lye of figs, and the leaves of fleabane with pepper, and the juice of bramble with vinegar. The bowels are also to be evacuated. Those who are going to recover have fetid and bloody discharges by the anus. Cataplasms, made of barley-flour with honey, are also to be applied to the regions of the stomach and bowels. Comm. COMMENTARY. Bulls' blood being exceedingly viscid and indigestible might prove deleterious by becoming quickly co- agulated in the stomach : w^e do not find any mention of it, however, in modern works on toxicology. Themistocles is said to have despatched himself with it. Nicander makes no men- tion of emetics, and Dioscorides, like our author, condemns the use of them. Nicander recommends almost the same identical remedies as our author. It will be remarked that they ai-e all of a penetrating, attenuant, and solvent nature, such as wild figs, natron, laserwort, the rennets of certain animals, &c. Galen mentions the pernicious effects of coagulated blood m the stomach, and recommends hot vinegar for it. (De Al. bom ct mali succi.) Ruffus (ap. Oribas. Med. Collect, viii, 24) recom- mends clysters composed of natron, vinegar, the decoction ot cabbage, and of its seed, with vinegar.