PERISCYPHISMUS. 258 [book VI. Comm. given up in his time. His description of it is evidently taken '—from our author. Haly Abbas describes the operation very distinctly. Three longitudinal incisions at the distance of three fingers' breadth from one another are to be made in the forehead down to the bone, then a knife, or some such instru- ment, is to be introduced so as to divide the parts between the longitudinal incisions, sparing only the outer skin. SECT. VII. ON PERISCYPHISMUS. When many deep-seated vessels send a copious defluxion to the eyes, we have recourse to the operation called periscyphismus. These cases are attended with such symptoms as these: in the first place you will find the patient's eyes atrophied and small, weak of sight, the canthi corroded, and the eyelids ulcerated, the hairs falling off, with a discharge of veiy thin, acrid, and hot tears; there is a deep-seated pain in the head of an acute and violent character, and there is frequent sneezing. Having first shaved the head as aforesaid, and avoiding the place where the temporal muscles play, we make a transverse incision, be- ginning at the left temple and ending at the other. The in- cision must have its terminations where there are no muscles, its direction being a little above the forehead, and we must avoid the coronal suture. Leonidas directs the incision to be made along the middle of the forehead. When the bone is laid bare we may keep the parts asunder with tents and plenty of pledgets, and bind the extremities of the division; and, as we formerly stated, bathe with wine and oil. After loosing them, if the inflammation is on the decline, we may scrape the bone until it begin to incarnate, and accomplish the cure by a mode of practice calculated to promote incarnation, using the incar- native powders; among which is that containing of wheaten flour, p. ij ; of colophonian rosin, p. j; and that called the cephalic, and those incarnatives prepared from pumice-stone. Tor, when the skin is thickened by a dense cicatrix, and the mouths of the vessels constricted, the defluxion is prevented from being determined to the eyes as before. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Aetius (vii, 93); Pseudo Galen (Isagoge); Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 5); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 18.)