[book VI. EXOMPHALOS. 340 below tlie navel, that is to say, in the liiiea alba; but if the liver is diseased he recommends it to be made in the left side, or if the spleen, in the right. (Pract. ix, 41. Ehases gives Antyllus's description of the operation, which, however, is scarcely at all different from that of our author. He directs us to mal^e the assistants stand behind and compress the sides of the abdomen, and, if possible, recommends to make the patient sit on a bench. He directs us to make the incision with a large needle below the navel, when the collection is con- nected with disease of the intestines ; but if from the liver, on the left side; or if from the spleen, oh the right. Like the other authorities noticed above, he directs us to make the opening of the peritoneum higher up than that of the skin. A canula, made of copper, is then to be introduced into the open- ing. If the pulse sink during the operation he advises us to stop the discharge of'the water. (Cont. xix.) We have mentioned in our notes on Book Third, section 48, that Hippocrates and Aetius approved of scarifications at the ankles. It appears that Archigenes also was an advocate for this practice in dropsical cases. Dropsy of the womb and hydatids thereof are correctly de- scribed by Soranus. It seems to be now agreed that the di-opsy in this case is a species of large hydatid. (120.) SECT. LI. ON EXOMPHALOS, OR PROLAPSUS OF THE NAVEL. Protrusion of the navel takes place when the peritoneum there is ruptured and prolapsed; or from the omentum, intestine, and sometimes an inert fluid falling down upon the navel, some- times from hypertrophy of the flesh, and sometimes from a col- lection of blood there, i^roceeding from the rupture of a vein or artery, as in aneurisms; and sometimes the collection consists not of blood, but of spirits only. If, then, the omentiim be protruded, there appears a swelling at the navel, which is free from discoloration, soft to the touch, without pain, and uneven; but if it is intestine in addition to the afore-mentioned symptoms, there is greater inequality,—the tumour, when pressed by the fingers, disappears, sometimes with borborygmi; and it is increased by baths and straining. If its contents be a fluia,