FOUL ULCERS. [book IV. 106 M. Avicenna remarks, that in treating hollow ulcers we must not use very desiccative applications, as they dry up the fluids wliich are necessary for forming flesh; nor for the same rea- son, very astringent applications, nor abstergents of any greater strength than to remove the sordes. Rhases recommends a mixture of equal parts of olibanum, aloes, sarcocolla, and dra- gon's blood. Camphor is an ingredient in one of his incarna- tive applications. Alsaharavius makes mention of an applica- tion from olibanum, like that of Rhases. All the ancient authors say that round ulcers are more diffi- cult to heal than those of any other shape; and Cassiiis Medi- cus and Alexander Aphrodisiensis assign various reasons for this, the most probable of which seems to be, that in this case the sound parts are further removed than in any other. ApoUonius Dyscolus states that ulcers are prevented from healing by pregnancy, by disease of the spleen, and by varicose veins. (Histor. Mirab. 42.) SECT. XLI. MEDICINES FOR CLEANSING FOUL ULCERS. Foul ulcers, whether hollow or level with the surface, may be properly cleansed by birthwort in honey, turpentine with an equal portion of rose oil and honey, or instead of rose oil butter may be substituted, with Illyrian iris and honey; and by pickled olives appHed. To nervous parts, turpentine melted with butter may be applied. When the sores are very foul and spreading, horehound with honey is a good application, which removes the eschars. The following are compound appHca- tions : Of boiled lees of oil, of scummed honey, of the species of alum called phormion, equal parts.—Another : Of the dried serapias, called also triorchis, of Illyrian iris, of diied hore- hound, of birthwort, of each, dr. viij; of the flour of tai*es, dr. X; use in a powder and with honey. And for foul ulcers the Egyptian cerate is useful, also those from salts when melted, the Indian, that called athena, the green plasters diluted, the powder of dried pumice stone, those from tares, the trochisk called melanchlorus, and in like manner that called criogenes.