286 [book VI. MEATUS AUDITORIUS. Comm. perforating the bone, and of applying the actual cautery to it. """'^—' He also speaks of introducing a thread into the lachrymal passages and of using injections, (iii, 3, 2, 14.) Avenzoar recommends compression and injections, but does not describe the operation. He speaks of the matter passing into the nose, from which it may be inferred that he also was acquainted with the lachrymal duct, (i, 8, 10.) Rhases Hkewise makes mention of the lachrymal duct. He recommends us very particularly to make incisions down to the bone, to perforate it, or to apply the actual cautery to it. He makes mention also of escharotic apphcations containing arsenic, quicklime, and vitriol. He relates a case of apostema lachry- male in which he effected a cure by the hgature and friction. (Contin. ii, 2.) The practice of perforating the bone as recommended by Albucasis, was approved of by Pott, and the use of the cautery for this purpose is also supported by the high authority of Scarpa. M. A. Severinus, Hildanus, and Garengoit, were like- wise advocates for the actual cautery. Fabricius seems to have understood the disease very well, and treated it in the way re- commended by the ancients. (CEuv. Chirurg. ii, 21.) Guy of CauHac, Theodoricus, and Lanfrancus describe and appear to have performed the ancient operations for the cure of fistula lachrymahs. SECT. XXIII. ON IMPERFORATE MEATUS AUDITORIUS. This affection is sometimes congenital, being occasioned by a membrane which blocks up the entrance into the ear; and it is sometimes superficial and sometimes deep-seated. And it is formed in after life by a preceding ulceration in the meatus; for a growth of fungous flesh taking place blocks up the pas- sage. If, therefore, the membrane which obstructs the open- ing be deep-seated, the attempt at cure is hazardous; and yet we may try with some slender instrument to divide it, but if it is superficial we divide it with a shai'p knife, and if necessary cut it out. If there be a fleshy excrescence it may be dissected out with the scalpel used for the operation in ptery- gium, or that used for polypus; then making a twisted tent of the size of the meatus from a linen rag, we soak it in water, and sprinkling it with levigated chalcitis, or some such powder.