SECT. III.] HYDROCEPHALUS. 251 reprobate any surgical interference, although some remove a piece of the bone by trepanning, as will be described in the section on fractures of the bones of the head. But if the fluid be formed between the skin and the pericranium, and the swelling be small, we may make one transverse incision through the middle. But if the fluid is seated between the pericranium and the bone, and the tumour is large, we make tAvo incisions intersecting one another in the middle; or if it is still larger we may make three imitating the form' of the Greek letter H. After the operation, having evacuated the fluid and applied suitable compresses, we bind it up, and soak it with wine and oil until the third day; after which, having loosed the band- ages, we may cure it by the application of pledgets; or, if the bone is long of incarnating we may scrape it Hghtly. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Morbis, ii, 15); Celsus Comm (IV, 2) ■ Aetms (vi, 1); Galeni (ut aiunt) Isagoge; Antyllus (apud Nicetam); Avicenna (iii, 1; iv, 2) Avenzoar (I, 9, 17)- Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 1); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 16); Ehases (Contin. xxvii; and ad Mansor. ii, 25.) Hippocrates gives an interesting account of water in the brain, the symptoms of which, as described by him, are pain in the opening of the head and temples, rigor, fever, double vision, impatience of sounds, vomiting of phlegm, &c. He recommends emetics, caputpurgia, and afterwards purgatives. He also makes mention of heUebore and sternutatories, and « even directs us to perforate the skull, or, in other words, to t trephme it. Celsus describes only the hydrocephalus externus. He re- ^ commends us to use stimulant appUcations to the head, such as sinapisms, and if this treatment does not succeed, he directs .us to use the scalpel. The case, otherwise, is to be treated ihke dropsy with sudorifics, exercise, friction, and diuretics. Our author's description is mostly abridged from Aetius, who igives an extract from Leonidas. Even when the fluid is col- lected withm the skull he directs us to let it out, provided it is TO such quantity as to occasion a separation of the suture. ^ The account of the disease, given by Antyllus, in the Collec- »tion of Nicetas is nearly the same as our author's. He speaks