301 LARYNGOTOMY. SECT. XXXIXI.] piu'pose; but those which are lower down in the gullet we must manage differently. Some are of opinion that the patient ought to be made to swallow large morsels, such as the stalk of lettuces, or pieces of bread; but others direct us to bind a thread about a small piece of clean soft sponge and give it to the patient to swallow, and then taking hold of the thread to draw it up, and to do this frequently in order that the thorn may get fixed in the sponge and be brought up. Leonidas orders suppm-ative cataplasms to be applied, such as those from raw bai-ley-flour, in order that the part may be converted into pus and the thorn faU out of its own accord. If we see the patient at the time of swallowing, before digestion has taken place ia the stomach, and cannot perceive the substance which is fixed, we may order him to vomit by pushing the fingers or feathers down the throat, for sometimes the thing which is fixed wiU be brought up with the matters that are vomited. Commentary. Our author's directions axe mostly taken Comm. from Aetius. (viii, 50.) '—»—' Albucasis repeats our author's directions, and further re- commends us, when they fail, to introduce an instrument made of lead, which he gives a drawing of, and either to ex- tract the substance or push it downwards. (Chirurg, ii, 38.) A. similar plan of treatment is recommended by Mesne (de Egr. Gutturis); by Avicenna (iii, 9, 43); and by Alsaharavius (Pract. xii.) When a morsel of food sticks to the oesophagus, Alsaharavius directs that the person should be struck on the back, which will facilitate the descent of it. (6.) SECT. XXXIir. ON LARYNGOTOMY. The most famous surgeons have also described this operation. Antyllus, therefore, says, " In cases of cynanche (as we will < xplain under the head of Dietetics) we entirely disapprove of this operation, because the incision is utterly unavailing when ill the arteries (the whole of the trachea ?) and the lungs are iffected; but in inflammations about the mouth and palate nul in cases of indurated tonsils which obstruct the mouth of