370 [book VI. CmSOCELE. Comm. surrounding parts. Wlien tlie disease consists of a fleshy '"^^ tumour -wliich adheres to the testicle he directs us to cut it out. After the operation the wound is to be filled with rose- oil and wine. (Chirurg. ii, 63.) The other Arabians treat of the operation less minutely, with the exception of Haly Abbas, who describes it exactly as Albucasis. (Pract. ix, 48.) SECT. LXIV. ON CIRSOCELE AND PNEUMATOCELE. When the vessels about the scrotum or darti are in a varicose condition, they are ca,lled simply varices, but if the nutrient vessels of the testicles be in a varicose state, the affection is named cirsocele. The symptoms of it are obvious.. There is a collection attended with swelling, and somewhat curved, of a botryoidal shape, and accompanied with relaxation of the testicle. It also occasions certain inconveniences, especially in runmng, exercising, and walking. We may operate upon it thus. After putting the patient in a convenient posture, we must lay hold of the scrotum and push the cremaster to the under part; it is easily distinguished from the vessels, being more slender, firmer, and elastic, as being strong and firm; the patient also feels pain upon pressure, and moreover it is connected with the penis. Having secured the vessels in the scrotum by our own fingers and those of our assistant, and stretching them strongly, we press obliquely the point of a scalpel direct upon the vessels; then having transfixed the parts with hooks and dissected what lie under the skin, and having exposed the vessels, as mentioned in the operation of angiology and that for aneurism, and pushing through them a needle having a double thread, and cutting the loop of the thread, we tie the ligatures round the vessels where the varices arise and where they terminate, and make a straight incision in the intermediate space. Having evacuated the blood collected in the tumour, we apply the treatment for suppurations until the Hgatures with the vessels themselves fall out of their own accord. Leonides says, that when a few of the vessels which nourish the testicles are in a varicose state this operation should be performed, but that when all are affected, the testicle should be cut out along with them, lest being de- prived of its nutrient vessels it should decay. Pneumatocele