40 EPINYCTIDES. [book iv. maiden-hair with honey. They must avoid aU acrid, acid, and saltish things, also fomentations, baths, and insolation. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cclsus (v, 28); Aetius (xiv, 61); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 54); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 11; vi, 8); Pollux (Onomasticon iv, 34); Avicenna (iv, 3, 1, 13); Sera- pion (v, 8); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 17); Pract. (iv, 8); Rhases (Divis. i, 132.) Celsus describes the epinyctis as a bad species of pustule, somewhat Uvid or red, about the size of a bean, very pamful and inflamed, and coming on principaUy at night, whence it derives its name. Persons of all ages, even infants at the breast, are subject to it, and in treating them he directs the regimen of the nurse to be properly attended to. In laying down the rules of treatment he puts particular stress upon the hot bath. Aetius, Oribasius, and Actuarius treat of it as our author. Pollux defines it to be a vesicle of a palish colour, somewhat humid and bloody, and forming about the legs and feet m the night. . The Arabians give a similar account of epinyctis, under the names of Sare, Serie, and Essere. Thus Serapion recommends bleeding if required by the general symptoms, purging with myrobalans and prunes; and external appHcations, contammg sumach, savin, &c. Haly Abbas, who describes it as one of his serie, approves of much the same treatment. A^^cenna and Rhases in like manner recommend bleeding, gentle pur- gatives, cooling lotions, and the tepid bath. Rhases, in his ' Continens,' applies the directions given in this chapter by Paulus to the treatment of the cutaneous disease, which he calls sera. This establishes their identity (xxxvi, 6.) As stated in the preceding chapter, the epinyctis is also the " benat noctis," i. e. "filianoctis" of the Arabians. Marcus Aurelius Severinus, therefore, is mistaken in distinguishing between the epinyctis and the benat noctis. Ingrassius admits their identity. Pracastorius gives the foUowing account of tHs affection: " Si inflammata et accensa sit cholera, pustulam illam facit, quee Iitiwktiq vocatur, quod stepissime noctu uascatur, Arabes Esscrc appellant." (De Morb. Cout. ii, 15.) Both Lorry and Rayer confess themselves unable to determine what