384 IMPERFORATE PUDENDUM. [book vi. a simple adhesion only, it may be separated by a straight in- cision, made with a scalpel, for operating upon fistulaj. But if it is an obstruction, having transfixed the connecting body, "whether it be membrane or flesh, with hooks, we stretch it and divide with a scalpel for fistulse; and ha-vdng stopped the hemorrhage with such applications as are desiccative without being stimulant, we have then recourse to such medicines as promote cicatrization, applying a priapus-shaped tent covered with some epulotic medicine, in those cases especially in which the operation is performed upon a part not veiy deep-seated, in order that the parts may not unite again. And the phimus which is formed at the mouth of the uterus is operated upon in the same manner. Comm. COMMENTARY. Aristotlc makes mention of imperforate ""^^ ' vagina. (De Generat. Animal, iv, 4.) Aetius treats of these diseases at considerably greater length than our author, but his practice is neai'ly the same. Upon the whole the amount of his directions respecting the treatment is, that when the obstruction is occasioned by a membrane, it is to be divided and the lips of the incision prevented from adhering by the introduction of suitable tents; or, if it is a fleshy body, it is to be dissected out, and the parts separated by a piece of sponge or tents, (xvi, 96.) The same operation is described by Sora- nus. (219.) The same method of treatment, however, had been previously recommended by Celsus. Thus, when the obstruction is oc- casioned by a simple membrane, he recommends us to divide it by two transverse incisions hke the letter X, taking great care not to wound the urinary passage, and then the mem- brane is to be cut out. When the obstruction is produced by a fleshy tumour, he directs us to expose it by making a sh-aight incision; then, having seized it with a forceps or hook, to dis- sect it out, and introduce an oblong tent {XiifivlaKoq) soaked in vinegar, and apply externally wool moistened with \dnegar. The dressings are to be removed on the third day, and the sore treated upon general principles. When the wound is heaUug, he advises us to introduce a leaden tube smeared with some suit- able ointment to prevent adhesion, (vii, 28.) Albucasis makes mention of a singular substitute for the