SECT. LXXXIX.] 427 FRACTURES. his Commentaiy on the Odyssey he states that poisoned arrows Comm. were never employed in war, but only for killing wild beasts. ' ' ' (Odyss. i, 260.) We believe that no weapons of iron were used in the war of Troy, and that they were all made of copper. (See Jameson's Mineralogy, iii.) Little transpires from Homer with regai'd to the internal treatment. In one place (Iliad, xi, 638) mention is made of a mixture of wine and cheese having been given to a wounded warrior, which practice, Eustathius says, had given rise to a variety of conjectures. Some supposed that the wound in the case referred to was so shslit as not to render the administration of stimulants im- proper; others rather beheved that the loss of blood had been so great as to call for the use of wine to support the strength. But many, he adds, were of opinion that men in the heroic ages lived so temperately that their constitutions readily bore things on extraordinary occasions, which in after ages were reckoned to be of too inflammatory a nature. This explanation is advocated by Athenseus. (Deipnos, i.) In the Odyssey, mention is made of a hemorrhage being stopped by incanta- tion, which shows, as Eustathius remarks, that amulets and incantations were as ancient as the heroic ages. SECT. LXXXIX. ON PRACTURES AND THEIR DIFFERENCES. Having described the surgical operations on the fleshy parts, we have next to give an account of those which relate to the bones, I mean the treatment of fractures and dislocations; for these also faU under the department of surgery. And first, of fractures, beginning with fractures of the bones of the head, because they hold an intermediate place between the operations on the fleshy parts and the bones, and because the cranium overtops all the other parts. In general terms, then, a fracture is a division of a bone, or rupture, or excision of it, produced by external violence. The differences of fractures are many. A bone, then, is said to be fractured raphanatim, scandulatim, in unguem, polentatim, and per clefractionem. A fracture rapha- natim is a transverse one through the thickness of the bone, and is called also cucumeratim and caulatim, because cucumbers and cabbages break in this way. Scandulatim is a longitudinal