DISLOCATIONS. [book VI. 500 foot in lengtli, and in thickness like tliat which is inserted in the extremity of a spade, so that when the man is pulled along, this piece of wood may come between the perineum and the head of the thigh, so as to prevent the yielding of the body when pulled by the feet, and thereby often obviating the neces- sity of making counter-extension; and at the same time when the body is extended this piece of wood will push the head of the thigh outwards. The extension is to be made in the man- ner described above, more particularly by the foot. But if it is not thus reduced, the erect piece of wood is to be taken away, and two other pieces of wood fastened on the sides of it like posts, not more than a foot in length, and let another piece of wood be adapted to them like the step of a ladder, so that the figure of the three pieces of wood may resemble the Greek letter H; the middle piece of wood being fixed a little below the upper extremities. Then the man being laid on the sound side, we bring the sound leg between the two posts below the piece of wood corresponding to the step of a ladder, while the affected one is brought above it, so that the head of the thigh is to be adapted to it; but a folded garment is to be first wrapped about it to prevent the thigh from being bruised. Then another board of moderate breadth, and of such a length as to extend from the head of the thigh to the ankle, is to be bound along the inner side of the thigh. Then extension being made either by the pestles mentioned in treating of the dislocation of the vertebra, or some other instrument, the leg is to be pulled downwards along with the board which is fastened to it, so that by the force exerted the head of the thigh-bone may return to its proper place. There is another mode of reduction without making extension upon a board, which is much com- mended by Hippocrates. The patient's hands, he says, are to be bound loosely to the sides, and a soft but strong thong put round both his feet at the ankles and above the knees, four fingers distant from one another, so that the aff'ected leg when stretched may come two inches lower down than the other. The man is afterwards to be suspended with the head two c;ibits distant from the ground. Then an expert young man is to seize the affected thigh in his arms, at its thickest part, Avhere the head of the thigh is lodged, and suddenly suspend himself from the man, by which means the joint will readily return to.