94 [book IV. STEATOMA. Comm. account of scrofiilous swellings^ wliicli, lie says, are formed in ' general of a gross and viscid plilcgm. Except in very particu- lar cases he disapproves of bleeding. He approves in general of discutient applications; but when the swelling tends to suppuration, he dii'ects us to promote it; and when pus is faii'ly formed he recommends us to let it out, but cautions the surgeon not to attempt this operation unless he has a practical acquaintance with anatomy, lest he wound any of the veins, arteries, or nerves. Rhases forbids the knife when the scrofula is in the neck or deep seated. In certain cases he approves of destroying the tunic with septic applications. Brunus, and the other surgical writers of that age, in imita- tion of the Arabian authorities, direct scrofulous tumom's to be treated with discutients, excision, or septics. A discutient ointment recommended by Brunus consists of litharge, common oil, and the juice of melons and fenugreek. His septic medi- cine is a mixture of arsenic and quicklime, which is to be ap- phed with honey. (Chirurg. Minor. 19.) XXXIV. ON STEATOMA, ATHEllOMA, AND MELICEB.IS. These things belong to the class of apostemes, as we said when treating of them, and each receives its peculiar appella- tion from the substance contained in the tumour. Thus one of them is like fat, another hke honey, and the thii'd hke pap. The indication of cure in them all is to discuss the contents, produce the putrefaction of them, or to cut them out. Some tumours fall under all these three indications of cure, namely, those which contain a thin fluid, as the mehceris; others come under two of them only, as the atheroma, for it can only be cured by excision or putrefaction. But the steotoma admits of no cure except by a surgical operation, for it can neither be discussed nor made to putrefy. The diagnosis of each of these may be found in the Surgical part of the work, while the materials of which the discutients are formed are mentioned under the head of scrofula. This application is peculiarly adapted for discuss- ing mehceris : Twenty raisins without theii' stones; of squama £eris, dr. iij; having first fomented, apply. — Another: Of