[book IV. ULCERS. IIG Comm. COMMENTARY. Celsus describes the chironian ulcer as being —' large, and having bard, callous, and swelled edges, with a copious discbarge of thin sanies. It is attended with no inflam- mation, the pain is moderate, it does not spread, and therefore it is not dangerous, although not readily cured. Sometimes, he says, it becomes covered with a thin cicatrix, and then again the ulcer breaks out. It occurs mostly in the feet and legs. From this description it is evident that by the chironian ulcer Celsus meant merely an ill-conditioned ulcer, and that he dis- tinguished between it and the cacoethes, or raahgnant ulcer, which last he held to be nearly allied to the carcinoma. How- ever, most of the Greek authors apply the term mahgnant to the chironian ulcer. For the cure of it Celsus recommends an application consisting of squama seris, lead burnt and washed, calamine, wax, and a small quantity of roses. Galen furnishes us with an account of the manner in which Thessalus the Methodist proposed to cure all chironian and malignant ulcers. Thessalus lays it down as a rule for the treatment of all sores which are difficult to cure, or which break out again when healed, to remove the exciting cause, whether local or constitutional, by means of proper alteratives. He adds: " In cases of chronic ulcers which cannot be got healed, we must remove the parts which prevent adhesion, and convert the sore into the state of a recent ulcer; and then having allayed the inflammation proceed accordingly. Those sores which heal up and break out again during their exacer- bations, and when ulcerated, are to be cured like recent in- flammations by soothing apphcations until the irritation sub- side, after which cicatrizing applications are to be used, and then the surrounding parts are to be covered with a malagma of mustard, or some other rubefacient and alterative, to remove the indolence. If this is not sufficient, we must attend to the general health, attempting to effect a change of the system by repeated exercise, gestation, a diet increased or diminished according to circumstances, and at the commencement by ad- ministering an emetic of radishes, or even the white hellebore." (Galen, Meth. Med. iv.) Although Galen, who all along dis- plays a strong hostility to the Thessalian asses, (so he calls the Methodists,) has animadverted in severe terms upon the rules here laid down, they would appear to be highly proper and inr