[book v. 1!)8 TREATMENT. nard, castor, the inner part of green fennel-giant, the flowers of nerium (called also rhododendron and rhododaphon), the juice of leeks, laserwort or the juice thereof, sagapene, opo- ponax, the juice and root of hog's fennel, the long birth wort, the seed of wild rue, the leaves of that species of cestrum, called betony; of each of these a drachm may be taken in wine. The decoction of poley and .liquid pitch in a linctus is also efiicacious, and the aforesaid antidotes are excellent remedies, especially the theriac from vipers. But they have not the same power when taken after as before the poisonous substances, for a dose which woivld have been sufficient, if administered beforehand, to prevent any bad consequences, must be given in a fourfold or fivefold quantity, in order to prove effectual when administered afterwards, and that too not once, but twice a day. For such is the opinion of the celebrated Galen. Commentary. Except the last two sentences the whole of ' this section is copied from Dioscorides. Celsus' directions, so far as they go, are excellent: " Commodissimum est tamen, ubi primum sensit ahquis, protinus oleo multo epoto vomere: deinde, ubi prsecordia exhausit, bibere antidotum; si id non est, vel merum vinum." The directions given by Aetius are to the same purpose as our author's, but somewhat fuller. He ifi particularly to be commended for the precision with which he lays down the rules of treatment, when any organ happens to be afi'ected in an especial manner. Thus, if the poison attack the bladder, he dii-ects us to put the patient into a hip- bath of oil or water, in which fenugreek, linseed, mallows, or some such emollient herbs have been, boiled and to give him to drink the decoction of some vegetable diiu-etic, such as parsley, fennel, or spikenard. If the bladder be corroded he directs us to give the seed of cucumber in diluted sweet wine. In the same manner when the intestines are corroded the same seed is to be given, and all heating articles are to be abstained from. "When the poison is determined to the skin, he recom- mends the hip-bath of oil or water, friction with warm oil, and the like, evidently with the intention of evacuating it from the pores of the skin. Food of easy digestion, soups witli honey, tender fishes, and the like are to be given. When the