SECT. XXII.] 71 PHYMA. SECT. XXII. ON PHYMA, BUBO, AND PHYGETHLON. According to Galen, phyma, bubo, and pbygethlon, are affec- tions of tbe glands : bubo being an inflammation of a gland; pliygetUon, an inflammatory erysipelas, or an erysipelatous in- flammation of a gland; and pbyma, an inflammation of a gland passing rapidly into suppuration. But, according to others, all tumours of the nature of apostemes, which arise in any part of the body, are caUed phymata. For Hippocrates says, ''Those in whose urethra phymata form are relieved when they suppurate and burst." Wherefore those buboes which are occasioned by accidents, either ulcers or pains, are not dan- gerous ; but those which occur in fevers, more especially in the pestHential, are of a very bad description, whether they are formed in the groins, the armpits, or neck. But those of the fii-st kind, as is the case in every other inflammation, we must endeavour to put back with cooling and astringent applications, either applying a sponge out of oxycrate, or wool out of wine and raw oil, or oil of roses, or oil of apples, or oU of lentisk, or oil of myi-tles; and then we are to apply diaphoretics. But if the whole body is plethoric, it is to be evacuated. If free from supei-fluities, we must manage the ulcer arising from it in the manner to be described when treating of ulcers. When the gland is in a state of inflammation, it is to be mitigated by wool soaked in some of the emoUient oils, and the whole limb IS to be wrapped therewith. When the tumour has suppurated, we must not be in haste to open it, but endeavour to dissipate It by the medicines in the form of cerates, such as that pre- pared from apyranon, and that from herbs called botanica, VVhen resolution is not thereby accomplished, we must forward the rupture as in the other abscesses, and cure it in like man- ner as them. In those buboes which arise in fevers or from a collection of humours, we must abstain from all repellents, lest the matter should be repelled and regm-gitate to the deep- seated parts; but we must begin at once with discuticnts. When nothing prohibits, such as the age or strength of the patient, venesection from the arm is to be had recourse to, and toraentations applied to the part, either from the decoction of camomile, or of dill, or of some such; but the materials of the