[book VI. ANGIOLOGY. 254 Comm. and Avcrrhoes (in Cantic.) ; by Rbases (ad Mansor. vii, 21) • ^ and is described in exactly tlie same terms as our author's by Haly Abbas. (Pract. ix, 4.) SECT. V. ON ANGIOLOGY, OB, SECTION OF THE TEMPORAL VESSELS, AND ON BURNING THE SAME. In hemicrania and in chronic or acute defluxions, when the eyes are affected with a hot and acrid defluxion, so as to occa- sion heat of the temporal muscles with swelling, every one approves of angiology for the cure of them. Having, therefore, first shaven the hairs of the temples, and noted the part with our fingers, we must use warm fomentations, and apply a ban- dage round the neck; and, when the vessels become visible, having marked their course with ink, we must draw the skin aside with our left hand or the fingers of an assistant, and make a superficial incision along the vessel; then cutting quite through, and stretching the parts with hooks, and exposing the vessel by means of the instruments used in operations on membranous parts, we must raise it up when it is separated aU around. If it be small, having stretched and twisted it with a bhnd hook, we may di\dde it through, so as to be able to seize upon part of it. But if it be large, we must apply a double hgature under it with a needle, either a piece of raw flax, or some other strong thing; and, in the first place, making a straight opening into the vessel with a scalpel used in venesection, and taking away a moderate quantity of blood, we must tie the ligatures at both extremities of the exposed vessel, and cutting the intermediate part we may remove it either immediately, or at the time of loosing the dressings. Some, without dividing the vessels at all burn them to a suflacient depth with burning-nrons shaped Hke oHve-kernels. After the operation we must use pledgets of dry charpie, and put on an oblong compress {splenium) wath a bandage. After the removal of these dressings, we must ac- complish the cure by incarnating powders, apphcations on pledgets, and cicatrizing remedies; the threads and Hgatures having previously dropped out from putrefaction. Comm. COMMENTARY. The author of the Hippocratic treatise