152 WORMS. [book IV. Comm. suppuration by means of maturative cataplasms^ and the other means mentioned by oxir author. Pollux calls the dracunculus a piece of corrupted nerve which sometimes comes from the sores of Ethiopians, but seldom troubles other people. Actuarius, like our author, mentions that the dracuuculi occur most commonly in the region above Egypt, being gene- rally formed in the muscular parts, and that in process of time the part becomes livid and suppurates. They are killed, he adds, by bitter and acrid things. Avicenna comprehends in his account whatever information could be gleaned from preceding writers. He says the di-a- cunculus is called vena medine, from Medine, the name of the country where it is most prevalent. It occasions a blister in the part which bursts, when a red and somewhat blackish sub- stance protrudes and gradually increases in length. He directs us to coiTect the habit which gives rise to it by baths, humid food, and the like. His treatment is similar to that of Aetius and our author, namely, binding a Hgature round the arm, fastening a piece of lead to the worm, using fomentations of warm water, and the Uke. Haly Abbas mentions the vena as being a worm which forms principally in the legs of the inhabitants of wai-m countries, such as India, Egypt, Ethiopia, and Lybia. Avenzoar says that the complaint most commonly attacks negroes, being formed by gross humours, for dispelling which he recommends internally various sharp and acrid medicines, such as squills, nettles, colocynth, &c. He further directs a piece of lead to be bound firmly over the worm so that it may be made to crawl out gradually, which, however, he says, will not be accomplished in less time than a year. Alsaharavius states the danger of breaking the worm (vena). He recommends the same treatment as Avicenna. The con- clusion of his chapter on the dracunculus decides him to be the same person as Albucasis. Albucasis recommends us to fasten to the end of the animal a piece of lead from one to two drs. in weight, and thereby to extract it gradually. He says that in some cases the animal is as long as fifteen palms, nay, that he had seen one twenty palms longj