250 [book VI. HYDROCEPHALUS. Comm. Fabricius ab Aquapendcnte states tliat from the most ample '—^—' experience he bad ascertained the good effects of applying the cautery over the sutures of the skull in various complaints, especially asthma, consumption, and all cold defluxions from the head to the chest. He gives a full account of the opera- tion. (CEuvres Chirurg. ii, 1.) But see De Haen. (Rat. Med. t. iii, p. vi, c. 6.) SECT. 111. ON HYDROCEPHALUS. The hydrocephalic affection is so named from the pecuharity of the fluid, it being of a watery consistence. It occurs iu infants, owing to their heads being improperly squeezed by midwives during parturition, or from some other obscure cause; or from the rupture of a vessel or vessels, and the exti-avasated blood being converted into an inert fluid; or from rarefaction, the matter exuding and lodging between the skin and the peri- cranium. For the fluid is formed either between the pericra- nium and the skin, or between the pericranium and the bone, or between the bone and the meninx. In those cases, there- fore, in which the fluid is formed between the skin and the pericranium, there is a soft tiunour, all of one coloiu-, and with- out pain, accompanied with an elevated swelling, having only a thin substance intervening between it and the fingers, readily yielding and again resuming its form. When it is seated between the pericranium and the bone, all the other appear- ances are the same, but the swelHng is harder, yields more slowly, seems to be felt through thicker substances, and is more painful. When the fluid is seated between the meninx and the bone, there will still be a swelHng, but not of so yield- ing a nature, nor so easily felt, only it yields to the apphcation of sti-ong pressure; for the bones of infants, being recently formed, are of a more yielding nature; and this is more espe- cially the case when, owing to enlargement of the sutures, the fluid escapes outwards. This is readily ascertained from the circumstance, that by pressui-e of the fluid it retreats to the deep-seated parts. In such cases the pain is greater, the whole head is distended, the forehead projects outwai-ds, the eyes are fixed and shed tears frequently. In these cases wc