STRUMA. SECT. XXXIII.] 91 Alsahai-avius directs us to procure evacuations of black bile. Comm. and gives prescriptions for various emolKent and discutient applications. When the usual remedies do not succeed, he advises recourse to be had to the operation. Ehases di\ddes scirrhus into two varieties, that accompanied with sensibility, and that which is insensible. He mentions that Antyllus approved of extii-pation and the actual cautery when the disease is of a coiToding and cancerous nature. XXXIII. ON STRUMA OR SCROFULA. Stmmse are indurated glands forming principally in the neck, armpits, and groins. Their general treatment therefore is the same as that for scirrhus, but in particular the flour of bitter lupines is to be boiled in oxymel and applied (this also answers with phyma;) or apply cows' dung boiled in vinegar. THs discusses all indurated swellings. But struma may be properly discussed by means of quicklime mixed with honey, the sordes of baths, oil, or axunge; or, equal parts of quick- lime and natron, and four times the quantity of cardamom and fenugreek may be boiled with honey for an emollient ointment and appHed. This one discusses hard strumiB, and produces the rupture of suppui^ated swellings; the flour of darnel boUed with pigeon's dung, or linseed and wine : or, green oHves, either wild or cultivated; or, the white cardamus tritui-ated with liquid pitch and made into an emolHent oint- ment may be appKed; or, the ashes of the dried root of the wild cucumber, and the burnt dried leaves of the bay, may be mixed with turpentine and applied; or, equal parts of staves- acre and of nati-on, with double the quantity of rocket may be apphed, with rosin; or, goats' or cows' dung boiled in vinegar; or, the flour of bitter vetches soaked in the urine of a young person not come to manhood, and added to melted pitch, wax and oil; or, a dead snake may be thrown into a pot, and being covered over with gypsum, it is to be put into a furnace, ithe ashes of it mixed with equal parts of fenugreek, and then wadded to honey and used. And the composition from asps is an admirable one, also that from fidlcrs' lierb, tliat from the •wild cucumber and that from cedar rosin. The following one