[book v. WOLFSBANE. 220 SECT. XLV. ON ACONITUM OB WOLFSBANE. Wolfsbane immediately after being drunk occasions a sen- sation of sweetness on the tongue, with a little astringency ; vertigo supervenes, more especially when the person attempts to rise up, and it brings on a watering of the eyes; there is heaviness of the chest and abdomen, with eructation of much flatus. In these cases the medicine must be brought up by vomits, and the contents of the bowels evacuated by a clyster. We must also give draughts from marjoram and rue, or from horehound with wine, or from wormwood, or from rocket, or from southernwood, or mezereon, or ground-pine. Opobalsam, too, taken to the amount of one drachm, with wine, wiU Ukewise answer with them; also the rennet of a kid, or of a hare, or of a fawn, with vinegar, and the dross of iron, or iron itself, or gold, or silver, may be dissolved in wine, and the hquid taken, and lye with wine, and the broth of a boiled cock, or the broth of fat flesh taken with wine. The ground-pine, wliich is said to be a specific in Heraclea of Pontus, where wolfsbane grows, is caUed holocleron, but ionia in Athens, and sideritis in Eubcea. CoMMENTAUY. The symptoms, as described by Meander, ' are astringency of the lips, palate, and gums, gnawing pains at the stomach, singultus, flatulence, running from the eyes, double vision, as from intoxication. His remedies seem to have been principally emetics and calefacients. Thus he recommends a handful of quickhme to be drunk with a hemina of wne, also southernwood, spurge, ground-pine, marjoram, opobalsam, the metallic preparations mentioned by our author, aud the like. The accounts of the treatment given by Dioscorides, Aetius, and Actuarius agree exactly with our author's. Avicenna, Rhases, and Haly Abbas, in like manner, recommend emetics, clysters, and calefacient medicines internally. Diogenes Laertius states, upon the authority of Eumelus the historian, that Aristotle the philosopher despatched himself with a draught of aconite. (Vita Aristot.) PUny relates that this poison proves fatal when applied to the genital organs ot women. (H. N. xxvii, 3.) ... The ancients have described several varieties of aconite.