SECT. I.] ELEPHANTIASIS. 7 Serenus SamonicuSj who is said to have flourished about the Comm. beginning of the third century, thus describes the disease : ' ' ' " Est elephas morbus tristi quoque nomine dirus, Non solum turpans infandis ora papillis, Sed cito prsecipitans fimesto fata venino." His remedies are the juice of the bark of the juniper, the ashes and blood of the weasel, mint, and various external appli- cations, consisting of ceruse, Egyptian paper, roses, &c. Scribonius Lai'gus recommends sulphur with common oil for lepra, " et quam elephantiam dicunt," but he gives no descrip- tion of the latter. It is greatly to be lamented that Caelius Aurelianus' account of elephantiasis has come down to us in an imperfect state. His description is entirely lost, and his detail of the treatment is in a mutilated state. It appears, however, that his views were similar to those of Celsus, and that he considered it to be a malignant disease, affecting principally the skin. He approves of rubbing stimulant ointments into the skin, and of using me- dicinal baths, especially the aluminous and chalybeate. When the applications produce ulceration of the skin, he directs us to treat it upon general principles. He makes mention of vomiting by radishes, and latterly by means of the white helle- bore. He approves of a sea voyage and change of scene. He says the first author who described elephantiasis was Themison, the same person that is damned to everlasting fame in one of the lines of Juvenal : " Quot Themison agros autumno occiderit uno." (Sat. X, 221.) If this statement be correct, it is clear that Celsus cannot be of so early a date as is generally believed, that is to say, the Augustan age, for Themison flourished to- wards the end of the first century, p. c. He was the founder of the Methodical sect. Cselius also blames Themison for re- commending bleeding and vomiting unseasonably, and disap- proves of his directions respecting the applications to the skin. It appears that he also disapproved of the theriac of vipers, and of giving to drink water in which red-hot iron had been extin- guished. There can be no doubt, from the circumstances which he mentions, that the disease was thought contagious in his time. OctaviusHoratianus,who lived under the emperor Valentinian, gives a pretty full detail of the treatment, but his description of