164 MAD DOGS. [book v. walnuts carefully and apply them to the wound, and next day take and present them for food to a cock or hen. At first indeed he will not touch them, but if he is compelled by hun- ger to eat of them, observe, for if the dog that inflicted the bite was not mad, then the fowl will live, but if mad he will die next day; and then you must hasten to open the wound, and after a few days repeat the same experiment; and when the fowl does not die you may bring the wound to cicatrization, inasmuch as the patient is then freed from danger. Oribasius recommends this experiment: If from the symptoms which we have mentioned we know for certain that the dog is mad, we must have recourse to medicines for lajdng open the sore, the principal of which is that from pitch, very acrid vinegai', and opoponax, which is described accurately in the section on the wounds of nervous parts. But if the person who has been bitten has a tender skin, it is to be diluted with oil of iris, of balsam, or the like ; or having first fomented the sores, apply a cataplasm of garhc. This also forms eschars. A dry escha- rotic for persons bitten by mad dogs : Of fossile salts, dr. viij ; of chalcitis, dr. xvj; of squills, dr. xvj ; of green rue, dr. iv; of scraped verdigris, di-. iv; of the seed of horehound, dr. j ; use it at first di-y that it may form an eschar, and then with rose-oil that the eschars may fall off. Keep the parts from cicatrizing for forty-two days at least. A cataplasm for persons bitten by mad dogs, which keeps the mouth of the wound open : Apply a cataplasm of onions with salts and rue, or of laser- wort with salts, or of old pickle, or of the cinders of burnt wood with oil, or of garlic, or apply the leaves of the elder tree, or mint, or baum, each with salts, or walnuts with onions, salts and honey, or the ashes of figs mixed with cerate. Wash the sore with a decoction of camomile in water, and the root of the wild dock. But some burn the sore with heated irons. They ought in the first place to get draughts of simple things, sucli as buckthorn, wormwood, the juice of laserwort, germander, the water germander, and poley. These are compound apphca- tions • Of river crabs, of the shoots of the white vine burnt m a vessel of copper or bronze two spoonfuls, of gentian root tri- turated one spoonful, give to drink fox- forty days with two cyathi of old undiluted wine. Some add two spoonfuls of t e blood of the partridge. The crabs are to be taken when tlie III