310 [book T1. ANEURISM. Comm. down by Aetius, in an extract from Leonidas; but his descrip- ' ' tion is so long that we cannot do justice to it within our narrow limits. Like Celsus^ he directs us to avoid wounding the tunics which surround the atheroma and mehceris; but states that this may be done in the case of the steatoma. He judiciously directs the skin to be cut in the form of a myrtle-leaf, (xv, 7, 8.) Albucasis directs us, in the first place, to prick the tumour, in order to ascertain the nature of its contents. When they are found to be fatty, he recommends us to cut it out by making a crucial incision, and removing it with its cyst if possible. When the cyst is wounded he directs us to dissect it out in pieces, and to endeavour to leave no part of it behind. He gives drawings of various instruments, namely, scalpels, tenacula, and perforators, for dissecting out these tumoiu's. (ii, 45, 46.) Ehases and Avicenna give very judicious directions for the treatment of these tumours, but they scarcely differ at all from those of Aetius and our author. They recommend us to avoid opening the cysts of the atheroma and meliceris, if possible; but if any part remain they direct us to destroy it by septics. (Coutin. xxvii.) SECT. XXXVII. ON ANEURISM. Aneurism is a tiimour soft to the touch and yielding to the fingers, having its origin from blood and spirits. Galen says " an artery having become anastomosed (i. e. dilated) the affec- tion is called an aneurism; it arises also fr'om a wound of the same, when the skin that lies over it is cicatrized, but the wound in the artery remains, and neither unites nor is blocked up by flesh. Such affections are recognised by the pulsation of arte- ries ; but, if compressed, the tumour disappears in so far, the substance which forms it returning back into the arteries." Thus Galen.—But we distingiiish them from one another in this way: That formed from anastomosis of an artery appears longer, is deep seated, and when pressed upon by the fingers, a sort of sound is heard; whereas no noise is heard in the cases ai'ising from rupture, and these, moreover, are more rounded, and feel superficial. Those therefore which form in the armpits, groin,