380 [book VI. CASTRATION. appear, and, being dissolved, can no longer be felt. Tlie metbod by excision is as follows : let tbe person to be castrated be placed upon a bencli, and the scrotum with the testicles grasped by the fingers of the left hand, and stretched; tw o straight incisions are then to be made with a scalpel, one in each testicle; and when the testicles start up they are to be dissected around and cut out, having merely left the very thin bond of connexion between the vessels in their natural state. This method is preferred to that by compression; for those who have had them squeezed sometimes have venereal desires, a certain part, as it would appeal-, of the testicles having escaped the compression. Comm. COMMENTARY. We have given Celsus's description of the ' * ' operation in the 64th section of this Book. Albucasis describes the operations by compression and by excision. In the former the testicle is squeezed by the operator while the patient is seated in hot water. In the other the spermatic cord is to be first secured vtdth a ligature and then the testicle cut out. (Chirurg. ii, 69.) They are likewise described in nearly the same terms liy Haly Abbas. (Pract. ix, 54.) The castration of the inferior animals is mentioned by Aristotle (Hist. Animal, ix, 50); by Varro (De Re Rustica, iii, 9); by Columella (De R. R. vi, 26); and by Palladius (De R. R. vi, 7.) VaiTO informs us that it was customary to make capons by burning the testicles of cocks with a red-hot iron. It appears from Juvenal that the surgeons in his time were often called upon to perform castration. (Sat. vi, 1. 370.) Abulpharagius likewise mentions that the perform- ance of this operation constituted at one time an important part of the surgical practice in Bagdad. (Dynast, ix.) But the Emperor Justinian condemned the operation as being dangerous and often fatal. Sprengel gives an interesting history of castration. One of the most important points in this operation is the mode of tying the cord. Some modern authorities affirm that no bad efi'ects result from putting a hgatiu-e round the whole cord, but others condemn this practice as bringing on comoilsions and tetanus. AU admit the difficulty of securing the artery sepa- rately.