134 WOUNDS OF NERVES. [book iv. must melt it in some discutient article such as the oil of mar- joram, of opobalsam, or old oU.—Another stiitable application is basilicon with the addition of natron, or quicklime, or euphor- bium, or sulphur vivum, or wild pigeon's dung, or opoponax, or sagapene, or Cyrenaic juice, or castor, adding to a pound of the ointment an ounce of one of these medicines. It answers well for wounds of nerves, and more especially punctures. And in the country when one is not supplied with any other medi- cines, one may apply fresh and fat bee-glue to the wound, or leaven more especially if old, by itself or mixed with bee-glue, or with the juice of tithymal. But cataplasms may be apphed made of oxymel, or of strained lye, with the flour of beans, or of tares, or of chick-peas, or of bitter lupines, or of barley, or of the flour of polenta, not only when ia a state of inflamma- tion, but they may be used from the commencement. But re- laxing cataplasms are to be entirely rejected for wounds of nerves. If the nerve is not cut, but laid bare by a wound, the surrounding skin being divided so that the nerve appears naked, and is wounded longitudingly and not transversely, we must use none of the afore-mentioned from euphorbium, nor any thus acrid, fo}- the nerve being bare will not bear their power which is strong, but one may use lime that has been washed often in the warm season mixed with much honey. The pre- paration from pompholyx, and that from honey melted with much rose-oH, are also exceUent ones. But these things must not touch the wound, for the nerve is sensitive, of a cold tem- perament, and continuous with the most important part. And neither is it proper to bathe such an ulcer with oil, for it will make it become foul, and we must only wipe away the ichor with soft wool wrapped about a probe. When all things succeed agreeably to our wish, there will be no danger in fomenting with must. For stronger persons the trochisk of Polyides with sodden must may be used upon a warm pledget. After the exposed nerve has been covered over, we must apply externaUy pledgets, with some of those things wHch are fitting for narrow wounds, such as that from euphorbium, or that from pigeon's dung, taking in also much of the sound parts. When the wound is transverse there is greater danger of convulsions, but everything relating to the cure is in this case the same, except that while the wound is recent some have used sutures