276 PTERYGIA. [book vi. thread, dissect away the whole pterygium with the instrument called pterygotomos, taking care not to touch the coraea. After the operation, having applied some levigated salts to the part, we bind on it some wool dipped in an egg. After the removal of this we inject into the eye salt water for a long time. But if inflammation supervene we have recourse to the remedies described for it. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cclsus gives an excellent account of the """^ pterygium. He correctly states that the membrane generally begins at the inner angle of the eye. His description of the operation is very precise. The patient being properly seated, the surgeon is to raise the membrane with a sharp hook some- what bent at the extremity, and is then to pass below it a needle armed with a thread, the two ends of which he is to lay hold of and separate the membi anes everywhere from the ball of the eye. The membrane is then to be cut out with a scal- pel, care being taken not to hurt the angle of the eye-lid. He directs us to apply to the part a piece of sponge, or some wool, or a pledget spread with honey, (vii, 7.) Aetius also describes the operation very correctly, but in the same terms as our author; that is to say, he directs us to use the needle armed with a flaxen thread and a horse-hau-, and afterwards to cut out the membrane, using the precautions here mentioned, (vii, 60.) Albucasis recommends the same mode of procedure as Aetius (Chirurg. ii, 16.) Haly gives similar dii'ections. (Pract. ix, 35.) Both caution us not to carry the incision too near the inner canthus. Haly Abbas recommends the use of the scis- sors, and not of the scalpel (in the translation read forficibus and not forcipibus.) a o 9'i\ Avicenna hkewise recommends the scissors, (ni, 6, Z, m.) Ehases gives directions for passing a needle below the mem- brane, and for cutting it off. He speaks of using a pair o scissors. He mentions that he had seen a surgeon perform it with a pen. (Divis. 35, and Cont. ii, 3.) Jesu Hali directs us to operate either with a scalpel or pair of scissors. (De Ocuhs ii, 38.) The modern methods of treatment do not appear to ditter m principle from the ancient. Scarpa operates with a pair of scis-