SECT. XXI.] CATARACTS. 281 This disease is called sufusio by the Latins, and aqua by the Comm. Arabians. '—»— We have stated in our commentary on affections of the eye, in the Thii-d Book, that the ancients were aware that the crys- talline lens is the seat of one of the species of cataract. This opinion is cleai-ly delivered by Galen, Aetius, Oribasius, Haly Abbas, and some of the others. As a proof that this notion prevailed generally, we will give the words of Psellus literally translated: " Glaucoma is a grievous and incurable affec- tion, being a certain change of the crystalline humour, and transmutation of its colour to a sea-green. The suffusion is a concretion of the fluid between the cornea and crystalline hu- mour." (Opus Medicum.) The other species then, as PseUus states, was held to be a concretion between the crystalline lens and the cornea. That such a disease, although of compara- tively rare occurrence, is sometimes met with seems undeni- able. Celsus lays it down as a rule, that when the suffusion is small, immovable, and of the colour of sea-water, or of shin- ing iron, and if a small degree of light can be perceived at the side, there is reason to hope well of the case. He forbids us to operate until the disease has attained a proper consistence. He directs us to place the patient opposite the operator, who is to sit on a higher seat, while the patient's head is firmly held by an assistant. The sound eye is to be previously covered up with wool. If the left eye is afl'ected the operator must use his right hand, and vice versa. A needle which is sharp and not too slender is to be passed direct through the two coats at a place intermediate between the temporal angle and the black of the eye, and towards the middle of the cataract. When the needle has perforated far enough, which is readily known by the absence of resistance, it is to be gently turned so as gradu- ally to remove the cataract below the region of the pupil, and this object bemg attained it is to be strongly pressed to the lower part. If it remain there the operation is completed; but if It return it is to be cut and torn by the needle into many pieces, m which state they are ea.sier depressed, and prove less troublesome. The needle is then to be drawn out direct, and soft wool smeared with the white of an egg, and other anti- inflammatory applications are to be used. Quiet, restricted diet, and soothing treatment will be proper.