366 HYDROCELE, [book VI. scrotum into two parts, and extending the incision down to the vaginalis. When the fluid is in the adnata, we make the in- cision where the apes of the tunica adnata makes its appear- ance, and separating the lips of the incision with a hook, and having dissected the darti with a knife for hydrocele and a scalpel, and laid hare the tunica vaginalis, we divide it through the middle with a lancet for bleeding, more especially in that part where it is separated from the testicle; and having dis- charged into some vessel the whole or most of the fluid, we cut away the vaginalis, especially its thinnest parts, with hooks. Afterwards, Antyllus uses sutures and the treatment for recent wounds; but the modems have recourse to what is called the incarnative mode of treatment. If the testicle is found in a state of putrefaction, or otherwise diseased, the vessels which pass along with the cremaster are to be separately inclosed in a hgature, the cremaster cut, and the testicle removed. And when there are two hernias we may operate in the same manner twice, directing the incisions on both sides at the parts of the scrotum about the loins. After these things, having introduced the head of a probe through the incision below at the extremity of the scrotum, and elevating the scrotum upon it, we make an incision with a sharp-pointed scalpel in a convenient situation for the discharge of the coagulated blood and pus. By means then of the head of the probe we introduce an oblong pledget into the upper incision, and having sponged away the clotted blood, we introduce wool dipped in oil through the incision down to the testicle; and externally we may apply other pieces of wool dipped in wine and oil to the scrotum, hypogastrium, groins, perineum, and loins; and applying a compress three times folded upon them, and binding them with a six-legged bandage, and other proper bandages, we place the man in a reclining posture, putting wool under the scrotum for the sake of ease, and spreading the soft skin under him to receive the embro- cations. We bathe with warm oil until the third daj', after which having loosed the bandages we must use the ointmeul tetrapharmacon on a pledget, having changed the oblong one. Afterwards we may again apply the embrocations proper for in- flammation until the seventh day, after which we have recoui-s(- to the medicine called motophylacion. After the ulcer has been cleaned and moderately incarnated, and the parts have been