SECT. CXIT.] 481 LOWER JAW. A mode of reducing the dislocatiou by means of a machine Comm. is described by Oribasius, in his work De Machinamentis, 30. ^—' The account which Celsus gives of this accident is upon the whole veiy accurate, and corresponds very well with modern descriptions. If dislocated only at one end, the chin inclines to the opposite side, and the.teeth of the upper and lower jaws do not con-espond. If at both ends, the whole chin projects outwards, the lower teeth are more prominent, and the muscles appear stretched. The patient being properly seated, and his head held by an assistant, the surgeon haying wrapped his thumbs with Hnen cloths, is to put them into the patient's mouth, while the fingers are appHed externally. The jaw being firmly gi-asped, the chin is to be shaken, and then, at one and the same instant, the head is to be seized, the chin moved, the jaw forced into its place, and the moixth shut. After reduction, if pain in the eyes and neck has been brought on by the accident, he recommends us to let blood from the arm. The patient is to live upon liquids, and avoid talking. Albucasis follows Hippocrates in distinguishing dislocations of the lower jaw into partial and complete. In addition to the symptoms ah-eady detailed, he mentions a flow of saliva from the mouth, and an inabihty to speak. When the dislocation is partial or incomplete, he says, it soon returns of itself to its proper place. When the luxation is complete, he directs us to reduce it by introducing the thumbs into the mouth, and graspmg the jaw in the manner described by Hippocrates. He states that when not reduced the accident often proves fatal by superinducing fevers and coma. Avicenna, in like manner, affirms, that if not reduced, it may bring on fatal con- sequences. His account is borrowed entirely from Hippocrates. Rhases and Haly Abbas give exactly the same description of the symptoms and mode of reducing as Albucasis, Monteggia, Fabricius ab Aquapendente, Sir Astley Cooper, and Mr. Samuel Cooper (the author of the well-known Surgical Dictionary) affirm that there is no foundation for the prognostic of Hippocrates, that the accident will prove fatal if the dislo- cation be not speedily reduced. We can say, however, from our own personal knowledge, that such fatal consequences do occasionally occur. We once knew a poor woman who was very Uable to dislocations of the lower jaw, which we reduced 31