324 CUPPING. [book VI, be absorbed, and carried over the system. In retention of the menses he directs us to open the saphena, or to apply a cupping instrument to the ankle. When the disease is an acute attack of inflammation, he recommends us to abstract blood fully from an opposite part, so as to procure revulsion; but when it is a chronic aff'ection, he advises to take it from the part afi'ected. (Contin. xxviii.) He enjoins, as a prudent precaution in bleeding a person who is intoxicated, to apply two bandages about the arm, and to have proper attendants to restrain the bleeding, which is often difiicult to stop in such cases. (Ad Manser, vii, 21.) The veterinary surgeons practised bleeding freely in the treat- ment of the diseases of cattle. Vegetius, the great authority on this subject, mentions that many persons bled their cattle every year, in the spring. He adds, however, that the ancient and more prudent authorities disapproved of indiscriminate depletion. (Mulom. i^ 22.) SECT. XLI. ON CUPPING. We must not have recourse to cupping at the commence- ment of complaints, nor when the body is in a plethoric state, but when the general system has been evacuated, and when there is no defluxion any longer to the part, and especially when there is a necessity of removing, dislodging, and deter- mining something outwardly. Dry cupping then dissipates flatulence, stops defluxions to the stomach, attracts blood to a part, and stops it again, when determined to a part, if applied to the opposite parts; and it also occasions a translation from the deep-seated parts to the surface, and on the whole produces a metasta-sis of the fluids, and an evacuation of the spirits. But cupping with scarifications faciUtates the evacuation of the off'ending causes, which it manifestly brings from the deep- seated parts; for it produces the discharge not only of blood but of the other humours, and especially if applied with much heat. And if we wish to make the abstraction fe'om parts that are fleshy, we must first scarify and then apply the cupping instrument; but if the part is not fleshy, "we must first have recourse to dry cupping, and when the parts becomes swelled