382 [book VI. THYMI, ETC. Comm. COMMENTARY. That the nympha and clitoris were used ""^^ ' aneiently as synonymous terms is evident from UufiHis Ephesius (De Partibus Hominis); Soranus (c. 6); and Pollux (Onomasti- con, ii.) Martial, in more than one place, makes allusion to unnatural practices connected with an enlarged clitoris. Aetius says that it is a small muscular substance situated at the com- missure of the alse pudendi above the meatus urinarius. lie adds, that when preternaturally enlarged it is to be amputated. Like our author, he directs us to take hold of the tumom* with a forceps and cut off the protuberance, taking care not to cai-ry the excision too far. He recommends us to apply a sponge squeezed out of an astringent wine or cold water, with suitable dressings. He gives the same account of the cauda as our author, (xvi, 103 and 104.) It was a tumour arising from the uterus itself. Albucasis merely transcribes our author's ac- count of these operations. (Chirurg. ii, 71.) Avicenna briefly recommends us to remove the enlarged nympha by medicines or the knife, (iii, 22 ; i, 24.) It would appear that this operation, like circumcision, is still often practised in the East. The chapters of Soranus, in which these operations were treated of, are unfortunately wanting. On extirpation of the enlarged clitoris see Heister's Sur- gery (ii, 5, 147). The cauda pudendi was probably the cauli- flower excrescence of the os uteri described by late authorities on midwifery. SECT. LXXI. ON THYMI, CONDYLOMATA, AND HEMORRHOIDS ABOUT THE FEMALE PARTS OF GENERATION. The thymus is an excrescence sometimes red, but sometimes white, for the most part without pain, and resembling the clusters of thyme. The condylomata are rugose protuberances ; and the hemorrhoids resemble those about the anus, and, like them, sometimes pour forth blood. Such excrescences in women, when brought into view and exposed, are to be seized with a forceps and cut out with the point of a half-spatula. And we are then to use pounded galls, or fissile alum. For the more distinguished surgeons do not approve of ligatures m these cases.