SECT. XL.] VENESECTION. 319 phlebotomy is known to everybody. But these things apply to venesection at the bend of the arm. When we would ab- stract blood from the forehead as for headache, having first used fomentations, we apply a bandage round the neck, placing a finger over the windpipe to prevent suffocation, and when the fi'ontal vein is properly filled we divide it with the point of a lancet or scalpel. In the same manner we may open the external jugulars for chronic ophthalmy, producing a discharge of blood Avith the concave part of the scalpel. The vessels also below the tongue we open transversely for angina, but without the application of any bandage. Some also open in like man- ner the veins which appear in the great canthi, as for chronic affections of the head or eyes, in which cases they also some- times rupture the vessels within the nostrils either by rubbing them with the extremity of a specillum, or by tickling them with rough substances. They also open those behind the ears for the affections about the head; and those about the top of the thighs, as in affections of the kidneys ; and those in the extremities they also open, after by the appKcation of the liga- tui-es to the pai-ts above, by friction in the case of the hands, and walking in that of the feet, the vessels having become dis- tended with blood J in affections of the spleen opening the ves- sel in particular between the small and middle finger of the left hand, and in affections of the liver those of the right hand; for the evacuation of the extremities, being from a distance, occasions a more powerful revulsion. In ischiatic diseases, and those of the uterus, they open the vein in the foot above the inner toe. Commentary. We have to regret that our limits prevent Comm. us from doing more ample justice to the sound and enlarged V lews of the ancient physicians on this subject, and we must be content with making a few desultory observations and giving a few extracts. We have had occasion frequently to remark that Hippocrates I)ractised venesection freely in various diseases. He has left no treatise, however, expressly on the subject. Celsus skys, that to let blood was no new discovery in his (lay; but that blood might be let with advantage in almost '.very disease was a discovery. He states it also as a recent