KNEE. 505 SECT. CXIX.] SECT. CXIX. ON DISLOCATION AT THE KNEE. The knee is dislocated in three ways: inwards^ outwards, and towards the ham j for it is prevented by the patella from being dislocated forwards. Using, then, the same modes of ex- tension, sometimes by the hands alone, and sometimes by cords, we must have recourse to suitable bandages, and the other suit- able treatment, the part being in particular preserved free from motion. Commentary. Hippocrates, like our author, mentions three Comm. directions in which the bones of the knee-joint may be dislo- cated: namely, inwards, outwards, and backwards. He has not noticed the dislocation forwards, which is, in fact, a very rare case. Celsus mentions, however, that Meges had related a case of dislocation forwards, which was successfully treated by him. But most of the other authorities, he says, have denied the possibility of such an occurrence. He directs the surgeon to reduce dislocations at the knee upon general principles, by making extension and counter-extension. Hippocrates repre- sents dislocations at the knee as being of more frequent occur- rence, but less dangerous, than those of the elbow. Oribasius, like our author, treats only of three kinds of dis- location at the knee. Albucasis denies the possibility of a dislocation forwards. He directs the surgeon, in making re- duction, to turn his back to the patient, and take the limb out between his knees; then while an assistant makes extension at the foot, he is to replace the bones with his hands. This seems a very proper method of reduction. Avicenna likewise mentions only three modes of dislocation. He has described dislocation of the patella, a case omitted by our author. He directs us after making reduction, to fill the hollows with compresses, and then to apply splints and bandages. He says that the knee is often dislocated in walking. He must surely allude to a species of sub-luxation first well described by the late Mr. Hey, of Leeds; for a complete luxation is a very rare occurrence, and is never occasioned but by great violence. Haly Abbas and Rhases describe only three kinds of dislo-