[book VI. 298 UVA. Comm. Aetius directs us to seize the tonsil with, a hook and cut it ' ' ' out at the middle. When cut out at the base, he remarks there is danger of hemorrhage, (viii, 57.) Albucasis directs us to make the patient sit with his head on the operator's bosom, and, while an assistant presses down his tongue, the operator is to seize the indurated tonsil with a hook, and drawing it out, to cut it off with a sharp instrument resembling a forceps, or, in other words, with a pair of scissors. He likewise gives a drawing of another instrument which con- sists of a lunated piece of iron fixed to a handle. He relates an interesting case in which he performed the operation, (ii, 36.) Rhases, upon the authority of a surgeon called Ancilisius, in the barbarous translation of his works, which probably is a corruption of Antyllus, briefly describes this operation. He directs us to open the mouth and take hold of the tonsils, the fourth part of which may be cut off. He recommends us to make the patient gargle with vinegar. He forbids the opera- tion when the tonsils are enlarged and red. (Contin. vii, 3.) Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 36,) and Mesne (de ^gr. Gutturis, 4,) describe the operation, but not so minutely as Albucasis. Guido de Cauliaco copies the descriptions of Albucasis and Haly Abbas, (c. vi, 3.) SECT. XXXI. ON THE TTVA. The uvula being, as it were, the quill or plectrum of the organ of speech is often the seat of defluxion from the head, and becom- ing preternatui-ally enlarged, of a lengthened'form and slender shape, it is called columella; but when thick below and round it is named uva, from its resemblance to a grape, as the other is so called from its resemblance to a column. If, therefore, it cannot be made to yield to general treatment,—I mean evacua- tions by bleeding and pm-ging,—nor to topical, such as astrm- gents, repellents, and discutients,—we must proceed to the operation, lest, by its constant iiTitation, it bring on coughs, sleeplessness, and even suffocation. Such, therefore, as are contracted, round, not of a lengthened shape, bloody, or some- what black, we must decline operating upon ; but those that are slender, long, small at the extremity, loose, not very bloody.