464 [book VI. FRACTURES. Comm. Aquapendente (CEuv. Cliir. ii, 3, and i, 4). We are certain it """^ ' will be generally admitted that the waxed apiiaratus of the ancients in the case of fractures was probably quite as efficacious as the' starched bandages which have been introduced of late years with so much advantage. SECT. C. ON THE ULNji AND RADIUS. The ulna and radius are sometimes both fractured together, and sometimes one of them only, either in the middle or at one end, as at the elbow or wrist. The worst of all is when both are fractured together, after that the ulna alone, but a fractured radius is, of all cases, the easiest cured. For, although it be larger than the ulna, yet it has this bone as a base and support to it. If only one be fractured, the extension must be applied principally to it, but if both, they are to be stretched evenly, the arm being put into an angular position, so that the thumb may be higher than the fingers, and the little finger lower than any of the others, for thus the ulna wiU be placed under the radius. If stronger extension be required, especially' when both are broken, we must apply it not only with the hands but also with ligatures, as described when treating of the arm ; and everything relative to the bandaging and the subsequent treatment, with the application of the splints, is to be done as in that case until callus is formed. The bones of the fore-arm have their callus formed in about thirty days at most. And the fore-arm is to be- otherwise arranged in the same manner as the arm, with the exception of those things which are put under it. Comm. COMMENTARY. Whoever would wish to see a full exposition ' ' ' of the principles upon which these cases of fracture ought to be conducted may consult the first part of Hippocrates^s work. (De Fracturis.) He shows, with a singular precision, the dis- advantages of the prone and supine positions of the hand, both of which, it appears, had their advocates in ancient times. The bandages, compresses, and splints are to be applied in the manner described in the preceding section. He insists strongly on the necessity of having the arm and wi'ist carefuUy sus-