SECT. LXXVIII.] 401 FISTULiE IN ANO. this state of the disease, have found it impossible to practise this mode of operating, because we could not discover the cavity of the fistula. For it was situated between the anus and sphincter towards the right side, and the dilator rather obsciu-ed the operation. But having dilated the wrinkles about the anus a certain fissure appeared among them, being as it were the defluxion of the fistula, for the pus passed out by it we saw to pass the head of the specillum into the fistula by it, which served as a director; and having passed the index-finger of the right hand to the sphincter, and having found a certain thin substance intervening between the finger and the sound, by pressing the sound violently to the finger, we perforated the bottom of the fistula, which was tui-ned upwards ; and passing with the finger the head of the instrument outwards, the whole of the substance between the mouths of the fistula, (I mean the one so situated as to favour the defluxion, and that now made by us,) we divided with a scalpel and cut out the sound. Commentary. Hippocrates describes minutely the apoli- Comm. nose, or the cure with the Hgature, in his work ' De Fistulis.' We must mention, however, that Kuhn and Sprengel do not admit this among the genuine treatises of Hippocrates, although they allow that it is ancient. Littre also, though, with some hesitation, has rejected it from his list of the genuine works of Hippocrates. And yet, considering that it was received as such by Galen and Erotian, it seems bold in any modern critic to refuse its claims. Celsus Kkewise describes distinctly the method of applying the ligature. The process, he says, is slow but free from pain. It may be expedited by smearing the thread with some escha- rotic ointment. The same thing, he adds, may be accompHshed by means of a scalpel guided upon a specillum (sound). When iinany smuses open by one mouth, he directs us to cut open a ^straight fistula with a scalpel, and then the others being tthereby exposed are to be tied with a thread. The diet is ito be of a diluent nature, with a liberal allowance of water for (dnnk. (vii, 4.) Aetius gives, from Leonides, a full account of fistuljE in ano, las we have explained in another place. He recommends us to 26