CLAVI, ETC. [book VI. 410 down to the fleshy excrescence, as it is called, another body is formed from the flesh below the nail shooting out through the division of the nail, whence pains again invade, as in the com- plaint we call paronychia, owing to the flesh under the nail being compressed by it. Wherefore, one may see the patients immediately relieved from pain by this section. On the fol- lowing days we may gently raise the divided part of the nail, and press the sanies from under the nail, and then again, as I said, apply the nail as a cover to the flesh below. The rest of the treatment of the finger should be soothing and dis- cutient." Comm. COMMENTARY, Aviccnna and Ehases approve of the plan of " ' treatment here recommended, upon the authority of Galen. Rhases, in fact, gives the very words of Galen. (Cont. xxxvi.) Albucasis directs us, ii^ the case of a bruised nail, first to have recourse to venesection, and then to make a transverse (oblique ?) incision through it. (Chirurg. ii, 91.) See our remarks in the sixtieth section of this Book on the confusion of the terms transverse and oblique by the translators of the Arabians. The same treatment is recommended by Haly Abbas. (Pract. ix, 67.) SECT. LXXXVII. ON CLAVI, MYRMECIA, AND ACROCHORDONES. The clavus is a round callus, white, resembling the head of a nail, and occurring in all parts of the body, but more espe- cially on the soles of the feet and the toes, occasioning pain and lameness in walking. Wherefore, having scarified around the clavus or corn, and taken hold of it with a forceps, we cut it out by the roots with a sharp-pointed scalpel or lancet for bleeding. Some, in order that they may not grow again, use heated cauteries. The myrmecia is a prominence of the skin, small, callous, round, thick, spreading deep at the base, and, if rubbed, occasioning a sensation like the bites of ants, and being formed in all parts of the body, but more especially in the hands. Wherefore, some, among whom is Galen, advise us to