FUNGOUS ULCERS. [book IV. 108 Commentary. Aetius recommends dried plantain, the ashes of the wood of figs, and the juice of calamint. Galen and Avicenna also mention calamint. Pliny mentions the gall of frogs. SECT. XLIIl. ON FUNGOUS ULCERS. The fungous flesh of ulcers is to be removed by medicines which are powerfully desiccant, such as diphryges sprinkled upon it, the squama seris, all the testacea burnt, both the echini (the hedgehog and sea-urchin,) burnt entire. But the following things are moderately cleansing, and repress the fungous flesh: the flower of the Asian stone, and still more powerful than it, the son and chrysocoUa, chalcitis and misy (when burnt they are less caustic,) and the flos sens in like manner; but verdigris is the most powerful of all. Salts, when burnt, consume the foul flesh, and in like manner charpie that has been soaked in strong brine and dried, con- sumes fungous flesh that is moderately large. But verdigris with the squama seris is powerfully repressing. Of the com- pound applications the powder called rhodium, and the psarum, and that named yellow, repress fungous growth without being pungent. But the trochisks called phaustiani, when levigated and sprinkled on the sore, and the dry medicine (or powder) called heliocaes, make fungous flesh slough ofi" to the bottom. But the application consisting of equal parts of calx viva, squama seris and manna, answers with, fungous flesh; with honey it cleanses such as resemble a mushroom, and with cerate it proves incarnating. A powder for keeping down fungous flesh: Of litharge, of chalcitis, of verdigris, of plumbago, equal parts.—Another, which represses strongly without being pungent, and applies also to spreading ulcers, and more especially the epulis of the gums, and whitens the teeth : Of quicklime, lb. j ; of arsenic, oz. vj; having triturated the dried arsenic with water, add the Hme washed like calamine, and, having rubbed them together dry and use. And of the trochisks, that called pantolmios, and those described for polypus, are excellent for repressing fungus in ulcers. But the green plasters, more especially the