SECT. XXXIV.] STEATOMA. 95 Cretan cistus, of bdellium, of galbanum, of ammonije perfume of bee-glue, of tui-pentine, equal parts; to be pounded together in a mortal-. It applies to scrofula, parotis, furimculus, and phyma. But Arcbigenes applies to meliceris apbronitrum, and double the quantity of hellebore, with hard cerate. But sep- tics cannot be applied while the skin remains entire; we must therefore in the first place lay bare the meliceris, atheroma, or strumse, with caustic medicines, of which the most simple is that consisting of quickhme (calx viva,) soap, and strained lye. The following one is more complex, and admits of being kept : Of calx viva, dr. ivj of red natron toasted, of burnt lees of wine, of each, dr. ij; of vermiHon, dr. j; triturate in lye; and haAong- made it of the consistence of liquid honey, boil three times, until it is of the proper thickness, and lay it iip in a leaden vessel, pouring in some lye, so that it may not quickly become dry. It applies to acrochordon, myi^mecia, pteiygium, cla^Tis, callus, and excrescences of the gums. The lees of wine should not be older than two months. Anoint the skin with this, and when it begins to dry clean it away with a sponge, and anoint again; and when the skin becomes black, wash away again, and use escharotics. When the eschars fall ofi", apply the septic medicines. A septic appHcation which is not irritating: Of squama seris, dr. iv; of realgar, dr. ij ; of black heUebore, dr. ij; use with rose oH.—Another: Of squama seris, of realgar, of nettle seeds toasted, equal parts; use with rose oil.—AnotherOf burnt sea-urchins, of the shell of the cuttle fish, of arsenic, equal parts; use with rose oil, but rub aU the parts around with cerate and oil. This also is a good appHcation: Of quickUme, p. ij ; of chalcitis, p. j ; of arsenic, P- j- CoMMENTAEY. See most of the authorities referred to in Com ithe preceding section. ■ y- Our author's definitions seem to be taken from Galen. (De 'Tumoribus and Meth. Med. xiv.) Galen states that the stea- ttoma IS to be cured solely by a surgical operation; that the 1 meliceris may be treated by discutients, septics, or excision 'With the knife; and that the atheroma admits only of excision, or the application of septics. Aetius may be referred to as an interesting authority upon