APPENDIX.] PROFESSIONAL IMPOSTORS. 245 nature of a swelling at the knee, that had been produced inten- tionally by the juice of thapsia {thapsia garganica, deadly car- rot ?) Feigned inward pains, he remarks, may often be dis- tinguished from the real by the aversion which the malingerer discovers to swallow medicines, which he would be anxious to : have given him if he were actuaUy in acute pain; and adds, 1 that the state of the pulse, and the other symptoms of intes- I tinal diseases, Avill assist in making the detection. (Quomodo I coai-g. sint qui fing. se ^grot. t. iii, 388, ed. Basil.) ON PBOFESSIONAL IMPOSTORS. Rhases has an interesting chapter on this head. The frauds of impostors, he says, are more numerous than could be con- tained in his whole work. Some of them, he adds, pretend to be able to cure epilepsy, and having made a crucial incision in the back part of the head, they extract from the wound some- thing which they hold in their hands, and thus impose upon people. Others, in Hke manner, cause it to be believed that tthey extract a smaU lizard by the nostrils. Some of these :characters, he says, make it be beHeved that they remove films jfrom the eye, by secretly introducing a smaQ membrane into !the eye, and taking it out again. Others manage to create a 'behef that they suck water from the ear with a reed. Others also make it be beHeved that they extract worms from the ears or teeth Others practice a trick by which they obtain the credit of extracting the ranula below the tongue. Why should I mention those, he adds, who introduce pieces of bone into wounds and ulcers, and afterwards extract them? He says it IS not uncommon for these impostors to sound a man for the .tone, pretend to find one, perform the operation, and exhibit I calculus which they themselves had introduced secretly into .he incision. Others pretend to cure piles, make incisions about the anus, and form ulcers there which did not exist before t^ertain of them affect by scarifications and other means to .ruck the vitreous humour from the hip-joint, while they exhibit something of the kind which they themselves have introduced IPhere are some who undertake to collect aU the infirmities of