LEUCE. SECT, v.] 31 etablissent d'enormes coloniesparmilesulceres quails y forment." (Hist, des Moeurs des Anim. ii, 207.) Aldrovaudi gives a very full history of phtliiriasis. (De Insectis, v.) SECT. V. ON LETJCE. Leuce is a change of the skin to a white colour, occasioned by a viscid and glutinous phlegm. Since all the kinds of leuce are not cui-able, you may form a diagnosis of it in this manner. Pierce the leuce superficially, not deeper than the skin, with a needle, and if blood flow, the complaint may be cured j but if a milky moistiu'e be discharged, it is incurable. Or, rub it with a rough wooUen rag, and if the part become red, the complaint maybe cured; but if it remain of the same colour, it cannot be ciu-ed. And those kinds which attack a great part of the body are to be supposed more difficult to cure than those which are confined to a small space, and old cases than recent. Some, therefore, in leuce, have approved of burning by iron, consisting simply of the application of heat. Others, dreading the pain of bxuTiing, and the scar arising from it, as being no less un- seemly than leuce itself, have had recourse to escharotic medi- ciaes, such as they say wiU produce a scar of the natural colour. Others rejecting all these things on account of the difficulty of their application, have used dyes (paying more consideration to the deception than the utiHty which they produce,) which are, of all others, the most to be rejected, owing to the speedy re- newal of the afi-ection. We must use, then, the under-mentioned remedial powers : Of adarce, of rosemary seed, of sulphur vivum, of each, equal parts; bruise and strain singly, and then, having tnturated together for a sufficient number of days, anoint in the sun, but not in great quantity, lest the skin be ulcerated; and, after some time, a little hellebore and galls maybe added •n like m^xmQv.—Another: Macerate the tops of the black fig m vmegar, and having triturated, mix equal parts of aphro- :iitrum, sulphur ^'i^mm, and the fruit of tamarisk, and having rubbed natron into the part, anoint and expose to the sun, ^akmg care lest an ulcer be produced. But Archigenes ha^dng •mxed a sufficiency of quicklime with fig-leaves, used them in like manner or, he says, having rubbed the leuce with white