[book VI. FRACTURES. 458 sternum, like the first bandage. If tlie fracture be at the elbow, the fore-arm is to be taken in with the bandage, the figure of the elbow-joint being preserved. And so in like manner with the other members, such as the fore-arm, the thigh, and the leg ; and when the fracture is in any part near a joint, and not in the middle of the limb, the joint is to be bound along with it. After the bandaging the moderns immediately apply splints, in order to preserve the bones which have been set in their proper shape, tightening them agreeably to the patient's feeling and the swelling occasioned by the inflammation. But the ancients did not apply the splints until after the seventh day, within which period, as the inflammation had declined, the limb had become less swelled. Hippocrates orders the band- ages to be loosed every three days, lest, owing to the part being constantly covered up, distension and pruritus should come on, and that the insensible perspiration might not be obstructed after the bone has become firm; for that by these means not only does a painful pruritus take place in certain cases, but ulceration of the skin is occasioned by the acrimony of the sanious humours. He directs us, therefore, to bathe with tepid water, so as to dispel the humours, but after the seventh day to loose the bandages at greater intervals, because the pai'ts no longer require the expulsion of the humours; the formation of callus thus goes on properly. The splints are to be applied in this manner. Compresses, thrice folded and dipped in oil, are to be put upon the bandages, and if the limb be of equal thickness this is to be done even ; but if it is of unequal thick- ness, the hoUow parts are to be filled up with the compresses so as to make the arm of equal thickness for the application of the spHntsj then the splints being wi'apped with a moderate quantity of wool or flax, we apply them around the fracture, being not more than a finger's breadth distant from one another, binding them moderately tight, and taking care, as much as possible, that the splints do not come in contact with a joint, and being more particularly careful of the inner part of the joint, for there they sometimes occasion ulcers and inflamma- tions of tendons. But there the bandaging must be made slacker; and stronger, on the other hand, where the fractiu'e swells up. It is better that the chest should be moderately bound with the arm, lest by its motions it should derange the