322 VENESECTION. [book VI. Comm. ligatiwe above the knee ; to put the limb into hot water, and " ' make the person walk about. When the blood does not flow readily, he advises us to slacken the bandage if too tight; or if the opening in the vein be covered with the skin, to turn the arm into all positions until the opening of the vein and of the skin correspond; and if it be too small, to enlarge it. When fear retards the flow of the blood it will be of advantage, he says, not to allow the patient to hear the sound of it. When it stops from deliquium animi he advises us to lay the patient in a reclining posture on a couch; to promote vomiting, and to rouse by tight ligatures to the extremities, and by aromatics. When a clot of blood obstructs the vein he directs us to squeeze it out, or to dissolve it with oil or vinegar. When coldness of the body, occasioned whether by the temperature of the air, or the nature of the disease, prevents the flow of blood, he recom- mends fomentations and frictions. When a piece of fat or flesh blocks up the opening of the vein, he says there is no remedy for it but to cut it out or push it aside. When the ob- ject is to produce a sudden depletion he directs us to make a large incision in the vein, but a small one when it is intended to procure reAoilsion. According to Drs. Freind and Milward, Alexander Trallian is the first authority who recommends bleeding by opening the jugulars. As far'as we know this statement is correct. Aetius's account of this subject is similar to oui- author's, but less copious, (iii, 10.) Actuarius in like manner has many judicious remarks on venesection, which our hmits prevent us from giving to the reader. lie forbids venesection when any natural secretion is increased, and this is in general a very proper rule, although, as Galen and Avicenna remark, profuse sweatings are some- times remedied by bleeding. Bloodletting, he says, is contra- indicated by crudities in the stomach, and a loose state of the bowels. (Meth.Med. iii, 1.) Little additional information is to be gleaned from the Arabians. We have mentioned, however, that Averrhoes and Avenzoar approved of venesection at a later and earlier period of life than the Greeks permitted it. , . f Avicenna with his customary accuracy collects everythmg ot importance which had previously been written on the subject,