140 [book IV. WORMS. collected at the mouth of the stomach, or in some other part. We shall now describe the form, generation, situation, diagno- sis, and cure of each variety, beginning veith the round. Of the round worms. The form of the round worms must be known to everybody, because they are more common thain any of the others. They are generated principally in the small intestines, and are very prevalent in the stomach; wherefore they are often discharged by the mouth, and sometimes by the nose. They are most common in children, more especially in fever. For they are formed about the commencement of fevers from a corruption of the matters; at their acme from the ma- lignant nature of the disease; and dui'ing the decline from a change of the whole system to a better state. Wherefore Hippocrates says, " it is a good symptom when round worms are evacuated at the crisis of the disease, and these speedily die." Those who have round worms experience pain of the intestines and stomach, small dry tickling cough, and in some cases hiccough, sleep with palpitations and irregular startings ; and some start from their sleep with a scream, and again fall over asleep. The pulse is unequal, and the fever has irregular exacerbations, making its attacks with coldness of the joints, and coming on three and sometimes four times in the day or night without any stated form. Children have mastication and projection of the tongue without cause, and grinding of the teeth; they shut their eyes and wish to remain silent, and are offended when disturbed. Their eyes appear bloody, their cheeks red, and again change to pale. But these things occur at intervals in a short time. Sometimes the worms crawUng up to the stomach occasion nausea, gnawing pain, and anorexia to the patients. When forced to take food they can scarcely swallow for nausea, or they vomit what they have taken, or their bowels are loose with corruption of the food, or are inflated like a bladder; but the rest of the body is wasted in an unac- countable manner, there being neither famine nor any extra- ordinary evacuation. But one must not expect to find all these symptoms in all cases, but certain ones, according to pre- vailing circumstances, and occasionally the most of them. These symptoms occur from the animals tui-ning themselves about in the intestines and biting them, aud the febrile heat raising noxious vapours to the brain from putrid humours col-