SECT. LXXIIT.] 385 ABSCESS OF WOMB. leaden tube recommended by Celsus : " Coeat mnlier omni die Comm at non consolidetur locus vice alia!!" The same advice is '—^ gravely given by Rhases (Cent, xxii), and by Alsaharavius, Avho, :is we have formerly stated, was probably the same person as Albucasis. (Pract. xxv, 3, 19.) But when the obstruction arises from a fleshy tumour, Albucasis recommends us to make use of the leaden tube. (Chirurg. ii, 72.) Alsaharavius directs us to remove the obstruction by corrosive medicines or with the knife. Rhases briefly describes the phimus, and directs us to perforate it with an instrument of iron, and then to introduce a tent moistened in some styptic wine. Haly Abbas states that obstruction of the uterus may arise cither from a natural, that is to say, a congenital impediment, or from the effects of ulceration. He recommends us to make the midwife clear away the obstruction with a scalpel or any other convenient instrument. The Arabians were very delicate 111 allowing male practitioners to perform surgical operations about the genital organs of women. (Pract. ix, 66.) SECT. LXXIII. ON ABSCESS OF THE WOMB. When the abscess is situated at the mouth of the womb, so as Ithat it can be operated upon, we must not be in haste in having ^recourse to incision, nor until the disease be ripened, and the rinflammation has increased to its utmost, and the vascular (.bodies which surround it have become attenuated, owing to the limportance of the uterus in the system. In operating, the rwoman should be placed on a seat in a supine posture, having «her legs drawn up to the belly, and her thighs separated from ©ne another. Let her arms likewise be brought down to her Jlegs and secured by proper hgatures about the neck. The pperator, sitting on her right side, is to make an examination with a speculum proportionate to her age. The person using the speculum should measure with a probe the depth of the woman's vagina, lest the stalk (fistula) of the speculum being Jtoo long it should happen that the uterus should be pressed japon. If it be ascertained that the stalk is larger than the ragina, folded compresses are to be laid upon the ake pudendi, LU order that the speculum may be placed upon them. The