404 HEMOURHOIDS, [book vi. Comm. base broad, be directs us to seize it with a hook, and dissect it out a little above its base: the part is to be secured with a thread. When there are many hemorrhoids he advises us not to operate upon them all at one time. When there is a dis- charge of blood it is to be stopped by the appHcation of a sponge. The day after the operation he recommends us to use the tepid bath and catalapsms. (vii, 30.) Aetius approves of cutting off hemorrhoids, and describes the operation minutely. He directs us to seize the pile with a hook, grasp it firmly, and bind it with a thread, after which it is to be raised and cut off. To stop the bleeding a piece of sponge bound round with a thread is to be introduced into the anus. Suitable dressings and bandages are then to be apphed. (xiv, 6.) In the asagoge' ascribed to Galen, the method of treating hemorrhoids by the ligature is particularly commended. Albucasis prefers excision and burning, but if the patient wiU not submit to these methods of cure he approves of ha^^ng recourse to the ligature. Excision is performed by seizing the hemorrhoid with a hook and cutting it at its base, after which some styptic application is to be made. The hgature is apphed by transfixing the base of the hemorrhoid with a needle armed with a thread. (Chirurg. ii, 81.) He gives particular du-ections " about the process of burning, (p. i, 37.) When the hemorrhoid is internal Rhases directs us to evert the anus, and having laid hold of the tumonx to cut it out. He also describes the process of tying them in the same terms as the other authorities. (Contin. xxiv.) The directions given by Avicenna are quite similar. Haly Abbas recommends excision or the ligature. (Pract. ^'^'rabricius makes mention of all these methods of treatment, but speaks of the appHcation of the cauteiy as being dangerous. Upon the whole he appears to have entertained great appre- hensions from stopping the discharge of piles. (CEuv. Ch. u, 94) Theodoricus and Brunus recommend excision, the cautery, and the ligature, according to circumstances. Theodoricus also makes mention of applications for consuming and drying them up.