[book IV. FURUNCULUS. 74 leaven with nitre; or linseed with honey; or the leaves of henbane, triturated with butter : of compound applications, that which is prepared from leaven and fine flour, and that which is particularly named Dothienicon, are very applicable. Foment with soft sponges frequently dipped in hot water, and then apply the medicines. MM- Commentary. In this and the two following Sections, see the authorities on phlegmon. The furuncidus, according to Galen, is an inflammatory affection which is of a malignant nature when deep-seated, and differs from phyma only in hardness. (De Tumoribus.) Furunculus, says Celsus, is an acute tubercle, attended with inflammation and pain, more especially when converted into pus. After it has been opened, and the pus discharged, there appears part of the flesh below converted into pus and part cor- rupted, of a whitish or reddish coloiu-, which they call the ven- tricle or belly of the furunculus. He says that the disease is not attended with danger, and that medicines are necessary solely for removing it the more expeditiously. For this purpose he particularly commends galbanum. If repellent apphcations do not siicceed, suppurative ones may be used; and, failing these, rosin or leaven. When pus is formed, no further treat- ment is required. According to Rayer, Celsus' description of furunctdus apphes to the mahgnant pustule and not to the boil. (Malad. de le Peau, 233.) The simple remedies recommended by our author are bor- rowed from Oribasius. It is to be remarked that Galen, Celsus, Pliny (Nat. Hist, xxiii, 7), Octavius Horatianus, and Avicenna concur in recom- mending figs for furunculus or the boil. It was with a lump of figs that the prophet Isaiah cm-ed HezekiaVs boil. Avicenna and Ehases treat furunculus judiciously by bleeding and purging, which prevent the formation of a large abscess. When there is throbbing in the tumour, they dii-ect us to use maturative applications. When it is ripe, and does not break readily, they recommend ns to open it. Haly Abbas says, that boils arise from gross and depraved humoui-s. (Theor. ^iii, 11.) Alsaharavius also ascribes them to a full and unwholesome diet. He mentions that he often succeeded in stopping the formation