SECT. Lvi.j COAGULATED MILK. 231 The Arabians treat the case in a simibir manner. Alsaha- Comm. ravius directs us to give vinegar^ natron, wine, and the like, '—'— i also diuretics, but he forbids the use of emetics. Sprengel inclines to believe that bulls' blood may prove de- Ueteiious, if allowed to remain long in the stomach, by evolving i azotic gas. He therefore approves of the hot vinegar recom- imended by Galen. (Comment, in Dios. 25.) Ardoyn states tthat a large quantity of bulls' blood taken into the stomach tmay produce suffocation by stopping the action of the dia- rphragm. (De Venen. iv, 23.) SECT. LVr. ON COAGULATED MILK. Those who take a large draught of milk containing rennet, JBxperience a great feeling of suffocation from its becoming co- i^gulated. In treating them, we may give as an antidote rennet [with vinegar, compelling them often to drink of it; also the lined leaves of calamint, and its juice in like manner, or the roots of laserwort, or its juice with oxycrate, thyme with wine, iind the lye used by bonnet-makers; but nothing saltish must m given, for thereby the milk becomes more firmly coagulated and is converted into cheese. Neither must we make them t'omit, for thereby the coagula being lodged in the stomach will nroduce suffocation. • Commentary. Gorrseus, in his notes on Nicander, remarks Comm. iihat milk only proves prejudicial when taken in great quantity, immediately after the rennet has been added to it, and before t has curdled. See also Matthiolus and Ardoyn (de Venenis). v^icander recommends the same remedies as our author, namely, mch as are of a cutting and attenuant nature, as rennet, vine- tar, wme, lasewort, &c. Dioscorides forbids all saltish things. »luffus (ap. Oribas. Med. Col. viii, 24) recommends a clyster of unegar and natron, or asses' milk with much salt. Celsus says tnth his accustomed brevity, " Si lacintus coit, aut passum, aut oagulum, aut cum aceto laser." See also Galen (1. c.) Haly ■».bbas, Rhases, Avicenna and Alsaharavius also recommend tonet with pepper, assafostida, vinegar, &c. For bad milk Dhich has spoded on the stomach, all the Arabian authorities