[book VI. 378 BUBONOCELE. be applied, by wbicli the intestines will be pressed deep down. The prominences, tben, of the peritoneum formed on each side of the knob of the probe are to be united to one another by sutures, and then we extract the probe, neither cutting the peri- toneum nor removing the testicle, nor anything else, but curing it with the applications for fresh wounds. But since burning in cases of bubonocele is preferred by most of the moderns it will be right for us to give an account of this operation. After the man has undergone moderate exercise, let him cough violently and strain to keep in his breath; and when the swelling appears at the groin we mark with black ink or coUy- rium the place that is to be burned in a triangular figure, making its transverse line above in the situation of the groin, and we also make a mark in the middle of the triangle. Having laid the patient in a recumbent posture we first apply to the mark in the middle nail-shaped cauteries heated in the fire, afterwards burn the sides of the triangle with gamma-shaped (r) cauteries, and afterward level the triangle with cauteries shaped like tiles or leutils, an assistant during the whole pro- cess of burning wiping away the ichorous discharges with a rag; and in those who are of a moderate habit of body the burning should be carried to such a depth as to touch the fat. But in those who are lean we must not attend to this mark lest by mistake we should biu-n the peritoneum ; nor again in. those who are grosser and fatter, for in them the fat appears before a suflacient burning has taken place. We must, there- fore, be rather guided as to its extent by a skilful conjecture. After the burning, having triturated salts with leeks we apply them to the eschar, and use the inguinal bandage shaped like the Greek letter X. On the following days we complete the cure with the dressings fitting for eschars, such as lentils with honey, and the like. Commentary. Celsus directs us, when the inguinal tumour ' is moderate in size, to make one incision; but if larger, he re- commends two lines to be made, so that the middle may be cut out; then, without extracting the testicle, as advised in certain cases of prolapsed intestines, the veins are to be bound together and tied where they adhere to the tunics, and afterwai'ds cut below the knots, (vii, 24.)