314 BRONCHOCELE. [book VI. Comm. It will be perceived from tlie foregoing account of the prac- ' ' ' tice recommended by Aetius^ tbat the ancient surgeons were aware of the advantages of securing the artery above the seat of the aneurism, as practised by the late Mr. John Hunter, and that they actually had recourse to two ligatures in the manner directed by Mr. Abernethy; but that they afterwards opened the tiunour and evacuated its contents, not having yet learned from experience to tnist to the absorbent powers of the system. It will likewise be remarked that ca- rotid, axillary, and inguinal anem-isms were in ancient times abandoned as incurable; so that modern surgery may rmdoubt- edly boast of having so far improved upon the practice of the Greeks and Arabians. Sprengel gives an interesting history of the operation for anem'ism. (Hist, de la Med. xviii, 3.) According to him, John de Vigo was the first who conceived the idea of curing aneurism by compresses and styptics. This, however, is not exactly true, for, as mentioned above, Galen, Rhases, and Alsaharavius recommended compresses and bandages to prevent aneiirism after the accident which most commonly gives rise to it. SECT. XXXVIII. ON BRONCHOCELE. A large round tumour forms on the neck from the inner parts, whence it obtains the appellation of bronchocele, of which there are two varieties, the steatomatous and the aneuris- matical. The aneurismatical we judge of from the symptoms of aneurism, and abandon as hopeless, like all other aneurisms which it is dangerous to meddle with, as is the case most espe- cially with those of the neck, owing to the size of the arteries. The steatomatous we operate upon like steatomes in general, distinguishing and avoiding the vessels, in the same manner as we described for strumse. Comm. COMMENTARY. The surgical operation for bronchocele is '—'—' described by Celsus. He says that its contents may be evacu- ated bv caustics, but that the knife is a more expeditious process of cure. For this piu-pose he directs us to make a single mci-