SECT. XLVIII.] ULCERS. 121 then after the syringing which has been described, we must have recourse to an agglutinating application of a humid con- sistence, but of desiccative properties, such as that from chalcitis caUed phoenicinum, diluted with old oO, so as neither to be very hai-d nor of such a consistence as not to stain the finger; and afterwards it is to be mixed with moderately old wine, and ap- plied in a circular form with corresponding bandaging. To skin in this ragged state honey, as was said, is not one of the least proper applications when boHed to the consistence of a plaster and appHed. It will be better, however, if after spread- ing it on the rag you sprinkle over it from a sieve some myrrh finely pulverized, or aloes, or frankincense, or all of these to- gether. I have also found the lesser centaury a wonderful ap- pKcation for the same purpose; next to it is comfrey, after which is the root of the lUyrian iris, and after these is" the flour of tares. Sometimes during the process of boiling we sprinkle these upon the honey when the vessel is about to be taken ofi" from the fire. It is better, however, to do so after it is taken off, and then it is to be stirred about, and when it becomes tepid applied to the sinus, and bandaged as aforesaid. Commentary. Similar directions are given by Galen and Comm Aetius, but upon the whole those of our author are superior; and as those of the other two supply no additional information,' It will be unnecessary to multiply extracts from them. (See Galen, Therap. ad Glauc. ii.) Actuarius, in Hke manner, briefly directs that unless the smus open downwards, it shall be cut open and dressed with an agglutinative appHcation. You may think weU of the case, he adds, when the part is dry and free from pain, or when only a little well-concocted pus is discharged from it. In the translations of the Arabians, the sinus is described by the names of absconsio and caverna. Avicenna states that the sinus differs from the fistula in having a larger cavity, and Its edges not being indurated. He lays down very correct t rules of treatment, but they are all copied from Galen. TJius Ihe directs, when the orifice of the sore is above the cavity of fthc sinus, that it should be cut open; or, if this cannot be ccoriveniently accomplished, he recommends us to introduce a •tent smeared with some incarnant or detergent application.