{book IV. FISTULA. 122 Comm. Upon the authority of Dioscorides he recommends the lesser ' * ' centaury in such cases. His directions for the application of the bandages are similar to those of our author. Celsus, and other of the ancient authorities, do not treat of the sinus separately from the fistula. SECT. XLIX. ON FISTULA. Fistula is a callous sinus formed for the most part from ab- scesses, and deriving its appellation from the pipes of reeds (fistulaj). If, therefore, it terminate vi^ith a bone, it cannot be cured veithout a surgical operation, unless in process of time a scale of the bone come off spontaneously. But if it does not terminate with a bone, it is to be cured by the applications for removing callosities, and the agglutinative medicines. The applications for removing callosities are such as these : the root of spondylium scraped around and applied removes the callus of fistulse. And in like manner black hellebore applied removes the callus in two or three days; also lees of oil boiled and in- jected; sori in a crude state, or burnt and injected with some diluted wine, or sori and crocomagma with hydromel. Or make collyria by mixing elaterium with tui-pentiue, and apply. Or syringe with the juice of the root of laserwort. This melts down the callus: of verdigris, dr. xij; of ammoniac, dr. ij; mix with vinegar, and form into an oblong coUyrium. A collyrium which I use for removing the callosities of jisttilci:. Mix with vinegar equal parts of ammoniac perfume, of copperas, of verdigris, of misy, of chalcitis, and of gum.—Another, from the surgical works of Heliodorus : Of calamine, of misy, of cop- peras, of burnt copper, of gum, of each, dr. iv; of crude chal- citis, dr. iij; mix with the urine of a young person not come to manhood, and form collyria. Put this collyrium into the fistula, and apply externally the inner part of bread soaked in water, changing it until the inflammation subside, and the eschar fall off.—Another, which I received in Alexandria : Of the roots of alkanet, of toasted misy, of chalcitis, of verdigris, of fissile alum, of copperas, of aloes, of each, oz. j; tritxu-ate along with fine cauthai'ides in vinegar, and make collyria.— Another : Of copperas, dr. ij ; of chalcitis, of verdigris, of each. i