WEAPONS. 425 SECT. LSXXVIII.] extracted the weapon. He saw a man who had got an arrow Comm. lodged in his back j the wound healed, but after an interval of ' ' ' seven years the weapon came out below his buttocks. He knew a woman who had an arrow lodged in her belly, and the woimd healed, and the weapon never afterwards occasioned her any inconvenience. He knew a man who had an arrow lodged in his face, and the wound healed up, and never gave him much trouble. He relates that he extracted an arrow which had been buried in the nose of a prince, after making various fruitless attempts for the space of four months. He then delivers general directions for the extraction of weapons, bor- rowing, as usual, very freely from our author. When a weapon cannot readily be got extracted at the time, he recommends us to let it alone until it become loosened by the putrefaction of the surrounding parts. When impacted in a bone, he directs us either to move it about until it is loosened, or to perforate the bone with a trephine. When lodged in the cranium, it is to be removed in like manner with a trephine, provided the dura mater is not injured, for if it is wounded the case must not be interfered with. When a weapon is lodged deep in any pai-t of the body where there are no large nerves, veins, or bones, he directs us to enlarge the wound and extract the weapon; but if it has barbs, the fleshy parts about it must first be carefully separated to prevent them from being torn. When a weapon passes through a limb, or attaches one part of the body to another, he directs us to cut oflF the part which pro- jects, and then extraction may easily be accomplished. If fastened in a bone, he advises us to turn it round so as to loosen it; and if that does not suffice, he recommends us to leave it for a few days, when it may be extracted without diffi- culty. If the shaft or wooden part of a weapon be broken off, he directs us to apply to the head an impellent instrument with a concave extremity, so as to adapt itself to the form of the body which is to be extracted. When the weapon is poisoned, he recommends us, if possible, to cut out the flesh around it. When a weapon lodges in the breast, belly, bladder, or side, and can be felt with a probe, he directs us to cut cautiously upon it, taking care not to wound a vein or nerve. He concludes with giving drawings of forcipes and impellents. (Chirurg. ii, 96.)