FISTULA. 124 [book IV. Comm. upoii nutritious food. If the fistula is at a distance from the " ' ' prsecordia, emetics with radishes are said by him to be proper. When the fistula is old it becomes callous, and requires stronger applications, containing such ingredients as calamine, atramen- tum sutorium, verdigris, galls, lime, orpiment, or realgur. lie mentions as a very ready application a solution of ammoniac in vinegar, with some verdigris added to it. However, he re- marks, any other caustic will accomplish the same purpose. If the fistula is long and transverse, an incision is to be made at its commencement, after which the collyrium may be applied. When the fistula is double, or consists of stiU more passages, he recommends us to blow in with a writing pen the medicines in the form of powder, or to apply them dissolved in wine, mulse, or vinegar. But whatever the internal dressing be, he recommends us to apply on the outside of it something of a refrigerant and repressing nature, as the parts around are gene- rally afi"ected with inflammation. When the dressings are re- moved the fistula is to be syringed with wine if the discharge of the pus is copious, with vinegar if its edges are callous, but with mulse, or a decoction of tares, if the passage be clean. By the means we have been describing it wUl generally happen, he says, that the inner coat of the fistula will slough ofi", and leave the ulcer in a clean state. Agglutinants are then to be applied, especially a sponge smeared with boiled honey. When the sides of the fistula are clean there need be no apprehension lest they do not adhere, since, he remarks, we often see in ulcerations of the fingers that without great care one finger is apt to adhere to another. In the ' Euporista' of the Pseudo-Dioscorides, it is recom- mended first to dilate the fistula with a piece of sponge, and then to use a stimulant application containing verdigris, am- moniac, &c. Aetius gives an excellent account of fistula, but it is mostly borrowed from Galen. We can afford room only for a few extracts. When a fistula extends obliquely, nothing can be done without making a free incision, for which pm'pose he directs us to introduce a sound and cut along it. His direc- tions for examining into the nature of a fistula are such as ample experience alone could have dictated. He seems to be decidedly of opinion that, except in cases of a recent fistula, or