BURNING THE EYELIDS. 264 [book VI, per longum ad mensuram oculi fasciolam praecides, et impositis fibulis consucs palpebram foris versus, ut oculus sine deformitate recipiat visum et gratiam naturalem." It is to be remarked tbat Albucasia, Jesu Hali, and Vegetius speak of cutting out tbe superfluous skin of the eye- lid witb a pair of scissors, as was done by Scarpa. All tbe ancient operations for trichiasis are described by Guido de Cauliaco (vi, 2.) The mode of cure by twisting the skin about small reeds until the parts slough is still generally practised in China. The Chinese surgeons grasp the fold between two slips of bamboo, which being tightly fastened at their ends perform the office of a ligature. SECT. IX. ON BURNING OF THE EYELIDS BY MEDICINES. The burning of the eyelids with caustic medicines was re- probated, in a word, by all the ancients, lest the acrimony of the application should prove injurious to the eyes; and because when the burning was carried to too great an extent the affection called lagophthalmos was produced, in which case the eyelids cannot be shut, and the vision is apt to be injured by everything that comes in the way. But since many who suffer from the irritation of the ciliary hairs are not able to endure even the name of the operation by suture, we are com- pelled from necessity, against our will, to have recourse to burning by medicine. The following is a composition of that kind: of quicklime, p. ij ; of Gallic or common soap, p. ij; and some add of aphronitrum, p. iv. These things being pounded with strained ley, or soap ley, or some other ley, as that of figs or of oaks, and being mixed with the urine of a young man not come to maturity, we apply to the eyelid, upon the knob of a specillum, the part touched having the shape of a myrtle leaf; and we burn to the extent comprehended in the operation by suture. The skin being burnt at the first application, we remove so much of it with a sponge, and apply the medicine a second time, allowing it to remain until the part blacken ; and if it does not blacken we apply it a third time. When the skin is blackened and the eschar also formed, we must clean away the medicine and have recourse to bathmg