SECT. VI.] HYPOSPATHISMUS. 257 and hot defluxion is determined to the eyes. The face is ruddy and about the forehead there is a sensation as of worms or mts passing along it. Having therefore first shaven the hairs iboiit the forehead, we must permit the lower jaw to move, and -voiding the place where the temporal muscles are seen to ict we are to make three straight and parallel incisions on the orehead each having the length of two fingers, and descending ' the bone, and being at the distance of about three fingeiV H-eadth from one another. After the incision we apply the instru- nent called hypospathister, and extend the division from the ett temple to the middle incision, dividing all the intermediate ubstance along with the pericranium; then we push a spatula j om the middle one to the rest, and applying the point of a harp-pomted knife to the first division, so that its sharp side lay be tm-ned to the flesh within the skin, and the blunt one ^ the bone, we push it as far as the middle division, cutting irough aU the vessels which descend from the head to the ^es, but not comprehending the external skin. And again e push It from the middle to the last incision, cutting through .e vessels in Hke manner. After a moderate evacuation blood, having squeezed out the coagula, and made three listed tents, we are to put one into each division, and applv- g a compress soaked in water, we must secure it with a tudage. Next day we bathe not only the ulcers, but Hke- the temporal muscles, and the ears with wine and oil, on count of the inflammation; and on the third day having aoved the dressings, we must have recourse to copious affu- .n, and aftei-wards complete the cure suitably with tents out basihcon dissolved in rose-oil. CoMME^TAKY^ See Aetius (vii, 93); Albucasis (Chirurg. Comm i ed b ^'^^^P^^^: This operation is better df- ^ t)ed by our author than by any of the others. Celsus -ugh he describes several grave operations for the reref of des to It in general terms. It must have been a very fol able operation, and for that reason perhaps, has been en- ly abandoned m moderate times. Even Albucasis speaks > as benig an operation which was performed by the an- its; from which language we may suppose that it had been 17