SECT. II.] LEPROSY AND PSORA. 17 (i, 31); Seremis Samonicus; Marcellus (de Med. xix); Isidorus (Orig. iv, 8); PseUus (op. Medicum); Vegetius (Mulom. iii, 71) • Geopon. (xviii, 15); Serapion (v, 2); Avicenna (iv. 7,2 9) • Avenzoar (ii, 7, 4) ■ Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 16; Pract. iv' 4) • Alsaliaravius (xxxi, 1, 2, 3, 4) j Rhases (ad Manser, v, 31 et seq.j Divis. 117, et seq.); Contin. (xxxvi.) As in the preceding chapter, we shall here give a separate account of the views of the Greeks, Latins, and Arabians, be- ginning, in this instance, with the Greeks. Hippocrates makes only casual mention of these diseases, and has nowhere marked theii- distinguishing characters. In one place he caUs leprosy a blemish rather than a disease; and m another he remarks that some varieties of it itch before rain. He speaks of ^dnegar, and of lime and water as remedies for it." It IS proper to apprize the reader that the two works quoted nbove from the Hippocratic Collection are, most probably, not uenuine, Galen also is very deficient on the subject of lepra, having uowhere given a complete description of it, although he notices It incidentally m many parts of his works. In one place he calls elephas, leuce, and alphos cognate affections. Alphos he says, is much more superficial than leuce. In another, he attributes these complaints to the melancholic humour which becomes fixed in the skin. In the ^sagogue,^ which, however ^^eems not to be a genuine work of his, it is said that lepra is an attection of the skin, which becomes whiter and rougher than natural, the roughness resembbng that from prominent psy- |b-acia. Psora is said to partake more of the nature of ulcera- ' ion. Both are represented as arising from a saltish phlegm ' ud as bemg cured by phlegmagogues, and ointments rubbed into the skm. It is also stated that leuce is distinguished from ' lepra by there being no roughness of the skin in the former ;iisease. In another place he mentions psora as a disease most inveterate to cure. (Facult. Natur. i, 13.) Oribasius thus distinguishes leuce, alphos, melas, lepra, and ora from one another. Leuce is occasioned by a pituitous nd viscid blood, which, in process of time, renders the colour hite. Alphos arises in Hke manner, but the superficial skin '•'ly IS aflected, and not the whole flesh. When a pituitous 'umour IS the cause of the complaint, it puts on the appearance 2