LEPROSY AND PSORA. [book iv. Comm. spears' roots, oz. vj ; of sulphur vivum, of manna, of ' of natron, d . viij anoint, mixing with vinegar. The followmg Iple remedies'are particularly applicable for psora: Staves- acre bitter lupins, cardamom with vinegar, the root of hly with ron;y t^pentine^osin, sulphur, chick peas, goat s dung ; and these'^compound ones-mix equal parts of chalcitis and misy with wine, and anoint the more humid kinds of psora.— Another: Boil the tender leaves of rose-bay m a sextanus of oil until they are dried, and, throwing away the leaves, add to the on oz. iij of white wax, and, after it is dissolved, cool and sprinkle upon it oz. j of sulphur vivum, and anomt m the sun or in the bath. Some boU also squiUs with the rose-bay.— Another : Of diachylon, oz. iy, of wax, oz. ij; of oil of roses, oz. 3; oflitharge,oz.ii3J of ceruse, oz. iij; of Uquid pitch, oz vj; of the dross of silver, oz. ij; of siricum, oz. ij; of vinegar, what will be sufficient for the trituration of the dry thrngs.—Another : Ot ceruse, oz. ss; of starch, oz. ss; of lead, oz.j; of red lotuses, or ofalkanet, oz.ij ; of wax, oz. vj ; of oil of roses, oz. ix; boil the alkanet properly with the oH of roses, and then add the other thiugs.—Another: Take ten eggs, or as many as are reqmred and having macerated in the most acrid vinegar until their shell become tender; boil in the vinegar the yelks of them; ha^ang tritiirated with rose-oH and what remains of the vmegai- a moderate quantity of litharge, anoint, when of the consistence of the sordes of oil in hRths.—Another: Three yelks of eggs out of vinegar; of rose-oil, oz.vj; of sulphur vivum, oz.uj; having triturated the yelks of the eggs and the sulphur with the vine- gar add the cerate. And Htharge triturated with vinegar and rose oil, until it be of the consistence of a plaster, cleanses the most acrid kinds of psora; and the detergent ointments from dock, and the most of those for elephantiasis, answer weU m general with leprosy and psora. See Hippocrates (de Usu Humidorum, Epidem. ii); Galen. (Meth. Med. xiv; de Causis Sympt. iii, 6; et alibi); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 58); Aetius (xiii, 134); Actuaiius (Meth. Med. ii, 11); Nonnus (Epit. 334); Pseudo-Dioscor. (Euponst. i, 138); Leo(vii,15,18); PoUux (Onomasticon,iv,9); ^scliylus (Choeph. 374) ; Alexander Aplii'odisiensis (Prob. i, 146, and ii, 43); Cclsus (v, 38); Scribonius Largus; Octavius Horatiauus