IXIA. 221 SECT. XLVI.] See Theophrastus (H. P. ix, 19); Pliny (H. N. xxv, 75); Schulze (Toxicol, vet.); Schneider (in Nicand. Alexiphar.); and Sprengel (Rei. Herb, Hist.) These modern authors in general are dis- posed to think that it was the iris tuberosa. Sprengel, how- ever, in the notes to his edition of Dioscorides, is decided that the second species of Dioscorides (Mat. Med. iv, 78) is the aconitum nwpellus; but respecting the first species, he is in ; great doubts. All agree tbat the aconitum of Theophrastus is different from the A. of Dioscorides and the other toxicologists. We may be permitted to add; that the symptoms of poisoning . by aconitum, as given by Nicander, agree so weU with those I reported lately of cases of poisoning by the aconitum napellus, ■ that we cannot doubt their identity. SECT. XLVI. ON IXIA. 1)1 0 Ixia, which is also called ulophonon, when drunk has some rresemblance both in taste and smell to basil-royal. It brings ■ on strong inflammation of the tongue, and disorder of the mind; It suppresses all the secretions, occasioning borborygmi and 1 umbHng, with deliquium animi; but there are no alvine eva- • nations. After the greater part of the poison has been )rought up by vomiting, or evacuated by tlie bowels, they will •xpenence relief from drinking the decoction of wormwood, i A ith much Avine, ^dnegar, or oxymel, or the seed of wild rue' ' jr the root of laserwort, and in the like manner the decoction of tragonganum with some of the aforementioned, or with milk • or of turpentme, of nard, of castor, of laserwort, of each an obolus u wme. The fruit also of the wabiut triturated with wine will )c proper; or of rosin, of castor, and of rue, of each dr. i • ! md m hke manner of mezereon, dr. ij ; of the juice of thapsia, : Ir. ij, with honied water; and hot vinegar may be cbunk by tself. ^ ; Commentary. Nicander's description of the symptoms is Co I ery similar to that given by our author, and his treatment ^ ! oems to have been conducted upon the same principles • ; lamcly, by administering emetics and purgatives at first and' rtcnvards, discuticnt and detergent medicines, to overcome