EPINYCTIDES. 39 SECT. IX.] to be quite in accordance with the practice of the modern phy- Comm. sicians, who recommend the half-starving system in all such ""^^—' complaints. For red exanthemata the Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends ceruse with oil of bays and sulphur, pure bark with wax, &c. The exanthemata are described by the name of pustulee parvee in most of the translations of the Arabians. The exanthemata is, we think, the first species of Serie described by Haly Abbas. For the opinions of Alsaharavius and Haly Abbas about the exanthemata of infancy, see Book i, 6. Dr. Willan thinks that the nettle-rash was comprehended under the term exanthemata. He is also of opinion that the benat metis of Avicenna is the nettle-rash. It would appear, however, that the benat noctis was the same as the sera or epinyctis. See Rhases (Cont. xxxvi, 2). The symptoms of it axe said to be itching, roughness of the skin, and small erup- tions attacking the patient during the night. Thucydides, Hippocrates, and Galen mention exanthemata as a common symptom of the plague. We may take the present occasion to mention that none of the Greek or Latin authorities has given any distinct account purpura. Avicenna has briefly described it in its chronic form, (iv, 3, 1, 8). SECT. IX. ON EPINYCTIDES. Epinyctides are smaU ulcers breaking out spontaneously ou the skin, in the form of buU«, reddish, and when broken, dis- charging a bloody ichor. These are not very troublesome during the day, but at night, they are more painful than the smaUness of the ulcer would bespeak. Wherefore, having dis- solved the juice of laserwort in water, apply it ; for it is desic- cative witliout being pungent; or, having levigated hemlock, apply It; or crude cabbage with water, or triturate parsley with polenta, and apply • or, triturate the leaves of henbane with honey, and apply ; or, strychnos by itself, and with the green coriander; or, use the leaves of olives boiled with water ; or, having triturated raisins deprived of their stones, and spread them upon a splenium or oblong pledget, apply; or triturate