ELEPHANTIASIS. 5 SECT. I.] if summer, but if winter, in the bath, until it occasions sweating. And the dry smegma of Jjlsculapius would agree excellently with these cases, and all the smegmata about to be described, even unto those for alphos, and also those now mentioned, are appHcable for those complaints. And the tumid excrescences, whether inflammatory or ulcerous, are to be rubbed with Indian buckthorn: or horned poppy, or aloe, or the Andronian trochisk, or that of Polyides ; and let cataplasms be applied of chondnis with the juice of knot-grass or plantain; or of pellitory of the wall, tiiturated; and the leaves of the green Melisian herb, when pounded with axunge and applied, are wonderfully effi- cacious, for they redden the parts, but the redness is easily re- pressed by the application of bread; or of the cerate made from almond oil. By this means their natiaral coloTir is restored. When the parts are ulcerated, plasters are suitable : that from diphryges, and the apple one with wine, that called coracium, that made from oxymel, the Andronian trochisk, pompholyx and calamine. It is a symptom that the whole disease is becoming more moderate when the first ulcers are cicatrized. For the dyspnoea of persons labouring under elephantiasis give a draught of five or six slaters in three cyathi of honied water. And some of the general remedies described for dyspnoea will be ap- pHcable for them. Of the natnral baths we must select, as being most particularly useful, the aluminous and chalybeate, and if possible, such as are cold. It is also particularly ser- viceable to drink them. And the use of the sand of the sea- shore has the same effect, and so have all the sudorifics. But since this affection is one of those which are easily communi- cable, no less so than the plague, they are to be removed as far as possible from cities, and lodged in inland and cold situations, where there are few inhabitants, if this can be accomplished; for so they may descend from thence to surrounding places. This is proper partly on their own account and also on accoiuit of those whom they might come in contact with. For they themselves will thus enjoy the use of a more commodious aii-, and they will not communicate the evil to others. Commentary. Consult Lucretius (vi, 1112); Celsus (iii, 25); Co Phny (Hist. Nat. xxvi, 5); Scribonius Largus (102); Cfelius ^ Aurelianus (Pass. Tard. iv, 1); Marcellus (De Med. xix);