ENTEROOELB. SECT. LXV.] 375 Wlien this tunic is removed^ an incision is to be made from the Comm groin down to the testicle, which is to be careftilly cut out. This process, however, is only applicable when the patient is of a tender age, and the mischief is moderate. When the patient is a strong man and the disease greater, the testicle is not to be removed, but is to be allowed to remain in its place. It is accomplished in this manner: the groin being opened with a scalpel, in the same manner, down to the middle tunic, it is to be seized with two hooks, so that an assistant may pre- vent the testicle from falUng out at the wound; then that tunic is to be cut downwards with a scalpel, and under it the index- finger of the left hand is to be pushed down to the bottom of the testicle so as to force it up to the wound: then the thumb and index-finger of the right hand separate the vein, artery, nerve, and then- tunic, from the upper tunic. But if any small membranes (fasciee ?) come in the way, they are to be cut out with a scalpel, until the whole tunic be exposed. Having cut out what is proper, and replaced the testicle, a somewhat broader thong of skin is to be removed from the lips of the wound in the groin, in order to enlarge the wound, and thereby occasion a greater formation of new flesh. The object of this operation, it will be remarked, is to produce a firm cicatrix at the external abdominal ring. In cases of epiplocele, he recommends us either to replace the omentum, or to cause the death of it by septic medicines, cauteries, or the ligature ; or to cut it out with a pair of scissors, but of this proceeding he does not much ap- prove, as it may occasion dangerous hemorrhage, (vii, 20, 21.) G alen briefly states that intestinal and omental hernise are to be cured by pressing up the intestine or omentum, removing as much as possible of the spermatic vessels ; or otherwise draw- ing out the peritoneum, fomenting it, and then cutting it ofi*. (Isagoge.) He mentions that it was customary to bleed the patient before the operation when he was plethoric. (De Opt. sec.) Aetius speaks of the operation as being highly dangerous. He forbids attempts at reduction while the prolapsed parts are affected with inflammation, tormina, and flatus, (xiv, 23.) Albucasis's account of the treatment is quite similar to our author's. He states that the disease is occasioned by the de- scent of a portion of intestine to the testicle, owing to rupture