SECT, L.] SORES. 125 when It IS not deep-seated, an incision ought always to be made Comm at first; after which applications for removing the caUus may be used. When, however, the patient refuses to submit to an operation, and the case is recent, the cure may be attempted by means of escharotics and incarnants, such as verdigris, misy, alum, &c., mixed with frankincense, aloes, and myrrh. Oribasius briefly recommends white heUebore, a mixture of equal parts of verdigris and ammoniac, and a few other such articles, as apphcations for fistulje. Scribonius Largus mentions several compound applications contammg misy, chalcitis, verdigris, alum, &c. MarceUus gives one consisting of ceruse, ammoniac, and oU. Actuarius gives a brief but distinct account of the nature and treatment of fistula, but it is taken almost entire from our author. Avicenna inculcates that a fistula is only to be cured by a free incision, or by removing the callous sides of it by burning with fire or caustic medicines, such as arsenic, ammoniac, sul- phur, the flour of copper, or mercury. This in fact is the sum of the medical practice in such cases. There is nothing parti- cularly interesting in Haly Abbas. Alsaharavius truly states that a diseased bone is the common cause of fistulous ulcers not heahng, and inculcates that in this case there can be no hope of recovery untU the carious portion be removed, Rhases, upon the authority of the celebrated AntyDus, directs us to use corrosive apphcations when a fistula cannot be operated upon ^vith the scalpel. He intimates that this is particularly the case when the disease is seated in the groins. The earher modern surgeons, such as Guhelmus de Saliceto, Amoldus, Rogerius, Rolandus, and Guy of Cauliac, in imita- tion of the Arabians, dii-ect fistula to be treated by the apph- cation of septics, the actual cautery, or incision. Rogerius recommends a tent spread with quicklime and soap, or with arsenic. Guy of CauUac, Hke Avicenna, speaks favorably of subhmed quicksilver or corrosive sublimate. SECT. L. FOR SORES WHICH BREAK OUT AGAIN. Some sores which have become cicatrized, often after no long time become inflamed and break out again; for a bone being