233 SECT. LVIII.] GYPSUM. The effects of Pontic honey in occasioning madness is men- Comm. tioned in the ' Anabasis' of Xenophon (iv, 8.) The same cha- ^"^^ racter of it is given by Aristotle, Pliny, Diodorus Siculus, and iElian. Tournefort confirms the ancient accounts of its inebri- ating effects. See Sprengel (ad Dioscor. ii, 103.) SECT. LVIII. ON GYPSUM. Gypsum^ when dinink, produces suffocation, by being converted into stone; hence we must transfer the remedies appHcable to those who have taken mushrooms, giving them in this case, and substituting the decoction of mallows for oil; for being of a fatty natiu-e it lubricates the parts, and prevents them from being injured by the stony hardness of the gypsum. Oil, also, in honied water is proper; and the decoction of figs, and the lye of figs, or of the ashes of vine-shoots with much wine, and marjoram, or thyme with lye or vinegar. Clysters are also to be administered, consisting of must and the decoction of mallows. Commentary. Our author copies closely from Dioscorides. Comm Khases and Avicenna treat this case upon much the same""--^ principles as the Greeks, only they give scammony freely at first, and if dysentery supervene they recommend the remedies suitable for it. Aetius, Dioscorides, and the other Greek an- thors, although they approve of clysters, say nothing about drastic purgatives. Avicenna says, gypsum in its action resem- bles ceruse, but is even more powerful than it in inducing strangulation. Haly Abbas says, gypsum occasions coHc and ileus with dryness of the mouth, suffocation, difficulty of making .u.ne, and so forth. He directs clysters at first, and afterwards an electuary of pepper and mustard to be given. Alsaharavius forbids emetics, recommends water mixed with honey, and ohve- oil lor dnnk, also emolUent clysters, and sweet wine For an account of gypsum, see Pliny (H. N. xxxvi, 59) and Tlieophrastus (de Lapidibus.) Isidorus gives the foHowinff de " scnption of it:-" Gypsi plura genera: omnium autem opti- mum, lapis specularis : est enim signis redificiorum, et coronis gratissimus.- (Orig. xvi, 3.) The gypsum speculare was evi-