176 SHREW-MOUSE. [book v. spreading ulcer; and besides tormina supervene, with dysuria and the discharge of a cold fluid. They are relieved by the application of galbanum in the form of an oblong pledget, by itself, or triturated with vinegar, or of barley-flour mixed up with oxymel. And the shrew-mouse itself which inflicted the bite may be torn in pieces and applied, and pelhtory may be applied, or the boiled rind of the sweet pomegranate, or wild mallows, or pounded garlic, or mustard triturated with vinegar; and the parts may be bathed with warm brine, and then a cataplasm of burnt barley with vinegar may be apphed. They may take propomata of southernwood boiled in wine, or sisym- brium, or wild thjTue, or rocket, or galbanum, or sage, or the tender balls of cypress mth oxymel, or pelhtory with wine, or the root of chameleon, or the rennet of a kid or of a lamb, or gentian root, or vervain. These things may also be adminis- tered in the form of a cataplasm. But some give in a potion the shrew-mouse itself that inflicted the bite, having triturated it with wine. This one also is effectual: Of myrrh, di\ vj; of the bark of birthwort, dr. iv. To the bites of the shrew-mouse and of the scolopendra apply salts with hquid pitch, or cedar- rosin with honey, or garlic with the leaves of the fig-tree and cumin, or the leaves of calamint, or barley with vinegar. CoMMENTAEY. Nicaudcr says that the bite of the blind Mns araneus is mortal. Our author's plan of treatment is taken from Dioscorides. Oribasius recommends garlic and cumin, mixed with oil. (De Morb. Curat, iii, 70.) Aetius says that the Mus araneus is an animal resembling the weasel. His plan of treatment is similar to our author's, (xiii, 14.) Isodorus says of it: "Mus araneus, cujus morsu aranea moritur, est in Sardinia animal perexiguum, araneee formd, quae solifuga dicitur, eo quod diem fngiat." (Orig. xii, 3.) Vegetius, the veterinary surgeon, recommends garlic pounded with nitre, or with salt and cumin. (Mulom. iii, 82.) See also ColumeUa (vi, 17); and ^lian (H. A. ii, 37.) Most of the Arabians treat of this case in the same terms as the Greeks. ■ Without doubt it is the sorix araneus, L. The accounts ^ which the ancients give of its venomous qualities are said ' " Buffon and Sprengel to be exaggerated. Probably Agrv