ON POISONS. 194 [book v. oil, sponging it frequently. And use the following plaster: Of squama ^ris, of galbanum, of verdigris, of each, oz. j; of wax, lb. j; of molybdtena, lb. ij; of oil, one sextarius. The molybdsena being first boiled in the oil receives the verdigris and squama seris, and when it thickens it receives the soluble substances. When the inflammation subsides treat it as a common ulcer. Commentary. Similar treatment is recommended by Aetius ' (xiii, 1); Apuleius (9, 2); Serenus (45); Pliny (H. N. xxviii, 4); Oribasius (de Morb. Curat, iii, 71); Avicenna (iv, 6, 4); and Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 28.) It may be proper to mention in this place that instances have not been wanting in modern times to confirm the accounts given by ancient authorities, of fatal eflfects being occasioned by the bite of a man. See Hildanus (Chinu-g. i); Forestus (xxx, 12) ; Hofi"man (Diss, de saliv. et op. morb. 5); Zacutns Lusitanus (Prax. adm. iii, 84, 89.) SECT. XXVI. ON POISONS. Comm. Having given a compendious account of venomous animals, we shall next treat of deleterious substances, giving an exposi- tion of the simple ones, and detaihng the symptoms of them with their' general and particular remedies. As to the com- pound ones we leave them to be treated of by any person who chooses; for some have described the compositions of certam deadly medicines which are more liltely to prove injuiious than beneficial to the reader. For neither are the exact symptoms which occurred in those who took them described, by which a suitable remedy might be found out; for the symptoms varying according to the natm-e of the prevaUmg ingredient, one might, from conjectiu-e, vary the remedies accordmgly. Wherefore here again we must begin with the prophylactics. Commentary. We now enter upon the consideration of the second and most important division of toxicology; namely, alexipharmics, which treats of poisonous substances taken in- wardly All the writers on theriacs treat also of alexipharmics, and of these the most ancient, and one of the most interesting,