478 LUXATIONS. [liOOK VI. wlien it unites, squeezing out the drops of blood which were^ distributed to the hollows of the bones. Commentary. When the fractured portions do not adhere after a certain time, Celsus directs us to extend the limb, and rub the ends of the bone together, in order to convert them again into the state of a recent fracture, taking care, however, not to hurt the muscles and nerves. The part is then to be fomented, and the splints applied on the fifth day. Rhases recommends calefacient liniments, friction, and nu- tritive food. SECT. CXI. ON LUXATIONS. We proceed to the treatment of luxations, which naturally follows that of fractures. A luxation then (to give a definition of it) is a displacement of a member from its proper cavity to an unusual place, by which means the voluntary motion is im- peded. We have no other diff'erences of it to mention, except that some are to a greater and some to a less degree. When the bone of a member, therefore, is completely removed from its place, the accident is called by the common name of luxation, but when only moved a little, or brought only to the brim of the cavity, it is called a subluxation. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cclsus givcs several important remarks upon dislocations in general, but as most of them may more properly be brought under particular heads, we shall notice them here but briefly. He distinguishes dislocations into two classes; the first consisting of a separation of two bones naturally united, such as the scapula from the humerus, the radius from the uhia, the tibia from the fibula, the os calcis from the bones of the ankle, which last is of rare occurrence, and the second being a removal of the bone of a joint from its proper place. "WTien a dislocation occurs, as he remarks, the finger discovers a cavity in the part, and inflammation and fever come on, followed sometimes by gangrene and convulsions. If not reduced, the limb wastes. In a j)erson who is lean, humid, and has weak nerves (muscles ?) the dislocation is most easily reduced, but is