293 SECT. XXVII.] EPULIS AND PARULIS. near the gums. The epulis, then, we raise with a flesh forceps or a hook, and cut out; but the parulis we divide circularly and fill the incision with tents. I am aware that often when opened only with the common lancet used for venesection and the matter evacuated, the disease has ceased. After the opera- tion we give orders to gargle with wine, then with honied water, and afterwai'ds apply to the wound the Flowery'powder, imtil the cui-e is completed. But if mortification attack the gums, and do not yield to the suitable applications, we must burn the part with knob-shaped cauteries. Commentary. Parulis is the gum-boU. Epulis is a soft Comm. fleshy tumour which forms on the gums. Aetius. treats fully of them. To the former he directs us to apply at first such things as promote suppuration, after which it may either be allowed to break of itself or may be opened with a lancet. Styptic appUcations wiU then be proper. For the epuHs he recom- mends us at first to apply alum, verdigris, &c., and if these have not the desired effect he directs us to cut it off with a scalpel, (viii, 24, 25.) Celsus treats of both at considerable length by the name of parulides. For that species which corresponds to the gum- boil, among other remedies, he recommends us to hold in the mouth a decoction of figs, and directs to open it before it is i ipe, lest the matter should hurt the bone. Larger tumours are to be cut out entire, (vi, 13.) Haly Abbas recommends excision for the epulis, and to open a lancet. (Pract. ix, 33.) It appears to us that of all the ancient authorities Albucasis lays down the best rules for treating the epulis. He directs us o cut It out with a forceps and scalpel, and then to apply .tj-ptic powders to the part, or if the tumour grow again, the ictual cautery. For our own part, we have generally found hat no permanent cure could be effected without the cautery. >ee Chirurg. (ii, 28, and i, 22.) It is unnecessaiy to detail the treatment recommended by lie other authorities.