CLAVICLE. M CT. xcm.] 447 be recognized. Fracture in the ramus may be distinguished comm. iVom dislocation, by there being mobility in the former case, "—*—' vhereas there is none in the latter. (Chirurg. Vet. p. 49.) Celsus says, that in fractures of the jaw-bone the separated portions are never completely disjoined. When the bone is fairly broken transverse, the tooth at the fractured part protrudes, ■vad is therefore to be secm'ed to the adjoining one with a hair. He then recommends us to apply a double compress, moistened in wine and oil, with agglutinants; and afterwards a bandage or soft piece of leather is to be put on with its middle at the I chin, and its extremities fastened above the head. In this, as in every other species of fracture, he recommends at first ab- stinence, and afterwards, liquid foodj not allowing a full diet • until the inflammation has subsided. He says, a fractured jaw-bone gets consolidated between the 14th and the 21st day. i Albucasis evidently copies from our author; and Avicenna ! and Uhases do so avowedly. ; Haly Abbas gives a similar account, recommending us to j secure the teeth with a thread; and then to apply bandages, ■ and occasionally a compress, as directed by our author. , By the first variety, described by all the ancient authorities, i was meant, we suppose, a fracture of the condyle. SECT. XCIII. ON FRACTITRE OF THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle in its natural position is united to the sternum ^ at its inner extremity, and at its outer it is articulated with the : acromion; and, therefore, as it supports the shoulder and the i arm itself, if it undergo a fracture in any part whatever, the ! portion of it united to the shoulder sinks down, being dragged along with the arm. It is better, then, that the fracture be : transverse, and not longitudinal, or partly straight with a lu- mated extremity, according to the opinion of most surgeons. Tor that which is fractured transversely, can, by extension and ccompression with the fingers, be readily restored to its proper ^position j but the other kinds of fracture have prominences not ieasily arranged. If, therefore, it be broken in any way through ats whole thickness, let one assistant take hold of the arm con- mected with the fractured clavicle, pulling it at the same time