[book IV. ALPHI. 34 with cold yi&tQr.—Another; Of tlie flour of lupines, of huc- cina, and natron, of eacli, a cli£enix; of white hellebore, dr. viij; rub with it in a dry 'siv^te.—Another: Of the flour of bitter vetches, lb. ij; of the seeds of rocket, of bitter almonds, of the root of the wild cucumber, of each, lb. j ; triturate with wine and honey and anoint, and after an interval of an hour wipe it away with a sponge. It applies also for freckles, warts, and other spots on the skin. A tried remedy for white alphos : of sulphur vivum, ii sex- tarii, of quicklime whitened, oz. iv ; five whites of eggs, of nard-oil and vinegar, a small quantity. The sulphur is first pounded, then we add to it the oil of nard, and again tritu- rate ; then the vinegar is poiired in, and the mixture is again triturated. But the quicklime is to be washed separately, once, tvdce, and thrice, and then we add it to the sulphur with the white of the eggs and triturate; and we pour out the collected fluid; but leaving a small quantity so that the ointment may admit of anointing, we use it thus.—Another tried remedy : Take sulphur vivum, dried fig leaves, aphronitrum, alcyonium, Cimolian earth, and myrtle, use with vinegar.—Another of Archigenes : Rub in equal parts of fig leaves dried in the shade, of sulphur, and of alum with vinegar, or of fig leaves, dr. iv; of nitre, dr. ij; of burnt alcyonium, dr. ij ; anoint with vinegar in the bath. But red arsenic with one half of sulphur is excellent for removing the black alphos; thus having cleansed the pai't with natron, anoint with it in the sun. For white alphos : of copperas, of verdigris equal parts, of natron the double, rub without fat: or, of rosemary seeds, of sulphur vivum, of adarce, equal parts; triturate with vinegar, rub, and anoint; but when it is dry, bathe by rubbing. This applies also to the white species. Comm. Commentaky. We have again to refer the reader to the ' ' ' second chapter for an account of these complaints, and an ex- position of the difi'erences between them and the afi"ections to which they are allied. It will be seen that they are varieties of the genus vitiligo of Celsus, and that they bear a near re- semblance to leuce, from which they are chiefly distinguished as being mere superficial aft'ections of the skin. The Arabians