305 SECT. XXXIV.] ABSCESS. a fiUet which can be easily extracted; and when the part has been cut out we fiU it in hke manner with lint. If a hemor- rhage take place we must use cold water or oxycrate, and if the bleeding continue we may sprinkle upon the part finely powdered chalcitis, which we may also have recom-se to often when the part is gangrenous and flaccid. In winter, and when the parts are nei-vous, we may soak oblong pledgets in wine and oil and apply them; and in summer, when the parts are fleshy, we may soak these appHcations in water and oil, or in the same cold wine and oil, and binding them, on the following day we may bathe with the same fluids ; but on the third day haying loosed the dressings and sponged the parts, we may use the application called tetrapharmacon on a pledget, and if there be no inflammation present we may apply the same wash for the preservation of the pledget; but if there be in- flammation, we must apply a digestive cataplasm, having first pomed water on the parts. When the inflammation abates we may effect the cm-e by promoting suppuration and incar- nation. Sinuses are to be cm-ed by agglutinative remedies, as lias been said, in the Fourth Book, on sinuses. Commentary. AU the authors quoted under this head in Comm. the fourth Book may be consulted. Celsus is more than usuaUy prolix in laying down the rules for the surgical treatment of abcesses. Before the abscess liardeu, he directs us to make incisions in the skin, and apply a cupping mstrument, in order to remove any symptoms of in- flammation which may have been present, or, in other words o procure resolution Sometimes, however, as he explains,' he matter is coUected in a cyst (tunica), in which case it is not to be supposed that the contents of the abscess can be re- moved by a cupping instrument. When the pus ripens it is seldom proper to let it out if seated in the armpits, or groins • >or when the coDection is superficial, or in the flesi; and it i^ setter, as he prudently directs, to apply cataplasms until the .us make an opemng for itself. When it is judged necessary o open an abscess, he recommends us, if not seated in a .ervous part, to perform the operation with a red-hot iron >ccause a small opening made in this manner wiU remain onger open. Abscesses in nervous parts are to be opened 20