[book v. 160 VENOMOUS ANIMALS. Comm. initia (sic enim in venas deleteria traherentur, a quibus omni ^"^^—' studio atque industri^ excludi debent) sed post vomitus alvique dejectiones," &c. Serapion, contrary to most of tbe authorities, recommends that the person who sucks a poisoned woimd, should be in a fasting state j but as he is a servile copyist from his prede- cessors, it might be suspected that the text is in fault, if the same directions were not given by Rabbi Moyses, with this explanation : that a fasting person will perform this office with more risk to himself, but with greater advantage to the patient, than one who had taken food immediately beforehand. (De Venenis, i, 1.) All this shows how well the ancient savans were acquainted with the physiological fact, that the absorbent powers of the vessels is in the inverse ratio of their state of repletion. Celsus recommends nearly the same general remedies as Nicander. Thus he directs us in the first place to apply a ligature round the limb, but not too tightly, for fear of occa- sioning torpor; and then to extract the poison by sucking, or by a cupping instrument along with scarifications. His local apphcations are of a hot stimulant nature. As internal remedies he recommends emetics, which may be supposed to expel the poison from the system by the concussion which they produce, and various articles of a calefacient nature, such as wine and pepper; because, says he, "maxima pars venenorum frigore interimit." Isidorus states in still more general terms that the poisons act by oppressing the vital heat. He says, " Omne autem ve- nenum frigidum est, et ideo anima quae ignea est, fugit vene- num frigidum." He states, likewise, that poisons do not act upon the system unless mixed with the blood: " Venenum autem dictum eo quod per venas vadit. Infusa enim pestis ejus per venas vegetatione aucta discurrit et animam extiu- guit. Unde nou potest venenum nocere nisi hominis tetigerit sanguinem." Lucanus : " Noxia serpentum est admixto san- guine pestis." This, however, is an imperfect account of the action of poi- sons, whether such as act by being introduced into the stomach, or those that prove deleterious when applied to a wound. Perhaps the classification given by Avicenna may be mentioned