502 [book VI. DISLOCATIONS. Comm. are turned out; the patient cannot bend his thigh at the ' ' groin; and the head of the thigh-bone occasions a tumour in the perineum. This appears evidently to be the variety de- scribed by modern surgeons as the dislocation inwards and downwards, the head of the bone being lodged near the thy- roid foramen. The symptoms described by modern authors are exactly the same as those mentioned by Hippocrates, Having seen cases of it, we can bear testimony to the correctness of Hippocrates^s description. The symptoms of dislocation out- wards as enumerated by Hippocrates are, shortening of the limb, relaxation of the inner part of the thigh, and projection at the buttock, inclination of the knee, leg, and foot inwards, with inability to bend the limb. This case is described by ' modern authors as a dislocation upon the dorsum of the iHum. From personal experience we can also testify to the accuracy of the description of it given by Hippocrates. The next variety is the dislocation backwards, which, he remarks, is of rare occurrence. It is rather obscurely marked by inability to extend the leg at the hip-joint and ham, relaxation of the flesh in the groin, distension of the nates, a slight degree of shortening and inclination of the limb. He states that the head of the bone is situated below the flesh of the nates. This assuredly is the dislocation backwards upon the tuber ischii, the symptoms of which are admitted by Sir Astley Cooper to be sufiicieutly obscure. Hippocrates describes with great accuracy the appearance which the limb puts on after- wards when the dislocation is not reduced. (De Ai-ticiihs.) Reduction, he says, may be accomplished by the hands, with a bench, or with a lever. All these modes of reduction are mentioned by our author, and therefore we shall not take up time in describing them. (Ibid, and De Vectiariis, 15.) The figure of the bench of Hippocrates, given by Littre, woxdd appear to us excellent, and it renders the description easily understood. (Hippocrat. Op. t. iv, 44.) Littre also gives an excellent figure of the reduction by suspension. (lb. 291.) Apollonius Citiensis gives a most elaborate and interesting commentary on the methods of reduction recommended by Hippocrates in cases of dislocation at the hip-joint. These methods, however, may be best learned by examining the figures given in the Index Galeni, or in H. Stephens's Latiu