ABSCESSES. 58 [book IV. Comm. of an imripe abscess are strong motion of the arteries, weight, ——' distension, pain, redness, and hardness; to which are to be added horror and fever if the abscess be large. When there is a remission of these symptoms, and the part becomes itchy, and somewhat livid or white, the suppuration is ripe, and the matter is to be let out by medicines or iron. Unless the opening be large he properly forbids tents or pledgets to be put into it. When these are used, however, lentils and honey, or pomegranate rind boiled in wine are to be apphed over them. Whatever is applied must not be tightly bound. The Arabians mention a variety of applications for producing the rupture of abscesses. (See in particular Avicenna and Rhases.) Thus, they recommend a plaster consisting of can- tharides and old oU. Some of their applications contain nitre, quicklime, and arsenic. Such a composition, by producing a slough, would no doubt effect the purpose for which it was in- tended. Haly Abbas recommends a poultice made of leaven, boiled figs, and the seeds of rosemaiy. He speaks of onions as an application to indolent abscesses. Alsaharavius treats of abscesses at great length. By abscesses of the nervous parts it will be readily under- stood that our author does not mean that they are seated in what are now properly called nerves, but in tendinous and membranous parts, for all these were comprehended under the name of nerves by the older writers, namely, Hippocrates, Plato, and Aristotle. Galen pointed out cleai-ly the distinction be- tween these parts, but the term is often used in its old and popular acceptation by the writers subsequent to him. The account which our author gives of deep-seated abscesses is highly interesting, but is mostly borrowed from Galen (ad Glauc. ii.) Rhases, in his ' Continens' (xxvii), gives an interesting outline of the opinions of all preceding authorities, with some ingenious observations of his own. When there is any hope of producing resolution he approves of scarifications. When the pain is violent he recommends hot and humid applications with the addition of narcotics. After the abscess has been opened with the knife, he says that desiccative apphcations are indicated, and not ointments containing Avax or oil. He de- scribes the leaven cataplasm, and others of a similar nature. He gives Antyllus' directions for opening abscesses. Abscesses in