FRACTURES. [book VI. 466 it is to be bound to the palm that it may be kept at rest; but if any of the others, as for example, the index or little finger, it is to be bound along with the one next to it, or if one of the middle, it may be bound along with that on either side, or all may be bound altogether. For they are thus kept best at rest, as if the fractured bones had been supported with splints. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates recommends the general treat- ' * ' ment applicable in all cases of fracture, with the exception of the spKnt, which, as Galen explains, is not admissible in these cases. Celsus says, it will be sufficient when a finger is broken to bind it to one piece of splint (surculum) after the inflammation has subsided. Albucasis recommends one small splint to be appHed upon the thumb when it is fractured. If one of the fingers be broken, it is to be bound up with the others, or one small piece of splint may be used. Avicenna, Bhases, and Haly Abbas treat distinctly of these accidents, but supply no additional in- formation. * SECT. CII. ON THE THIGH. The case of a broken thigh is analogous to that of the arm, but in particular, a fractured thigh is mostly deranged forwards and outwards, for the bone is naturally flattened on those sides. It is to be set by the hands, with ligatures, and even cords applied, the one above and the other below the fracture. When the fracture takes place at one end, if at the head of the thigh, the middle part of a thong wrapped round with wool, so that it may not cut the parts there, is to be applied to the peri- nseum, and the ends of it brought up to the head and given to an assistant to hold, and applying a ligature below the fracture, we give the ends of it to another assistant to make extension. If it is fractured near the knee, we apply the ligature imme- diately above the fracture, and give the ends to an assistant, with which to make extension upwards; and while we put a ligature round the knee to secure it, and while the patient