LAGOPHTHALMOS. 266 [SOOK VI. cicatrix, and having separated tlie lips witli a tent, use bandages until the cure is completed, avoiding such things as are very desiccative, and having recourse to those which are fatty and relaxing, such as the juice of fenugreek poured on the pai-t, and the ointment prepared with four ingredients called basiU- con, applied on a tent. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Celsus (vii, 7) ; Aetius (vii, 71); Albu- casis (Chirurg. ii, 13); Avicenna (iii, 3, 3, 13); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 20); Rhases (Cont. ii, 4.) Celsus directs us to make a lunated incision below the eye- brows, the horns of the incision being turned downwards, and care being taken not to wound the muscles. A tent or pledget of lint is to be put into this incision to prevent the edges of it from uniting. This simple operation is described in nearly the same terms by Aetius, Albucasis, Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Rhases. Fabricius ab Aquapendente informs us that the operation had fallen into disuse in his time. It is now sometimes prac- tised. See Scultet, (Arsen. de Chii-ui-g. Tab. xxxiv, 8.) SECT. XI. ON THE SUTURE OF THE UNDER EYELID, AND THE BURNING OF IT BY MEDICINES. The under eyelid is subject to the same complaints from the ciliary hairs as the upper; for, when larger than natural, it is everted; and it is subject likewise to phalangosis and distichiasis. We must, therefore, perform the operation of the suture in the same manner as for the upper eyelid, but in an inverted order, beginning vfith the lunated incision on account of the obstruction occasioned by the blood, and then making the veruted. But the under-incision is to be omitted altogether, because the lower eyehd, by its natural weight, is readay everted. The rest of the treatment to be completed as in the suture of the upper eyelid, except that the extremities of the ligatures are not to be glued to the forehead. If in this case the patient is averse to an operation, and prefers burning by medicines, you have abeady got a description of this process. Comm. COMMENTARY. This scction requires no commentary.