1 Comm. 32 LEUCE. [BOOK IV. heUebore until tlie part perspire and become of tbe same colour as the rest of tbe body, anoint witb sinopis or meban eartli; or bavins perforated them witb needles until tbey bleed anomt witb sinopis in vinegar; or, baving first rubbed tbem as formeriy said, anoint witb tbe fresb juice of figs, or rub m so mucbmtb tbe leaves of it. Commentary. In tbe second Section we bave stated so fully tbe nature of tbe leuce, and tbe difference between it and its cognate aff-ections, tbat it will be unnecessary for us now to resume tbe subject. It is tbere mentioned tbat leuce is Celsus' tbird species of vitiligo, and tbe baras of all tbe Ai'abian translators, mtb tbe exception of Stepbanus Antiocbensis, tfie translator of Haly Abbas, wbo appbes tbe term lepra to it. it was tberefore tbe wbite species of leprosy. All tbe medical autborities represent it as an intractable disease, not only tbe cuticle being altered in structure, but also tbeflesb below, and even tbe bairs, baving undergone a cbange of coIoot. All direct us to prick tbe skin witb a needle, and, if it bleed, tbe cure is to be attempted; but if a sbgbt colourless fluid issue from it, tbe case is to be abandoned as bopeless. Tbey con- sider it as arising from debibty of tbe assimUative facidty of tbe part wbicb can no longer convert tbe nutritive juices mto tbeir proper consistence. All recommend nearly tbe same treatment. Tbe diet is to be regulated witb a strict abstinence from gross food ] if tbere be pletbora, venesection is to be pre- mised; tben di-astic purgatives and emetics are to be given, and tbe parts affected are to be rubbed witb stimulant and caustic appHcations, contaming bellebore, nitre, sulpbiu-, misy, red arsenic, &c., or even tbe actual cautery may be appbed. In sbort, all treat tbe disease in nearly tbe same manner as om- autbor. (See in particular Serapion and Avicenna.) Aristotle, we believe, is tbe first Greek writer wbo makes mention of leuce. He calls it a disease in wbicb aU tbe bairs of tbe body turn wbite. (Hist. Nat. iii, 11.) " Tbe snow-wbite leprosy" of tbe ancient Jews was tbe leuce of tbe Greeks. Moses describes very correctly tbe metbod of distinguisbing it from tbe alpbos and melas; (Le-\dticus, c. xni.) Tbe symptoms of leuce are given in tbe 3d verse; of tbe alpbos in tbe 4tb; of tbe melas in tbe 6tb. He calls it contagious.