68 [book IV. ERYSIPELAS. of Scribonius Largus is not herpes. That it was erysipelas seems probable from the similarity between bis applications for it and those which Celsus and the other authorities recommend for erysipelas. Thus for ignis sacer he recommends Cimoliau chalk, diluted with the juice of solanum, or the solanum by itself, or with bread; or a mixture of sulphur vivum, ceruse, and litharge. We may remai-k further in this place that the iffnis sacer, or St. Anthony's fire of the middle ages, would appear to have been some variety of eiysipelas. Galen's account of erysipelas is particularly deserving of attention. In the 14th Book of his ' Meth. Med.,' he is at pains to state the nature of the disease, and the difference be- tween it and phlegmon. The common symptoms of both are heat and swelling. But they differ, first and principally in colour, which is red in phlegmon, but pale or yelloAv, or a com- pound of both, in erysipelas. Thi'obbing is also a character- istic symptom of a great phlegmon, for it is deep-seated, whereas erysipelas is rather in the skin. Erysipelas, he pointedly in- culcates, is occasioned by a bilious humour. This humour being thin, readily passes the fleshy and rare parts, and flows to the skin, where, unless it be particularly watery, it is unable to pass the pores, and, consequently, is retained. When things, indeed, are in theii' natiu-al state, this bitter bile passes through the pores of the skin by the insensible perspiration, but when it is either too abundant or thicker than usual, it is retained by the skin, which it inflames and causes to swell: hence the reason why erysipelas chiefly affects the skin or the prolonga- tion of it which lines the internal cavities. He states that the great indication of cure is refrigeration or cooling, but that there is danger of carrying this plan too far, lest the humoiu- should be driven to some vital part: wherefore cooling appli- cations are to be used until the part change its colour, but are not to be continued until it become black or livid. It is ne- cessary, therefore, as soon as a change of colour in the affected part is remarked, to exchange them for those of a contraiy nature. His cooling appHcations consist of strychnos (solanum?) and the other articles mentioned by our author. When the part becomes livid, he directs us to make incisions, and after- wards to apply cataplasms and fomentations with hot water, to