403 SECT. LXXIX.] HEMORRHOIDS. SECT. LXXTX. ON HEMORRHOIDS OR PILES. The existence of hemorrhoids is rendered manifest to us by the discharge from them. Before proceeding to the operation we must use frequent clysters with the view of evacuating at the same time the contents of the intestine, and, by irritating the anus, of rendering it more disposed to eversion and protrusion of the gut. Having, therefore, laid the patient on his back in a clear light, if we are to use the ligature we pass a very thick thread round the Hps and secure each of the hemorrhoids with this ligature, leaving one as an outlet to the superfluous blood (for so Hippocrates directs.) After the application of the hgature, using a compress that has been dipped in oil and the bandage adapted for the anus, we order the patient to remain quiet, aad treat the bowels with tepid oil and honied water, and afterwards we use a cataplasm made of crumbs of bread and saffron j and after the falling off of the hemorrhoids the cica- trization is to be promoted by wine. Leonides has not recourse to the ligature, but having seized the hemorrhoids and held them for some time with the forceps used for operations on the u\-ula he cuts them off with a scalpel. After the operation we must use manna and starch with chalcitis, or the plaster of burnt sponge with pitch, and the trochisk called faustinum, in " order to burn it completely. Others by filHng the cavity of the instrument called staphylocaustes, with caustic medicines, liave oiu-nt hemorrhoids hke a scirrhous uvula. Commentary. Hippocrates directs us to pass a needle Comm. armed with a very thick thread through the hemorrhoids, and tie them with it. Septic applications are afterwards to be made to them. (De Victu Acut. 67.) The author of another f the Hippocratic treatises recommends us to cure them by uming with red-hot irons. (De Hsemorr.) Celsus directs us when the base of a hemorrhoid is narrow :o tie it with a thread Avhere it joins the anus, and to apply over it a sponge squeezed out of hot water until it become uvid, when it is to be scraped off with the nail or a scalpel. •Sometimes, however, he says, the ligature occasions great pain *nd retention of urine. If the hemorrhoid be large and its