ADHESION OF EYELIDS. [book vr. 272 Comm. To tMs class of tumours we may perhaps refer the white ' ' ' rough bodies resembling chalk-stones, on the inner surface of the eyelid, which are described by Aetius. He directs us to evert the eyelid, and, making an incision along the vertex of the tumour, to scoop it out with an earpick, and apply burnt copper, finely triturated, to the part. When extracted out- wardly he recommends a dressing with tetrapharmacura. (vii, 82.) See Albucasis (Chirurg. ii, 10); Avicenna (iii, 3, 3, 18); ^ and Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 21.) They evidently copy from ' our author. Ehases professes to borrow his description of the operation from Antyllus and Paulus. (Cont. ii, 3, 2.) Fabricius ab Aquapendente, describes tmder the name of hydatid, two kinds of encysted tumours, the contents of the one being of a thick and heavy nature, and the other, an atheroma. He approves of the ancient modes of operating. (O. L. ii, 9.) Heister incorrectly calls them vesiculse aqua plense. (Ch. ii, 2, 9.) Tumours similar to those which we have here treated of are described by Scarpa, in the third chapter of his work on the Eye, and every practical surgeon must be familiar with them. Comm. SECT. XV. ON ADHESION OP THE EYELIDS. The upper eyelid undergoes adhesion sometimes to the lower tarsus, sometimes to the tunica adnata, and sometimes to the cornea itself. This disease obstructs the motions of the eye. Wherefore, applying an ear-specillum to the broad mar- gin" of the eyelid, or stretching it with a hook-like instrument, we free the adhesion with the scalpel used in the operation for pterygia, taking care that the cornea be not wounded, lest we give rise to procidentia. After the incision, having bathed the eye, we separate the eyelids with tents, lest adhesion again take place, and applying wool, soaked in an egg, after the third day we have recourse to attenuant and healing coUjTia. Commentary. See Aetius (vii, 66); Celsus (vii, 7); Albu- casis (Chirurg. ii, 15); Avenzoar (i, 8, 5); Avicenna (m, 3, 8,10) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 23); Alsaharavius (Pract. iv, 5j; Rhases (Cont. ii) ; Jesu HaU (ii, 7.) The description given by Aetius is exactly the same as our author's.