SECT. XCl.] NOSE. 443 SECT. XCl. ON TRACTUBE AND CONTUSION OF THE NOSE. The under part of the Bose being cartilaginous does not admit of fracture,, but it is liable to be crushed, flattened, and dis- torted; but the upper part being of a bony substance is some- times fract^lred. In such cases Hippocrates prohibits ban- daging, which only increases the flatness and distortion, unless when from a blow the parts about the middle of the nose pro- trude. For in these cases he applies a suitable bandage with medicines, in order to give the nose its proper shape. When, therefore, the nose is fractured in its under parts, having in- troduced the index or little finger into the nostril, push the parts outwards to their proper position. When the fracture is of the inner parts this is to be done with the head of a probe imme- diately, during the course of the first day, or not long after- wards, because the bones of the nose get consolidated about the tenth day. But they are to be put into the proper position with the index-finger and thumb externally. In order to pre- vent the bones from changing their position, two wedge-Uke tents, formed of a twisted linen rag, are to be applied, one to each nostril, even if but one part of the nose be deranged, and these are to be allowed to remain until the bone or cartilage gets consolidated. And some sew the quills of the feathers of a goose into the rags, and thus introduce them into the nose, in order that they may preserve the parts in position without obstructing the respiration; but this is unnecessary, as respi- ration is carried on by the mouth. If the nose become in- flamed we may use some anti-inflammatory application to it, such as that from juices (diachylon), the one from vinegar and oU, and such like; or a cataplasm of fine wheaten flour boiled with manna or gum may be appHed, both for the sake of the inflammation and in order to keep the nose in position. AVhen the nose is distorted to either side, Hippocrates directs us, after it has been restored ^to its proper position, to take a piece of leather of a finger's breadth, and having spread one of its ends with taurocolla or gum, to fasten one extremity of it on that jside of the nose to which it inclines, and after it dries to bring the thong by the opposite ear to the occiput and forehead, and to fix the other end of the thong firmly there, so that the nose