SECT. XLViir.] THE YEW. 2:^3 Commentary. Our author's detail of the symptoms is taken Comm. entirely from Nicander, and his treatment also is mostly derived ' ' ' from the same source. They seem to have depended principally upon vegetable astringents, such as oak-bark, pomegranate- rind, and chesnuts, for checking the hypercatharsis. Pliny, like our author, sti-ongly commends milk (H. N. xxvii, 33.) Dioscorides recommends emetics, clysters, vegetable astringents, and demulcents. Alsaharavius says, that hermodactylus occa- sions pnu-itus of the whole body, swelling of the palate, pains of the stomach, and the like. He recommends emetics, clys- ters, cows' milk, and vegetable astringents, such as acorns with wine. This, it will be remarked, is similar to the account which the Greeks give of the symptoms and treatment of ephemeron, which is undoubtedly the colchicum autumnale; and this circumstance tends strongly to prove the identity of the ephemeron and the hermodactylus. We agree with Schiilze, Prosper Alpinus, and Humelbergius, that they were unques- tionably the same plant, notwithstanding that Sprengel, Mat- thiolus, and Dr. Murray are of a different opinion. Dr. Paris considers that there is no doubt of their identity. (See a learned dissertation on the Ephemeron in a note by Schneider, on Nicander's Alexipharmics.) We shall only further add, in this place, that the learned Ardoyn, in his elaborate work on Poisons, contends, that there is no doubt of the identity of the colchicum and the hermodactylus. We, in fact, are surprised that this should have been ever questioned. SECT. XLVIIl.' ON THE SMILAX OR YEW. The tree called smilax is named thymium by some, and taxus by the Romans. When drunk it brings on coldness of the whole ! body, suffocation, and speedy death; the remedies for which »are all those things which are given to those who have drunk »of hemlock. Commentary. The description of the symptoms and the Comm. I plan of treatment are borrowed from Nicander, or, rather, ^""^—' < copied direct from Dioscorides. Different opinions have been entertained respecting the I poisonous nature of the yew. Haller, Bulliard, and others, < deny that it is poisonous; while Berkley, Ray, Matthiolus, and