[liOOK IV. ULCERS. 100 Comm. greatest precision. He defines an ulcer to be, " a solution of ' " ' continuity," a definition evidently very comprehensive, and including wounds as well as cases of spontaneous ulceration. His directions for the treatment of a simple ulcer or fresh wound are similar to those of our author; that is to say, he directs us to bring the lips of it together, and secm-e them with a bandage, or, if that is not sufiicient, by sutures or clasps. Wine he pronounces to be the best of all applications to ulcers, in as far as they are tdcers. Our author copies very closely from Oribasius. In applying the bandage, Aetius directs us to begin above the sore if only one simple bandage is to be used, but if two are necessary, as in fractures, he recommends us to begin at the idcer and proceed upwards, and in like manner to begin again at the ulcer and roll downwards. He forbids us to loose the bandages oftener than every alternate day; and directs us not to apply water to the ulcer, but to remove the sanies with a soft, dry linen cloth. Celsus describes very accurately the treatment of a recent wound or simple ulcer. He approves, according to circum- stances, of bandages, clasps, or sutures, and his directions respect- ing the api)hcation of them are highly important, but too long for our limits. After the sore is dressed he directs us to apply over it a sponge soaked in vinegar, or, if that cannot be borne, in wine or cold water. This practice is deser\dng of imitation. He says afterwards : " Optimum etiam medicamen- tum quies est : moveri et ambulare nisi sanis ahenum." Octavius Horatianus directs us to avoid the bath, the fire, the sun, cold air, loud cries, intoxication, venery, and passion, lest these should occasion a rupture of the parts which had adhered. Avicenna with his usual good sense gives judicious direc- tions for the treatment of simple ulcers, but his principles are nearly the same as those laid down by Galen. He defines an ulcer to be " a solution of continuity, attended with a discharge of sanies or pus." This seems to be an unexceptionable defi- nition. He forbids all oily and watery applications, and re- commends us to observe that no body intervene between the lips of the wound when the bandage is applied. Rhases gives similar directions. He condemns the practice of those who