SECT. LX.] 359 CALCULUS. scmi-lunar incision are pointed out by Bromfield, and the Ccl- C sian operation was generally practised by the late Baron Dupuy- tien of Paris. Aetius and other- of the Greek authorities allude- frequently to the operation^ but none of them describe it minutely except faulus. Our author's statement, that there is less danger from the extraction of large than of small stones, is at variance, we l)clieve, with modern experience. Aretseus states that small atones ai-e most easily extracted. He was, however, no advo- ■ate for the operation at aU, except in extreme cases. He speaks of cutting " the neck of the bladder." (Morb. Acut. Curat, ii, 9.) Does, he not allude to attempts at lithotrity in the following pas- sage ?—6vT£ yap (kiOoQ fiiya^) OpvimTui, r) iruai, r/ (paOjuaKfo, n a/LKpiQ^vTrroiTO, ovre dawawg Te/xvtrai. (Morb. Chron. ii, 4.) Which passage may be thus translated : " when the stone is large neither lithotrity, or lithotripsy, nor lithotomy, can be- practised safely/' Theophilus, in his ' Commentary on the Aphorisms of Hippocrates,' states that in lithotomy it is not tlie bladder, properly speaking, but the neck of the bladder, which is muscular, that is cut. We now proceed to the Arabians. Albucasis, after detailing the symptoms in much the same terms as our author, goes on to describe the operation as follows. Having cleared out the bowels with a clyster, the patient is to be shaken so as to make the stone descend, and he is then to be secured in the arms of ;in assistant, with his hands under his nates. The surgeon is then to press upon the perineum, and, if the stone be felt, the operation is to be proceeded with; but otherwise, the index finger of the left hand, if the patient be a child, and the middle if an adult, is to be introduced into, the anus, and the <tone is thereby to be gradually brought down to the neck of the bladder. Having pushed it outwards to the place where \ ou mean to make your incision, an assistant is to be directed t o press down the bladder from above the piibes, while another draws up the testicles with the one hand, and with the other stretches the skin under them. Then with a proper scalpel the operator is to make an incision between the anus and the tes- I iclcs, not in the middle, but towards the left nates, straight upon the stone which is to be pressed out by the finger. Let t he incision be transverse (oblique ?), large externally, but in-