422 WEAPONS. [book vi. to be extracted without more ado; but if not, we must en- large the -woundj and afterwards use the dressings for fresh wounds. In wounds of the abdomen, gastroraphe as formerly described may be had recourse to, if necessary. But if the ■weapon has lodged in any of the larger vessels, such as the in- ternal jugulars or carotids, and the large arteries in the arm- pits or groins, and if the extraction threaten a great hemor- rhage, they are first to be secured with ligatm-es on both sides, and then the extraction is to be made. If pai'ts have been fastened to one another, such as the arm to the chest, or the fore-arm to the other parts of the body, or the feet to one another, if the weapon (as a spear) do not penetrate through both parts, we are to take hold of the weapon externally and extract as if only one part were affected, but if it has passed through both, having sawed the wood through the middle, we extract each part singly, in the most convenient direction. But since often stones or the sharp points of rocks, or pieces of lead, or the like, are lodged in the body, either being impelled with force from a sling, or happening to be acuminated, they are to be known by the swelling being hard and irregu- lar, and by the solution not being eveiywhere straight, but larger than common, and having the sldn bruised and Hvid, and the pain being attended with a sense of weight. They are, therefore, to be dislodged by means of suitable instruments, or scraped out with the concave part of a specillum or of an ear-specillum adapted for wounds; or, if they can be apphed, a tooth-extractor or a root-extractor may be used for pulHng them out. In many instances weapons lodged in the body lie concealed, and a long time after, when the wounds are healed up, the part having suppurated bursts, and the weapon drops out. Comm. Commentaey. Hippocrates considered the extraction of weapons to be one of the most important departments of surgeiy. It is to be fully learned, he says, only by attaching oneself to a foreign ai-my. (De Medico.) He makes some interesting remarks on the subject in his treatise ' De Capitis Vulneribus.' We must now attempt to give an abstract of Celsus's very interesting chapter on the Extraction of Weapons. Every