SECT. IT.] ARTERIOTOMY. 253 cision and introducing a silver canula. (Animad. Medic. 13.) Though recent experience does not give much encouragement to the operation, it sometimes happens that it is attended with success. Fabricius gives the same account of these cases as the ancients. (CEuv. Chir. ii. 32.) SECT. IV. ON ARTERIOTOMY. In chronic defluxions of the eyes, and in the affection of vertigo, we are in the practice of dividing the arteries behind the ears. Having, therefore, shaven the hind part of the head and marked with the fingers the position of the artery, which IS easily discovered by its pulsation, and then having marked out the line of an incision two fingers in length with black ink ^e cut down to the bone. When this does not succeed we must measure a distance of three fingers^ breadth from the ears and then operate by making a transverse division of the artery until blood flow per saltum, and the instrument strike the bone After a moderate evacuation of blood, the pericranium is to be divided, lest It become inflamed from the distension; and hav- ing scraped the bone we apply a wedge-like tent of linen to the wounds, and accompHsh the cure by pledgets. But if after ail, the bone remain bare, we must have recourse to scraping It in like manner. ^ Commentary. Our author^s description is mostly abridged c from Aetms (vi, 90), who copies from Severus - This operation is minutely described by Albucasis. (Chirurg. n. 2.) He directs us to shave the head, and rub the parts 1 - 1 ,T_ . , — aixu. ruu tne paxes n the ears with a rough cloth until the arteries become sible. The course of the vessels is to be marked with ink, d they are to be divided with a sharp scalpel, the incision netrating down to the bone. He says, howev;r, that if the urgeon choose he may introduce the scalpel below the vessel u.d cut upwards^ The length of the incision is to be two fin- ((■rs breadth. Blood, he remarks, springs from an artery per aitum. About six ounces, more or less, may be taken. The operation ishkewise mentioned byAvicenna (Cantic iv VIS 111