22 LEPROSY AND PSORA. [book iv. Comm. have treated lepra and psora Uke the Greeks, by Weeding, me- lanogognes, and abstergent applications to the skm, such as the two hellebores, lime, lupines, &c. In the translation of Haly Abbas, leuce is correctly described by the name of lepra. It is represented as a whiteness some- thnes affecting the whole body, and it is said to be occasioned by debihty of the assimilative faculty. When the hairs are white and the skin does not bleed when pricked with a lancet or needle the disease is incurable. Alphos albus is described by the name of morphea alba, and is distinguished from the former by the whiteness being more superficial, and the colour of the hairs remaining unchanged. In the morphea nigra, that is to say the alphos niger, the colour is said to be black, owing to the prevalence of black bHe, and if rubbed a fm-fui-aceous scale falls off, and it becomes red. The lepra nigricans is described by the names of impetigo and sarpedo, as an asperity of the skin, inchning to blackness or redness, and terminating m round scales, like those of fishes. Eor the cure of lepra, he directs us to abstain from all articles of food which engender phlegm, to take hiera of colocynth, with pepper, &c., and also the theriac of vipers, and various other internal medicines. He recommends various external applications, containing sulphur, arsenic, hellebore, spurge, &c. Alsaharavius describes three varieties of morphea. 1st. The morphea terrestris, which is attended with farfuraceous scales on the skin, and tingling. This is evidently the psora of the Greeks. 3d. The morphea alba, which consists of a more super- ficial whiteness of the skin than the albaras (leuce) : this is the alphos albus. 3d. The morphea nigra, is lilce the former, only that the colour is black. This must be the alphos niger. AU these affections he treats upon much the same principles as the Greeks, namely, by evacuants, and stimulant applications to the skin, such as sulphur, heUebore, &c. Albaras he describes as a deep-seated whiteness of the skin, and dii-ects us to prick the ' skin with a needle, and if it does not bleed the disease is to be set down as incurable. This, of course, is the leuce of the Greeks. He treats it upon much the same principles as the morphefc. He appears not to make any distinction between the leuce and the lepra. Ehases describes the lepra of the Greeks by the term impetiffo;