483 CLAVICLE AND ACROMION. SECT, cxiir.] a very distinct account of the symptoms and mode of treat- Comm ment. He warns the surgeon not to confound this accident ^—^—' with, dislocation of the humerus, as he had frequently seen done. He directs the surgeon to push down the projecting end of the bone j and then to secure it with compresses, and bind the arm to the side. He holds that the accident always leaves some defonnity. (De Articulis, 15.) Galen mentions that this accident happens most commonly to young persons, and that when not reduced it occasions a wasting of the arm. The account which Galen in this place and, copying from him, our author have given of the accident to which they represent the acromion as being subject, has been the subject of much controversy among modern authorities. See Cocchi (Chirurg. Vet. 133) ; and Littre (Hippoc. iv, 12.) Hippocrates, whom they both evidently had in view, (de Artie. 13), clearly refers to dislocation of the scapular end of the cla- vicle; and probably Galen aEudes to the same, compHcated with separation of the acromion from the scapula in young subjects. We Avould beg leave to quote what Monro says of the acromion : " This is an epiphyse in children ; and in some old subjects I have seen it joined by a cartilage to the spine." (Anat. of the Bones, p. 231.) Galen states decidedly that in young persons this process is sometimes bent along with the clavicle, and in them that replacement of the parts to their natural state is easily effected. He adds, " as dry wood is not adapted for bending, but such as is sappy and green bear this, in the same manner the bones of growing animals can be bent by force, and more especially such as are porous and fistulous, as the clavicle is." Galen relates that in his own person he met mth. the accident while wrestUng in the Palestra, and that by using oily fomentations and light bandages, a cure was at last effected. He says he was then thirty-five years old, but adds, that he had never known another person cured who was so far advanced in life. (Ibid. 134.) Avicenna gives the same account of the acromion as the Greeks, (iv, 5,1, 10.) Neither Celsus nor Oribagius has treated of this case of dis- location. Rhases, Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Albucasis agree that dislocations occur more frequently at the acromial than at the sternal end of the clavicle. Desault and Boyer, on the other hand, affirm that the accident occurs oftener at the sternal