INFLAMED SOEES. [book IV. 102 ■with honey in wine until it is of a proper consistence, spread upon a pledget and apply it. Of the compound aggluti- nants are those called the Barbarous, the Golden, that ascribed to Nicolaus, that from willows and dittany, and others of a similar nature, wliich can produce the adhesion even of very large sores. Comm. COMMENTARY. Celsus gives the following list: glutinant ' • ' vulnus, myrrha,thus, gummi, prsecipueque acanthinum,psyUium, tragacantha, cardamomum, bulbi, lini semen, nasturtium, ovi album, gluten, ichthyocoUa, vitis alba, contusse cum testis suis cochlese, mel coctum, spongia, vel ex aqua frigid^, vel ex vino, vel ex aceto expressa, ex iisdem lana succida : si levis plaga est etiam aranea. Our author's list is copied from Oribasius. Aetius has a long chapter on the composition of applications for agglutinat- ing fresh wounds. The ingredients of them are most various : sumach, litharge, wax, galbanum, bee-glue, turpentine, alum, chalcitis, Sec. Actuarius merely extracts a few articles from our author's Hst. Avicenna's list scarcely differs in any one particular from \. our author's, and nearly the same may be said of Haly's. Isaac (ap. Rhasis Contin. xxviii) particularly comanends bdellium and myrrh, with honey and wine. Galen has explained at considerable length the principles upon which these applications should be used. Agglutinants, he remarks, are austere and astringent medicines, being such as occasion a contraction and condensation of the fleshy fibres; and they must not possess detergent properties. They are principally applicable in the case of plane ulcers, that is to say, ulcers without loss of substance. (See Meth. Med. iii.) SECT. XXXVIII. ON PAINFUL AND INFLAMMATORY SORES. To painful and inflamed wounds desiccant and anti-inflam- matory remedies must be apphed. Of hquid remedies the best is wine, but oxycrate is also a good remedy. But if the ulcer is foul as well as inflamed, much diluted hydromel may be used. Of dry medicines, those in general will apply which axe