MEADOW SAFFRON. [book V, ?22 the viscid nature of the poison. Our author's plan of treat- ment differs in no material respect from that recommended hy Dioscorides, Aetius, Actuarius, Avicenna, and Alsaharavius. Avicenna described it by the name of aldabach; Alsaharavius, by those of alfos, aldolia, i. e. arbor risi. Apuleius make ixias, ulophonon, chamseleon, ocymoides, and various cardui synonymes (109.) The ixias, according to GorrEeus, is a species of chamseleon, but what species cannot be determined. (See, also, Schneider's note on Nicander.) Mat- thiolus calls it a glutinous substance, found iu the root of the chameleon, or carline thistle. Schulze is decided that it was a species of carlina (Toxicol, vet., 23.) See Harduin's note on PUny (H. N. xxii, 21.) After mature consideration, we have no difficulty in referring it to the carlina acaulis, or car- line thistle. SECT. XI-VII. ON EP.HEMERON, OR MEADOW SAFFRON. When one swallows ephemeron (which some call colchicum, because it grows in Colchis, or bulbus silvestris), pruritus takes place over the whole body, as if stung by nettle or squill; there is a gnawing pam within, and great heat of the stomach, with considerable heaviness; but when the affection gams strength, blood is discharged from the bowels, mixed with the scrapmgs thereof. The same remedies are to be applied as to those who have dmnk salamander, in vomits and clysters. But before the medicine gain ground we must give a decoction of oak- leaves, or of acorns, or of the rind of pomegranate, or of wild thyme with milk, or the juice of bloodwort, or af vme- tops or of brambles, or of the meduUa of fennel-giant, or of myrtle berries, with wine; and when levigated myrtles themselves are pounded and macerated in water, the hquor thereof may be taken with advantage. And, in Hke manner, the middle pellicle of the chesnuts, caUed Sajrdian, may be taken with the aforesaid juices, and maijoram may be drunk with lye Those affected are manifestly relieved by drmkiug hot cow's mUk, and retaining it in the mouth, so that they who have plenty of it do not stand in need of any othei remedy.