■SliCT. XC.J HEAD. 441 Dissert, de contra-fissura,) and Le Maire (De resonitu.) He is Comm. mistaken, however, wten he quotes iEgineta as an authority ' ^ for it. Sabatier relates a case of fracture par contre-coup in the sternum occasioned by a fall on the back. (Memoires de FInstitut Natural, ii, 120.) See also Sprengel (Hist, de la ^led. 17.) Garengoit further relates various cases of the rontre fissure. Bertaphalia defines it in much the same terms as Soranus. (v, 5.) Mr. Guthrie treats learnedly of this sub- ject; but although he quotes many instances from the earlier authorities of fracture on one side of the head from a blow on the other, he states that in later years there is little proof of ^uch an occuiTcnce taking place. He admits, however, as in- disputable the occm'rence of fracture at the base of the skull from a blow on the vertex or back of the head. (Injuries of the Head, 65.) He also states that the term cnrnyriixa of our author, and that of' resonitus,' as used by Latin authors, was apphed to that species of fracture when the inner plate of the skull is knocked in or fractiired, without the outer one being injm'ed. (Ibid.) It does not appear, however, that the ancients applied the term in this sense. Thus Soranus, as stated above, defined it to be a fissure produced in the parts of the skull oppo- site to those which have received the blow. See the learned note of Cocchi. (Ap. Chirurg. Vet. 47.) Galen's definition is to the same effect. (Ibid. 107.) The treatment here recommended for inflammation of the membranes of the brain is so judicious, that even at the present flay scarcely any improvement could be made on it. Our late authorities have shown the utility of cholagogue purgatives in uch cases, and it will be remarked that they are recommended l)y our author and Hippocrates. (De Cap. Vuln. 27.) Celsus directs us, when the dura mater gets inflamed and welled, to pour tepid rose-oil upon it; and if it rise above the !)one to apply lentil or vine-leaves pounded with fresh butter or the grease of geese. He enjoins us to avoid all kinds of food requiring mastication, also smoke and sternutatories. When the brain projects beyond the bone (a case called hernia cere- bri by modem surgeons), he advises us to sprinkle it with squama seris, and to Tise cicatrizing applications. A person who has sustained a fracture of the skuU is advised to avoid