471 SECT. CVI.] ARRANGEMENT OF LIMB. sons, but more especially on account of the pressure occasioned by their hardness. Nor is it improper to apply splints to frac- tured limbs with a wound, as we shall show afterwards. Let the patient, then, he upon his back, and let a thick garment, equal to the limb in length, be laid under it, more especially where the fracture is, and let both its ends be convoluted and wrapped round so as to resemble the canal in its middle longi- tudinal cavity, and let it be covered with a soft skin for receiv- ing the embrocations; and then let the limb be fitted to this canal-hke cavity, and let other garments or wool be apphed on both sides to prevent the hmb from being moved to the sides. And let a small board, covered with rags for sake of softness, be fastened to the sole of the foot; and, for the sake of greater security, let the middle of two or three hgatures be applied under this canal-hke garment, and let the broken limb be lightly bound along with it. But if the patient be unable to restrain himself from drawing in his leg, his foot should be fastened to the board by means of hgatures around the ankle, so that he may be prevented even from drawing in his leg involuntarily in his sleep. Some hkewise cut out a hole in the middle of the bed, that the patient may void his urine and faeces by it without requiring to be moved untd the callus has become formed. Commentary. "We have already mentioned that Hippo- Comm. crates approved of the straight position of the limb. With respect to the canals (awXiji'Eg) mentioned also by our author he expresses himself in equivocal terms. He says that they prove useftd, but not to the extent generally behoved. He properly remarks that they do not prevent the body from being moved, and that consequently they cannot be supposed capable of securing the limb entirely from derangement. He is de- cidedly of opinion that unless they extend from above the ham to the heel they do no good in fractures of the leg. (De Frac- turis, 16, ed. Littre.) Celsus gives the following description of the canals: " Is canalis et inferiore parte foramina habere, per quae, si quis humor excesserit, descendat: et a planta moram, quae simul et sustineat earn, et delabi non patiatur: et a lateribus cava, per quee loris datis, morse qusedam crus femurque, ut collocatum est,