LITHARGE. [book V, 236 of milk and honied water, brotlis wliicli are fatty and contain wholesome juices. Comm. COMMENTARY. Nicander has not treated of poisoning by these '-^^ substances, Dioscorides, Aetius, and Actuarius give almost the same account of the symptoms and treatment as our author. Their remedies are emetics, lubricants, and laxatives. The Arabians copy their descriptions and follow their treatment. Thus Alsaharavius directs these cases to be treated by giving emetics of oily and fatty things, emollient clysters, and unctuous articles, to prevent tdceration of the intestines, Avicenna orders, in the first place, an emetic of warm Avater and oU, then emollient decoctions, such as those of linseed and mallows, and fat broths and milk. The cough is to be soothed by demul- cents, (iv, 6, 1.) Ehases states that quicklime and arsenic occasion putrefaction of the intestines. (Cont. xxxvii. tr. 1.) Galen, however, has stated that arsenic is not, properly speak- ing, a septic, but a strong caustic. (De Simp. 1.) However meagre this account of these important medicines may appear, it will be seen, upon reference to the standard works on toxicology, that the treatment at the present day scarcely differs, in any one point, from the ancient mode of practice. Emetics, demulcents, consisting of decoctions of emollient herbs, or copious draughts of milk, laxatives and clysters, form the present practice. The ancient arsenicum, or auripigmentum, was orpiment; the sandarach was realgar, or the orange-red sulphuret. Our oxide of arsenic is a factitious substance, prepared by subhmation from cobalt: it is much more deleterious than auripigmentum or orpiment. Servitor and Avicenna have described the facti- tious arsenic, or oxide of arsenic of the moderns. The Ai-a- bian chemist Geber treats largely and ingeniously of orpiment, which he holds to be closely allied to sulphur. He also speaks of sublimed arsenic, (iii. 39.) SECT. I-XI. ON LITHARGE. Litharge, when drunk, brings on heaviness of the stomach and bowels, with intense tormina; sometimes by its weight it