SECT, xc] HEAD. 439 as we have been already more than usually prolix. Enough has Comm. been said to show that the practice of Celsus was sensible, and in many respects not very different from that which is now fol- lowed in such cases. It will be seen that he was not forward to perforate the skull, and that many of the rules of treatment lately laid down as new discoveries are distinctly mentioned by him. For a description of the instruments used by him, namely, the modiolus, terebr^, and scalper excisorius, we must refer the reader to the original work, (viii, 3.) The different kinds of fracture to which the skull is subject, and the treatment of them, are given very minutely in the Fragments ofHehodorus, published by Cocchi(Ch, Vet. 100, &c.); but as the views of the subject there laid down are nearly the same as our author^s, we shall only give a few specimens of the doctrines he inculcates. He describes very distinctly the species of fracture called diastasis, namely, the separation of two bones of the head at a suture. He directs that the head should be moulded into its former shape, and secured with compresses and tight bandaging. "When matter forms he recommends it to be cut down upon. When depression of the bone without fracture occm-s in children, it is not to be much interfered with, if no untoward symptoms come on. But if any collection take place, it is to be evacuated, even if trepanning should be re- quired for this purpose. He says, in the treatment of simple injuries of the scalp, that the cure by the first intention is the quickest, but the suppurative the safest. In the same Collec- tion there are a few fragments of Archigenes, containing some curious and important matter. He describes diastasis of the bones with more minuteness than any other ancient author, but does not touch upon the treatment. He appears to treat of hernia cerebri under the name of hypersarcosis, and recom- mends the excrescence to be removed, with septic medicines or the scalpel, down to the membrane [dura mater); after which a light dressing dipped in rose-oil is to be applied, and the part surrounded with a circular bandage. (Chirurg. Vet. p. 119.) Effusion of blood within the cranium is indicated by fevers coming on with chills, inordinate heat, disturbed sleep, eyes glossy, muddy, and red, loss of flesh, &c. In such cases, he remarks, if operated upon speedily, they exhibit promises of recovery, but generally soon die. (Ibid. 117.)