SCOURGES. SECT. XII.] 45 which ai-e to be changed frequently. Afterwards some emol- Comm. lieut applications, such as the white of an egg, with gum arabic """^—' is to be used. When the bixrning is more severe, he recom- mends us to bleed and use a cooling application, such as the brain of a sheep, the white of an egg mixed with rose-oil, or an ointment made of white wax and rose-oil. He also makes mention of the apphcation from lime. Ehases recommends an ointment containing ceruse, camphor, opium, &c. LikeAvicenna, he directs us to apply at first a cloth wetted in cold water, or in rose-water, which has been cooled with snow. If the burning be extensive he recommends venesection, with a cooling and attenuant diet. When the pain is great he directs us to apply the yelks of eggs mixed with rose-oil. When a large ulcer is formed, he directs us to dress it with the ointment of lime, de- scribed above. He also approves of a white ointment, con- sisting of ceruse, oil of roses, and wax. In his ' Continens,' he relates a case of severe burning, which he treated with li- niments composed of sandals, camphor, and roses; a cloth wetted in snow-water being applied externally to it. He ap- proves of opening the blisters. To prevent them from forming, he recommends strongly an astringent coUyrium of galls. Like many of the other authorities, he recommends Cimolian earth very much. The apphcations recommended by Haly Abbas are of a refi-igerant and cooling nature, such as Armenian earth in vinegar, the white of an egg, ceruse, &c. The earlier modern authors treat bumsupon the plan laid down by the ancients, more especially the Arabians. Thus Guy, of Cau- liac, recommends us in cases of extensive burning to have re- course to venesection, along with a cooling and attenuant regimen. As a local application, he recommends a cloth wetted in rose-oil congealed in snow, and aftenvards cooling ointments containing ceruse, litharge, and the like. He approves of opening the blis- ters, of afterwards dressing the part with desiccative remedies, such as the ointment of lime, seven times slaked. (Tr.vi,Doct.C.6.) SECT. xri. FOR THOSE BEATEN WITH SCOURGES. Take of ceruse and litharge equal parts, of wax four parts, E as a plaster with the oleum susinum, or rose-oil; but on