LICHEN. SECT. III.] 25 prurigo : Of copperas, of sulphur vivum, of natron, of frank- incense, equal parts; use for lichen with vinegar, and for pru- rigo with wine.—Another, for lichen : Of ammoniac perfume, of the flour of bitter vetch, of the flour of lupines, equal parts • add to vinegar. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Humor., de Aff'ect.); Comm. Galen. (Isagoge, de Med. sec. loc. v); Oribasius (Morb. Curat. iii, 59); Aetius (viii, 16); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 11) ; Marcellus (19); Nonnus (236); Celsus (v, 28); Pliny (H. n! xxvi, 2); Serapion (v, 2); Avicenna (iv, 7, 3, 3); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxxi, 7); Ehases (Divis. 117); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 10.) Dr. Bateman states, that the exact acceptation of the term lichen cannot well be ascertained from the writings of Hippocrates; but Dr. Willan affirms that he restricted it to a papular eruption on the skin. In the ' Isagoge,^ usually ascribed to Galen, two varieties are described, the lichen mitis, and the lichen agrius, in both of which scales axe formed upon the skin, which appear almost ulcerated when they are removed. They are to be cured by cholagogues internally, and liniments externally. Galen remarks the tendency of the disease to pass into lepra and scabies. To prevent this, he directs desiccative and deter- gent applications, for the preparation of which he gives various prescriptions. One of these, which bears the name of Pamphilus, is a powerful escharotic, composed of orpiment, realgar, burnt copper, and cantharides. (Med. sec. loc. v.) He says it affects pnncipally the chin, but is apt to spread over the face. Oribasius, Aetius, Actuarius, and Nonnus, treat of the com- plamt in nearly the same terms as our author. Their trans- lators improperly render it by impetigo. Leo ascribes the origin of the disease to hot and coiTupted blood. Celsus describes the lichen of the Greeks by the name of papula, of winch he mentions two varieties. In the first, he' says, the skin is merely roughened by small pustules, is reddened j and sbghtly corroded; the middle is somewhat smoother, and It spreads slowly, generally in a round shape. Tliis description would seem to apply to the lichen circumscripius of Drs. Bateman and Willan, although the latter author thinks that it possessed a wider signification. The second variety, he says, is called