SECT. XXXVI.] STEATOMA, ETC. 309 SECT. XXXVI. ON STEATOMA, ATHEROMA, AND MELICERIS. These also belong to the class of abscesses, but differ from diem in this respect, that those which are properly called ab- scesses are of an inflammatory nature, painful, and contain an acrid and corroding fluid; neither are they surrounded by a ^iroper membrane or tunic. They differ from one another, in as much as that which is contained in the steatoma is, as its lame implies, like suet; that which is in the atheroma is like pap made from corn; while the fluid in the meliceris is like honey. You may distinguish them from one another thus. The steatoma is harder than the others, is unyielding to the touch, and has a narrower base. The meliceris conveys to the touch the sensation of a soft body, is slowly diffused, and soon returns again to its shape. We operate upon them as upon -crofulous tumours, by incision, dissection, sutures, and the rest f the treatment, only avoiding to wound the membrane, lest its fluid contents be poured out and obstnict the operation, and lest a part of it should be left behind, which often occasions a renewal of the complaint at the wrists, ankles, and the move- able parts about joints, as a scrofulous tumour does in like iianner, if the whole or a part of it be left behind. If any -uch thing be left it will be better not to sew up the wound, ut to consume the remainder with septic apphcations. Commentary. We have given an explanation of the nature Comm. )f these tumours in the Fourth Book. >—' Galen states that the indications of cure in all these cases ire to discuss their contents, produce putrefaction of them, to cut them out. The steatoma, he remarks, being of a solid ature, can be remedied only by an operation. (Meth. Med. xiv.) Celsus directs us, in extii-pating steatomatous tumours, to iien the cyst and evacuate its contents; but recommends not o wound the cyst of the others. Should the whole or part of lie cyst be unavoidably left liehind, he directs suppurative ap- •hcations to be used. After the operation he directs us to ■riite the hps of the wound by a clasp (fibula) and an agglu- inative medicine, (vii, 6.) The surgical treatment of these tumours is very fully laid