tions. Wherefore, m general, those things recommended for SECT, LV.] ANCYLOSIS. 237 cimen we shaU give an^ abstract of the method of treatment Comm recommended by Octavius Horatianus, who, it is probable, be- ^-v—' longed to the Methodical sect. He commences with stating that wounds of nervous parts are in general very dangerous, and recommends applications of a digestive nature to avert the violent symptoms and pains. In such cases he directs us to bleed and purge, forbids aU fomentations of warm water, but approves of those made with tepid oU, after which dressings composed of turpentine-rosin, either by itself or with some sponge, are to be appKed. But for women and children of a delicate frame he recommends turpentine alone; for others, however, he recommends turpentine with spurge and oil to wMch occasionally maybe added bee-glue, sagapene, assafoetida, and opoponas. He also from personal experience speaks favor- ably of an appHcation prepared from Hme washed in water spurge, sulphur, turpentine, wax, and pitch. He mentions other preparations from rosin, spurge, with oil and sea water. The Arabians copy from Galen very closely. Thus Aviceuna condemns cold appHcations, and recommends calefacient ones He approves of sutures when the tendons are cut asunder Haly Abbas cautions against cold water, and particularly com- mends wool dipped in hot oU of violets. When spasm (tetanus) supervenes owing to the wound of a nerve, he directs us to divide It asunder lest the affection of it spread to the brain and prove fatal. Rhases also forbids all relaxing applications. He commends hot stimulant oils, and basiHcon mixed with spurge natron, lime, assafoetida, castor, &c. ' Gulielmus de Saliceto, Guide de Cauliaco, Severinus, and Lanfrancus m laying down the treatment of wounded nerves and tendons, follow closely the principles deHvered by their Arabian masters. They approved of sutures when the tendon us cut across. SECT. LV. ON ANCYLOSIS. Contractions of joints arising from impacted humours, or «ome nervous tension, we are accustomed to call ancylcc and ^cylosis, which cases require emollient and relaxing applica-