419 WEAPONS. SECT. LXXXVIII.] whether vokmtai'ily and involuntarilyj under whatever circum- stances, and of whatever materials they may be composed. There are two modes of extracting weapons from fleshy parts ; either by pulling them backwards, or pushing them forwards. When the weapon is fixed superficially the extraction is made by pulling it back, and in like manner when it is lodged deep, but the opposite parts, if wounded, would occasion danger from hemorrhage or sympathy. It is to be pushed forwards when lodged deep, and the intervening substances between it and the opposite side are of small size, and neither nerve, bone, nor any such thing is an obstacle to the division. When a bone is wounded, the mode of extraction is by pulling; if, therefore, the head of the weapon be in sight, we make the extraction immediately; but, if it is hid, we must, says Hip- pocrates, get the wounded person to put himself in the same posture as when he received the wound, and thus make the examination; or, if this cannot be done, he is to be placed in the nearest possible to it, and thus it is to be examined with a sound. If the head of the weapon has fixed in the flesh, it is to be drawn out with the hands, or by laying hold of the ap- pendage, which is called the shaft, if it has not fallen off'. This part is mostly made of wood. When it has fallen off, we make the extraction by means of a tooth-extractor, or a root-extractor, or an instrument for extracting weapons, or any other convenient instrument. And sometimes we make an incision in the flesh around it in the first place, if the wound do not admit the in- strument. And if the head of the weapon has passed to the opposite side, and it is found impossible to extract it by the way in which it entered, having divided the parts opposite we extract it through them, either drawing it out in the manner mentioned, or we make a hole with the weapon itseF, pushing it either by the shaft, or, if it has come away, by an impellent instrument, taking care not to divide a nerve, vein, artery, or any important part, for it would be disgraceful if, in extracting the weapon, we should do more mischief than the weapon itself had done. If the weapon has a tail, which is ascertained by examination with the probe, having introduced the female part of the impellent instrument and fixing it, we push the weapon forwards, but if it has a shaft, the male part. .And if the head when extracted appear to have notches, so that other small pieces of iron might