MYRMECIA. [book IV. 48 Comm. Avicenna (iv, 4, 2, 9); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 10); Elhases " ' ' (ad Mansor. vi, 18,) Our author copies closely from Oribasius. Aetius recommends as a good application for intertrigo oc- casioned by the friction of shoes, the warm liver of a pig or lamb, or unwashed wool. Here he foUows Dioscorides (u, 37.) He also makes mention of several coohng apphcations, contain- ing ceruse, litharge, the dross of lead, &c. _ _ Scribonius Largus recommends an ointment contaimng litharge, ceruse, the flour of frankincense, alum, axunge, old austere wine, roses, and sour oil. Marcellus also recommends litharge for intertrigo. The Arabians treat these cases simUarly. Thus Avicenna agrees with Aetius in recommending the liver, and the oint- ment containing ceruse, &c. For bruised parts he recommends astringents; such as galls, acacia, &c. To relieve the heat and irritation occasioned by riding, or any such cause, Rhases directs us to apply a cloth dipped m rose-water properly cooled, he means, perhaps, with ice. After the heat and pain have been removed, an ointment of ceruse, or litharge is to be applied. BHsters produced by walkmg are to be opened and then washed with rose-water ; and afterwards they are to be dressed with an astringent application, contain- ing Armenian bole, galls, pomegranate flowers, or the like- SECT. XV. FOR MYRMECIA AND ACROCHORDON. Each of these is a smaU rising of the skin, of a caUous nature, and for the most part circular ; but the myrmecia have a broad base, and when rubbed, convey a sensation like the bites of ants. But the acrochordon has a narrow base so as to seem to hang, resembhng the extremity of a cord. Where- fore, elaterium with salts, when applied, removes these swel- lings; and frankincense with vinegar, green figs with vinegar, flour and natron, the juice of the fig rubbed in, and m hke manner, that of the spurge, the pickled head of picarel bui-nt verdigris burnt with sulphur vivum, the leaves of basil witn copperas; that which flows from green vine shoots when burn- ing, sheep's dung with vinegar, a buck-goat's gall when rubbed