SARCOCELE. 369 SECT. LXIII.] SECT. LXIII. ON SARCOCELE AND TOPHI OF THE TESTICLES. Wten flesli is formed in any part of tlie bodies whicli are i. connected by the scrotum, it gives rise to tlie disease called jsarcocele. This arises either from some obscure cause, the • testicle being attacked with a defluxion and becoming indurated, ; or from a blow, or from unskilful treatment after the operation for hernia. Its consequences are, a swelling of the same colour, with hardness; when the swelling is of a scirrhous nature, it lis devoid of colour and sensibility; and when it is malignant [ there are sharp pains. When going to operate we place the patient as in the former case, and make the incisions in Hke manner j and if the complaint is occasioned by the growth of a fleshy tumour to the testicle, we divide the dartos and tunica vaginalis in like manner; then stretching the testicle and bring- ing it to the outside of the vaginalis, we separate the cremaster from the vessels, tie a ligature round the vessels, and cut the cremaster; then we remove the testicle affected with the fleshy tumour as a foreign body. But if the fleshy tumour be formed about any of the coats of the testicle or its vessels, having di- vided the scrotum and the membranes lying under the flesh, ^ we must dissect out the whole fleshy tumour. But if the poste- rior process epididymis" ?) be affected with sarcocele, having 'dissected all the surrounding parts, we remove the testicle along with it j for it is impossible for the testicle to continue without it. Jf tophi be formed about the testicle and the tunica vaginalis, Ithey may be distinguished from sarcocele and hydrocele by their jresistance, hardness, and inequaHty, and are to be operated upon sas sarcocele. Commentary. Celsus describes and recommends the same Comm. pperations. He directs us to divide the nerve by which the KesHcle is suspended (the cremaster ?), then to tie the veins land arteries at the groin with a thread, and cut them below file ligature. When a fleshy tumour is formed between the Boats he recommends us to cut it out. (vii, 23, 23.) When the Darts are indurated he forbids us to meddle with them. Albucasis directs us to separate the cremaster from the ves- lels, to tie the vessels, and then remove the testicle from the 24