[book IV. 96 STEATOMA. Comm. this Subject. The steatoma, he says, is a preternatural tumour, ' • ' free from discoloration, and soft to the touch. He recom- mends excision for it. The contents of the atheroma consist of a pultaceous substance surrounded by a membranous tunic, within which are also sometimes found hairs ; nay, Philoxenus affirms that he had found animals like gnats and flies. The meliceris also has a membranous coat, and its contents resem- ble honey. He approves also of the surgical operation for the meliceris and atheroma, but permits to attempt their reduction by means of discutients consisting of such ingredients as am- moniac, ceruse, turpentine, galbanum, vinegar. Sec. He makes no mention of septics; indeed arsenic does not enter into any of his compositions. Oribasius and Actuarius lay down the same rules of treat- ment as our author. Nonnus as usual epitomises liim with some shght alterations. The active ingredients in one of his septic applications are sandarach and hellebore. Leo is brief and indistinct. Celsus marks the differences of these tumours with his cha- racteristic terseness and precision : " Atheromati subest quasi te- nuis pulticula : meliceridiliquidior humor ; ideoque pressus fluit: steatomati pingue quiddam." He recommends excision. (vii,6.) Avicenna's plan of treatment is so like our author's, that we need not give it in detail. The steatoma is to be removed solely by an operation. For the two others he permits the use of septic applications, such as arsenic, quicklime, hellebore, the lees of wine, &c. Hal/s definitions are similar to those of our author, and he recommends either excision or the use of septics, such as vitriol. The treatment laid down by Alsahai-avius is quite the same. In the barbarous translation of his works they are called by the names of alsahamia, asalia, and accida. (Pract. xxix, 1, 33.) Vegetius, the veterinary surgeon, describes these tumours as they appear in cattle. He directs them to be treated by exci- sion. (Mulom. ii, 30.) It will be remarked from the text, that the ancients were well acquainted with the caustic powers of the calx cum kali. In fact, our author in this section has given a prescription for the paste now commonly used for forming issues. It appears from the works of Fabricius of Aquapendente,