AMPUTATION. 411 ^ECT. LXXXIV.J operation he recommends us to consider well if the patient^s Comm. strength will enable him to endure it. The operator must then ' ' ' tie or sew the vessels which pass to the parts; in certain cases a ligature is to be applied round the whole limb, cold water is t o be poured upon it, and some are to be bled. Amputation near the joints is not to be attempted. In such as are of a full iiabit of body, a circular baud is to be put round the limb, to I h aw up the skin with, and to direct the incision. After cut- ting down to the bone, the tendons are to be retracted, and the bone scraped and sawn. When much blood is discharged, red-hot irons are to be appHed, and a double compress laid on the part from which the blood proceeds. Having loosened the liand, a cataplasm of leeks, bread, and salt is to be appHed to the stump; and the parts about the jaw-bone are to be anointed with cerate of iris and old oil, doubtless in order to obviate the danger from tetanus. Heliodorus states that a limb may require to be amputated owing to gangrene or any other cause that occasions the death of it. In the extremities, then, he remarks, amputation may be performed with less danger; but above the knee or elbow the danger of hemorrhage from the great vessels being wounded is very considerable. Some, he says, from too great anxiety for despatch, cut through all the bodies (the soft parts ?) at one incision, and then saw the bones. But this method of remov- ing the limb is not unattended with danger, as many vessels pour forth blood at the same time. " Wherefore/^ he adds, " it appears to me better first to divide those parts of the limb where there is least flesh, as on the anterior part of the leg, and then to saw the bone; and I myself am in the prac- tice of first applying a ligature above the part of the limb which is to be sawn across, and then of operating in the manner described. In sawing the bone the plate of the saw ought to be applied even, in order that the sawing of the bones may be (v en. When the bones are sawed the other parts which re- main undivided are straightway to be cut through with a scal- pel, and large pledgets applied along with suitable compresses, i external to these, sponges with suitable bandages are to be put on. After the third or fourth day, when all fear of li(;morrhage is over, suppuration is to be promoted by suitable 1 ressings."