[book v. 184 H^MOilRHUS. Comm. belonged to the viper kind. (See Bochart, Hieroz. ii, 367.) ■"-^^—' Galen states that he was informed by the Marsi, who made a living in Rome by dealing in serpents, that the dipsades were not a peculiar species of serpents, but a variety of the Aiper found on the sea-shores of Africa. (De Simpl. x.) Isidorus thus defines them: "Haemorrhois aspis nuncupatur,eo quod san- guinem sudet qui ab eo morsus fuerit: ita ut dissolutis venis, quicquid vitse est per sanguinem evocat." " Dipsas genus est aspidis quse Latine siiula quia quern memorderit siti perit." (Orig. xii, 4.) The effects produced upon the system by the sting of the dipsas seem to have been of a highly inflammatory nature. According to Nicander, it kindles a flame in the heart, the lips become paxched, and the person is seized with an un- quenchable thirst. These symptoms are strongly portrayed by Lucan: " Ecce subit virus taciturn, carpitque medullas Ignis edax, calidaque accendit viscera tabe. Ebibit humorem circum vitalia fusum Pestis, et in sicco linguam torrere palato Cacpit. .... Ille vel in Tanaim missus, Rhodanumque, Padumque, Arderet, Nilumque bibens per rura yagantem. Accessit morti Libye,/ac/zV** minorem Famam Dipsas habet terris adjuta perastis." Pharsal. ix, 754. The Arabians give a similar description of its effects. Haly Abbas says, that it occasions great heat and burning. Dioscorides treats the wounds of the dipsas and ha;morrhus upon general principles, namely, by the external application of cauteries and cataplasms; and the internal administration of wine and acrid food. Actuarius, in like manner, recommends undiluted wine and acrid food, and also directs us to amputate the part, or apply acrid cataplasms according to the degree of .danger. Most of the ancient authorities concur in recommending the theriac; for an account of the modus operandi of which in this case, see Alexander Aphrodisiensis (Prob. i, 152.) We may mention that, after considering the descriptions.; given by Nicander, his commentator Eutecnius, Galen, Actu- arius, and Avicenna, we are disposed to think that the text of * Sic lege non facdq.