SECT. L.] DROPSIES. 339 in the left side; some do it at tlie navel; and some bm-n the Comm. skin and then perforate the abdominal parietes. He directs '—'—' the operator to be careful not to wound a vessel. The size of the point of the perforator, he says, should be the third part of a finger's breadth. After the perforation has been made, a tube (canula) of lead or copper is to be introduced and the water drawn oflP gradually. The whole is not to be removed at one time, but a tent is to be introduced into the opening, unless it was made with fire, to prevent it from healing too soon. He speaks faA^orably of the operation, unless the patient be much debilitated, (vii, 15; also ii, 10.) Aetitis and most of the medical authors subsequent to Galen, mention the operation of pai-acentesis, and approve of it. Vegetius, the veterinary surgeon, recommends paracentesis for the dropsy of cattle, when the swelling is not removed by purging. (Mulom. iii, 25.) Avicenna expresses himself rather unfavorably of paracentesis. He says, it ought never to be attempted until every other re- medy has proved ineffectual, and unless the strength of the patient be good, and he can endure exercise, abstinence from drink, and restricted diet. His description of the operation is taken from Paulus, (iii, 14; iv, 13.) Serapion mentions the operation in very brief terms, (iv, 7.) Albucasis's description is very minute; but, upon the whole, little different from our author's as to the place of the incision or the instruments with which it is to be performed. After the perforation has been made in the manner directed by our author, he recommends the introduction of a canula made of silver, copper, or brass, and having a small hole at the bottom and three in its sides; he advises us to evacuate only half the water at first. He adds, that when the canula is removed the skm will cover the opening in the abdominal muscles, and thereby stop the discharge. The remaining part of the water IS to be removed afterwards, according to the strength of the latient. (Chirurg. ii, 54.) Haly Abbas does not in general approve of the operation, [le mentions, that he never saw it performed but once, and then t did not save the patient. He adds, that Galen relates that le only knew of one case in which it had proved successful, le directs the incision to be made three fingers' breadth, straight