[book VI. 248 OPHTHALMIA, ETC. Comm. in Lis account of surgical operations; and the descriptions whicli ' " ' lie does give of them are almost aU borrowed from our author. The accoiint of fractures and dislocations given by Hippocrates and his commentator Galen may be pronoixnced almost com- plete ; but the information which they supply upon most other surgical subjects is scanty. SECT. TI. ON BURNING OF THE HEAD FOR OPHTHALMIA, DYSPNCEA, AND ELEPHANTIASIS. In ophthalmia, occasioned by a defluxion from above, and in dyspnoea, produced by a redundance of a recrementitious humour which is sent from the head down to the chest, and by lodging there proves injurious to the parts contained in it, they burn the middle of the head in this manner. Having first shaven the parts about the vertex, they apply cauteries shaped like olive-kernels and biu-n the skin down to the bone, scraping the bone after the falling off of the eschar. Some by burning even the bone itself make a small scale exfohate from it, in order to allow the humours of the head to perspire and be evacuated the more readily; and for this purpose they keep the ulcer open for some time and then allow it to cicatrize. In treating ele- phantiasis some burn five eschars in the head, one anteriorly above the part called the bregma; another, below this, a httle above the forehead, at the extremity of the hairs; another, at the part called the occiput; two others at the parts called the squamous plates, above the ears, one on the right side and another on the left; and thus, by the removal of several scales, they procure the evaporation and discharge of the collection of thick humours in the deep-seated parts of the head, and pre- vent the sight from being injured. They also apply another cautery on the spleen, in order to remedy the prime organ in the formation of the melancholic humom- by the eschar formed in the skin. Commentary. See Hippocrates (de Visu) ; Aretseus (de ' curat. Morb. Chron. i, 1); Celsus (iii, 23, and vi, 6); Csehus Aui-elianus (Morb. Acut. i, i, and Morb. Chron. i, 4) ; Aetius (vi, 50); Actuarius (Meth. Med. iii, 2); Rhases (Cont. xxvii, 1,