SECT. xxYii.] (EDEMA. 83 of t}diig the arteries. The characteristic sytoptoms of the dis- Comm. ease, he says, are a stony hardness and distension. The ac- count given by Alsaharavius is nothing different. Ehases has little confidence in excision. After ulceration has taken place he approves of using a cooling application, containing ceruse, tutty, rose-oil, the juice of nightshade, and some other such things of a cold natui-e. He mentions a case of cancer of the breast, in which the whole mamma was extii-pated, but the dis- ease returned on the other side. One of his authorities, AntyUus, describes the cancerous sore as having a tendency to spread inwards, its edges being thick, large, and everted, and the dischai-ge thin and acrid. When the disease cannot be got completely extii-pated, he forbids us to meddle with it. Theodoricus and all the earlier modern writers on medicine, call the cancer by the name of apostema melanchoHcum, and recommend the same treatment for it as the Greeks and Arabians, SECT. XXVII. ON CEDEMA. Having treated of swelhngs formed by hot humours, we shall now treat of those from the opposite, beginning with the oedema. For as erysipelas is formed by a bihous humour, so IS oedema by a pituitous, being a loose swelling devoid of pain. We are aware also, that oedematous swellings occur in the feet, in di-opsical affections, in phthisis, and in cachexia, but m them the oedema is a symptom of the complaint under which the person is labouring, and requires no very pai'ticular treat- ment; for it will be sufficient in general to rub the limbs sometimes with vinegar and rose-oil, and sometimes with oil and salts, or the salts may be added to the vinegar and rose- oil. When the oedema is occasioned by a pituitous humour bemg determined to the part, a sponge soaked in oxycrate may be properly applied with a bandage loosely put on, be- ginmng below and terminating above. The sponge ought to be new, but if such a one is not at hand, that which IS may be cleaned with natron, or more especiaUy with what IS called strained lye. If the swelling do not thereby subside, may mix some alum. And a very convenient application