181 ; SECT, xrv.] •• DRYINUS. eryx. He makes the amphisbsena to be the anguis fragilis, L.; Comm. Ihe questions, however, this accuracy of the ancient accounts irespecting its venomous qualities. (Notte in Dioscor.) But, lindeed, Aetius states distinctly that these serpents are not ve- momous,. and that their sting merely occasions inflammation like tthat of wasps and bees. (1; -c.) Meander also merely describes tthese serpents, and says nothing about their being venomous. SECT. XIV. ON THE DRYINUS. THE INTRODUCTION FROM GALEN, The dryinus, that lives at the roots of oaks, is so pernicious tnd destructive an animal, that if one tread on him he will ijxcoriate one's foot, and great sweUingwiU seize upon the whole limbs; and, what is more wonderful, they say that if one at- eempt to dress the wound, one's hands wiU be excoriated; and bhat if any person attempts in defence to kill the animal, he nmits such a stench as overpowers all other smells. When one aas been stung by the di-yinus, tumefaction of the part takes lilace with redness, and blisters on the surrounding parts, along nth a discharge of a watery ichor. These symptoms are fol- vwed by cardialgia and tormina. Birthwort given as a draught nth wme is serviceable in these cases, and the herb trefoH, and lie root of asphodel, taken in like manner, and the fruit of all 1 ads of oak triturated and taken in a draught. In like man- -r the roots of the ilex pounded and applied to the part are use. ' Commentary. Nicander says it is also called chelydros and Comm ^dros. He makes a distinction between the chelydros and ;3 chersydros,but subsequent authorities confound them toge- !er. (See below.) He says it inhabits lakes and marshy grounds, o^g upon locusts and frogs. Its back is black, and its 11 11- symptoms occasioned by its sting are livid •Jlimg, delirium, cutaneous pustules, dimness of vision, sup- hST l .T""^' ''°'^''' singultus, and vomiting of blood or bile. Ulaly Abbas calls it adresa, and says that it emits a fetid »ill, and brings on inflammatory redness with an aqueous dis- Tge from the wound. (Thcor. viii, 21.) Avicenna calls it