[hook VI. LUXATIONS. 484 Comm. extremity; but Sir Astley Cooper's ample experience confirms the correctness of the ancient statement. Mr. Listen also agrees in stating that dislocation at the acromial end is much more frequent than at the sternal. SECT. CXIV. ON DISLOCATION OF THE SHOULDER. The head of the arm, which is articulated with the cavity of the scapula, is often dislocated; but neither upwards, owing to the coronoid process of the scapula, which, prevents it, nor often backwards, owing also to the scapula, nor forwards owing to the tendon of the biceps muscle and the acromion. Sometimes, though rarely, it is dislocated inwards and out- wards, but frequeutlj^, and particularly in those who are lean, downwards. In such persons, however, as it is readily dislocated, so is it also reduced ; but in those who are brawny, on the other hand, it is not readily dislocated, and is reduced with difficulty. In some cases from a blow suspicions of dislocation are formed, although none has taken place, owing to the violent inflammation which supervenes. Where- fore, dislocation downwards may be thus ascertained. The affected shoulder, when compared with the sound one, appears very different, the upper pai't of the arm, whence the disloca- tion took place, seeming hollow; and (as mentioned Avith re- gard to the sub-luxation of the acromion,) the top of the shoulder appears sharper than natural; and the dislocated head of the arm is distinctly felt in the armpit. The elbow also is removed to a distance from the ribs; or, if you attempt it, you can only bring it to the ribs with difficulty; neither can the hand be raised to the ear, owing to the stretching of the elbow; nor can any other varied motions be performed with it. In children, then, and in recent and inconsiderable displacements of the bone, it may be often reduced, as Hippo- crates remarks, by the protuberant knuckle of the middle finger of the clenched hand of the siu'geon, or of the sound hand of the patient, if he be not a child. But the following are more effectual modes of reduction. Having biithed the man and used relaxing affusions, let hira be laid on the ground in a supine posture, and apply a moderately-sized ball, either of leather or some other soft thing to the armpit; and the surgeon being seated with his face turned to the patient upon