SECT. XVI.] CHALAZIA. 273 r Celsus correctly remfirks that the disease is the consequence Comm. )f neglected ulcers. He describes the operation in the follow- —' ag terms :—" Igitur aversum specillum inserendum deducen- lajque eo palpebrse sunt: delude exigua penicilla interponenda, lonec exulceratio ejus loci finiatur.'' He mentions that Meraclides of Tarentum directed the eyelid to be dissected •om the white of the eye when there is adhesion between lem; but recommends us to do it cautiously with an averted iccillum (dos de la spathule, Pabr. d'Aquapen.), taking care o wound the eyelid rather than the ball of the eye. Suitable 'iutmeuts are afterwards to be apphed. Yet he says that he lever saw a case thus cured; and states, that Meges likewise bought the disease incurable. In order to understand the above description of Celsus it lay be useful to give from Fabricius some account of the ncient speciUum. " 11 nous suffit s9auvoir que specillum (qui st le mot Latin de Celse) est un instrument long et rond, de uivre, d'argent, ou de plomb, duquel on sonde les fistules, yant un de ses bouts plus large, et 1'autre plus etroit, en vul- aire Italien stilo." (CEuv. Chir. ii.) It was, therefore, a )rt of sound. Avenzoar directs us to make the separation by means of a jlden rod or probe, and then to apply the white of an egg -oken with oH of roses and oH of almonds. Wlien the eyeHd Iheres to the white of the eye he advises us in like manner ' make the separation gently with a golden spatula, and then - apply the oil of roses and of almonds. But the latter case, 3 says, is difficult to cure. Of the other Arabians, Albucasis and Haly Abbas evidently py the descnption of the operation given by Paulus ; and liases and Avicenna supply no additional information. Jesu ■.di's description is accurate, but similar to that of Celsus. r. XVI.—CHALAZIA OR TUMOURS RESEMBLING HAIL-STONES. The chalazion is a concretion of inert fluid in the eyelid. It occur on the external side of the eyelid, having divided ■ outer part of the eyelid transversely with a scalpel, we ract the chalazion with an ear-pick, or some such instru- 18