45/ -ECT. XCIX.] ARM. et the fracture, or instead of a weight an assistant may pull ilo'n n the arm, and instead of the above-mentioned piece of wood some use the step of a ladder." Soranus, however, proceeds rhus : Having placed the man in a chair, or, which is better, ;is it occasions less distui-bance, in a supine posture, then having put a ligatm'e round the wi'ist and suspended it from the neck so as to preserve its angular figure, we direct two assistants, the one to apply his fingers below the fracture and the other above, and thus to make the extension. Or if we require ■ !:i"onger pulling we apply two equal pieces of thong to the arm, he one aboA e the fractxu'e and the other below, and giving one ijf the pieces of thong to the assistant who stands above the [latient^s head, and the other to the one at his feet, we order them to make counter-extension. If the fracture be near the top of the shoulder we apply the middle of the thong to the ai-mpit and direct the assistant at the head to hold it, and, Vihile the other pulls in the opposite direction, we make the counter-extension as above. And when the fracture is at the Ibow, the ligature is to be applied there or at the wrist. The bones of the fracture being properly set, the extension is to be relaxed, and it is to be bound up according to the method of Hippocrates. When the fracture is free from inflammation and recent, we must use linen bandages of a proper length, and three or four fingers in breadth, which have been soaked in water or oxycrate, but when there is inflammation, thin soft pieces of wool steeped in oil are to be used. And if the frac- ture be at the middle of the arm the bandaging must commence at the fracture, and after two or three turns the bandaging is to be carried upwards, in order, as he says, that the overflow of blood to the part may be intercepted; and it is to terminate there. A second bandage is then to be applied with its head at the fracture, and, having done as in the former case, cai-ry it from above downwards, and again reverting from thence up- wards let it terminate there. There should be a moderate de- <j^ee of tightness according to our own feeling and that of the l)atient. If the fracture be near the top of the shoulder, the first bandage should take in the acromion, scapula, and sternum, so as to form what is called the crane bandage. The second one is to extend to the elbow, and reverting from thence to the upper parts it is to take in, with the acromion, the scapula and