SECT. XVII.] PHLEGIHON. be seated near a joint. Ehases as usual coUects the opinions Comm. of all preceding authorities. Antyllus, he says, directed the surgeon to break the sack, or to bind a heavy plate over it or to extract it by the knife. When an operation is attempted he recommends that the surgeon be sure that he has removed the whole sac. He relates a case in which the sweUing was dissolved by an application containing mustard. SECT. XVH. ON PHELGMON. In general, we caU aU those swellings phlegmons which are red and painful, and accompanied with heat; some diversity of their nature arising from the canse which occasions them ^ or when good blood and of moderate consistence mshes abun- dantly to a part and from its quantity becomes seated in it the disease is that which is properly called phlegmon; but when yellow bile is seated in a part, it is called herpes; and when blood and yeUow bile together are collected in a part, eysipelas is formed; but when in this case the blood is Hot and thick. It usually gives rise to carbuncle. Wherefore we shall begin with what is properly called phlegmon, which occurs in many cases, being a swelling which is red, painful elastic, and hot, deriving its origin, as I said, from good blood which IS sometimes collected from the whole body, and some- ^nies IS formed abundantly in the part itself, so that it cannot be contamed m the vessels, but escapes from them in the form ot vapour into the surrounding cavities. And this affection supervenes upon ^uds, fractures, ulcers, and many other causes. When therefore a part becomes inflamed without any obnous cause preceding it, the whole body sending a defluxion to the part, we must evacuate the general system by venesec- tion and apply to the part embrocations and cataplasms, not such as are of a heating and moistening nature, but such as are calculated to repel the fluid, which is flowing to the part, and evacuate that which is already contained in it. Apply therefore, a cataplasm of house-leek, and of the bark of the pomegranate tree boiled in wine, with sumach and polenta • When the pain is not vioknt, this or such like applications are to be used; but when there is a defluxion to the part with