CALCULUS. [book vj. 360 Comm. ternally of the size of the stone. If the stone does not then start out, the operator must seize upon it with a forceps, or a hook having a lunated extremity. If there be more than one stone, the largest is to be extracted first, and then the others may be easily removed. When the stone is large he directs us to break it down vidth a forceps. His directions respecting the treatment afterwards are similar to those of Paulus. When the stone sticks in the urethra he recommends us to cut down iipon it. His description of the operation on women is like- wise similar to our author's, but more circumstantial. Having got a dexterous midwife, or some proper person to introduce her finger into the rectum or vagina, and press the stone down to the left hip, the operator is to make first a small incision over it, and afterwards, by the help of a sound or specillum, it is to be enlarged so as to allow a passage for the stone. (Chirurg. ii, 60, 61.) Avicenna's description is nearly the same as that of Albucasis, but not so minute. He directs the surgeon to introduce a finger into the anus, if the patient be a male, but into the va- gina if a woman who is not a vii'gin, and to push the stone outwards, so as to make it protrude. He is then to cut dowia upon it, making an incision proportionate to the size of the stone; but if the stone be veiy large, the incision must not be made of the same size, but it is to be grasped in a forceps and broken into pieces. If inflammation come on after the opera- tion, he recommends him to have recourse to clysters, the warm bath, and venesection, and a piece of cloth dipped in oil of roses and some vinegar is to be applied to the part. The bad symptoms after the operation are said to be violent pain in the part and under the navel, coldness of the extremities, prostra- tion of strength, loss of appetite, and, at last, singultus and involuntary discharges from the bowels, (iii, xix, 1, 7.) The description given by Haly Abbas being nearly the same as that of Albucasis, need not be noticed here but very briefly. He prefers performing the operation in infancy, but permits it to be done at all ages. For the reason assigned by our author he states that recovery is most likely to take place when the stone is large. Like the others, he directs the surgeon to in- troduce either the fore-finger alone, or it and the middle finger into the anus, behind the stone, and to push it outwards, and