491 S£CT. CXV.] ELBOW. luxation of the radius is described by him under the name of Comm. diastasis. (De Fracturis, 44; De Articulis, 20.) The Commen- """^ taries of Apollonius Citiensis and Galen are worth consulting although they contain no new matter. Galen remarks that in dislocations of the radius, the power of flexion and extension ^ is often not much impaired; and this, we may add, is con- firmed by modern observation. Galen's account of fractures of the olecranon is remarkable for its precision and accuracy. (Chirurg. Vet. 84.) Celsus describes fovir different kinds of dislocation at the elbow, namely, forwards, backwards, and to either side. He also mentions that rare variety, in which there is a dislocation of the ulna, whUe the radius remains in its place. (See Sir Astley Cooper's Lectures.) The other varieties are all well described, and suitable methods of treatment recommended. When there is a dislocation forwards the arm is extended, but cannot be bent; when backwards, on the contrary, it cannot be extended, and is shorter than natural. When to either side, the arm is somewhat bent towards that side from which the bone has been moved. He lays it down as a general rule for treating all such dislocations, to extend both the members eoncemed in different dii-ections, until the bones are separated from one another, and then to push them into their right po- sition. When the dislocation is forwards, he directs us to make strong extension with the hands or with thongs, and then placing some round body upon the anterior part of the arm, to push the fore-arm over it suddenly to the shoulder. This method is well described by Hippocrates, but rather in- distinctly by Paulus. In all the other cases, the best method, he says, is to make reduction in the same way that it is per- formed for the replacement of fractures. Oribasius mentions the four ordinary kinds of dislocation at the elbow-joint, and describes methods of reducing them by machines. He has likewise described the separate dislocation of the radius from the humerus, and he is the only Greek au- thority, as far as we know, who has described the separate lux- ation of the ulna, but which, as stated above, had been noticed by Celsus. We need scarcely remark that a few cases of this ' imcommon accident have been reported of late years.