[book VI. CATARACTS. 282 Galen, in his ' Ars Medica/ alludes to the operation, ljut does not describe it. Paulus is the only Greek author who describes the opera- tion. Sextus Platonicus, however, just mentions that the dis- eased part is sometimes to be depressed with a specUlum. (De Medic, ex Animalibus.) Mesne describes the operation of couching briefly, but nearly in the same terms as our author. He directs us to put the patient upon a spare diet, and to bleed him before the opera- tion. He recommends us to be careful to depress the cataract (aqua) properly. Albucasis describes the operation of Paulus very minutely, and gives drawings of the couching-needles, called by him alraagda. The instrument is to be passed down into the eye to as great a space as the pupil of the eye is distant from the end of the black part called the corona. He says nothing of tearing the cataract into pieces when it proves difficult to de- press. He mentions that he had heard of a certain oculist who, it was said, sucked out the cataract through a small tube. He adds, however, that he had never seen any person who per- formed this operation, nor had read anything about it in the works of the ancients. Avenzoar briefly mentions that when a cataract cannot be got discussed it must be depressed. He gives directions to press it well down, but says nothing about teai'ing it into pieces. He recommends retirement, abstinence, and rest afterwards. Avicenna's description is evidently copied from our author. He also mentions tliat some surgeons open the lower part of the cornea, and extract by it. However, he does not approve much of this procedure. Canamusah briefly mentions that cataract must sometimes be removed by a surgical operation. When comoilsions come on after the operation he directs us to apply castor to the nose. Rhases describes accurately the operations of couching, ex- tracting, and sucking out the cataract. He is the only ancient author, except Celsus, who recommends the cataract to be torn in pieces when it cannot be got properly depressed. He mentions that the famous surgeon AntyUus practised extrac- tion by opening the lower part of the cornea. He also speaks of a certain surgeon who sucked it out through a glass tube. Haly Abbas describes distinctly the operation of couching,