SECT. xxTT.] FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 285 mends it to be pierced with a slender perforator, or a hole is to Comm. l)c burnt in it with a red-hot iron. He mentions that others '—'— biu-ned it by means of a funnel and melted lead. (Apud Galen, sec. loc. V; and Rhases Contin. ii, 4.) Aetius gives a full and lengthy account of segilops. He re- commends us to attempt the cure first with medicines (see Book Thii-d),; and if these do not succeed, he directs us to open the abscess freely, and apply to the fungous flesh medicines possessed of strong stypticity, such as powdered glass, stone alum, and the like. A pledget of lint is to be placed over the medicines. When this method of practice does not succeed, he recommends burning, and for this purpose directs us to make a triangular incision in the flesh, and then to touch the bone with a heated iron, so as to produce exfoliation. Alum with turpentine is then to be applied to the bottom of the sore, (vii, 77.) When the disease does not yield to medicines, Albucasis directs us to open the abscess freely, so as to make an outlet for the matter, and expose the bone. If it is found to be diseased, he recommends us to scrape it with an iron instru- ment, and then to apply styptic and desiccative medicines to it. When this treatment does not succeed, he directs us to perfo- rate the bone with a triangular instrument of iron. When air issues from the nose by the opening we know, he says, that the operation is completed. For the cure of segilops. Mesne recommends the removal of all the diseased flesh by means of strong caustics, such as arsenic, sal ammoniac, chalcitis, alum, &c. When the bone is carious, he directs us to scrape off the carious part. Some, he adds, perforate the bone; but the operation had not succeeded well in his hands. He makes mention of the cautery in the same terms as the others. (De ^gr. Oculi, 12.) Jcsu Hali approves decidedly of perforating the bone with a specillum, or any suitable instrument. He also speaks favor- ably of the actual cautery. (De OcuHs, ii, 32.) Haly Abbas directs us to lay open the swelling, and apply the cautery. We have mentioned in another place that he was acquamted with the lachrymal duct. (Pract. ix, 29, and ix, 72.) It will be unnecessary to give a particular account of the treatment recommended by Avicenna, as it does not differ from t hat of Albucasis. According to circumstances he approves of i