SECT. LXXIV.] 389 EMBRYULCIA. and fatty applications^ and have recourse to liip-baths, embro- cations, and cataplasms, in order tliat when the mouth is dilated extraction may be accomplished in the manner described ibove. Cross presentations, if they can be rectified, may be treated according to the afore-mentioned methods ; but if not, the whole foetus must be cut asunder within, and extracted in pieces, taking care that none of the parts of it be left behind. After the operation we must have recourse to the treatment for inflammations of the uterus. If hemorrhage come on, you have ah'eady had the management of it described. Commentary. There is a curious treatise commonly pub- Comm. lished along with the works of Hippocrates on the extraction ' ' ' of the foetus j but, as it is not mentioned by Erotian and Galen, it is now generally admitted not to be genuine. The author of it directs us, when the arm presents, to pull it down and amputate at the shoulder-joint j after Avhich the head is to be brought to the proper position and delivery accomplished ac- cordingly. This is not now the general rule of practice, and yet we were once compelled by necessity to deliver in this way, after Ave and an intelligent assistant had been foiled in all our attempts to turn the child. We have known of similar cases happening in the practice of other surgeons; and, in fact, this method of procedure was advocated lately by a sensible writer in the ' Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal.' The author of the ancient treatise in question recommends us to bring down the head in its natural state, if possible, but if this be found impracticable, to break it down. He directs us to give for drink a white, sweet, undiluted wine. Celsus gives an interesting account of this subject, and his practice is deserving of much consideration. He recommends us, when the position is unnatural, to turn the child either to the head or the feet; adding, afterwards, that delivery may generally be accomplished easily enough by the feet. In arm presentations, he approves of turning to the head, that is to say, in cases when it is ascertained that the foetus is dead. If the head is at hand, a smooth hook with a small point is to be fa.stened at tlie eye, the ear, the mouth, or the forehead, and its body is to be thus dragged down. This, however, must not be attempted when the mouth of the womb is not properly