SECT. XXIV.] MEATUS AUDITORIUS, 28/ we introduce it into the meatus to prevent the flesh from growing again. Should inflammation come on we must soon take it out. If there be a discharge of blood from the meatus we may soak a sponge in cold water, and apply it along with other appropriate remedies. Commentary. Celsus describes this case with his usual terseness: " Solet tamen evenire vel a primo natali die proti- nus, vel postea facta exulceratione, deinde per cicatricem aure repleta ut foramen in eo nullum sit, ideoque audiendi sensu careat." He directs us to make an examination with a sound (specillum) in order to ascertain whether the membrane be super- ficial or deep-seated, and in the latter case recommends us not to interfere with it, but in the former, directs us to make an open- ing by means of caustics, burning iron, or scalpel, (vii, 8.) Albucasis describes the nature of the case and the operation in nearly the same terms as Celsus and our author. If the obstruction is occasioned by a superficial membrane he directs lis to perforate it with a slender instrument. If a fleshy ex- •rescence obstruct the passage he approves of seizing it with a liook, and dissecting it out. If the obstruction be more deeply eated he directs the membrane to be opened by means of a leated iron, taking care not to hurt the nerves. It is to be ^ept open with a tent. (Chirurg. ii, 7.) ^ A^dcenna mostly borrows his account of the case from Paulus. Wlien the obstruction is occasioned by a fleshy ex- •rescence he dii-ects it to be burnt down with arsenic or some ^ther escharotic. He also approves of perforating the mem- brane, (iii, 4, 1, 17.) The account given by Haly Abbas accords very well with )nr author's. (Pract. ix, 30.) Fabricius ab Aquapendente describes correctly the treatment ecommended by the ancients. He admits that he had never t tempted to perforate the membrane when deep-seated. (CEuv. liirurg, li, 41.) ^ rXT. XXIV.—ON SUBSTANCES THAT HAVE FALLEN INTO THE MEATUS AUDITORIUS. Not only do stones fall into the meatus, but also glass, cans, and the stones of carob nuts. Of these the stones and