52 PHLEGMON. [book iv. greater pain, then cataplasms of hot water and oil, or of po- lenta, must not be applied (for all these are inimical to such defluxions) ; hut the vehemence of the pain is to be allayed by that which is composed from musk, rose-oil, and a little wax, with unwashed wool containing much grease: these things are to be prepared and apphed cold in summer, but tepid if in wm- ter, so that the parts above the affected places be covered with a sponge soaked in austere wine or cold oxycrate. But we must add to the cataplasms such herbs as are proper for the purpose required. PeUitory of the waU, therefore, is applica- ble to eveiy phlegmon at the commencement, and while on the increase; and in like manner, homed poppy, orach, mallows, lettuce, and gourd, when applied on hot parts. Both kinds of caltrops (ti-ibuli) are applicable to inflammatory defluxions, and the cabbage to such as are hard. When a change is thereby effected, and no pus falls into the part, you may accomplish the cure by means of the plaster from chalcitis, or some of those plasters of a similar natm-e, which apply to defluxions ; but clean wool soaked in austere wine is to be put externaUy to the medicine. In this manner you may cure phlegmons from defluxion. But such as are occasioned by any external cause will not be injured by moistening and heating applica- tions, and if necessity require, you may scarify them Avith ad- vantage. But in phlegmons arising from defluxion, scarifica- tion, more especially at the commencement, may become the cause of much mischief to the patient. Comm. Commentaey. See Galen (ad Glauc. ii); de Difi"erent. Morb. (12); Meth. Med. (xiii, 2); Celsus (iii, 10); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii. 41) ; Aetius (xiv. 31); Leo (vii, 4); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 12) ; Avicenna (iv, 3, 1, 2); Serapion (v, 22); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 9; Pract. iii, 27); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxix, 2) ; Ehases (Divis. 126, and Contin. xxvii.) Galen explains that the term plilegmone is used either to signify inflammations in general, or a red, resisting, and pam- ful tumour in particular. It is here used in the latter accepta- tion. He says, when a defluxion of blood of good quality and of moderate consistence takes place to a part, and from its quantity becomes fixed in it, the person is seized with a violent pain, unless the part be very insensible; it is also accompamed