FRACTURES. 430 [book VI. thickness, so tliat often a separation of the membrane of the brain takes place, or it is pressed upon by the skull through- out ; or sometimes the indentation does not affect the skuU through its whole thickness but only its outer plate down to the diploe. To these differences some also add that by reper- cussion, which happens, say they, when a fracture of the cra- nium takes place opposite to the part which received the blow. But they are in a mistake, for what happens to glass vessels does not, as they say, happen here; for, this happens to them from their being empty, but the skuU is full and otherwise strong. But when many other parts of the head have been struck, as in a fall, and a fissure of the skull takes place with- out a solution of continuity of the skin, an abscess afterwards forms in it, and being opened, this fissure is discovered, which appears to them to have been occasioned by the blow on the opposite side; and this is to be cured like the fissure fii'st mentioned. If a fracture, then, occur in the head, it is dis- covered by the sharpness, weight, hardness, or violent force of the body which struck it, and by the symptoms which supervene upon the person who has been struck, such as ver- tigo, loss of speech, and sudden prostration, more particularly if it be a fracture with depression, or contusion, or expression, or the internally-arched fracture, owing to the compression of the brain. It is also discovered by its appearances to the senses ; for if there be a considerable division of the skin we ascertain the occurrence readily thereby; but if there be no division, or a very narrow one, and we suspect a fracture, we make an incision in the skin and ascertain it by the sight, or by probing it with an instrument. If then it be any of the other kinds of fracture it will readily be apparent, but if it is only a narrow capillary fissure which eludes the sense, having poured on the part some black liquid medicine, or the common writing ink, we scrape the bone, for the fissure appears black, and we must go on scraping until the symptoms of the fissure disappear; but if it extend to the membrane we must desist from the scraping, and endeavour to ascertain whether the membrane has separated from the bone or remains fixed. For if it remain, the inflammation of the wound continues mode- rate, the patient gets gradually freed from the fever, and the pus appears concocted. But if the membrane has separated.