FRACTURES. 428 [book VI. fracture of a bone. In unguem is a fracture at one part straight, and at its extremity lunated, and it is also called arundatim. Polentatim is a fracture of a bone into small pieces; and it is also called nucatim by some : Defractio or prcecisio is when part of a bone is taken away with teai'ing of the skin, so that part is removed and is wanting. These are the differences of fractm-es. Commentary. The following is a list of the ancient authors who have treated of fractures and dislocations: Hippocrates (de Practuris; de Articulis; de Vulner. Capit.; OflBcina Medici); Galen (Comment, in eosdem, Meth. Med. vi.); Celsus (viii); Oribasius (de Machinamentis, &c.); Nicetee Collectio ex Chirurg. Grsec.; Apollonius Citiensis (Scholia in Hippocrat. ed. Dietz); Avicenna (iv, 5, 23); Rhases (ad Mansor. 26; Divis i, 140 ; Cont. xxix) ; Averrhoes (CoUig. vii, 36); Avenzoar (ii, 6, 1) ; Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, ad finem.) Hippocrates does not make use of the technical terms explained by our author in this section, and Galen hints that he thinks his Master did better in confining himself to words generally un- derstood. Galen defines only a few of these terms. He calls that kind of fracture in which the end of a bone at an arti- culation is entirely taken away, dbruptio {airayjia.) A trans- verse fracture with a complete separation of the broken portions is called a fracture c.aulatim (KauAjjSo)'-) A longitudinal division not attended with an entii'e separation of the parts is called scandulatim [ay^i^aK-q'Bov.) He thinks the later writers on the subject who had introduced the use of such terms as raphanatim {pa^mvrf^ov) wApolmtMim (aX^iTTjSo)') had refined too much. All the terms mentioned by our author occur in a fragment of Soranus, preserved in the collection of Nicetas. They are also treated of very elaborately in the fragments of Heliodorus, contained in the same collection, Celsus, who was studious of perspicuity and elegance, avoids all technical terms as much as possible. He thus defines the varieties of fractures. A bone, he says, may be split longitu- dinally like a piece of wood, or it may be broken transversely or obliquely, and its ends may be blunt or sharp, Avhich last variety is the worst of all, as they cannot be easily made to unite with the other parts, and are apt to wound the muscles and nerves. Sometimes the bone is broken into fragments, and