TESTICLES. 363 SECT. LXI.] scissura debet fieri transversa, et sit exterior caro larga et in Comm. interiori vesicje stricta.^^ '—v—' Yet notwithstanding all this we are inclined to think that the incision was oblique and not transverse; for oiir author, whom they all follow, directs us to make the incision oblique (Xo^oc)j and it is further clear that a transverse one would not answer the purpose so well. No dependence can be put in the accuracy of these barbai-ous translations. The language of Stephanus Antiochensis is particularly obscure. Casiri justly characterizes the translations of the Arabian authors as being "perversiones potius quam versiones." (Bibl. Hisp, Arab, i, 266.) The ancient operation, with scarcely any alterations, is de- scribed by the earHer modern writers on surgery. See Brunus (Chirurg. Magna, ii, 17); and Guido de Cauliaco (Chir. vi, 2.) They direct us to introduce a finger into the rectum and push the stone outwards; then to make an incision down upon it on the left side of the raphe. Brunus recommends a longi- tudinal incision. It appears that the ancient operation of lithotomy is still practised with great success by the native doctors of Hindostan. See 'Transactions of the Medical and Physical Society of Calcutta,' vol. iv. An interesting case in point, related in the ' Medical Gazette' for Feb. 7,1845, forms a valuable commentary on the Celsian description of lithotomy. In the year 1827 yir. Madden the traveller saw it performed in Tyre by an old pilot on a boy of thirteen years of age. The case did well. SECT. LXI. ON THE PARTS ABOUT THE TESTICLES. As contributing to the understanding of the operations on herniae, we shall premise a description of the parts about the testicles. The testicle itself is a glandular and friable sub- stance, formed for the production of semen. The substances railed parastatse and cremasteres, are processes from the mem- brane of the spinal marrow, descending along with the arterial vessels in the testicles, by which the semen is injected into the imdcndnm; the spermatic vessels are veins from the vena cava passing to the testicles in a convoluted manner, and by them t he testicles arc nourished. The tunica vaginalis (erythroides or < lytroides ?) is of a nervous nature; at the convex and anterior