WORMS. S£CT. LVII.] 139 SECT. LVI. ON RELAXATION OF THE JOINTS. The joints often become relaxed from protracted febrile com- plaints, and from colic, and paralytic affections, especially when a hot and humid intemperament seizes them; and hence the motion of the joint is impeded. In these cases the juice of acacia mixed with water may be poured upon the part • or a decoction of bramble, of myrtle, of lentisk, or of the blrk of elm roots wiU answer well; or the rind of pomegranate maybe formed into a cataplasm, or myrtle leaves with myrtle ointment may be applied. For the ligaments require to be strengthened by astringent and desiccative powers; and such applications axe therefore to be made to the joints, as that from willows that caUed oxyrum, and the phoenicinum, with the addition of an astringent wine or vinegar. Some imagining that the weak- mess of the joints proceeds from cold, and having had recourse tto more heating remedies, have only increased the mischief. Commentary. Our author has correctly stated that relax- Comm «ation of the joints is to be cured by astringent desiccant appli- ccations. Aetius makes mention of the simple articles enume- rrated here (xiv, 73), and Oribasius recommends a few of the jsame. (Synops. vii, 23.) Our author is much fuller than lOribasius on this head. (Ibid.) SECT. LVII. ON WORMS. There are three different sorts of worms, the round, the broad *nd thirdly, those called ascarides. They are all the offspring ;l>f crude and thick pituitons matters with a suitable putiefac- Mon such matters collect in chikb-en, and others who take too much food. But they do not grow from hot, acrid, or melan- bhohc humours; for these being too strong for nutrition, are >aapt for the generation of worms; and, on the contrary, bilious aiperfluities are particularly destructive of them. Or if at any lime yellow bUe be discharged along with worms, either down- wards or by vomiting, you may be sure that they have been •ormed in the intestines, whereas the bilious humour had been