318 VENESECTION. [book VI. tion, and making the first abstraction in small quantity, bleed again, or even a third time, if required. We have recourse to general evacuation not only when the body is in a plethoric state (as Galen says), but on account of the magnitude of the affection, when the general system is in a moderate state with regard to the humours, as we do also in hemorrhage from the nose or elsewhere, when although the discharge do not pro- ceed from plethora, we bleed from the opposite parts in order to produce revulsion j and so also in violent inflammations, as in colics and affections of the kidneys from calculi, ophthalmies, and other such acute and urgent attacks; for the heat and pain of the inflamed parts occasion a defluxion upon it, al- though the general system be free from superfluities. In such cases we must bleed more sparingly, proportioning the evacu- ation particularly to the age and constitution of the patient, and also taking into accoimt the season, country, and habits of the person affected. When there is a strong inflammation near the vein which is opened, as in pleurisy and hepatitis, it will be most proper to wait the change of the blood in colour and consistence. Blood in inflammation is different from the natural, since being excessively heated, if it was formerly cinide, - it becomes ruddier and brighter; or if it was such before, it turns black from being over-heated. Yet we must not in every case wait for the change, but sometimes give over before this takes place; for two reasons, either from the weakness of the patient's powers, which you may ascertain to have sirnk by feeling the pulse (for you will find it either unequal as to strength and magnitude, or indistinct, the stream of the blood failing also indicates that the strength is sunk), or from the malignity of the inflammation ; for sometimes it will not remit, but the con- striction continues strong. But if none of these circumstances contra-indicate, and if the patient be in the vigour of age, we may wait until a change takes place, especially if the atmosphere be mild. But if the flow of blood stop before a sufiicient evacua- tion has taken place (this happens from fear, dehquium animi, and coagulum, or too tight an apphcation of the bandage), we must attend to each of these causes, rousing from dehquium with strong-scented things, slackening the bandage when too tight, and a coagulum may be dissolved by pouring in oU, or by rubbing it with the fingers. The rest of the apparatus for