SECT. VIII.] TRICHIASIS. 2C3 uot be particularly noticed. Canamasuli directs us to cut out Comm. the hairs and bum the part with a cautery of gold. '—"—' AAicenna merely mentions, in very general terms, that the cure may be accomplished by agglutinative applications, by the cautery, or by excision. Mesue briefly describes four modes of cure : 1. By means of agglutinants. 3. By passing a needle, armed with a hair, through the tarsus, as will be explained in the 13th section. 3. By plucking out the hairs and cauterising the part. 4. By applying medicines calculated to prevent the renewal of the hairs after they have been plucked out. Jesu Hali's description of these operations is very circum- stantial ; he speaks of cutting out the piece of skin with a fine pau" of scissors. Rhases states that th.e cure of trichiasis may be effected by burning the roots of the hairs with a red-hot needle, or by making the excision of the superfluous skin of the eyelid. He also makes mention of the treatment by agglutinants. In his great work, the ' Continens,' he briefly notices the four ope- rations described by Albucasis. He appears to have approved very much of the burning. He also describes the operation mth the reeds or pieces of wood. Avenzoar mentions four methods of curing inversion of the ciliary haii-s. 1. By everting the upper eyelid and securing it with agglutinants until the roots of the hairs have been cau- terised with a rod of gold. This method he does not approve of. 2. By extirpating the offending hairs and applying the blood of a bat to the places from which they were torn. 3. By making an excision of the superfluous skin of the eyelid, and afterwards applying sutures. He alludes, we suppose, to the operation of Aetius. 4. By twisting the skin about small reeds or tubes, in the manner described by our author and Albucasis. Haly Abbas accm-ately describes the fom- following operations : I. By excision and the suture. He directs the under-iucision not to be made deep. 2. By twisting the hairs into the fold of a silk thread and flattening it to the forehead. 3, By the actual cautery. 4. By the potential cautery. We will give the description of the veterinary surgeon, V'cgetius, in his own words: " Non longe a pilis ab interiorl )iu-tc scalpello plagam dabis in cute palpebrje, post forficibus