POLYPUS. 290 [book VI. Wherefore those kinds of polypi which are hard, unyielding, somewhat livid and mahgnant, inasmuch as they partake of a carcinomatous nature, are not to be meddled with; but such as are more friable, spongy, insensible, and not malignant, are to be subjected to a surgical operation. Having placed the person on a seat exposed to the rays of the sun, and opened the nostrils with the left hand, and holding in the right hand a polypus scalpel, having its extremity shaped hke a myrtle-leaf, we cut around the polypus or sarcomatous tumour, applying the extre- mity of the instrument to the parts where it adheres to the nose. Afterwards, turning round the instrument, we bring out the separated fleshy body with its concave part. And if we see that the nasal passage is perfectly cleared, we proceed to the cure; but if any part of the polypus be left behind, we take another instrument for eradicating polypi, and, with the extremity thereof, we bring away what remains by stretching, twisting, and scraping it strongly. Malignant polypi we burn with cau- teries, knob-shaped ; and, after the burning, we have recourse to the treatment for burnt parts. After the operation, having sponged the parts carefuUy, we inject oxycrate or wine into the nose, and, if the fluid descend by the roof of the mouth to the pharynx, the operation will have been rightly done; but if it does not descend, it is clear that about the ethmoid bones, or the upper parts of the nose, there are fleshy bodies which have not been reached with the polypus instruments. Taking, then, a thread moderately thick, hke a cord, and having tied knots upon it at the distance of two or three fingers' breadths, we introduce it into the opening of a double-headed specillum, and we push the other extremity of the specUlum upwards to the ethmoid openings, passing it by the palate and mouth, and then drawing it with both hands, we saw away, as it were, with the knots the fleshy bodies. After the operation, we keep the opening separate by means of a tent resembhng the wick of a lamp; and after the third day we consume whatever is left behind by the trochisk of Musa or the like, and at the same time use desicca- tive apphcations to the part. Afterwards, we have recourse to epulotic trochisks, and, if necessary, dui'ing the whole treat- ment we keep leaden tubes in the nose.