SECT. XIV.] EXCORIATIONS. 47 dr. j ; fonn trochisks with water, and keep, men going to use, mix one part with eight parts of cerate. Commentary. The Arabians mention various things which C were supposed to be possessed of the property of making hairs ^ grow; such as turpentine, spikenard, thapsia, &c. SECT. XIV. FOR EXCORIATIONS. For excoriated surfaces and superficial ulcers, at first use astringents, such as wine, or vinegar and brine, and afterwards such plasters as contain fat and promote cicatrization, and the most deHcate of the white plasters. This is particularly appli- cable: of ceruse, p. j ; of ammoniac, p. ss; of myrtle-oil, q. s; havmg triturated the ammoniac in water, mix the ceruse, adding the myrtle-oil, and use in an oUy state : or, mix the squama lens with gypsum, and having triturated with myrtle-oil, use: or, having triturated Cimohan earth and Htharge with'wine^ and the oleum ricini, or myrtle-oil, use. For excoriations, intertrigo, chronic ulcers, and old and tender shn. Of golden-coloured litharge, dr. Ix; of wax, dr. xx; of dned pitch rosin, dr. xij ; of oil, iss cyathus : having boiled the htharge and the oil, add the other things, and having agitated it with a spatula, or softened it in a mortar, use. Skin which has been torn away, ought not to be cut from the sores, but It ought to be laid on, and the medicine apphed; for thus they coalesce, even if it is black. When stripped of the skin, the cicatrization is difficult, the ulcer being irritated and ren- dered foul. Excoriated parts are preserved from inflammation by the apphcation of red sumach, triturated with honey, or with the hair of sweet flag burnt and apphed with honey. ' An anodyne for excoriations, sores from stripes, and contusions of the Joints. Of Htharge, of ceruse, of each, oz. j ; of wax, oz. V); of pure oil or rose-oil, lb. iss; of starch, oz. ij. The composition called pelarium, from the dross of silver, produces the same effects, and that from eggs in hke manner. Commentary. See Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 18); Aetius Comm. (xiv, 66, 67) ; Scribonius Largus (88); Marccllus (De Med.);