[book vr. FRACTURES. 432 called abaptistse, whicli have certain eminences projecting a little above the point tbat prevent them from sinking down to tbe membrane, and then, by using the chisels, we remove the fractured bone not at once, but by pieces, if possible with the fingers, or otherwise with a tooth forceps, or bone forceps, or hair-nippers, or some such instrument. The space between the perforations should be as great as the breadth of the largest head of a specillum, and its depth should be until it is near the inner surface of the bone, taking care that the perforator (trepan?) do not touch the membrane. Therefore, in order to suit the thickness of the bone with the size of the perforator, several ought to be previously prepared for the purpose. But if the fracture extend only to the diploe the perforation should be carried no farther. After the removal of the bone, ha^'ing .cleared away any asperity that remained after the cutting of the bone with a carving instrument, or the extremity of a per- forator, using the meningo-phylax as a protector, and bringing away carefully the small bones and spiculse which remain, we proceed to the application of the dressings. This is the more common, and at the same time the easiest and least dangerous mode of operating; but the method of performing it with a sort of incisor called lenticular is greatly praised by Galen, being performed without perforation after the pai-t has been scraped all round with hollow chisels (kv/cX/ctkoO- Wherefore he says thus : " If you have once laid bare the place, then applying the incisor, which has a projection at the extremity like a lenticu- lar, blunt and smooth, but sharp longitudinally, when you apply the broad part of the lenticular to the meninx, divide the cra- nium by striking with the small hammer. For we have all that we require in such operations; for the membrane, even if the operator were half asleep, could not be wounded being in con- tact only with the broad part of the lenticular, and if anything adhere to the cranium, the round part of the lenticular removes its adhesion without trouble. And behind it follows the inci- sor, or knife itself, dividing the skull; so that is impossible to discover another mode of operating more free from danger or more expeditious." But the mode of operating with saws and the instruments called choenicides or modioli (trepans ?) is condemned by the moderns as a bad one, and the operation may be done as we described for fissure. The same mode of