SECT. LIII.] HEMORRHAGE. 129 served, but so as not to excite pain. Those things which form sloughs render the part more exposed than it was naturally owing to the faUing off of the sloughs; for in many cases a hemon-hage which can hardly be restrained supervenes upon the falHng off of the slonghs. And yet we must have recourse to them when a great necessity compels us. A great necessity for usmg escharotics, or cauteries with fire, occurs when the bleed- ing proceeds from the vessels being corroded by mortification ; and indeed, when in such affections we cut off the whole mor- tified part, it is safer to burn, as it were, its root, or to use escharotic medicines. This happens more especially upon the pudendum and fundament. The object of escharotics is to pro- duce heat with astringency, as in chalcitis, misy, and copperas. Ihose from quicklime are stronger indeed, but owing to the want of astrmgency in the lime, the eschars from them faU sooner away; but it is better that they should remain longer for thus will flesh have time to form previously at their root' and become as it were a cover to the vessels. In such cases ol hemorrhage matured woad (isatis sativa) when sprinkled upon the part is excellent for restraining the bleeding, or burnt galls but they must first be heated in the fire, and extinguished in vinegar or wine. The following Simples stop hemorrhages : Aloes, frankincense, manna, Samian earth, the rust of iron, the ashes of btu-nt wool finely powdered, the dung of an ass or of a horse, a smaU quantity of bitumen, pomegranate-rind, diphryges, galls, dried myrtle, all kinds of alum whether crude or burnt, roasted rosin, the bark or green leaves of the vine, and the down ot the peels of the plane tree, more especially when the vessels throw off then: crusts. In particular, hemorrhage from the nostnl IS to be restrained by the application of the fruit of the • sharp rush, the juice of nettle leaves, chalcitis, burnt anthylHs, ' the down of a hare, the middle part of a ferule when burnt • with vinegar, an ass's dung diy or moist, the juice of leeks ^ with frankincense applied upon lamp-wick. The following are ■ compositions for restraining all kinds of hemorrhage : Having soaked a fresh sponge in liquid pitch, and smeared it with bitu- Dinen, bum it in a new pot. Mix together of the ashes of it, p. ij ; «ot lead, p. j; of antimony, p. ^.—Another : Sprinkle on the l>art equalquantitiesof the manna of frankincense, and sulphur rnyyxm.—Another : Of chalcitis, dr. viij ; of frankincense, or of 9