SECT. I.] ELEPHANTIASIS. 11 or hiera, and vomiting with radishes or white hellebore. Some, he says, having remarked that eunuchs escaped taking this com- plaint, have castrated themselves as a preventive. He makes mention of all the medicinal substances recommended by our author, namely, iron-wort, Cyrenaic juice, the theriac of vipers, &c. For the cutaneous affections he recommends a great many external apphcations, containing white hellebore, sulphur, rue, natron, aloes, and even arsenic. He also speaks of cataplasms' depilatories, and detergent ointments. He is very particular in directing that the diet be light and wholesome. Actuarius calls elephantiasis a cancer of the whole body, which preys upon all the flesh, and derives its origin from black bile corroding everything like fire. The first symptoms of it are a faUing ofi" of the hairs of the eyebrows and chin, tumours on the face, an alteration of the appearance of the eyes, a change of the voice, turgidity of the sublingual veins, and afterwards cutaneous eruptions of an intractable nature. He then states that elephantiasis, lepra, psora, and impetigo are diseases of difi-erent gradations of mahgnity. In another place he has given the treatment, which is exactly the same as that recom- mended by Aretseus, namely, bleeding, purging with heUebore, aetergent and desiccative applications to the skin, &c. Some apphcations, seemingly of little efficacy, are recom- mended for elephantiasis in the ' Euporista' of the Pseudo- Dioscorides. Nonnus, as usual, abridges our author's detail of the treat- ment, and omits the description. He says it arises from a raelanchoKc humour, which corrodes the extremities. Accord- ing to Psellus, the disease is produced by melancholy adust and the lees of putrid blood. The account of elephantiasis given by Leo is brief and im- orfect. The disease, he says, is produced by a melancholic l umour, which has become putrid, and corrodes the extremi- les. It IS, he adds, almost incurable, but may be benefited )y purging with the dodder of thyme, by the theriac, andburn- ng the head at the bregma. The aflfection, he says, is also '.illed satyriasmus. Myrepsus merely mentions some of the common remedies 'u- elephantiasis, such as arsenic, turpentine, litharge, &c. He ^ives no description of the disease.