SECT. XL.] VENESECTION. 317 we may bleed at any season, avoiding only the acme of par- ticular paroxysms in fevers. But if it be a continual fevei', the morning is by all means the fittest season for the operation. Those who reqmre the evacuation of blood, not from the pre- sence of any disease, but as a preventive, will find the spring the fittest season of the year. With regard to age, bleeding must not be practised before the fourteenth, nor after the seventieth year, unless some urgent necessity compel us. And npon the whole we must avoid bleeding those persons whose strength is reduced. In recent inflammations we must make the evacuation from the opposite parts, but in chronic from the adjoining. We abstract blood from many parts of the body, but more especially from the inner part of the elbow. But it is to be recollected that in general the artery lies below the inner vein called the alar j that below the middle one (median) there is a nerve; whereas the upper one, called also the humeral, is free from all risk. In diseases of the head we open the humeral, but in those below the neck, the alar. The median is applicable in both cases. Wherefore we must tie a narrow band around some muscular part of the arm, and having by friction of the hands upon one another produced the necessary fulness of the vein, we divide it transversely, but only along its breadth; for larger incisions than this are difficult to heal, whilst those which are very narrow occasion inflammations by obstructing the passage of the thicker fluids. When we expect to have to abstract blood again on the second, third, and some- times the fourth day, we must divide the vein more obliquely, in order that by bending the arm the incision may be kept open and not heal speedily. Such is the opinion of Antyllus. The quantity of the evacuation must be determined by the strength of the patient and the magnitude of the disease. When, therefore, there is a humeral plethora, and the matter is in a state of inflammation, we are to make our evacuations to deliquium animi, provided the strength be firm, and the patient does not swoon from an overflow of the humour upon the stomach. Wherefore many at the commencement fall into deliquium animi before a sufficient evacuation has taken place, and, therefore, the dehquium must be judged of from the mea- siu-e of the evacuation. If there is a necessity for much evacu- ation, and the strength is weak, we must husband the evacua-