SECT. CXV.] ELBOW. 489 to the sides without pain, nor raised to the head at all. He Comm. remai-ks correctly that -when the accident happens during '—"—' delivery or in childhood, the arm does not grow to its natural size. He mentions that venesection is often of great use in reducing dislocations. He also recommends the warm bath. He denies the possibility of a dislocation in any other direction except downwards. The ancient modes of reduction are recommended and de- scribed by Guy of Cardiac (v, 2); and Theodoricus (ii, 47.) SECT. CXV. ON THE ELBOW. Inasmuch as the elbow-joint is more complicated than that of the shoulder, so, in like manner, are its dislocations more difficult to manage; for they are less readily occasioned, and more difficultly reduced, owing to the number of its processes and cavities. Sometimes it undergoes sub-luxation only, but often it is completely dislocated in every direction, and more especially forwards and backwards. It is easily recognised even by the sight, and the dislocated bone may be felt in the place to which it has been removed, while a hoUow appears in the place whence it was moved. A comparison with the sound arm particularly discloses the nature of the accident. Reduc- tion then must be made immediately before inflammation comes on, for, if this has supervened, it is difficult to cure, and some sucb cases become utterly irremediable, more espe- cially if the dislocation was backwards; for of all the disloca- tions at the elbow-joint, that backwards is the most painful and dangerous. Small displacements then may be restored by a moderate degree of extension, the assistants keeping the hand extended, pulling, and making counter-extension at the fore-arm and arm, while the surgeon with the palm of his hand pushes the dislocated bone into its natural place. Hippocrates rectifies the dislocation forwards by bending the hand suddenly so as to force the palm straight to the shoulder of the same side; and that backwards again by frequent and strong exten- sion ; inasmuch as dislocations forwards are produced by vio- lent extension, and those backwards by violent flexion. If the dislocation has continued long unreduced, we must have re-