SECT. LIV.] WOUNDS OF NERVES. I35 and certain of the agglutinative applications; but the sutures must not be applied very superficially lest the part below remain ununited, but more deeply, taking care however that the nerve be not punctured by the needle. It is to be known once for all, that m wounds of the nei-ves the medicine which cures pmictures being of a bitter nature, it is not possible to cure with It the division of the nerve, as the parts cannot endure pungency and inflammation. And neither does the medicine which cures incisions answer with punctures. For its strength does not reach the bottom of it, the incision of the skm being narrow. A spare diet is to be allowed, and a soft couch • and warm oil is to be applied to the armpits, head, and neck : but when the wound is in the leg, the medicine is to be applied to the groms, pubes, and the parts there. Baths, until the in- flammation IS on the decline, are to be abstained from, water not agreemg with these wounds, as we have said. But since some from habit cannot bear to want the bath, if the wounded part be the hand it must not, if possible, be wet in hot water, and stdl less m cold J but when the wound is in the foot, since it IS unpossible to preserve it from being wet, when about to go into the bath apply to the wounded part some of the plasters, !• and externally a compress consisting of many folds and moist- e encd with od ; and again external to that a linen bandage; and R after havmg done these things when the person afi-ectedis about to take his seat in the bath pour oil once more upon the band- aage. When he comes out of the bath take away aU those ap- :phcations, and have recourse to the treatment described above When there is only contusion of the nerve, if along with it there .be contusion of the skin and ulceration, the cataplasm of the ■flour of beans and of oxymel will be a fit one, but you may add ■ ometimes the flour of tares, and some iris; and when the'^con- wS^V If « ^'^y ^^'^ ^ little liquid pitch mth It. If there be no contusion of the skin, it will be more ^ZTl : ^^^'^ - «^ -^-ting nature I mean that of dill, of rue, of iris; or of marjoram. When .he whole nerve is cut asunder no danger will result from t, but the part wdl be mutilated; and the treatment is to be jnducted as in the case of other ulcers. The treatment of ^he wounds of nerves by «i,nples is sufficient for accomplishing ' he whole cure, but some are in the practice of using compound