HEAD. SECT. XC.J 429 in certain bones a fragment is occasionally separated entirely Comm. from the broken bone. " ' ' TheAi'abians, especially Avicenna, HalyAbbas, andAlbucasis, adopt the terms used by our author. Albucasis remarks, that the fi'acture of a bone is recognised by the derangement of the broken pieces, by their projection, and the crepitus produced upon pressure. He says, however, that there may be a fissure without derangement or crepitus. SECT. XC. ON FRACTXJEES OF THE BONES OF THE HEAD. In particular, then, a fracture in the head is a division of the cranium, sometimes simple and sometimes complex, occasioned by some external violence. The differences of fractures of the head are these: a fissure, an incision, an expression, a depres- sion, an arched fractirre, and, in infants, a dent. A fissure, then, is a division of the skull, either superficial or deep, when the inward bone is not removed out of its place. An incision, or slash, {tyKoin]) is a division of the skull with refraction of the fractured bone (if the injured bone be broken ofi" some call the afi"ection deasciatio, i. e. as if done by a hatchet). An ex- pression is a division of a bone into many parts, with a sinking down of the fractured pieces upon the membrane of the brain. A depression {k-yyiaojjxa) is a division of a bone with a sinking downwards of the fractured bone from its natural position towards the meninx. An arched fracture {Kaf^apu)a^Q), as Galen says, is a division of the skull attended with elevation of the fractured pieces in the middle, and depression around the edges of the sound parts, like as in expression. Such is his opinion. Some enumerate also the capillary fracture, but it is a very narrow fissure which eludes the senses, and therefore, being often overlooked owing to the symptoms of it not being obvious, it occasions death. An indentation is not a division of a bone, and, therefore, such an injury is not properly called a fracture, but is, as it were, a protrusion and bending of the skull in- wardly, forming a hollow without a solution of continuity, as when vessels made of copper, or the raw hide of an ox, are struck on the outside. There are two different kinds of in- dentation, for either the bone is depressed through its whole