SECT. VI.] ALPHI. 33 which might lead us to suspect that elephantiasis was mixed up with the leprosy of the Jews. This opinion is further con- firmed from what is mentioned by Josephus of its being said that his countrymen were diiven out of Egypt because they were affected with leprosy. (See also Justin, xxxvi, 20, and Tacit. Hist. V, 3.) Now we know that elephantiasis was endemial m that country. (See chap, i.) The EngHsh translation of this chapter is very inaccurate, the translators having evidently failed to recognize the nice distinction between cognate diseases, laid down by the Jewish legislator. Leuce is stiU common in tropical cHmates. Neo-roes af fected with it are called Albinos. It is merely an aggravated variety of the Lepra vulgaris. SECT. VI. ON WHITE AND BLACK ALPHI. The formation of alphos is similar to that of leuce, but the latter produces a deep change of the skin, so that the hairs grow of a similar colour, whHst the alphi affect the skin super- nciaUy, except that when continued, they extend more deeply « so that the haii-s grow white, owing to the humour wliich causes J It. From the pituitous humour then they are produced white ■ but black from the melanchoHc. Wherefore, a common applica- t tion for both is washed lime dissolved in water, or, the root of ■ dracunculus applied with vinegar; in like manner, either species of hellebore, the decoction of bitter lupines poured on the part, and then- flour when applied as a cataplasm with vinegar or oxymel, the bark of the root of capers with vinegar, the root of lily with honey, onions with vinegar rubbed into the part ' m the sun, the dung of the land crocodile, and in like man- i> ^er, that of starlings, when they are fed solely upon rice, and the burnt sheUs of the cuttle-fish. The following is a com- > pound application: of alcyonium, of natron, of each, oz. ij ; of •white hellebore, of sulphur vivum, of each, oz. j; and some also add the burnt lees of ^^me.—Another: Of sulphur vivum, ■01 the spuma nitri, of each, dr. iv; rosemaiy seeds, vij; tri- turate with vinegar. But rub only the part affected witli alphos, not touching the unaffected parts, and when dry, wash n. 3