[book IV. 104 HOLLOM^ ULCERS. Comm. COMMENTARY. Celsus's list is not very different from oiir ' * ' author's : Concoquunt et movent pus, nardum, myrrha, costum, balsamum, galbanum, propolis, styrax, tliuris et fuligo et cortex, bitumen, pix, sulpbur, resina, sevum, adeps, oleum. These articles furnish the ingredients of most of our modern appli- cations. For further information respecting each article, the reader is referred to Dioscorides, Galen, and Serapion. SECT. XL. ON HOLLOW ULCERS. The hollow ulcer requires the fiUing up of the deficient flesh, the maieriel of which is a moderate quantity of good blood. Wherefore we procure a moderate supply of it by a sufficiency of food, and produce a proper temperament of the sore by food of wholesome juices, and a suitable temperament of the part in which the sore is seated. With regard to the discharge, that which is thin renders the sore more humid, and that which is thicker makes the sordes adhere to it; on that account it requires applications that are moderately desiccant and deter- gent ; such as frankincense, the flour of barley, that of beans and tares, iris, birthwort, calamine, panax, and pompholyx. When one incarnative remedy does not answer another must be tried. But if the sordes of the ulcer appear gi-eater, and the ulcer more humid, it is to be understood that the medicine has not dried properly, and its powers are to be increased by a mixture of honey. If it is clean, but with less moisture than natural, the medicine has dried more than was proper, and we must apply a cerate mixed with more oil. It some- times happens when the application is too strong, that the flesh is melted down, so that the ulcer appears foul and moist, like those which have been imperfectly dried; but that from the melting of the flesh becomes more hoUow, its lips are callous, and it is red and inflamed; and sometimes the patient has very acute pain. But the other, which arises from the applications being less desiccant than proper, is attended with none of these characters. Wherefore the cai'ies of wood, more especially of such as is possessed of a moderate degree of astringent and detergent qualities, as that of the elm, purges and incarnates clean ulcers; or anemone may be applied for the same purpose. Having shaven down the bark of the pine