[book VI. EMBRYULCIA. 390 Comm. dilated. The right hand is to be employed in dragging doMn ' the foetuSj and the left in directing the instrument and the foetus. When the body of the foetus is distended -with a fluid, it is to be let out, and the body brought down with a hook. If the child lie across and the position cannot be got rectified, the hook is to be inserted at the armpit, and extraction gradu- ally performed. In extreme cases he recommends us to cut the neck asunder, and extract the parts separately, beginning with the head, for fear of its being left in the uterus. Should such an accident occur, however, he directs us to get the belly compressed so as to force the head down to the os uteri; after which it may be extracted with a hook in the manner described above. (Smellie relates histories of such cases.) When one foot presents, and the breech sticks at the os uteri, he recom- mends us, when the other foot cannot be found, to separate the one which protrudes; after which the body of the child may be pushed up, and the other leg found and brought down. It is to he recollected that this practice is only recommended when the child is dead. He adds, that other difficulties may give rise to the necessity of performing embryotomy, {vii, 29.) Aetius has an interesting chapter on the Extraction of the - Dead Foetus, copied from the works of Philumenus. His description of embryotomy is similar to our author's. He directs us to apply two hooks to certain pai'ts of the head, such as the eye, mouth, and chin, and thus to drag down the body. If the head is lai'ge or hydrocephahc, he advises us to open it and evacuate its contents ; and if even then it is found to be too large for the passage, he recommends us to break down the bones of the skull and remove them with a forceps, after which the instrument is to be fixed and the foetus dragged down. If obstruction to the delivery take place at the chest or the belly, he directs us to evacuate their contents in like mauner. When an arm or both present, he recommends us to amputate at the shoulder-joint. If the child come down doubled, and the position cannot be got rectified, he ad-vdses us, if the head can be reached, to break down its bones, and then extract the other parts accordingly; but if the legs are got at most easily and cannot be brought down, they are to be amputated at the hip-joint, and then the head will be got delivered. Wheu the body is so impacted in a doubled state that it cannot he moved, ^