110 ULCERS. [book TV. portions of birthwort, and the juice of the leaves of the Pahna Christi, and half the quantity of verdigris, made with water to the tliickness of honey; but if the eschar is not removed an equal proportion of elaterium is to be mixed with the verdigris. For putrid ulcers sori levigated and sprinkled on them is an effectual remedy, and above is to be put dried charpie; or the round birthwort and galls in equal quantities may be rubbed in with oil; or the root of the wild cucumber, or of cabbage, or of beet, or the leaves of dock are to be bound in a piece of Hnen, and put into ashes; when they are softened triturate with salt and apply; they will cleanse powerfully. Or apply green olive leaves boiled in wine with honey; or apply chal- citis, or parsley seed levigated, or apply linseed triturated with copperas, or use an application of thyme, dried grapes and boiled figs, or of fig leaves triturated with honey; or of nitre, cumin, and fine flour with honey; or of the root of the wild cucumber, or of squill boUed with honey ; or of sori, dr. xij ; of chalcitis, dr. x; of misy, dr. iv; triturate with half an hemina of the strongest vinegar untU it is dried, and taking it off use by dipping a specillum in it, and rubbing it over the ulcer, and placing above it a double pledget out of wine and oil. But if it is inflamed apply henbane with polenta, or cabbage with honey. For putrid and spreading ulcers on all parts of the body.— Of quicklime, of chalcitis, of each dr. ij ; of arsenic, dr. j. This may be used for pterygia of the fingers, for phagedsena and car- buncle, with honey if on the genital organs, but dry if on any other part of the body. Above apply an oblong pledget with rosin. An universally applicable powder for all spreading sores, and those of the mouth, for hemorrhages, and for represhing fungous flesh. Of chalcitis, of misy, of both in a crude state, dr. xx; of squama ferri, dr. vj ; of immature galls, dr. viij. For spreading and putrid sores. Of salts, doc. ij; of any species of alum which has been burnt, dr. j ; of squama aeris, of burnt pumice stone, equal quantities. Scraped verdigris, with burnt misy mixed with liquid pitch; and the flakes of iron with oil also answer well. For spreading ulcers of the pudendum. These things wiU apply to them, and also the composition called meliterium, the