SECT. XL.] HOLLOW ULCERS. IO5 and poimded it with cerate, and rubbed it upon pledgets, apply It to hollow ulcers, more especially to such as are recent, for it wiU mi them. The compound medicines for ulcers which are clean, are, that fi-om snails, that ascribed to Manetho from the lees of wine, that from aloes, the dry powder caUed meletera, that contamng equal parts of starch, of manna, of hahca, and of tares; and in hke manner, the composition from frankin- cense and that caUed aphroditarium. .But when the ulcers are fouler the powders called cephahc are to be appHed, and of those appHcations that are made upon pledgets, that caUed trophos, the isis and the athena, and that from distaff-thistle (atractyhs,) and moreover that called Italicum, and any others of tried efficacy. Commentary. The resemblance here pointed out between Comm. an ulcer too strongly stimulated and one too bttle is highly deservmg of attention. Our author appears to have borrowed his description from Oribasius, who however abridges it from tralen. Galen and Aetius give a somewhat fuller account than our author, but their principles of treatment are the same They remark that frankincense in humid intemperaments en- genders flesh, but in dry ones only pus. Pompholyx burnt and washed; calamine and the shells of oysters are said to be mcarnant and dissiccant without pungency. Galen inculcates that the greatest difficulty in treating these ulcers, is to find out the nature of the intemperament of the part, and correct it. Celsus gives the foUowing list of incarnants : Carnem aHt et ulcus impact resina pinea, ochra attice, vel asterace, cera, butyrum. He recommends the use of hot water; an appHca- tion consistmg of butter, roses, and a smaU portion of honey; or the tetrapharmacum with roses. He approves of giving wholesome and nutritious food, such as fowls, venison, pork! Z Jri °f Pseudo-Dioscorides conLns nearly the same articles as that of Celsus. (Euporist. i, 186.) Octavius Horatianus recommends a composition of equal parts of honey turpentine, rosin, and wax, melted in a vessel; or a mixture of powdered rosin, wax, and fat. Scnbomus Largus recommends basilicoii, and a composition consistmg of calPs marrow, the fat of geese, butter, stag's mar- row, wax, turpcntiuc, lionev, and roses.