SECT, CXXI.] WITH A WOUND. 509 SECT. CXXI. ON DISLOCATIONS WITH A WOUND. In the case of dislocations with a wound the utmost dis- cretion is required. For these, if reduced, occasion the most imminent danger, and sometimes death, the surrounding nerves and muscles being inflamed by the extension, so that strong pains, spasms, and acute fevers are produced, more particularly in the case of the elbows, knees, and joints above, for the nearer that they are to the vital parts the greater is the danger they induce. Wherefore, Hippocrates, by all means, forbids us to apply reduction and strong bandaging to them, and directs us to use only anti-inflammatory and soothing applications to them at the commencement, for that by this treatment life may sometimes be preserved. But what he recommends for the fingers alone, we would attempt to do for all the other joints : at first, and while the part remains free from inflam- mation, we would reduce the dislocated joint by moderate ex- tension, and-if we succeed in our object we may persist in using the anti-inflammatory treatment only. But if inflam- mation, spasm, or any of the afore-mentioned symptoms come on, we must dislocate it again if it can be done without violence. If, however, we are apprehensive of this danger (for perhaps if inflammation should come on it will not yield,) it will be better to defer the reduction of the greater joints at the com- mencement; and when the inflammation subsides, which happens about the seventh or ninth day, then, having foretold the danger from reduction, and explained how, if not reduced, they Avill be mutilated for Hfe, we may try to make the attempt without violence, using also the lever to faciHtate the process. We are to apply the same treatment to the ulcer as recom- mended for fractures with a wound. Commentary. Hippocrates, as stated by our author, was Comm. < decidedly averse to immediate reduction in cases of cUslocation • comphcated with an external wound. Hence, in compound • dislocations at the ankle, he forbids us to interfere at first, as I attempts at reduction will certaiidy bring on convulsions or (gangrene. Modern experience agrees with that of the father