5ECT. XT.] H.EMORRHUS. 183 bring up blood from the lungs, and they die at last vomiting blood irremediably. Those bitten by the dipsas experience intolerable heat and intense thirst which is insatiable and un- ceasing, so that they swallow copious draughts, and yet they feel as if they had never di-unk; and the whole system is affected, as in dropsy, owing to constant ingestion of drink. Hence the animal has been called prester, causon, and dipsas. By most of the ancients those bitten by the hsemorrhus and dipsas were given over as incurable. But if we have no particular remedies for this reptile we ought to make trial of the general applications, and immediately have recourse to scarifications and burning, and, if the part permit, to amputation of the ex- tremities. Then acrid cataplasms may be applied. All kinds of acrid food are also useful, especially that from pickles, drinking undiluted wine, and using baths. These things are to be appUed perseveringly, and repeated at short intervals, before the complaints make their attacks; for after they make their appearance no advantage can be derived from medical aid. We find these topical remedies described for their bites, namely, for those of the dipsas, the powdered leaves of purslain with vinegar, polenta, and bramble leaves powdered with honey, plan- tain, hyssop, white garhc, leeks, rue, and nettle; and for those of the hsemorrhus the same things, and, in addition, boiled vine leaves triturated with honey. By the mouth the burnt head of the animal itself may be taken in a draught, or garlic with ' oil of iris. They may likewise eat dried grapes. Commentary. According to Nicander,the hEemorrhus is Comm about a foot m length, of a black or fiery colour, with two horns on its head, and eyes like those of locusts. The symp- :toms brought on by its bite, as described by Nicander, appear |to have been very similar to those of the disease called purpura Ih^morrhagica, namely, a discharge of blood from the gums, mose, ears, bladder, bowels, or any open sore. iElian gives eexactly the same account of it. (H. A. xv, 13.) It appears from Dioscorides that the dipsas was also some- ftimes called prester and causon. (vi.) See also ^lian (H. A. m, 51.) Lucian and Isidorus, however, make a distinction be- tween the dipsas and prester. Lucian says that it resembles the viper de dipsadibus. In fact the dipsas seems to have