[book IV. 76 ANTHRAX. fixed to the base, and in a certain manner nailed to it, and it spreads at the same time, the surroimding flesh is in a fiery state, black in the colour, and shining like bitumen and pitch. Such is the true black bile. But carbuncles that form in the flesh are speedily circumscribed; whereas those which take place in membranes or nerves remain long, and affect sym- pathetically the parts below, so as to give origin to erysipelatous inflammations. Not a few terminate in suppuration, and most cases are attended with fever. Carbuncles also sometimes arise from epidemic causes. We must treat them, unless they are very small, by venesection, car- rying evacuation as far as to occasion dehquium animi; and after venesection it will not be improper to make deep scarifications in the part, on account of the tliickness of the humour. To the afi"ected part we may apply such things as ai-e moderately repellent and discutient, as the cataplasm of plantain and boiled lentil, receiving the tender part of bread baked in an earthern pan, neither very fine nor foul; and above the ulcer we must put some of the strong applications, such as those of Andron, of Poly ides, and of Pasion, mixing them with must, until they are of the consistence of the sordes of oil in baths. And so also the dry Massaleotic powder, which may be diluted in like manner. And the root of dracunculus, or of birthwort, or the juice of laserwort, or the Cyrenaic juice may be properly rub- bed in, each of these with vinegar. Cases of an erysipelatous nature may be anointed with the applications for eiysipelas ; but those parts which are suspected of being sympathetically affected are to be wrapped in unwashed wool, out of wine and oil. When the inflammation abates, we must apply to the carbimcles the cephalic cerates spread upon pledgets. That from herbs is an excellent one, and that from natron, and the dry application for spreading ulcers, separately and with rose- oil. When the hardness remains, we must use the one from apples ascribed to Serapion. But we must hasten the suppu- ration of the carbuncles as much as possible, by changing the cataplasms and medicines. twice during the day, and once during the night. In order to root out the carbuncles, and free them from their attachments to the surrounding parts, having divided sour pomegranates, boil in vinegar, and when softened, tritvirate, put into a huen rag, and apply. When