202 [book v. CANTHARIDES. M. tinal canal, ulceration of tlie bladder, affection of the cliest, and wild delirium. His remedies are emetics, sucb as fat, the oil of iris with rue, or Samian aster, laxatives, milk in clysters or taken by the mouth, and the decoction of vine-shoots Avith honey. Dioscorides describes the symptoms in the same terras as our author, and Uke him recommends emetics of oil and emollient clysters, such as the decoction of linseed or of mal- lows. Like our author, he disapproves of Avarm applications, such as cataplasms and the hot bath at the commencement, because by their heat they promote the distribution of the poison over the system; but after a time they are useful, he says, by allaying the pains and promoting the discharge of the poison by the cutaneous perspiration. His other remedies being the same as our author's, we need not enumerate them. Galen states that the wings and feet of cantharides prove useful for removing the deleterious effects occasioned by taking their bodies. His treatment otherwise, which is borrowed from Asclepiades, is very similar to that of Dioscorides. He in par- ticular recommends the Lemnian earth, or terra sigHlata, as an emetic in this case. (De simpl. ix.) He also speaks favorably of milk. (lb. and de antidot. ii.) He approves very much of animal and vegetable oils given in sweet wine or tepid water to produce vomiting. Galen states decidedly that the viscus upon which the action of cantharides is exerted is the bladder. (Ad Pison.) The treatment recommended by Scribonius Largus is Httle different. Aetius, Oribasius, and Actuarius only copy from Dioscorides, without suggesting any improvement. Avi- cenna and Rhases mention that cantharides occasion inflamma- tion of the penis and erections. They agree with the Greeks in recommending oily emetics, clysters of the same, and, what we believe is an improvement which we owe to the Ai-abiaus, injections of rose-oil into the bladder by means of a waxen tube (flexible catheter). Rhases approves of bleeding, provided it be lono- since the patient was bled, and violent pain be felt m the region of the thighs, that is to say, if the urinary organs ai-e much affected. Haly Abbas mentions ardor urmse, strangury, and bloody urine among the symptoms, and recommends oil by the mouth as an emetic and pui-gative, and by injection^ Alsaharavius mentions swelhng of the penis, bloody urine, and suppression tliereof, and remarks tliat the same effects have