188 [book v. CERASTES. CoMMENTAKY. According to Nicander, the most pestiferous asp is about an ell in length, its colour squalid, its eyes of a drowsy appearance, and when it bites a person it leaves a very small wound; neither swelling nor inflammation is perceived, " and the man without pain sinks into a profound sleep." This is the serpent which Cleopatra despatched herself with. See some curious remarks upon this event, and the nature of the serpent in Galen (Ther. ad Pison.), from which our author borrows his account of it. Nicander says of the cerastes that it resembles the male viper, only that the latter has no horns, whereas the former has either two or four. Isidorus says of them, " Aspis vocata quod morsu venena immittat et aspergat: toe enim Grseci venenum dicunt, et inde aspis quod morsu venenato interimat" (Orig. xii, iv) ; and of the cerastes, " Cerastes serpens dictus eo quod in capite cornua habeat simiHa arietum : sunt autem quadri- gemina cornicula, quorum ostentatione, veluti esca iUiciehs solhcitata animaUa perimit." (Ibid.) Harris says, " The she- phephon (Gen. xlix. 17) is probably the cerastes, a serpent of the viper kind." (Nat. Hist, of the Bible.) Bochart, however, has proved that the shephephon signifies both the cerastes and the heemorrhus, which are very much alike, being both vipers. (Hier. ii, 416.) Sprengel, in fact, makes the hsemon-hus to be the same as the cerastes. Our author's treatment is principally taken from Dioscorides. Aetius, however, gives the fullest account of them. He says the sting of the most fatal species of asp proves fatal in three hours; and that those wounded by the cerastes generally Hve nine days. He represents the asp as occasioning great cold- ness, torpor, and at last convulsions. Besides the local reme- dies applicable in all such cases, he recommends in an especial manner vinegar, which is to be administered in great quantities. Celsus thus explains the way in which vinegar proves effica- cious for counteracting the effect of a fi-igorific poison : " Credo quoniam id (acetum) quamvis refrigerandi vim habet, tamen habet etiam dissipandi. Quo fit ut terra respersa eo spumat. Eadem ergo vi verisimile est spissescentem quoque iutus humo- rem hominis ab eo discuti, et sic dari sanitatem." The author of the work ' Euporiston,' usually published with those of Dioscorides, recommends, in the case of a person stimg