331 EMPYEMA. SECT. XLIV.] tlie vital spirit being evacuated with the pus^ or occasion in- curable fistulae. Commentary, Galen mentions the operation of burning Comm. the chest for phthisis. (De Morb. Vulg.) ' ' ' In phthisical complaints, which do not yield to ordinary treatment, Celsus recommends the cautery to be applied in this manner : One eschar is to be burnt with a redhot iron under the chin, another on the throat, two upon each breast, and two imder the scapulae. They are to be kept open until the cough is removed, (iii, 23.) Aetius directs us to burn the chest and neck much in the same manner as recommended by our author, (viii, 73.) This operation is described by Albucasis, who gives a draw- ing of an instrument for performing it expeditiously. (Chirurg. i, 26.) See also Rhases (Cont. ix.) Haly Abbas recommends such an operation as that described by Celsus and our author. He directs us to do it, not with iron, but with the root of the long birthwort smeared with oil. (Pract. is, 74.) The use of the root of the birthwort (aristo- lochia) as a cautery is also mentioned by Aetius. (xii, 3.) Cor- narius, by the way, seems not to have been aware of this cir- cumstance, which has led him into a mistake in translating the sentence where it is mentioned. The practice of burning the chest in chronic diseases of the lungs is strongly advocated by Caillot. (Elemens de Phy- siologic, i.) It was tried by Dr. Mudge in his own person with great success. (See Dr. M. Good's ' Study of Medicine,' ii, 786.) Our author, it will be remarked, disapproves of paracentesis thoracis. This operation is recommended and described in one of the Hippocratic treatises. (De Morbis, i, and ii.) It is also mentioned in the ' Isagoge' of Galen. Rhases likewise mentions it in brief terms. (Cont. iv, 3, and x.) Rhases directs us to open the chest by a small orifice, that the matter may be slowly evacuated. He mentions that Galen recom- mends burning the chest, and also the operation of paracen- tesis in such cases.