LOWER JAW. -^ECT. XCII.] 445 Khases, Aviceima, Haly Abbas, and Albuca;sis lay down ex- Comm. ;ictlv the same rules of practice as Hippocrates and our author. ' * The recent authorities consider the introduction of the tents into the nostrils unnecessary, and even prejudicial. (See Beirs Operative Surgery; Cooper's Surgical Dictionary.) But the iirlier modern writers adopt exactly the practice of the ancients, i'heodoricus recommends us to turn the nose to its proper shape when distorted, by means of a strip of linen fastened to its ex- tremity with ichthyocoUa, or the gluten of hides, as directed by the ancients, (ii, 29.) SECT. XCTI. ON FRACTURE OF THE LOWER JAW, AND CONTUSION OF THE EAR. We have treated of contusion of the ear in the Third Book, HS this affection is not of the nature of a fractxire. Btit the lower jaw is fractured from many causes. If, then, it be only fractured externally, and is not divided into two, as it occasions ■d curvature inwardly, the symptoms of it are obvious. Where- fore, having introduced the index and middle fingers of one hand—of the right, if the right jaw be fractured, and of the left, if it is the left—we push outwards the internal cvirvature (jf the fracture, which is to be secured with the other hand externally. The bones of the jaw are ascertained to be set straight by the equality of the teeth. When the jaw is fractured completely across, {that is to say, caulatim,) it is to be set by making extension and counter-extension, with the aid of an assistant; and the teeth, separated at the broken part, are to be fastened together, as Hippocrates says, and bound with gold, namely, with a ligature or thread of gold. But since this is not readily procured by everybody, a strong flaxen thread, a piece of fine linen, horse-hairs, or the like, may be substituted; I If the fracture be attended with an external wound, we must examine with a probe and ascertain whether a piece of bone be broken off, and if this be found to be the case, and the wound ■ is small, it is to be enlarged and the broken piece or pieces removed with some suitable instrument, and the lips of the wound united with sutures; then dressings suitable to recent wounds with bandages are to be applied. If there be no wound.