CLAVICLE. SECT. XCIII.] 449 accident as clearly bespeaks his intimate acquaintance with the Comm. ■ subject. Ti'ansverse fractures, he says, are easily healed, whereas ' ' ' ! such as are oblique prove more diflBcult to manage. He justly 1 remarks, that the deformity occasioned by this injury appears ; first very great, and annoys both the patient and his phy- ^ sician, but that it gi'adually becomes less, and the patient, feel- ing little inconvenience from it, grows careless, and the phy- sician, seeing no evil consequences result from this neglect, acquiesces in it, and presently it is found -that proper callus is formed. Hippocrates further exposes the mistake of those who I endeavom' to push down the projecting bone, which, -he justly ; remarks, cannot be effected. The part which projects, as he > states, is almost universally the extremity attached to the ster- : num, the other portion being dragged down by the weight of the arm; and hence the mistake is obvious of those who attempt : to push down the upper extremity. He recommends the patient : to lie in bed until adhesion takes place, which generally occurs i between the fourteenth and twentieth day. (De Articulis, 16.) • Galen directs us to apply four splenia or oblong compresses i intersecting one another Hke the letter X. (Comment, et } Fragment, apud Nicetse Collect.) When the fracture is near t the shoulder, Galen recommends the spica bandage (De Fasciis), t for a drawing and description of which, see Heister's ' Surgery,^ { (p. iii, c. 4, § 1, c. 3.) Celsus agrees entirely with the account of the matter given ' by Hippocrates. When the bone is broken transversely, he - says, it will sometimes unite readily without the application of *a bandage. In general, as he explains, the upper end of the ! fractured portions is the part attached to the sternum, the other being attached to the shoulder and dragged down along with : the arm. He mentions that this is so generally the state of the parts, that some great masters of the art had declared that they had never seen a case in which the end attached to the shoukler projected, but that Hippocrates, who is rich in informa- tion upon these subjects, had affirmed upon his own authority that such an occurrence is to be met with. In setting the jfracture he properly directs us to raise the shoulder; and his imode of bandaging would seem to have been little different J from that now generally followed. He directs us to fill the I armpit with wool, and to apply over the fractured portions of 29