[book VI. 364 TESTICLES. part not adhering, but at tlie concave and posterior parts united to the testicle, deriving its origin from the peritoneal coat. This part, where it is united to the testicle, they call the posterior adhesion. The darti are membranes connecting the external skin to the tunica vaginalis, being united to it at the part where it is united behind to the testicle. But that wrinkled skin which forms an external covering to the testicles is called the scrotum. Comm. COMMENTARY. Celsus gives a similar description of the "—•—' parts connected with the testicles. The testicles themselves, he says, consist of medullary matter and possess no sensibility of their own, but experience violent pains and inflammations from the membrane which surrounds them. They hang from the groins by nerves called cremasters by the Greeks, Avith each of which descend two veins and arteries. These are covered by a thin nervous white coat, without blood, called elytroides by the Greeks. (This must be the tunica vaginalis of modern anatomists.) Above it is a stronger tunic which adheres strongly to the inner at its lower part, and is called dai'tos by the Greeks. (This appears to be the cremaster muscle of modern anatomists.) The veins, arteries, and nerves are sur- rounded by many small membranes. (By these he seems to have meant the fascise from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle.)' All these parts are covered by an external investment called the scrotum, (vii, 18.) Buffus Ephesius says that the scrotum is a loose substance in which the testicles are placed, being in particular fleshy ex- ternally; that it consists of two tunics, the external being corrugated and called dartos, and the internal being called erythroides (elytroides?). The dartos and scrotum connect the testicles to the parts above, but the erythroides (vaginalis ?) is united to and surrounds the testicle itself. (De Corporis Humani partium appellationibus, ii.) Oribasius describes the cremasters as being two muscles which descend from the groins and surround the tunica vagi- nalis. (Anatomica ex Galeno.) (This is very similar to Cloquet's description of them.) Theophilus's description unfortunately has come down to us very incomplete. (Ue Fabricix Hominis, v, ad finem.)