I SECT. Lxxiv.] EMBRYULCIA. 391 lie directs us to sepai'ate the vertebra at the neck, and then to Comm. I drag down the lower part of the body; after which the head " 1 is to be sought for by the hand introduced into the uterus, and j brought along with two hooks, (xvi, 33.) I No ancient author has described the operation of embry- i otomy so accurately as Soranus; but as his acco\mt of the I process is lengthy and does not differ essentially from that of j Aetius, (indeed the latter evidently copies from Soranus,) we j need not seek to give any outline of it. (Op. 51, 53, 53.) Avicenna takes his chapter on the extraction of the dead foetus from our author, (iii, 31, 2, 34.) We have mentioned in the Third Book that he was acquainted with the forceps. Albucasis, in like manner, takes his account of embryotomy j from Paulus. He relates a singiilar case that came under his own knowledge of an extra-uterine conception ; the most re- I markable circumstance about which was, that the bones of the i foetus after a time were discharged at the umbilicus. The work i of Albucasis contains drawings of the instruments used in his i time for obstetrical operations. There are several forcipes among I them, but as they all have teeth, it is to be presumed that ; they were used only for delivering the foetus when dead. It ; is to be regretted that he has entirely omitted the forceps i mentioned by Avicenna. (See Chu-urg. ii, 76 and 77.) Rhases directs us when the child's head is large and cannot ►be brought down with fillets, to open it and deliver with hooks. HWhen it is ascertained that the child is dead, he recommends ms to break down the bones of the head and evacuate the brain. In preternatural presentations he recommends us to deliver, if •■possible, by the head or feet, brit if this cannot be got accom- plished, he directs us to cut off the protruding part. Upon the whole his rules of practice are much the same as our : author's. (Cont. xxii.) ! Haly Abbas gives ample directions for the management of I these cases. When the head presents (the child being dead j and delivery found otherwise impracticable), he directs us to fix liooks in the hollows of the eyes, neck, or jaw-bone; or if the feet present, at the tops of the thighs. The body of the i child is then to be dragged along. When a hand presents, he ^recommends us to pull down the arm and amputate at the \ shoulder; and in like manner he directs us to amputate at the