421 WEAPONS. SECT. LXXXVIII.] inhumane liglit, whereas by extracting it we might possibly save a life. It is not difficult to ascertain when an important part is wounded, this being discovered by the peculiarity of the symptoms, the dischai'ges, and situation of the parts. When, therefore, the membranes of the brain are wounded, there is intense pain of the head, the eyes are fiery, the tongue red, and there is aberration of intellect; but if it is attended with a wound of the brain, there is prostration of strength, with loss of speech, distortion of the countenance, vomiting of bile, a dis- chai-ge of blood from the nostrils, an evacuation of a white and pultaceous fluid by the auditory foramen, and of ichor, if it can find a passage by the wound. If the weapon has penetrated to the cavity of the chest, and sufficient room is left for it, the breath passes out. When the heart is wounded, the weapon appeal's at the left breast, and feels not as if in a cavity, but as fixed in another body, and sometimes there is a throbbing motion; there is a discharge of black blood if it can find vent, with coldness, sweats, and deliquium animi, and death follows in a short time. When the lungs are wounded, if the opening be sufficiently large, a frothy blood passes out at it; but if not, it is rather vomited up, the vessels of the neck are swelled, the tongue changes colour, and there is an urgent desire of cold things. When the diaphragm is wounded the weapon appears lodged about the false ribs, there are large inspirations with pain, sighs, and heavings of the parts about the shoulder-joints. If the viscera of the abdomen are wounded, the nature of the injury will be apparent from the discharge, if the wound be sufficiently large, or if the weapon be extracted, or if the shaft be broken internally ; for chyle is evacuated from the stomach, and faeces from the intestines; sometimes the omentum or an intestine protrudes. When the bladder is wounded urine is discharged. When the membranes of the brain or the cere- brum itself is wounded, we extract the weapon by trepanning the skull, as will be described presently in fractures of the bones of the head. If the weapon is lodged in the chest, and does not come out readily, it is to be extracted by means of a moderate incision in the intercostal space, or by cutting out a rib with the assistance of the instrument called meningophylax. In like manner, when the stomach, bladder, and other deep- seated parts are wounded, if the weapon come out readily it is