270 [book VI. ANABROCHISMUS. Some preferring burning to the operation of anabrocliismus, turn the eyelid outwardsj and with a hair-forceps dragging out the oflfending hair, if there is but one, or two, or thi-ee; if there be as many, they apply a double-headed specillum, or an ear-specillum, or some such small instrument heated, to the place whence the hair or hairs were removed. For the skin being thus constricted, no other hair is produced. Comm. COMMENTARY. We will givc Celsus's description of this ' '' ' operation in his own words : " Quidam aiunt, acu transui juxta pilos exteriorem partem palpebrae debere, eamque trans- mitti duplicem capUlum muliebrem ducentem, atque ubi acus transiit, in ipsius capilli sinum, qua duplicatur, pHum esse conjiciendum, et per eum in superiorem palpebrse partem attrahendum, ibique corpori agglutinandum, et imponendum medicamentum quo foramen glutinetur; sic enim fore, ut is pilus in exteriorem partem postea spectet." However, he does not much approve of the operation. He also describes the operation of cauterising the roots of the hairs, (vii, 7.) Albucasis, Haly Abbas, and Rhases describe the operation in much the same terms as Celsus and our author. Most of the Arabian authorities, likewise, describe the operation of burning the roots of the hairs by means of a specillum or any such instrument. Canamusali gives a short account of both operations, that is to say, the anabrochismus and burning the roots of the hairs. This operation is described by the earlier of the modem writers on sm-gery. The agglutinative composition recom- mended for this purpose by Guido de Cauliaco consists of mastich, frankincense, aloes, sarcocol, and tragacanth, dis- solved in the white of an egg. (vi, ii.) SECT. XIV. ON HYDATIDS. The hydatid is a fatty substance, naturally lodged under the skin of the eyelid, which, in some persons, more especially in children of a more humid temperament, increases until it be- come the cause of disagreeable symptoms by encumbering the eye, and thereby occasioning defluxions. The eyehds, therefore, under the brows appear watery and cannot be raised in a becoming manner; and if, when we press upon thera