313 SECT. XXXVII.] ANEURISM. tliread, and to tie the threads in two places as recommended in augiology. The part between the two ligatures is then to be divided and the blood evacuated. Suppurative applications ai-e then to be made, until the ligatures fall out; after which suitable ointments are to be apphed. If the disease arise from the opening of a vein, we are to grasp as much as possible of the tumour in the hand, to push a needle through it armed with a double thread, when the aneurism is to be firmly bound with the threads in the manner described in the operation for sta- phyloma. When danger is apprehended from the falling out of the tkreads, we are to introduce another needle armed with another thread under the whole tumour at the opening made by the first needle, and to tie the threads in four places. The aneurism is then to be cut in its middle, and its contents evacu- ated, when the superfluous skin is to be removed, and a com- press dipped in wine and oil applied. (Chirurg. ii, 49.) The threads which he speaks of are meant to decussate one another like the letter X. This part of his description is somewhat obscure. We need scarcely remark that the operation of Albucasis is exactly the same as our authoi-'s. Rhases boiTows his account of aneurism from Antyllus and Paulus. The operation of Antyllus consisted of tying the artery above^and below the tumour, and then evacuating its contents, (xui, 7.) He states that when the disease occm-s in .the hams, groins, or neck, it is dangerous to meddle with it, but that ^vhen seated in the extremities it is easily cured. AU the cases ui wHch he had known the artery to be opened during the [)erformance of venesection had terminated in aneurism, except one m which a cure was effected by compression. (Cont. xxviii.) I-Ialy Abbas directs us when an artery has been wounded in l,Iecding to dissect away the parts about it, and having applied a silk thread on each side of the wound, to divide the artery i n the middle. When an aneurism takes place he recommends :i plan of treatment similar to that recommended by Albucasis. iPract. IX, 45.) Avicenna and Alsaharavius do not describe the operation. Alsaharavms directs us when an artery has been opened in :»lceding at the arm, to attempt a cure by means of compresses aad tight bandages. (Pract. xxix, II.)