[book vr. WEAPONS. 420 be inserted in them, we make an examination again with the probe, if we find them we extract them in the same mannei'. And if the weapon has barbs in opposite dii-ections, which do not yield to our pulling, we must make an incision in the ad- jacent parts, if no important vessel or the like lie there, and when the weapon is laid bare, we extract it without trouble. Some apply a tube about the barbs, so that when they draw out the weapon the flesh may not be torn by the barbs. If the wound does not become inflamed, we may use sutures, and heal it up like a bloody wound; but if it inflame we may remove the in- flammation by embrocations, cataplasms, and the like. If the weapon be poisoned we must, if possible, cut off all the flesh which has imbibed the poison, which is known by its being altered from the sound flesh, for it appears pale, livid, and as it were dead. They say that the Dacians and Dalmatians touch the points of their weapons with elecampane, called also ninum, and that when it thus becomes mixed with the blood of the wounded animal it proves fatal, although it is eaten by them with impunity. If, again, the weapon fix in a bone, we make trial with the instrument, and, if flesh prevent the extraction, we cut it off, or separate it; but if it be lodged deep in the bone (which we know by its being so firm that it cannot be shaken with a considerable force) we first remove the remaining part of the bone with a cutting instrument, or bore it with tre- phines if it has considerable thickness, and thus disengage the weapon. If a weapon be lodged in any important part, such as the brain, heart, throat, lungs, liver, stomach, intestines, kidneys, womb, or bladder, and fatal symptoms have already shown themselves, as the extraction would occasion much lacera- tion we must decline the attempt, lest while we do no good we expose ourselves to the reprobation of ignorant people. But if the result be dubious, we must make the attempt, ha^dng first given warning of the danger. For in many cases, when an abscess has formed in some vital part, recovery has unexpectedly taken place; and the lobe of the liver, part of the omentum and peri- toneum, and the whole uterus are said to have been taken away, and yet death was not the consequence. And we often open the windpipe intentionally, in cases of angina, as we men- tioned under the head of Laryngbtomy. To leave the weapon then as it is, occasions certain death, and exhibits the art in an