SECT. II.] VENOMOUS ANIMALS. I5; Nonnus (Epit. 261) ; also Aristot. (H. N. iy, 8); and Pliny Comm. (H. N. X, 90). >—V—' Virgil makes mention of this practice : " Disce et odoratam stabulis accendere cedrum, Galbaneoque agitare graves nidore chelydros."~Georff. iii, 314. See a long Hst of substances used in fiimigations for driving away serpents in Lucan. (Pharsal. ix, 916.) It is different from that of Nicander and our author. For example : it contains tamanx, costus, thapsos, &c. Arsenic occurs among the articles mentioned by Ehases. (Cont. xxxv.) It is also mentioned in the (jreoponics (1. c.) Nicander affirms, and it has been generaUy beHeved, that human sahva proves destructive to serpents. Galen says that It wiU kill the scorpion. Aristotle states, that it is destructive to most venomous reptUes. (H. A. viii, 28.) Redi maintains that this IS an ancient en-or; but Andreas Laurentius declares that he knew from experience that the human saliva is de- structive to serpents. Nicander recommends a composition containing cedar-ber- ries, fleabane, sage, and other such articles for preserving the body from venomous reptUes. Paxamus directs us to smear the face with a composition made of the roasted flour of fenu greek, with the juice of the wild maUows and oU. (Geopon XV, 6.) He says it preserves the face from the stings of bees m particular. The Ku,poJ^p, here translated ffnat, as it is in the EngHsh version of the scriptures, (Matt, xxiii, 24,) is proved by Bochart Hierozoon iii, 442); and by Harris (Nat. Hist, of the Bible), from Anstotle, Plutarch, and others, to mean pro- perly a kind of insect that is bred in the lees of wine SECT. n.—THE GENERAL TREATMENT OF ALL PERSONS BITTEN OR STUNG BY ANY VENOMOUS ANIMAL. If a person happen to be bitten or stung by any venomous animal he ought immediately to get the part sucked. The per- son who sucks it should not be fasting, and he ought first to nnse his mouth with wine and retain oil in it; and then if the pari; admits, it should be cupped with much heat, scarify.