[book VI. 342 GASTRORAPIIE. Comm. npon it. He directs us to cure the disease either by passing ' * ' through the tumour a needle armed with two threads, in the manner described for staphyloma, or to produce mortification of the part by pressure between two rules. Some, he says, first make an incision in the tumour, so as to be enabled to remove with the greater facility whatever is protruded, but this he thinks unnecessary, as it will be sufficient merely to return the pro- lapsed substance, and apply a ligature round its base; after which the outer part is to be destroyed by medicines or the cautery. This operation, he adds, will be sufficient, whether the contents of the hernial tumour be intestine, omentum, or water. He intimates, however, that the operation is attended with some danger, and that it is only to be performed between the ages of seven and fourteen, and when the body is in a healthy state. He forbids to interfere with scirrhous tumours, (vii, 14.) The description of the operation given by Albucasis is very minute, but is to the same effect as our author's. (Chii'urg. ii, 52.) Ehases, in like manner, recommends us to pass a needle, armed with two threads, through the tumour, and to secure it by a crucial knot. He, Avicenna, and Haly Abbas evidently copy our author's description. The operation with the ligature, as first described by Celsus, was revived, with very shght modifications, by the celebrated Desault, of Paris, but is now seldom practised. SECT. LII. ON WOUNDS OF THE PERITONEUM, AND ON FALLING DOWN OF THE INTESTINE OB, OMENTUM, WHERE GASTRORAPHB ALSO IS DESCRIBED : FROM THE WORKS OF GALEN. How wounds of the peritoneum are to be treated is next to be considered. If then the wound be small, so that the pro- lapsed intestine being distended with air, cannot be restored to its place, it will be necessary either to evacuate the flatus or enlarge the wound. The former measure is the better, pro- vided one can accomplish it. But how may this be most pro- bably done? By removing the cause which occasions the inflation of the intestine. But what is this ? Congelation of the surrounding air; so that the cure is to be performed by heating. Wherefore, having soaked a soft sponge in hot