SECT. XL.] VENESECTION. 321 the operation he directs us to bind on the wound a compress Comm. ■soaked in cold water, (ii, 10.) "—,—> Galen wrote three treatises on venesection^ to which opera- tion he was veiy partial. They are : De venesectione adversus Erasistratum; de venesectione adversus Erasistrateos in Romd ; and de curatione per vena sectionem. These works are deserving of great attention as containing many judicious observations and rules of practice, but which are delivered at so great length that we can scarcely venture even upon an abstract of them. His principles of treatment, however, are nearly the same as those of our author. He appears to have abstracted blood in great quantities. Thus he mentions having seen six lib. taken away in the course of a fever, and six hemiuce at once in a case of haemoptysis. Now the hemina being somewhat more than a half a pint, the quantity abstracted must have ex- ceeded three pints. He strenuously inculcates that venesection proves useful by occasioning revulsion, and as a proof of this ;ic instances the beneficial eflFects produced by opening a vein jf the arm in cases of epistaxis. He practised bloodletting >ccasionaUy in cases of dropsy, as we have mentioned under hat head. Bleeding from the arm he thinks prejudicial in ■ases of amenorrhoea, as it causes a determination of blood to lie upper parts of the body, and, therefore, he directs us ■ather to bleed at the ankle. He agrees with Celsus that lean .ersons bear depletion better than such as are fat; and that cnesection is not to be performed when there are undigested latters in the stomach. He states that persons in extreme ■at or cold do not bear bleeding. He mentions that in bleed- ng from the basilic vein there is danger of wounding the • tery, that a nerve Ues under the median j but that the phahc may be opened without danger. Oribasius gives an interesting dissertation on venesection, nncipaUy condensed from the works of Herodotus, AntvUus, ud Galen (Med. Collect, vii.) Antyllus directs us Uen mng to b eed at the elbow to apply a ligature two fingers road round the arm, so as to produce a swelling of the veins : nd remarks that they are mistaken who affirm that the same cct may be produced by applying the ligature below, for that .= veins wdl not then swell, even when the arm is fomented. lien going to bleed at the ankle he directs us to apply the 21