361 CALCULUS. SECT. LX.] then the operator is to cut down upon it, making the incision Comm. between the testes and the anus, yet not in the middle, but ' '' ' towai'ds the left side. When the incision is carried down to the stone it will sometimes start out from the pressure of the tiugers in the anus; but otherwise, it is to be seized upon with a forceps and extracted. If inflammation come on he recom- mends us to apply a cataplasm, and to throw into the bladder an injection consisting of oil of roses and of camomile, or of melted butter. (Practic. ix, 46.) Rhases gives from preceding authors several descriptions of lithotomy, but as they closely resemble our author^s, we shall treat of them only in a cursory manner. In his first description he directs the surgeon to place the patient with his hands fiistened to his ankles so as to press down the bladder. When the stone does not descend properly, so as to be felt externally, he recommends him to introduce one or more fingers into the rectum and push it outwards; and then while an assistant draws up the testicles the operator is to make a transverse I oblique?) incision, larger externally, but internally only of such a size as to allow the stone to pass out. If the stone does not come out readily it is to be extracted with an iastru- ment, and the hemorrhage checked with a composition of aloes, frankincense, and vitriol. When the patient is a child he re- commends the operator to place him upon the knees of an assistant, and to make pressure on the abdomen so as to force clown the bladder. He forbids the operation when the stone cannot be brought down to the neck of the bladder. When the stone is large he directs it to be broken into pieces before extraction. His next description is taken from the celebrated Vntyllus, but as it scarcely differs at all from the preceding one, Ave shall merely select a few remarks. When the stone is smooth, round, and small, he directs the surgeon to push it down to the neck of the bladder by means of a finger intro- laced into the rectum, and to make an incision down upon it; after which the stone is to be forced out. When pain super- \ enes after the operation, he recommends him to place the patient in a bath medicated with camomile, linseed, mallows, &c.; or if it be summer, and there be any disposition to hemorrhage, to place him in a vessel filled with strong vinegar. When it is ascertained that there are clots of blood in the