WORMS IN ULCERS. SECT. XLII.] 107 Commentary. The following are the most important arti- cles in Celsus's long list of substances for cleansing ulcers : Pur- gant, aerugo, auripigmentum, quod dpaeviKou a Grsecis nomina- tur; (huic autem et sandarachse in omnia eadem vis, sed validior est) squama seris, thus, resina, et pinea, et terebinthina liquida, misy, chalcitis, galla, sulphur, pix, oleum, ruta, ammoniacum, &c. Hippocrates makes mention of many of these, namely, arsenic, verdigris, flowers of copper, frankincense, myrrh, helle- bore, &c. Scribonius Largus recommends honey, lUyrian iris, and a compound application containing arsenic, scales of copper, ela- terium, and burnt paper. One may find in Galen and Aetius many compound appli- cations, but as they are aU formed from much the same ingre- dients as those of our author, it will be unnecessary to take further notice of them. Aetius commends a combination of turpentine and honey. Avicenna ajid Haly Abbas recommend the same appHcations as our author. They make no mention of arsenic. Alsaharavius gives very particular directions for treating these ulcers; when the edges are hard, he directs us to rub them untH they be- come red, or to cut them off and apply to the sore the green ointment; and when the ulcer is covered with much sordes, he recommends us to dress it with the Egyptian ointment. Jihases mentions antimony as an excellent appKcation for cleansing foul ulcers. He properly recommends us to consider whether the foulness of the ulcer be the effect of too much or too httle stimulation. He relates a case of the former descrip- tion, m which the sore got worse under the appUcation of the green ointment. (Cont. xxviii.) SECT. XLII. FOR WORMS IN ULCERS. For worms which form in ulcers, the first thing to be done 18 to stop the humidity and the putrefaction which occasion them Worms may be kiUcd by all the things in general which are described for those in the ear. But for those whicli torm m ulcers Archigencs says, mix equal parts of ceruse and poley with liquid pitch, and anoint with it.