376 ENTEROCELE. [book vi. or distension of the peritoneum. Sometimes, he says, feces get into the prolapsed bowels, and being retained give rise to violent and sometimes fatal symptoms. When going to operate he directs us, in the first place, to make the patient reduce the intestine if reducible. Then an incision is to be made along the whole skia of the testicle, and hooks are to be fixed in the lips of the wound so as to enlarge it, and allow a passage for the testicle. The membranes, then, below the skin, are to be dissected, so as to expose completely the tunica vaginaUs [sifac album.) The index-finger is then to be introduced between the tunica vaginalis and the second coat (tunica albuginea?) so as to free the adhesions at the back part of the testicle. The operator is afterwards to separate the testicle from all its adhesions and raise it up to the external wound. He must now examine whether any portion of intestine remain pro- truded, and if so, it must be replaced. The operjitor is then to take a large needle armed with a cord of ten threads, and having introduced it behind the tunic under the skin of the testicle (tunica vaginalis ?) its extremities are to be cut, and the threads arranged into four pieces. With them the perito- neum is to be tightly bound in a crucial form, so as that the nutrient vessels may not be able to reach it, which will obviate inflammation. Another ligature is to be appHed afterwards at the distance of less than two fingers' breadth from the former. After applying these two ligatures, about a finger's breadth of the peritoneum is to be left, and the rest is then to be cut all around, and the testicle removed along with it. An incision is then to be made at the lower part so as to allow an outlet for the blood and matter. Wool dipped in oil is to be applied afterwards, and bound as formerly described. Sometimes, he adds, the cautery is applied to the tunica vaginalis after the incision for fear of hemorrhage. (Chirurg. ii, 65.) He describes minutely the treatment by burning in another place, (i, 47.) Avicenna recommends the cautery, but does not describe the other operation. Haly's description is evidently taken from our author. (Pract. ix, 50.) Rhases states correctly that hernia generally arises from di- latation of the passage which leads from the cavity of the abdo- men to the testicle. In ordinary cases, he says, there is no rupture of the peritoneum. He states that the contents of the