SECT. 11.] LEPROSY AND PSORA. 23 alphos albus by that of morphea alba; alphos niger by that of ■morphea nigra; and leuce by that of albaras. There is nothing very particular in his treatment of leprosy. It may be worth Avhile to mention, however, that he strongly recommends leeches to the affected part, at the commencement. Scabies, he says, is formed by a salt diet, old wine, and neglect of the bath. For the cure of it, he recommends bleeding, purging, and various external apphcations, some of which contain quicksilver, nitre, vinegar, and the like. In his 'Continens' he gives a full account of these diseases, upon the authority of preceding writers. He gives the names of baras to lepra, and morphea alba to alphos He recommends stimulant apphcations containing cantharides nitre, with vinegar, &c. He says that he had found a mixture of sal ammoniac and oU of eggs an excellent application. It will be remarked that the leuce of the Greeks, the leuce and fourth species of impetigo of Celsus, and the albaras of most of the Arabians, are the same as the lepra vulgaris of Drs. Willan and Bateman; that the alphos of most of the Greek authonties and of Celsus, and the morphea alba of most of the Ai-abians, correspond to the lepra alphoides of our English no- mologists j that the melas, alphos niger, and common lepra of the Greeks, Celsus^ third species of impetigo and his melas and the morphea mgra and impetigo of most of the Arabian translators, apply to the lepra niyricans of our modern arrange- ment; and that the psora of the Greeks, Celsus^ second species ot impetigo, and the scabies of Octavius Horatianus, and of most ot the Arabian translators, comprehend both the psoriasis and scabies of WHlan and Bateman. Since many of the ancient authorities speak of scabies as 'Jemg infectious, they must have applied the term to the true 1 ch, ^vlth which it is not likely, as Eayer maintains, that they were wholly unacquainted. The earlier modem writers, such as those of the Schola "J?^ Guy of Cauliac, and Lanfrancus, jumble together he Latm and Arabian names, so as to produce no unary degree of confusion. , Guy of Cauliac, indeed, main- rains that there is Httle necessity for distinguishing lepra, alphos 'ueJas impetigo, gutta rosacea, and such like cutaneous com- I' aints fi-om one another, as they are all varieties of the same «easc. Lanfrancus, however, is of a different opinion, (i, 3, 6.)