49C LUXATIONS. [book VI last mentioned is called by him asellus. (See De Fracturis cum Comment. Galeni.) Hippocrates makes mention of a mode of reducing dislocations of the spine^ by succussion in a ladder, but expresses himself unfavorably of it as being a procedure which none but charlatans would practice. He speaks with becoming contempt of those who have recourse to ostentatious modes of performance ad captanclum vulgus. Celsus states very decidedly the fatal nature of dislocations of the uppermost vertebrae. Even those below the diaphragm are designated as highly dangerous. They happen either for- wards or backwards. Those above the diaphragm occasion paralysis of the hands^ vomitings, contractions of the tendons, difficulty of breathing, pain, and relaxation of the ears. Those below the diaphragm produce paralysis of the lower extremities, suppression of urine, or an involuntary discharge of it. Even these cases, he adds, prove fatal within three days. He says, that Hippocrates's mode of reduction by counter-extension and pressure on the part with the heel, applies only to cases of incomplete luxation. Oribasius describes the method of reduction by means of a machine, as mentioned by our author. It will readily be un- derstood that the whole process consisted in making counter-^ extension upwards and downwards, and pressing upon the part which projects with a piece of wood. (De Machinamentis.) Albucasis explains the nature of the accident and the me^ thods of reduction in much the same terms as our author. The patient is to be laid upon a board or bench of sufficient length, spread with some soft thing to prevent him fi'om being hurt. Then a pole or piece of wood is to be fastened at each extremity of the bench; and a rope or swathe, being caiTied round the patient's body by the armpits and above his head, is to be fastened to the upper pole, which is not to be fixed firm in the ground; and another rope is to be brought round below the part affected, and fastened to the pole at his feet. Powerful counter-extension may be thus made, while the geon presses upon the protruded part with his hand and pushes it into its place. If these means do not succeed, he directs us to fasten a piece of wood into a hole in the wall opposite the protuberant part of the patient's back and to press down with it. Other methods are also described by him. After reduc-