383 SECT. Lxxii.] IMPERFORATE PUDENDUM. Commentary. Aetius gives a fuller account of these tuber- Comm. cles. He recommends us to seize them with a forceps and cut tliem out by the roots. He directs us not to interfere with such hemorrhoids of the womb as are varicose and malignant. Those which are hai'd and do not bleed are to be cut out at nee, but such as are disposed to bleed are to be seized with a brceps and a hgatui'e put round them before they are cut. MoschioUj however, condemns this practice as being highly dangerous. Albucasis evidently copies from our author. (Chirurg. ii, 73.) Haly Abbas briefly directs us to seize these tubercles with a forceps and cut them out with a pair of scissors. (Pract. ix, 65.) E-hases, treating of diseases of the uterus, says, " if there be a red piece of flesh in the mouth of the womb, if situated at its anterior part^ and if it be round, or long, and not attended with pain, some surgeons cut it ofi", but I prefer tying it.^^ (Cont. xxii.) This description seems to apply to polypus of the womb. See a full account of the condylomata and hemorrhoids of the womb, by Lodovicus Mercatus (in the Gyneecia, p. 962.) He remarks that Celsus and Aetius call any tubercle arising from inflammation by the name of condyloma, whereas Paulus applies the term only to callous tubercles of the uterus. He approves of seizing them with a forceps and cutting them out. SECT. LXXII. ON IMPERTORATB PUDENDUM AND PHIMUS. Some women have the genital parts imperforate, sometimes naturally, and sometimes owing to some previous disease. And -sometimes it is deep-seated, sometimes in the alje pudendi, or in lie intermediate places, and is sometimes occasioned by an adhe- ion of the parts, and sometimes by obstruction. The obstructing ubstance is either flesh or membrane. The disease occasions i-eat impediment sometimes in coition, sometimes in concep- lOP, or in parturition, and occasionally during the menstrual imrgation, provided the membrane or flesh occasion a complete obstruction; for in certain cases there is a perforation in the iiiiddle. Having ascertained the cause, either from its being obvious to the sight, or by introducing the speculiun, if it be