[book IV. 82 CANCERS. Comm. Aetius gives from Arcliigenes and Leonidas an interesting ^ account of the disease, which he divides into ulcerated cancer, and cancer without ulceration. He describes the disease in the female breast as consisting of a large tumour which is un- equal and resisting, extending its roots far, and being attended with varicose veins: its colour is either cineritious, verging to redness or livid; it appears soft, but is in reality very hard; is accompanied with a pungent pain, and gives rise to malignant phlegmons in the armpits. The pains shoot to the clavicle and scapula. An ulcerated cancer, he says, goes on corroding and spreading deeper, nor can it be stopped; it discharges a sanies of an abominable smell, and is aggravated by medicines and handling. The disease he considers as generally incm-able. His sui'gical treatment will be stated in the Sixth Book. He recommends purging with hiera and the theric, Mithridatic antidote, &c. Apparently, in order to mitigate the ^^olence of the pains, he directs us to make an application containing equal portions of plantain, poppy heads, the seed of the wort, and other things of the like kind. For ulcerated cancer he recommends emollient epithemes, such as the one containing litharge, axunge, white wax, oil, and the yelks of eggs. Oribasius and Actuarius supply nothing of importance that is not to be found in our author. Nonnus, according to Sprengel, is the only ancient author who attributes cancerous ulcerations to acrimony of the bHe. But Nonnus merely copies the words of our author. The Arabians agree with the Greeks in representing the disease as being produced by black bHe. They were, no doubt, led to form this opinion from remarking that the blood in the part is thick and black, which they considered owing to its not being properly purged of its recrementitious sediment. The moderns deride this theory, but they have substituted nothing satisfactory in its stead. Van Swieten thinks more favorably of the ancient docti-ines. (Comment. ยง 485.) Avicenna speaks highly of a milk diet. Serapion Hkewise approves of milk de- prived of its butter, and of a vegetable diet. He speaks of no other treatment as being likely to prove remediable, with the exception of excision and the cautery. Haly Abbas rather ap- proves of excision when the disease is seated in a part which admits of this operation. However, like Galen, he disapproves