475 SECT. CVII.] WITH A WOUND. Galen explains, that the danger in cases of fractured femur and Comm. humerus arises from their vicinity to important blood-vessels """^^—' and muscles. Celsus lays down the ndes for conducting the treatment in these cases with great precision. He states, that fractures complicated with a wound of the skin are generally dangerous, especially when it is the humerus or femm\ In the latter case he.dii-ects us to saw off the ends of the bone. The case of a fractured humerus is more easily managed. The danger is greatly increased when the fracture is near a joint. He re- commends us to divide any muscle which may run across the wound, to let blood, and put the patient upon a restricted diet. In other fractures the bones are to be gently replaced. The wound is to be dressed with a pledget dipped in wine, to .which roses have been added. This application is borrowed .from Hippocrates. The bandages are to be put on somewhat slacker than when there is no external wound. Neither splints nor canals must be used, but broad bandages. The parts are ■ to be fomented with hot oil and wine, and the dressings re- newed every day. When a smaU fragment of a bone pro- jects, if it be blunt, he recommends us to replace it; but if sharp, he directs us to saw it off, and then replace the bones with the hands or a suitable instrument. Sometimes fragments of bones die, and after a time drop out; and sometimes sharp spiculse iiTitate the soft parts, in which case he recommends us ,to enlarge the wound and cut off the projecting points. The treatment recommended by Albucasis is very judicious. If inflammation be present, he directs us to subdue it by bleed- ing ; and, in that case, reduction is not to be attempted until the ninth day; but in all other cases it is to be done at first. When it cannot be reduced by the hands, an iron instrument seven or eight fingers' breadth in length, and two fingers broad, is to be used as a lever for this purpose. When the ends of the fracture are sharp and cannot be replaced, they are to be cut off or sawed. His saw bears a considerable resemblance to that of the late Mr. Hey, of Leeds. He recommends an as- tringent wine as a suitable application, but condemns all cerates which contain oil. The bandages are to be put on very slack. vSplints are not to be applied while the wound is irritable and ill-conditioned. When it does not heal, he savs