SECT. LXIV.] HELLEBORE, ETC. 211 intermediate between the nita and melanthium. He is also Comm. disposed to think that the melanthium of the ancients was the ^ niyella saliva, L. We are inclined to adopt this opinion from the text of Avicenna. (iv, 6, 1, 16.) Sprengel agrees with Anguillai-a and Dalechampius in opinion that the cactos was the ctjnara cardunculus, L., or cardoon artichoke, a variety of the C. scolymus. (Comment, in Dioscor.) Schweighaeuser inclines to the opinion of VUlebrun, the French translator of Athenseus, who makes it to be the C. sylvestris latifoHa, which he says grows commonly in Sicily at the present day. (In Deipnos ii, 83.) ^ ■ Under this head we may notice the treatment of poisoning by gum euphorbium, and the spurges, of which no mention is made by the Greek authorities on toxicology. For the Arabians, see Avicenna (iv, 6, 1, 4, 5); Rhases (Contin. xx, 2 ; ad Mansor! vm, 48); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 1, 19.) The symptoms as given by them aU are, violent pain and heat in the primffi viae, with bloody discharges, and death, unless timely relief be given. Theii- remedies are immediate vomiting with hot water and oil, then administering demulcents, barley-water, and in the end, the theriac. Galen and Haly Abbas, in their treatises on the Theriac, recommend it in this case of poisoning. The mezereon is not noticed by the Greeks or Romans either as a poison nor as a medicinal substance. The Arabians treat of it under both these heads. See Avicenna (iv 6 1) ■ Rhases (ad Mansor. viii, 53.) The symptoms as given by them are violent vomiting and purging, for which they recommend sweet milk, butter, juleps, in the first place, and in extreme cases the theriac and sealed earth. The Arabian authorities confound their mezereon with the chameleon of the Greeks treated of in the thirty-seventh section of this book The <?mrfe of Avicenna and Serapion was the strychnos colubrinus according to Sprengel. (R. H. H. i, 250.) Rhases classes the nux vomica along with the articles treated of m this section. He recommends us in aU these cases to give warm water to promote the vomiting and render it easier, and if violent convulsions come on, he directs the patient to be put into a warm bath, and anointed with hot oils. (Ad Mansor. viii, 49.) Serapion treats of it in his Materia Medica (163.) The Arabians also treat of the methcl-nnt 16