[book VI. ENTEROCELE, 374 double we make four pieces of tliem, and laying them over one another in tlie form of the Greek letter X, we bind the perito- neum securely, and again twisting round the pieces we secure it so that none of the nutrient vessels may have a free passage to it lest any inflammation be occasioned, and we apply another ligature farther out, less than two fingers^ breadth distant from the former. After making these ligatures we leave about the size of a finger of the peritoneum, and cut off the whole all round, removing at the same time the testicle, then making an in- cision at the lower part of the scrotum to favour the discharge, we introduce an oblong pledget, and apply embrocations of oil and bandages as for hydrocele. We must also make the other applications as there laid down. I have known some not un- skilful surgeons who after the incision into the tunica vaginalis burnt the extremity of it with heated cauteries for fear of hemorrhage, as would appear. These after th6 operation straightway bathed their patients in a long wooden trough containing hot water, until the seventh day, repeating this as often as five times during the period of a day and a night, more especially with children; and it succeeded wonderfully, for they remained free from inflammation, and the ligatures fell out speedily along with the parts. In the intervals between the bathings the afore-mentioned embrocations were applied. Another surgeon, in addition to the means already mentioned, rubbed into their back at the time pepper triturated with oil. Commentary. Celsus recommends us, if the patient be a child, to make an attempt, in the first place, to efi'ect a cm'e with bandages. In more advanced ages, if a large portion of intestine has fallen down, and if attended with pain and vomit- ing, which symptoms generally arise from retention of the fseces, it is clear, he says, that the knife is not applicable, and that the case is to be remedied by other means. He recommends vene- section in the arm, the tepid bath, wai'm cataplasms, and spare diet; but he disapproves of purgatives. This is his treatment of strangulated hernia. "When an operation with the scalpel is resolved upon, an incision having been made in the groin down to the middle tunic (tunica vaginalis ?), the lips of it are to be separated with the assistance of hooks, while the sm'geon frees the tunic from all the small membranes (external fascia?).