SECT, ex.] 477 BONES NOT UNITED. of breaking them over again is not at all to be admitted, as it may occasion the utmost danger; but if the callus be newly formed, we must have recourse to the affusions of a relaxing na- ture, and to cataplasms, such as those from fat olives and pigeon's dung, and the other medicines for dissolving callus; and we also dispel it by friction with the hand, and bending it every way. But if it be of a stony hardness, we make an in- cision of the skin with a scalpel, and separate the union of the bones with chisels, and then cure the fracture as formerly said. Commentary. Celsus approves of breaking the bones over } again. With this intention he directs us, in the first place, to I bathe the limb with much hot water, and rub it with liquid cerate; t the caUus is then to be moved with the hands, and the ends of t the bone properly set; or if that cannot be thus accompHshed, I a rule is to be wrapped round with wool and bound upon the ] part, so as to restore it to its proper shape. Avicenna agrees with Celsus in speaking favorably of break- i ing the bone over again. He also speaks favorably of the < other treatment recommended by our author. Rhases recommends emollient applications, and gentle at- t tempts to restore the figure of the limb. Albucasis mentions the I proposal of breaking the bone again with disapprobation. SECT. ex. ON BONES WHICH HAVE NOT UNITED BY CALLUS. Sometimes fractured bones remain without forming adhesions, "! beyond the natural period, either owing to their being often ^ loosed, or from too frequent bathing of the part, or from having \ been moved unseasonably, or from the number of the bandages, or f from atrophy of the whole body, by which means the limb be- (comes emaciated. Wherefore we must endeavour to remove all tthe other causes, but more especially the atrophy, partly by «calefacient applications which attract nourishment to the place, «and partly by supplying a sufficiency of food and baths, and 1 whatever also is of a refreshing nature. Among the other »symptoms which follow the formation of callus, the bandages tthen become stained with blood, although no wound be present, • which probably takes place from the substance about the callus.