277 SECT. XIX.] STAPHYLOMA. sors; but Beer prefers the scalpel. Scarpa seems to approve of Comm. the dii'ection given by the ancient authors, not to carry the "—'—' incision too far towards the inner angle of the eye. See also Fabricius ab Aquapendente (ffiuv. Chir. ii, 18), and Brunus (Chir. Mag. ii, 4.) SECT. XIX. ON STAPHYLOMA. Staphyloma is an incurvation of the cornea, and of the tu- nica choroides, arising from debility, and being produced some- times by a defluxion, and sometimes by ulceration. We operate upon it not in order to restore the eyesight^ for that is impos- sible, but to moderate the patient^s deformity. Wherefore having passed a needle from below upwards through the base of the staphyloma, we are to push another needle, having a double thread, from the canthus next the hand to the other, through the base of the staphyloma; and the first needle re- maining, we cut the double of the thread, and tie part of the staphyloma upwards and part downwards with the threads, and then removing the needle we apply wool dipped in eggs. After the removal of the dressings we soothe the eyes with emolHent injections until the ligatures fall oflp along with the staphyloma. Commentary. Celsus thus describes the disease : " In ipso Comm. autem oculo nonnunquam summa attolitur tunica^ sive ruptis '—'—' lutus membranis ahquibus^ sive laxatis : et similes figura acino tit: unde id aTa(f>v\(ofxa Grseci vocant." He describes two me- thods of cure : the first of which is by ligatures, as recom- mended by our author; and the other consists in cutting from the apex a circular portion equal in size to a lentil. Scarpa and Guthrie concur in recommending the latter ope- l ations, the merits of which, as they state, have not been gene- rally appreciated properly. Aetius directs us to introduce the cross threads, as recom- mended by our author, and then to cut out the apex of the tumour. He is at great pains in directing us to introduce the threads obhquely, and not at right angles to one another. He 'Iso recommends general bleeding and emollient fomentations, vii, 37.)