SECT. LXII.] 367 HYDROCELE. bathed, we must remove the oblong pledget, and have recourse to the subsequent treatment as formerly described. But if in- flammation, hemorrhage, or any such disagreeable consequence come on, we must, in a word, treat each of these in a suitable manner, that I may not have occasion to make repetitions. But if we would rather have recourse to the cautery in cases of hydrocele (as is the practice of the moderns), we must follow all the directions given as to what is to be done before and after the operation, and also those given with regard to the operation itself, omitting only the incision with a scalpel, and the division for allowing the discharge of its contents. Wherefore having heated ten or twelve cauteries, shaped like the Greek letter T, and two sword-shaped ones, we must first burn the scrotum through the middle with the gamma-shaped, and having dis- ! sected away the membranes with a scalpel or blunt hook, we must burn with the sword-shaped as if cutting. Having laid bare the tunica vaginalis (which is easily recognized by its ' whiteness and density) with the extremity of a gamma-shaped I cautery, we evacuate the fluid. Afterwards, when the whole is 1 laid bare, we stretch it with hooks and remove it with a sword- s shaped cautery. Commentary. Celsus directs the surgeon, when water is I contained in a hernial tumour, to make an incision in the J groin, if the patient be a child, unless the largeness of the (collection prevent; but in adults, and when the swelling is i great, he recommends him to make it in the scrotum. Then if the incision be in the groin, the coats are to be drawn up I there and the water discharged ; but if in the scrotum, and if tthe disease be seated there, nothing more is to be done but to {evacuate the fluid, and remove any membranes which may 1 happen to contain it; after which the parts are to be washed iwith a solution of salt or soda. When the fluid is situated ti under the middle or inner coat (the tunica vaginalis and tunica aalbuginea?), all these tunics are to be removed without the »scrotum and cut out. (vii, 21.) Celsus, as weU as our author, ^describes the hsematocele or bloody tumour, the existence of •which is affirmed by Heister. (ii, 5^ 133.) Galen alludes incidentaUy to the evacuation of the fluid in •hydrocele. (Meth. Med. xiv.) Sprengel and Guy de CauHac