ABSCESS. 306 [book VI. Comm. witli a scalpel. In making an incision, the foim and size of it are to be considered. In general the openings are to be made as small as possible; but large sinuses require larger incisions, and sometimes two or three are necessary : when the skin is livid or diseased it sometimes must be cut off to further the cure. In this case an opening is to be made of the shape of a myrtle-leaf. When the pus is evacuated, if in the arm- pit or groins, no pledget is to be used, but a sponge out of \vine is to be applied. In other places, a little honey is first to be used; then agglutinative medicines; and above these likewise, if necessary, a sponge squeezed out of wine, (vii, 3.) The treatment of abscesses is fully explained by Galen. (Therap. ad Glauc. ii.) He dii-ects us, when an abscess is slow of ripening, to make superficial scarifications in it, and after- wards to apply a cataplasm of bai-ley-meal. Aetius's directions are, upon the whole, similar to our author^s, but not quite so minute and precise. Like our author, he directs us to make the incision long and naiTow, like a myrtle-leaf. The ancients were well aware that cir- cular sores are slow of healing ; and the causes of this fact are fully explained by Cassius and Alexander Aphrodisiensis. Little additional information is to be obtained from the other authorities. Albucasis directs us, when the abscess is large, not to evacuate all its contents at once, lest it produce dangerous prostration, especially if the patient be weak; for, he remarks, the animal spirits wiU escape along with the pus. Like our author, he forbids us to open abscesses until they are ripe, unless seated neai' the anus, or some vital part. (Chirurg. ii. 40.) , ^ , Haly Abbas justly remarks that if an abscess be opened prematm-ely, the hps of it remain in an indurated state, and prevent the sore from heahng. But when seated near nei-ves or ho-aments, he advises not to wait until it is ripe. His treatment upon the whole does not differ from our author's. (Pract, ix, 8.) The method of opening abscesses, by means of caustic ap- plications, is described in the Fourth Book, 18.