73 SECT. XXIII.] FURUNCULUS. Oribasius and Aetuarius mark the distinction between these affections in the same terms as Galen, and direct us to treat them with emollient, concoctive, and discutient applications. For concocting phymata, the Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends southernwood, boiled with raw barley flour; figs, boiled with yeast, &c.; and for breaking them, the juice of thapsia, with sulphur; cantharides, mixed with turpentine, &c. (Euporist i 156.) Nonnus' account is mostly abridged from our author's. Thus, he recommends at first venesection, and sponges squeezed out of oxycrate and the like; then digestives are to be applied; and aftei-wards cataplasms and such things as will favour the rupture of the abscess, namely, compositions containing bee-glue, bitter lupins, vinegar, nitre, yeast, or figs and pitch. Avicenna describes these affections by the name of althaum. It is remarked by his translator that the Arabian recommends the same medicines as Paulus, but neglects the distinction which the latter properly makes between the bubo when attended with pestilential fever and when without it. The phyma seems to have been merely an acute inflamma- tion of a gland, terminating in suppuration. The phygethlon was an erysipelatous inflammation of a gland. These complaints are well defined and described by Fabricius ab Aquapendente (1, i, 23.) Dr. WiUan uses the term phyma in a different sense from that of our author. The term occurs in Marcus Antoninus (n, 16), where see the note of Gataker. Comm. SECT. XXIII. ON FURUNCULUS. Purunculus is an apostematous swelUng, formed of thick humours in the fleshy parts of the body most especially; being mUd when it is formed in the skin only, but of a malignant cha- racter when it rises up from a deep-seated part. Fm-unculus may be discussed and concocted by wheat, chewed and applied ; 0.Y Egyptian mastic; by raisins, deprived of their stones, and tnturated with salts, and applied—(this either discusses or breaks the swelling); or apply dried figs boiled in hydromel; or rosin may be mixed with the figs and applied; or the figs themselves, when they are fat, may be split open and applied; or