480 [book VI. LUXATIONS. wards; and then shut the jaws close, and prevent yawning. This is the mode of reduction, and it cannot be performed by any other processes. Very little treatment will suffice after- wards. Having applied a waxed compress, it is to be secured with a loose bandage. But the surest process is to lay the man upon his back, and supporting his head upon well-stuffed pillows, that they may not yield, to get some person to hold the head of the patient. And if both ends of the jaw be dislocated, the treatment is the same, only the mouth cannot be so well shut, for then the jaw is more prominent, but less distorted from the teeth of the upper and lower jaws corresponding exactly to- gether. Reduction is to be immediately performed, and the mode of it has been already described. If it cannot be restored, there may be danger of the life from continued fevers, torpor, and earns. For these muscles being altered and stretched in a preternatui'al manner produce cai'us. They frequently have evacuations by the belly, which are purely bilious, and small in quantity; and if they vomit, it is pure bile. These, for the most part, die on the tenth day." This mode of reduction we have often practised, having first used fomentations of warm water and oil, by a sponge along the dislocated jaw, more espe- cially when there is any difficulty in restoring it to its position. Wherefore, having placed the man upon the ground, we stand behind and operate in the manner described by Hippocrates. Comm. COMMENTARY. The account here given of Hippocrates's method of reduction is taken from his work, 'De Articulis,' (31.) When a few of his tehnical terms are explained in the com- mentary of Galen, the description is sufficiently distinct, and is upon the whole a very correct account of the symptoms and treatment of this accident. The prominence of the coronoid bone is well described by Hippocrates. Galen remarks that the end of the jaw-bone slips under the zygomatic arch. It has been a matter of dispute what Hippocrates means by slack- ening, or incomplete luxations of the jaw. It is worthy of remark that such an accident is described by Sir Astley Cooper. (See further Littre's Hippocrates, t. iv, 29.) Galen's description of the method of reduction is given m the Collection of Niceta«. (Chirurg. Vet. ed. Cocchius.) It is substantially the same as that of Hippocrates.