492 LUXATIONS. Comm. Albucasis says that the fore-arm is dislocated in all direc- """^^ ' tions, but more especially backwards and forwards. His de- scription of the mode of reduction is evidently copied from Paulus. Avicenna likewise borrows his whole account from our author. Ehases and Haly Abbas describe the ordinary cases of com- plete luxation at the elbow-joint, but we believe that neither they nor any of the Arabians take notice of the dislocation of the radius from the ulna, nor the abruption of the apophysis of the humerus. SECT. CXVI. ON DISLOCATIONS AT THE WRIST AND FINGERS, Dislocations at the wrist and fingers are attended with no difficulty, unless accompanied with a wound. This case, there- fore, will be treated of under the head of dislocations with a wound. Those without a wound may be remedied by moderate extension and the anti-inflammatory plan of treatment. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocratcs says that the hand is dislocated inwards and outwards, but most frequently inwards. In the former case it is found impossible to bend the fingers, and in the latter to extend them. He also makes mention of disloca- tions to either side. He directs us to make counter-extension upon a table, and to push down the projecting end of the bone with the hand or the heel. He also describes the separate dislocation of the radius and ulna; and, upon the whole, his account is very little diflPerent from that given by Sir Astley Cooper in his ' Lectures,' and by Mr. Listen in his ' Elements of Surgery.' Celsus describes, in his usual elegant manner, the disloca- tions forwards and backwards. He denies the possibility of the lateral dislocations, and, in fact, it is now acknowledged that if ever they do occur they are incomplete. Like Hippo- crates, he directs us to replace dislocations of the fingers by making extension upon a table. He does not make mention of the sepai'ate dislocation of the lower end of the radius. Oribasius mentions the dislocations forwards and backwards, and likewise the separate dislocations of the radius and ulna.