FRACTURES. [liooK vr. 460 . biindages are to be removed when tliey become slack, generally about the thii-d day. On tbe seventb the ferula; or splhits are to be applied, the limb by that time having lost its swelling, and they are to be allowed to remain until the 34th day after tlie accident. When swellings arise on any part of a limb from pressure, they are to be anointed with cerate or wine and oil, and wrapped in soft wool; and if the splints be hurting the limb they are to be removed for a time. (De Fract. 21.) When the bandages are taken off, he directs that hot water should be poured upon the limb. He recommends a spare diet unless there be a wound of the integuments. (De Fract. and Galen. Comment.) It may be proper to give some more account of the splenia and ferulae {vapOriKSQ), used by Hippocrates in frac- tures of the extremities. In his work entitled ' The Surgeon's Shop' ((V/'rpao)'), he directs the length of the splenia to be made proportionate to the part which they are applied to, their breadth three fingers, their thickness three or four folds, and their num- ber such as to encircle the limb without doing either more or less. It appears quite clear that they consisted of folded linen. The intention of them \vas to give some support to the part. He dii-ects the splints to be smooth, even, concave, and some- what shorter than the length of the bandages, in order not to hurt the sound skin. It appears, then, that the whole appa- ratus used by Hippocrates in the treatment of fractures, con- sisted, 1st, of two under-bandages, 2d, of splenia or folded com- presses, 3d, of the ferute or spHnts, 4th, of an outer bandage to secure the splints. With regard to the cerate used in the Hippocratic system of bandaging, it is important to state that, from a passage in his treatise, ' Officina Medici,' it would ap- pear that the cerate was not only applied to the skin, but that, for the sake of gi-eater security, every fold of the bandages was rubbed with it. See Galen's Commentary on the work, (T. v. p. 692, ed. Basil,) and Littre's Hippocrates, (T. iii, p. 316.) It remains to be mentioned, that the bandages were secui-ed by means of a thread or with a needle. (Off. Med. 8.) No- thing can surpass the judgment and precision with w^liich Hip- pocrates lays down his rules for the application of the bandages. (Ibid.) Galen describes the splenia as being pieces of linen folded three or four times, which are to be laid along the arm longitu-