[book vt. 418 WEAPONS. SECT. LXXXVIII. ON THE EXTRACTION OF WEAPONS. That the extraction of weapons is a most important de- partment of surgery is declared by the Poet Homer, when he says : " The man of medicine can in worth with many warriors vie, Who knows the weapons to excise, and soothing salves apply." We must first describe the different kinds of weapons. War- like instruments, then, differ from one another in material, figiire, size, number, mode, and power. In material, then, as the shafts are made of wood or of reeds ; and the heads them- selves are either made of iron, copper, tin, lead, horn, glass, bones, and of reeds, too, or of wood : and such differences are found especially among the Egyptians. In figure, inasmuch as some are rotmd, some angled (as triangular), some pointed and lance-shaped, as some have three points; some are barbed and some are without barbs; and of the barbed, some have the barbs turned backwards, so that in attempting to extract them they may fasten in the parts ; and some forwards, so that when pushed they may do the same thing: some have them diverging in opposite directions like the forked lightning, in order that whether pulled or pushed they may fasten in the parts. Some missiles have their barbs united by a hinge, which being expanded in the extraction, prevent the weapon from being drawn out. They differ in size, inasmuch as some are three fingers' breadth in size, and some are as small as one finger, which are called niicca in Egypt, and some are intermediate between them. In number, inasmuch as some are simple and some compounded. For certain small pieces of iron are inserted in them, which, in the extraction of the weapon, remain concealed in deep-seated parts. In mode, as some have the sharp extremity fixed to a tail and some to a shaft; and some have it carefully inserted in the shaft, and some carelessly, so that in the extraction they may separate and leave the head behind. In power, as some are not poisoned and some' are poisoned. Such are the differences of weapons. We now proceed to treat of the extraction, both in cases of those who have been wounded in war and those not in wai".