SECT. T.] ELEPHANTIASIS. 13 to purge away the melancliolic humour with scammony, colo- cjTith, black hellebore, &c. The elephantia he describes as a disease in Avhich the leg is swelled like the leg of an elephant. He considers it almost incurable. Albucasis gives an account of the operation of burning the head for lepra, i. e. the elephantiasis of the Greeks. The translator of Haly Abbas, namely, Stephanus Antio- chensis, who says he wrote about the year 1127, describes the disease which we have been treating of by the name of elephan- tia. Like the others, Haly represents it to be a general cancer arising from black bile. He says it proves contagious by re- spiration. Among the symptoms, he mentions falling off of the ciliary and superciliary hairs, dryness of the nose, which some- times falls in; in short, he enumerates the same symptoms as the preceding authorities. For the cure he directs us to bleed from the arteries behind the ears, those of the temples, or from a vein in the arm; to give emetics, such as hellebore; to avoid cold; to apply cupping-instruments to the scrobiculus cordis; to administer the theriac, &c. He recommends externally decoctions of beans and vetches at first; and afterwards stimu- lant lotions, containing arsenic, sulphur, quicklime, and so forth. He also applies the term elephantia, and sometimes elephas, to the swelled leg, which he considers to be a species of varix. Alsaharavius describes four varieties of lepra, namely, the leonina, elephantia, serpentina, and vulpina. The disease, he says, may be contracted, 1st, by an hereditary taint; 2d, by the use of corrupted food, such as the flesh of buck-goats, cows, &c.; 3d, by contagion, thi'ough the medium of the re- spiration. He describes all the gradations of the disease with greater minuteness than any other ancient author. In its last stage, he says, the nose falls in, the hairs drop oflF, the voice is lost, ulcers break out on the skin, the extremities mortify and fall away, and the breath is fetid. His treatment varies ac- cording to the circumstances of the case, but, upon the whole, it is scarcely at all different from that of the others. By the name of elephantia he also describes the swelled leg, which he pronounces to be a very intractable disease. He directs us, however, to have recourse to bleeding, melanogogues, abstmence from gross food, emetics, and various external appli-