SECT. LX.] ARSENIC. 235 or three oboli of the juice of scammony, when drunk with horded water. Commentary. Nicander compares the colour of ceruse to Comm. frothy milk. The symptoms of poisoning by it are constriction """^—' of the palate and gums, asperity of the tongue, singultus, a dry cough, nausea, heaviness of the head, unnatural vision, and torpor. His remedies are emetics of oil, thin milk, decoctions of maEows, sesame triturated with wine, prunes or elms, which are to be given partly as emetics, and partly with the intention of their being digested; for which purpose the patient is to be put into the warm bath. See the Paraphrase of Eutecnius; also Dioscorides, Aetius, Avicenna, and Rhases, who recommend similar treatment. Aetius, like our author, directs us to give scammony, evidently to counteract its astringency. Alsahara- vius recommends emetics of the decoction of figs with mead or common oil, the infusion of wormwood as a diuretic, scammony with hydromel, and hot milk. Rhases recommends emetics of the decoctions of figs and oil, with drastic purgatives and diu- retics. (Ad Mansor. viii, and Contin. xx, 2.) Avicenna^s prin- ciples of treatment are quite similar, that is to say, he trusts to emetics, diuretics, and clysters, and prevents the patient from sleeping, (iv, 6,1.) Haly Abbas recommends an emetic consisting of honey with hot water, vinegar and salt; he also gives diu- retics, such as the infusion of parsley, fennel, anise, and southern- wood. (Pract. iv.) Dr. Alston says, " our white lead is certainly the ^PifxvQiov of Dioscondes and the cerussa of PlinyIt was prepared by exposmg the carbonate of lead to the vapours of vinegar See Milligan (Ad Cels. p. 112.) SECT. LX. ON LIME, SANDARACH, AND ARSENIC. Lime, sandarach, and arsenic, when taken in a draught, bring fm pams of the stomach and bowels, with violent corrosion WTierefore we must administer all things of a diluent and solvent nature, such things as wiU produce ready vomiting and lubricate the bowels, as the juice of the marsh or common mallows and a decoction of linseed, or of spelt, or of rice, copious draughts