SECT. II.] OPHTHALMIA, ETC. 249 24); Albucasis (Chirurg. i) j Mesue (de ^Egr. Capitis) j Avi- Comm. cenna (iii, 1); Haly Abbas (Pract. ix, 69); Avenzoar fl 9 17). ^ ' ' The use of the actual cautery in surgical practice is often aUuded to by the classical authors. See a coUection of these passages m Dr. Blomfield^s edition of the 'Agamemnon^ of ^schylus (822.) Consult also Gataker's 'Marcus Antoninus' (v. 193); and Boissonade's ' Anecdota Grsca' (vol. ii, p 311 ) A very elaborate and sensible account of the use of the cautery m the practice of surgeiy is given by Vegetius. (Malomed. i, Hippocrates, or whoever was the author of the work referred to above, appHed the cautery to the head very freely in diseases ot the eyes and other complaints. Aretffiu^ directs us, in cases of cephal^a and epilepsy, to l^erforate the bone as far as the diploe, and afterwards to bum It until the dura mater is separated from the bone. Readmits however, that it is a harsh remedy. ' Celsus directs us, as an ultimum remedium in epileptic cases, to fonn issues with a burning iron upon the occiput and at the juncture of the first vertebra with the head Aetius speaks of burning the head in nearly the same terms as our author. He directs us to avoid the muscular parts. Actuanus does the same. C^lius Aurelianus however, disapproves of this practice in cases of cephatea and epilepsy. The Arabians were even more partial than the Greeks to burning he head m these and other complaints. See in par'' tacular Albucasis, whose description is very minute. In cases of cephal^a he recommends the cautery to be applied to the occiput, but cautions against touching the bone S it prod^c violent pam. He directs us to be careful to avoid muscles . nerves, and ^teries. Avicenna, Rhases, Mesue, and Haly Ibta: .recommend the operation, in the most unqualified terms as" Itpowerful remedy in the cases mentioned by our author, iven! ^zoar, however, condemns the unguarded appHcation of the I burning iron to the head, Guido de Cauhaco recommends the cautery in cases of hvdro .ephalus (u, 2, 10). Brunus also applied it for hydrocephats" 17.) But see in particular Lanfrancus (III, xli, ig.) ^