EXOMPHALOS. SECT. LI.] 341 the tumour is equally soft, uot jdelding to pressure, and is neither dimiiiislicd nor increased by it. If it consist of blood, in ad- dition to the afore-meutioned symptoms, the swelling is more livid; but if it arise from hypertrophy of flesh, the tumour will he harder, elastic, and will continue of the same size. Those occa- sioned by flatulence are attended with softness, a certain sound when tapped, and disappearance upon pressure. We must operate then in this manner. Having placed the man in an erect posture, we order him to press down at the same time that he retains his breath; then, having marked the whole promi- nence of the navel with black ink, we are to lay him on his back, and dissect around the tumour "vvith a scalpel, agreeably to the marking; then, stretching the middle with a hook, we must apply a thread or string around the part which is dissected, for thus it will be prevented from falling down, when secured with a knot. Then, at the top, having opened the constricted tumotu", we must introduce the index-finger, and search carefully lest any fold of the intestine, or part of the omentum, be included in the ligature; and if intestine be included, we must loosen the fold of the thread, and push it inwards, but if it is omentum we may draw it out, and cut off what is redundant of it, securing, as is proper, with a thread, any vessel that may come in the way; and then taking two needles, containing a plain thread, we pass them through the scarified part in the form of the Greek letter X, and cutting the doubles of the threads, as we mentioned for aneimsm, we make constriction with the four heads. After the bodies secured by the ligatures have become putrid and dropped off, we complete the cure by dressing the part with pledgets, and strive to make the cicatrix particularly hollow. Such is the operation when the part concerned is the intestine or omentum. But if flesh, or fluid, or blood occasions the com- plaint, having divided the middle of the tumour circularly, and then removed whatever lies external to the peritoneum at the navel, we perform the cure by incarnative applications. But exomphalos arising from aneurism, or the presence of flatus, we must abandon as hopeless, like other cases of aneurism. Commentary. Celsus gives an interesting abstract of the C ancient opinions upon this subject, but as it differs but little from our author's description, wc shall not dwell very particularly