FRACTURES. 444 [book VI. being drawn sideways may take tlie proper position in the middle. Tliis practice, however, is not mucli approved of by tlie moderns. If tbe bones of the nose are broken into small pieces we must make an incision or enlarge the wound, and having removed the small bones with a hair forceps, unite the divided parts with sutures, and use the applications for recent wounds and those of an agglutinative nature. If there be a sore within the nose it is to be cured with the pledgets called lemnisci, spread with suitable ointments. Some also use leaden tubes until it cicatrize, lest a fleshy excrescence should arise from the ulcer. Comm. COMMENTARY. Some accouut of Hippocrates's practice is given '——' by ova' author. As here mentioned, he strongly disapproves of bandages which, he says, never fail to disappoint the expectations of both surgeon and patient. He directs us to replace the broken parts, eitherwith the fore-finger or a specillum. He also describes the application of the piece of thong; a distinct account of which is given by our author. (De Articulis, 30.) Galen, in his ' Commentary,' explains the obscurities in the text, but supplies no additional facts or views of practice. He greatly disapproved of agglutinative apphcations and bandages. (Fragmentum ap. Nicetse Collect.) Celsus gives a full account of fractures of the nose, but as he follows the plan of treatment recommended by Hippocrates, it will be unnecessary to dwell long upon it. When the car- tilages are fractured, the pieces are to be replaced with a spe- cillum, or with two fingers pressing on both sides ; then oblong tents sewed round with a thin soft skin ai-e to be introduced into the nostrils; or a large quill smeared with gum, or ai-ti- ficers' glue may be applied in like manner. He speaks of the leathern thong, but uses it under somewhat difi'erent circum- stances than those for which our author recommends it. He directs us to fasten the middle of it to the nose, and the extre- mities to the temples on either side. When any fragment of a bone does not coalesce properly with the rest, he recommends us to extract it with a forceps. The case, he properly states, is more dangerous when there is an external wound; but in this case, he recommends us to apply one of the plasters adapted for recent wounds; like the others he disappiwes of bandages-