SECT. XXVIII.J TREATMENT. 19; us what substance has been taken, we can straightway apply the suitable remedy, as will be described in the account of them. But if the medicine is unknown to us, we must have recourse immediately to such things as are generally applicable to those ^vho have taken any poison whatever; for to wait uutil the consequent symptoms have come on, is to render the case hopeless, since owing to the remedies being too long of being applied such symptoms can hardly be removed: wherefore, M'ithout delay, we must give warm oil by itself or with water' and force them to vomit, or if oil is not at hand, butter with hot water may be given, or a decoction of maUows, or of linseed, or of spelt, or of fenugreek, or of nettle seed. For these things M ill not only evacuate by vomiting, but will loosen the belly and counteract the bad effects of the poisons, by blunting their acrimony; and more especially oil will do this, as you may ascertain clearly from the following consideration. For if you ^^4sh to produce ulceration of the skin by means of cantharides, eiuicklime, or some such acrid substance, and the body has been previously rubbed with oil, no ulcers will take place, and neither also can you astringe the body if previously rubbed with oil. Besides, vomiting is not only useful by evacuating the offending matter, but by showing the poison which had been taken from its smeU, particles, or colour. For by its smell and bitterness poppy-juice is known; by their colour,ceruse and gypsum; by their coagula, milk and fresh blood; bv their heavy smell and quality, the sea-hare and toad: so that by these means we are enabled to have recourse to the remedies which are suitable to each. With the oil may be mixed the decoction of maUows, or the grease of geese, or broth prepared rom fat flesh or fowls, or the cinders of wood. Natron also tnturated with hydromel, much old wine, and those tilings .which are prepared from fat or butter are efficacious. Having ■evacuated the contents of the stomach by emetics, we must onng away whatever had passed into the intestines by a sti- mulant clyster. After these things, we are to give milk to dnnk, for whatever is noxious and deleterious will be readily fehanged by it. We must also give those medicines which are .generally apphcable to all such cases, among which are the ..emnian vermilion, southernwood, agaric, hedge-mustard, the root of cryngo, the seed of parsnip or of calamint, the Celtic