CALCULUS. 356 [book VI. not start out of itself we must extract it with the forceps called the stone-extractor. After the removal of the stone, having stopped the bleeding by manna of frankincense and aloes, comfrey, misy, and such like styptic powders, and having dipped wool or com- presses in wine and oil, we apply them ; and also apply the ban- dages for calculous diseases, namely, that having six legs. But if there be any apprehension of hemorrhage we must apply a com- press which had been soaked in oxycrate, or water and rose- oil, and placing the patient in a reclining posture, bathe the parts frequently. After the thii'd day, having loosed the ban- dages, and poured much water and oil into the wound, we may dress it with the ointment called tetrapharmacon (basihcon) on a pledget, removing them and dressing often on account of the acrimony of the urine. If inflammation come on, we must have recourse to the cataplasms and fomentations proper for it. And we may also inject into the bladder oil of roses, oil of ca- momile, or butter, unless some inflammation prevent. In like manner, if the sore become spreading, or otherwise malignant, we must suit the apphcations to the state of it. When the ulcer is freed from inflammation we may loose the dressings, and use diachylon plaster to the groins and bottom of the beUy. During the whole time of the treatment, the thighs must be bound together, which contributes to the cm-e with the other remedies. If the stone, being smaU, fall into the penis, and cannot be voided with the urine, we may draw the prepuce strongly forwards, and bind it at the extremity of the glans. We must next apply another ligature round the penis behind the member, making the constriction at its extremity next the bladder, and then make an incision down upon the stone, and bending the penis we eject the stone, and undoing the ligatures we clear away the coagula from the wound. The pos- terior ligature is apphed lest the calculus should retreat back- wards, and the anterior, in order that, when untied, after the extraction of the stone, the skin of the prepuce may slide back- wards and cover the incision. Comm. COMMENTARY. We will now attempt to explain all the an- cient descriptions of lithotomy. Hippocrates in his Oath binds his pupils not to perform this operation, but to leave it to those who made it their business.