WORMS. M8 [book IV. Comm. which he ascribes to putrefaction or indigestion. White worms, he says, are the product of indigestion, but the red, and those of any other colour, arise from putrefaction. Nonnus merely abridges our author's account of this subject. The ingredients in the compositions recommended by Myrepsus, are such as aloes, scammony, southernwood, and bitter almonds. Octavius Horatianua gives a good account of worms, but it contains scarcely anything that is not to be found in our au- thor's. He says, that from long experience he had great con- fidence in a pui-gative draught consisting of scammony, the ashes of burnt peas, euphorbium, and nitre, given in sweet wine. But garlic, and other acrid things, are to be first eaten. The Epistle of Alexander TraUian on worms, first pubHshed by Hieronymus Mercurialis, and afterwards by Albertus Fabricius, and again lately by Ideler, contains an interesting exposition of the ancient views on this subject. He divides intestinal worms into thi-ee genera: the ascaris, the strongylus or round, and the latus or broad. He remarks that the small worms (ascarides) are generally found in the large intestines, the round in the small intestines, and hence they are often vomited up; while the broad worms (taenia) are sometimes as long as the intestines, some having been discharged sixteen feet m length. He states that they are engendered by cori-uption of the food, and putrefaction of crude humoui's. He lays down at great length the plan of treatment, which he varies accord- ing as they are with or without fever. His remedies consist of cathai'tic, acrid, oily, acid, and bitter substances. Of purga- tives he mentions aloes, scammony, and hellebore; of acrid articles, garhc, cresses, and the like; of oily medicines, the oil of roses, castor oil (oleum ricini), and common oil boiled with rue ; of acids, salt and nitre (soda); and of bitters, southern- wood, wormwood, hyssop, fennel, and the like. For the expul- sion of the strongylus he speaks favorably of a decoction of gagate stone (jet). For ascarides and lumbrici he recommends a lavement prepared j&'om juniper. He concludes his treatise by stating that "ten thousand" other things had been recom- mended as anthelminthics by the ancients. Avicenna in his account of worms condenses aUthe informa- tion contained in the Greek authors, but we do not find that he