SECT. XXVT.] CANCERS, gi (de Tumor. 1. c.). The treatment is derived from the 14th r Book of the ^Meth. Med.^ He recommends melanogoguest remove the material cause of the disease. In external appHca tions he places httle confidence/but prefers those prepared from metalhc substances which have been burnt and washed The only chance of a radical cure consists, he says, in making a complete excision of the pai-tj but in doing this he forbids us to secure the arteries with bgatures, as they will occasion a recurrence of the disease. The part, he says, is loaded with a thick, black, or recrementitious blood. When the cancer is ulcerated, he disapproves of cutting and bm-ning. - Celsus describes carcinoma as an immovable and unequal tumoui', attended .vith sweUing of the veins, which are pale or hvid. His account of the treatment is so important that it deserves to be given in his own words : « Quidam usi sunt me- dicamentis adurentibus; quidam ferro adusserunt; quidam scalpeUoexciderimt: neque uUa unquam medicina profuit; sed adusta, protmus concitata sunt, et increverunt donee occiderent- excisa, etiam post inductam cicatricem, tameh reverterunt, et causam mortis attulerunt: cum interim pleriqne nuUam vim adhabendo, qua toUere id malum tentent, sed imponendo tantum lenia medicamenta qu^ quasi blandiantur, quo minus ad ulti- mam senectutem perveniant, non prohibeantur." In another place, however, he recommends compositions containing arsenic copperas, canthaiides, gaUs, &c. (v, 22.) He makes a distinction between the cacoethes, or malignant tnmour, and the true carcino- ma, but says that the difference between them is to be recognized only tempore etexperimento.- He marks the gradations of ma- lignant disease with singular precision : first, there is cacoethes : then carcmoma without ulceration; and last, there is the fun- gated ulcer. (The reading in the edition of MiUigan is a great improvement.) In doubtful cases he directs us, first to apply caustics or heating medicines, and, if the disease is alleviated, to proceed to the scalpel or burning, according to circumstances but If It IS exacerbated, we are to conclude that it is of a carci- nomatous nature, and must abstain from all acrid and vehement applications. Scribonius Largus recommends for all malignant ulcers, even Bucli as are cancerous, an application consisting of arsenic, p. vj ; ot squama eeris, p. iij; of elaterium, p. j; of burnt paper, p. iij.