ERYSIPELAS. 70 [book IV. Comm. the erysipelas properly so called^ the ignis Persicus, and the '—"—' erysipelas inflativa. The first variety, he says, is attended solely with redness of the cuticle. It is to be treated by bleed- ing, purging, and local applications of a cooling and humid nature. In the ignis Persicus, the heat and redness are strong, and black bhsters rise on the part. It is to be treated by bleeding at the commencement, and scarifications. The erj^si- pelas inflativa arises with a sudden swelling, and bhsters, hke those produced by fire. It is to be treated by bleeding and cooUng appHcations, containing ceruse, lithai'ge, &c. The ignis Persicus would appear to have been some variety of anthi-ax, or the mahgnant pustule. None of the ancient authorities express themselves so deci- dedly favorable to bleeding as Rhases. Like the others, he attributes it to heated bile. He, and most of the authors quoted by him in his ' Continens,' approve of cooling applica- tions, but he cautions against carrying this practice too far. He remarks that vesicles like those from burning often arise on the part. Pabricius ab Aquapendente is a strong advocate for the ancient theory, of which he gives a fuU explanation. The sys- tem, he says, being loaded with vitiated bile, the more important organs cast it off: it is, therefore, sent outwardly, and is de- tained by the cuticle when its pores are obstructed. He at- tempts to reconcile the contrary opinions of the ancients with regai'd to venesection. He himself approves decidedly of bleed- ing when the disease is seated in the head or neck. None of the ancient authorities seem to have entertained the same apprehensions as most of the moderns do against liquid applications in cases of erysipelas. When this prejudice became general we do not exactly know, Heister mentions that, in his days, some surgeons disapproved of Hquid appHcations, but, as he thought, without any good reason. He himself re- commends camphorated spirit of wine. The earher modern surgeons, as, for example, Brunus and Theodoricus, decidedly recommend cold applications at the commencement. "NVlien the disease is not thereby resolved, they direct us to have recoiu-se to leeches and scarifications. They approve much of chola- gogue purgatives, but do not recommend bleeding unless in- flammatory symptoms run high.