[book VI. 372 ENTEROCELE. Comm. no good reason, therefore, for the animadversions which Heister ' " ' makes upon his account of it. (See Surgery.) This operation is briefly noticed in the ' Isagoge' of Galen, and ' Meth. Med.' (xiv.) Albucasis considers it a dangerous operation, but says he will describe it as it was performed by the ancients. He ac- cordingly gives our author's account of it, directing us to dis- sect the congeries of vessels from the surrounding parts, to pass a needle, armed with a double thread, under them, and to tie them above and below; then to make a longitudinal in- cision in them, and to evacuate the feculent fluids which they contain. The wound is afterwards to be dressed with incar- nants. If all the vessels are involved in the disease, he directs us to remove the testicle altogether. (Chirurg. ii, 64.) He says he never saw the operation performed for pneumatocele; but that the ancients operated for it in the same manner as for cii'socele. (66.) Avicenna and Ehases treat of the pneumatocele, and recom- mend carminative appHcations to it; but they do not describe the surgical operation. Haly Abbas borrows the description of Paulus. (Pract. ix, 49.) SECT. LXV. ON ENTEROCELE, OR INTESTINAL HERNIA. Enterocele is a descent of the intestine into the scrotum, and is occasioned either from rupture of the peritoneum which takes place in the groin, or from stretching of the peiitoneum. Both these, I mean rupture and stretching, are occasioned by previous violence, such as a blow, a leap, or loud crying, but that from stretching in particular is connected with relaxation and other weaknesses of the body. The common symptoms of both are a marked swelling in the scrotum, which is increased by exercise, heat, retention of the breath, and other exertions ; and its symptoms are, that it goes up slowly upon pressure, and quickly falls down again, and that while the person aff'ected with it lies in a recumbent postiire it remains in its proper place until he stands again erect. The retention of faeces in the region of the scrotum often brings on dangerous symptoms;