EMPHYSEMA. SECT. XXVIII.] 85 flatus also is of a tliiclc nature. Wherefore, the indicatiou of cure is to rarefy the body, and attenuate the thick air; which is to be accomplished by means of attenuant and heating remedies. When the complaint is seated in the stomach and intestines, this is to be brought about by a fine oil, having rue, cumin, or parsley seed boiled in it. And sometimes a large cupping instrument without scarificators, appHed two or three times to the navel, will discuss it. When the muscles from contusion are inflated, so as to sound like an emphysema, the parts will not bear very heating and acrid applications. Where- fore, at the commencement, we must use paregorics liberally, and, when the disease is on the decline, discutients. Thus we may use sodden must with a small quantity of oil, applying them warm upon unwashed wool, or mixing the cerate of un- washed wool. And we must take care that the heat be pre- served, for it is not expedient that the part be cooled. When the patient has been soothed, we are to mix vinegar and nitre or aphronitrum, and afterwards some lye; and lastly, we may use discutient plasters, for the removal of the complaint such as the following : having boiled the sordes of the oil used in baths, strain it first, so that it may become pure, and again throw it into the pot, and having triturated slaked lime like flour, sprinkle until it become of the consistence of clay, and use. A still more eff'ectual application is the compound medi- cine from sycomores. Commentary. See Galen (Meth. Med. xiv); (Therap. ad Comm. Glauc. ii); Aetius (xv, 2); Oribasius (Synop. vii); Actuarius (Meth. Med. ii, 12); Nonnus (252); Scribonius Largus (ยง 119); Avicenna (iv, 3, 2, 20); Serapion (v, 23); Alsaharavius (Pract. xxix, ยง 1, 14); Rhases (Divis. 127, Cont. XX vii.) Our author has copied closely from Galen. The great in- dications of cure, as laid down by him and acknowledged by all subsequent authorities, are to rarefy the containing parts and attenuate the spirit. By spirit, as we stated in another place, the ancients meant a thick air or gas. The indications which we have mentioned are best fulfilled by friction with oils, in which calefacient medicines, such as cumin, parsley, anise, and the like, have been boiled. When, however, any inflam- mation is suspected, he properly forbids us to use acrid or