[book VI. LARYNGOTOMY. 302 tlie windpipe as the trachea is unaffected, it will be proper to have recourse to pharyngotomy, in order to avoid the risk of suf- focation. When, therefore, we engage in the operation we slit open a part of the arteria aspera (for it is dangerous to divide the whole) below the top of the windpipe, about the third or fourth ring. For this is a convenient situation, as being free of flesh, and because the vessels are placed at a distance from the part which is divided. Wherefore, bending the patient's head backwards, so as to bring the windpipe better into view, we are to make a transverse incision between two of the rings, so as that it may not be the cartilage which is divided, but the membrane connecting the cartilages. If one be more timid in operating, one may first stretch the skin with a hook and divide it, and then, removing the vessels aside, if they come in the way, make the incision.^' These are the words of Antyllus. We judge that the windpipe has been opened from the air rushing thi'ough it with a whizzing noise, and from the voice being lost. After the urgency of the suffocation has passed over, we pare the lips of the incision so as to make them raw surfaces again, and then have recom'se to sutures, but sew the skin only, without the cartilage. Then we use the apphcations proper for bloody or fresh wounds, but if it does not unite we must treat it with incarnants. We must follow the same plan of treatment if we should meet with the case of a person who had cut his own throat from a wish to commit suicide. Commentary. Aretseus makes mention of this operation in such terms as proves that it must have been practised oc- casionally in his time. He, however, does not approve of it, at least in cases of angina. (De Curat. Morb. Acut. i, 7.) CebHus AureHanus says that Asclepiades performed the operation in cases of cynanche; but he himself disapproves of it. (De Morb. Acut. i, 7.) We may mention further in this place that Avicenna, Avenzoar, Haly Abbas, Mesne, and Ehases express themselves rather favorably of the operation in urgent cases of cynanche. From the circumstance mentioned by Pollux of cynanche, that it mostly attacks children, we are incHued to think that the ancients meant the croup by it. None of the Greek authorities, except our author, have left a description of the operation. Psellus, however, mentions it