472 FRACTURES, [book vi. Comm. detineant." Galen, in his Commentary on Hippocrates (1. c.) ' describes these machines as being round externally and hollow within, so as to inclose the limb all around :—vspiXaufSavei to ctke'Xoc oXoi' fV KVK^(p. From these words one might think that the canal of which he speaks was a complete cylinder or cone. But from our author's direction to lay the limb upon the canal, it would appear that the machine he speaks of was open above, and as such it is represented and described by Scultet (Arsenal de Chirurg. xxii, 6.) His words are: " II faut que le canal embrasse plus de la moitie du membrethis, therefore, is a sort of trough. Sprengel calls it a box {botte, Fr. edit.) Littre translates it by gouttiere, I. c. For an accoimt of these and other machines anciently used in fractures of the lower extremities, see Van Swieten (Comment. 354), and Heister (Surgery, ix, 9.) Brunus and Theodoricus make men- tion of these canals, but do not much approve of them. Galen informs us that the canals were made of different kinds of wood. He speaks of a surgeon in his time who made them from the wood of the phillyrea. He makes mention of a method of supplying their place by means of a bolster laid below the limb and tied round it with fillets. (Nicetse Collect, and Comment. 1. c.) Avicenna and Albucasis take notice of these machines, but neither of them with approbation. They also speak of securing the limb in the way described by oui* author. The canals wotdd appear to be the machines wliich Rhases mentions by the name of barangi. (Cont. xxix.) SECT. CVII. ON FRACTURES COMFLICATED WITH A WOUND. When a fracture is attended with a wound, if there be a hemorrhage it is to be first stopped; and if there be inflamma- tion, we must use the applications suitable to it; and if there be contusion of the flesh, we must scarify the flesh to remove all apprehension of gangrene; or if gangrene or any other spreading mortification has come on, we must meet it with suitable remedies. The treatment of each of these cases you have had delivered in the Fourth Book. When none of these symptoms is present, nor much of the bone exposed, wc may