406 EXCISION OF VARICES. [book VI. properly with a pipe of lead, or some wedge-shaped tent in- troduced into the anus until the cure be completed, lest con- traction should again take place. The wedge-shaped tent is to be anointed with some healing ointment. Comm. COMMENTARY. Soranus describes this operation in very distinct terms, (p. 164.) Albucasis evidently copies our author's account, recommend- ing us to break or divide the membrane, and introduce a canula of lead into the opening to prevent adhesion. (Chirurg. ii, 79.) Haly Abbas, in Hke manner, directs us to make an opening and introduce a leaden tube or a piece of sponge. (Pract. ix, 63.) SECT. LXXXII. ON THE EXCISION OF VARICES. The varix is a dilatation of a vein occurring sometimes in the temples, sometimes in the hypogastric region below the navel, sometimes in the testicles, but more especially in the legs. For the most part it derives its origin from a melanchohc humour. The operation for those of the testicle we have already described when treating of cirsocele, and those in the leg may be operated upon in a similar manner, making the attempt upon those in the inner parts of the thighs, where they generally aiise; for below this, as they are divided into many ramifications, they are more difficult to succeed with. Wherefore, having washed the man, and applied a ligature round the upper part of the thigh, we are to direct him to walk about, and when the vein becomes distended we are to mark its situation with writing ink or col- lyrium, to the extent of three fingers' breadth or a little more, and having placed the man in a reclining posture with liis leg extended, we apply another ligature above the knee; and where the vein is distended we make an incision upon the mark with a scalpel, but not to a greater depth than the thickness of the skin, lest we divide the vein; and having separated the lips of the wound with hooks, and dissected away the membranes with crooked specilla, like those used in the operation for hydi-ocele, and laid bare the vein, and freed it all around, we loose the ligatures from the thigh, and having raised the vessel with a blind hook, and introduced under it a needle having a double