FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. [book vr. 284 SECT. XXII.—'ON jEGILOPS, OR FISTULA LACHKYMALIS. The segilops is an apostematous swelling between tlie great canthus and the nose ; and it is an affection difficult to cure, owing to the thinness of the bodies, and the fear of injuring the eye by sympathy. If, therefore, the abscess burst at the surface, we remove the whole protruberance as far as the bone ; and if the fistulous sore incHne towards the cheek, we must lay it all open, and if the bone be sound, we must scrape it; but if diseased, we must burn it with cauteries, applying to the eye a sponge soaked in cold water. Some, after the ex- cision of the flesh, use a perforator, and make a passage for the fluid or matter to the nose; but we are contented with burning alone, using the cauteries for ^gilops, and burning down until a lamina of bone drop off; and after the burning we have re- course to lentils and honey, or to the application consisting of pomegranate-rind with honey, and other such desiccative remedies. If the jegilops incUne to the canthus, and do not tend at all towards the surface, then, with a lancet for the operation on ptrygium, or one for bleeding, we may dissect out the body between the canthiis as far as the abscess, and remove the deep-seated flesh, and have recourse to moderately desiccative apphcations. Glass reduced to a fine powder is wonderfully desiccative, and aloes with manna, in like manner. The rest of the treatment of fistula lachrymahs we have de- livered in the Third Book. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cclsus remarks that the segilops is some- """^ times of a carcinomatous nature, in which case he recommends us not to interfere with it. He refers here, no doubt, to lupus, which is of not uncommon occurrence near the inner angle of the eye. In recent cases which ai-e not of this kind, he directs us to proceed in the following manner : the whole cavity of the abscess, as in fistulse, is to be laid open down to the bone, which is to be burned with a red-hot iron, more especially if the bone be carious. Others, he says, instead of the cautery, use caustics, such as atramentum sutorium, chalcitis, or verdigns; but these things, he adds, are more slow in their operatiou, aud less effectual, (vii, 7.) When the bone is diseased the celebrated Archigencs recom-