FISTULJil. 398 [HOOK VT. Comm. Hps of the wound secured by clasps and agglutinative applica- ' ' ' tions. When the fistula terminates with a rib he directs us to saw out a piece of it lest it affect the adjoining parts. Fistu- lous sores about the abdomen he pronounces to be highly dan- gerous. He recommends us, however, to attempt a cure by making an incision, and uniting the edges of the wound by sutures. [\\\, 4.) Aetius lays down nearly the same rules for the treatment of fistulse as our author. When the sinus runs transversely along the skin, he directs us to lay it open. When it penetrates downwards he advises us to cut off the callus; and when the ulcer terminates with a bone to remove the diseased lamina of it. (xiv, 55.) Albucasis delivers the surgical treatment of fistulae at great length. He is very particular in inculcating the necessity of making free incisions, and of removing any pieces of diseased bone which may happen to be found at the bottom of the sore. He relates a case of fistulous ulcer in the thigh, to cure which he removed large pieces of l)one, sawing it down as far as the marrow. Some of his saM^s are very ingeniously constructed, and one of them is not unlike the saw introduced into the prac- tice of surgery by the late Mr. Hey, of Leeds. He enumerates nine causes which prevent sores from healing; and as they ap- pear to be of some practical utility we shall briefly mention what they are : 1, a deficiency of blood in the body ; 2, ca- chexy, or bad condition thereof; 3, fungous flesh, which pre- vents the union of the edges of the sore ; 4, much sordes in the ulcer; 5, putridity, or any other bad quality of the fluids ; 6, improper applications; 7 and 8, the pestilential state of the atmosphere and the insalubrity of the place where the patient resides ; 9, a diseased bone. When none of these causes are present, the restorative principle of nature will of itself effect the cure of any solution of continuity. (Chirurg. ii, 88.) Bhases gives extracts from Antyllus, and many other authors, on this subject, but as their principles of treatment are much the same as those delivered by Paulus, we need not occupy much room with an abstract of them. Antyllus forbids us to use the knife when the fistula is situated in the groin or fun- dament. When it is not judged expedient to have recourse to an operation, one of his Arabian authorities, Aaron, recom-