256 [book VI. IIYPOSPATHISMUS. Comm. Rliases mentions that the celebrated Archigenes recom- """"^—' mended the temporal veins to be burnt for epile^jsy. (Contin. i.) The veterinary surgeons burnt the temporal veins in diseases of cattle. See Vegetius (Mulomed. ii, 16.) We are inclined to think that it was the temporal veins and not the arteries which were cut out and burnt by the Greek surgeons in this operation. It will be seen, however, that the Arabians direct us to cut out a portion of the artery; at least this is suflBciently clear in the description of Albucasis, for he states decidedly that the vessel to be secured will be recognized by its pulsation, and he further recommends us to apply beforehand a Hgature about the head, and not about the neck as directed by our author, whereby it is obvious that the arteries and not the veins would become distended; these observations apply also to Jesu Haly's description. As Celsus, like our author, directs the ligature to be applied round the neck (cervix ante modice deliganda est), we may suppose that his operation re- lated to the veins. From his using the word vense indeed no inference can be drawn, as he applies it indiscriminately to arteries and veins. We are at a loss what to determine re- specting the description given by Haly Abbas, for although the vessel that is secured be caUed arteria, the Hgature or strip of cloth is directed to be appUed round the coUum. Where the mis- take lies in this case we cannot venture to conjecture, and leave it to be found out by some person who has access to the MS. of the original. For our part we may exclaim with a celebrated German scholar,—" FeUces ssepe pr^dicavimus Bochartum, Plempium, Celsium, Hydium, Casirium, quibus usus codicum Arabicorum concessus erat." (Sprengel, Rei Herbaria Historia, i, 239.) Fabricius ab Aquapendente describes the operation as relatmg to the veins (CEuv. Chir. ii, 3.) Tagliacozzi, however, seems to refer it to the arteries. It thus appears that there is a good deal of uncertainty regarding this ancient operation. SECT. VI.— ON HYPOSPATHISMTJS. This surgical operation derived its name from the kind of instrument used in it. We have recom-se to it when a copious