I I 118 CICATRICES. [book iv. Comm. ment. (Contin. xxviii.) He mentions tliat in case of nialig- '—'—' nant nicer on the leg connected witli varix, Galen opened the enlarged vein. The cacoethes of Celsus was evidently the disease called noli me tangere hy Theodoricus; a very absurd appellation, which however has been retained to the present day. Celsus has pointed out its resemblance to carcinoma, and recommended the only mode of treatment which ever does any good in these cases, namely, the application of septics, such as arsenic, quick- lime, &c., or the actual cautery. As our limits will not permit us to enlarge further on this subject at present, we must be con- tent with referring to No. 108 of the ' Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal,' where we have given a full exposition of the ancient principles of treatment. (See also the Commentary on s. xxvi of this Book.) SECT. XLVII. FOR BLACK CICATRICES. Let the root of the white and black bryony be boiled in oU un- til they are reduced to the state of juice, and the oil appHed will take away black scars; and so in like manner calamint boiled in wine, and litharge washed with white rose-oil. But the scars from lichen, and all other kinds are made like the other skia by anointing them with the fat of asses; or the seed of rocket triturated with the gall of a goat, of an ox, and of a sheep may be rubbed in with litharge ; or a lamb's foot burnt may be tri- turated with austere wine for the same purpose ; or, ammoniac perfume may be rubbed in with swines' gall. These are com- pound appbcations : Of litharge, of mint, of frankincense, equal parts with honey.—Another : of natron, of ammoniac perfume, of sulphur vivum, of myrrh, equal parts; having triturated with vinegar, white wine, or water, rub in but a very little, so as not to produce an ulcer.—Another : Of Cimohan earth, of pigeons' dung, of soap, of frankincense, equal parts with vinegar. A detergent ointment for black scars : Of Cimohan earth, dr. xuj; of aphronitrum, di-. v; of white heUebore, dr. v; of the greasy dregs of nut-ben, dr. iv j scrub with it while in the bath.