I ICG MAD DOGS. L^ook v. Comm. giving undiluted wine. As a preventive of the disease he directs ^ the wound to be cauterized, (v, 27.) Pliny in lilce manner reckons the disease dangerous, and mentions heUebore as a remedy for it. (H.N. viii, 63 ; xxix, 32.) But without doubt the best account of hydrophobia con- tained in any ancient author is that given by Cselius AureUanus. We shall now give a short abstract of it. He says the disease may be produced not only by the bite, but likewise by the breath of a rabid dog. This fact is mentioned by other au- thorities, such as Aret^us (Morb. Acut. vii), and Vegetms (Mulo Med. iii, 84); and it is confirmed by modern wiiters, as Gokel, Lister, Rhazouz, and others. He also relates the case of a sempstress who fell into the disease from having sewed a robe which had been torn by a mad dog. Similar cases are related by Hildanus and Heister. He hkewise states, what is confirmed by the Arabian authorities, and also by modern experience, that the disease may be brought on by the bite ot wolves, bears, leopards, horses, and asses. He mentions the case of a person in whom it was occasioned by a wound inflicted with the spurs of a cock while fighting. Sometimes, too, he adds, it arises in the human subject without any manifest cause, which also is confirmed by modern experience. We once saw the horror of water in a case of Phrenitis He mentions a siii- gtilar case of hydrophobia in a child which was affected with a horror of its mother's breast. His description of the symp- toms, if compared with modern descriptions for example tha ™n by Dr Goden in Hufeland's ' JournaV Jan. 1B16), will be found in every respect complete and accurate. Thus C^hus savs that the pulse is densus, parvus, inordmatus, and Godeu found it intermittent and ii-regular. C^elius says there is a frequent desire of making water, which Goden ^und to be a constant attendant of the disease. Ca^lius thought that th stomach is more deranged than any other part, and Goden is of opinion that the splanchnic nerves are pai-ticul«i'ly aflected. In short, C^lius maintained that it is an incendium nervom.^ and it appears from him that some of the ancient authorities beUeved S an inflammatory affection, and treated it by blecd- Lg He treats it upon much the same principles as Tetanu. that is to say, his great object seems to have been to remove illi