268 ECTROPION. [book vi. Comm. surgical operation in the following terms :—when the fleshy " • ' excrescences are very large they are to be dissected out with a scalpel, and the part touched with burnt copper or the like. When the aversion is greater, he directs us to perform an operation upon the inner part of the eyelid, making two in- cisions, which unite below like the Greek letter A, and after- wards dissecting out this lambdoid or triangular piece, and along with it the flesh below, which, he remarks, is not car- tilaginous like the upper eyehd, but taking care to preserve the skin untouched. The edges of the incisions are then to be united by one suture at the eyelids. When the ectropion is occasioned by an external cicatrix, we are to operate upon the inner surface of the eyelid in the manner just now described, only avoiding to make deep incisions, and uniting the edges of the incisions as before directed. Then stretching the cicatrix with a hook, and pushing a needle armed with a double thread, under the thickened flesh from the smaller canthus to the larger, we are to cut down upon the needle and divide the thickened flesh. A pledget of lint is then to be put into the external incision, and a compress, moistened with cold water, applied with a bandage. He directs us to avoid warm fomentations until the ligatures drop out. When ectropion arises from the excrescence called encan- this, he recommends us to dissect it out. When the disease is occasioned by paralysis, or arises from too large a portion of the eyelid having been cut out in the operation for entropion, he pronounces it to be incurable. It is also said to be in- curable when occasioned by the sloughing of carbuncles. Celsus says that ectropion arises either from an operation for inversion improperly performed or from old age. In the i former case he directs us to make an incision like that for '| lagophthalmos, only with this difference, that the horns of it are to be turned to the jaws (maxillas) and not to the eye. When it arises from old age he recommends us to burn the ex- crescence with a slender piece of iron, and then to anoint it with honey. Albucasis describes the operation in nearly the same terms as Aetius. Thus, he directs us to pass a needle armed with a double thread, below the fleshy excrescence from the left canthus to the right, and stretching it by means of the threads