SECT, cxviii.] HIP-JOINT. 499 accomplished by rotating it, by bending the limb, and by ex- tension. For if the accident be recent and the patient young, we may sometimes succeed in reducing the limb by grasping and rotating the thigh this way and that. When the disloca- tion is inwards we may sometimes accomplish our purpose by bending the limb at the groin inwards frequently and strongly. If the dislocation does not yield to these means we must have recourse to extension, first Avith the hands, certain assistants grasping the thigh and leg and pulling the limb downwards, while others grasp the body at the armpits and pull upwards. Or, if a stronger extension be required, the leg may be bound with twisted cords or thongs, above the ankle, and a little liigher than the knee, lest it suffer injury; but it is not neces- sary to secure the breast in this manner, for, as has been said, the hands may be put under the armpits for this purpose. And the middle of a soft and strong thong is to be applied to the perineum, and brought up to the shoulders anteriorly by the ^oins and clavicles, and posteriorly along the back, and the two ends are to be given to an assistant to hold. Then, all pulling together so as to raise the patient's body, extension is to be thus made. This mode of extension is applicable gene- rally in all the four varieties of dislocation. But the manner of replacement varies according to the nature of the dislocation. If the bone has been dislocated inwards, let the patient be stretched by having the middle of a thong applied to the perineum be- tween the head of the bone and the perineum, and let the thong be brought upwards by the adjoining groin and the cla- vicle, and let a young man with both his arms grasp the thigh V. hich is affected in its thickest part, and pull strongly outwards. This mode of reduction is easier than any of the others. When the limb does not thus yield we must have recourse to other ■ontrivances more complicated but more efficacious than these, i^et the man be stretched upon a large board, or bench, like -h-dt upon which we stretch those who have dislocation of the I'ine, and along nearly its whole length let certain gutters be 'cooped out, in breadth and depth not more than three fingers, md not more than four fingers distant from one another, so hat the extremity of the lever being inserted into them may "ipel the limb wherever it is required. In the middle of the 'oard, or bench, let another piece of wood be fastened about a