2 ELEPHANTIASIS. [book iv. tlie head, have prevented many -who were l^eginning to be affected from being overpowered by this disease. Wherefore, at the commencement of the disorder, we must have recom-se to venesection repeatedly, more especiaUy if m spring when the complaint is most apt to occur, and has its exacerbations. After an interval of a few days, say nine or ten, we may purge them with the pottage of colocynth, not once only but fre- quently, proportioning the dose of the medicine to its sti-ength. Purging with hiera also suits well with them. After the inter- val of about ten days again, we must give them the ^dnegai' of divided milk, not in less quantity than thi-ee heminse, nor m greater than five, and on the following days they are to be sup- ported with milk that is not divided into parts, or new-drawn milk; by which means, if the affection yield, the same food may he continued; but if it remains in the same state, after eating acrid things, they must be made to vomit with radishes and frumentaceous articles of food. After these things, purging with white hellebore is proper, twice if possible when in spring, but once only if in autumn. Those, however, who ai-e tho- roughly overpowered by the complaint, must be neither bled nor put on a course of hellebore. Por neither can a transla- tion of the disease from the superficies to the inner pai-ts, nor a diminution of the offending matter, be any longer accom- plished by these means; but the matter is to be determined to the stomach and bowels, and alteratives (metasyncritica), used to dry and constrict the skin. Dry-cupping is also to be applied over the mouth of the stomach and to the hypochondria, and dropaces used to the same places; but after a short inten^al, the same process is to be repeated, beginning by purging with hiera, and omitting the venesection, which would prove rather deleterious than beneficial. This process is to be repeated three or four times in a year, more especiaUy in the seasons of spring and autumn. The draughts before meals, most suitable for them, are a cyathus of vinegar, with a cyathus of cedria, and two cyathi of the juice of unripe cabbage—they are given mixed together, morning and evening; or, the dried leaves of the herb ironwort, to the amoimt of a di-achm in one cyathus of wine; or, a drachm of hartshorn and a cyathus of the vinegar of squills, is given after the morning walk every day; and other things are to be administered at the same season, such