SECT. III.] MAD DOGS. 163 Dogs for the most part become mad during violent heat, but also, as Lycus says, sometimes in extreme cold. When mad they shun drink and food, for they are thirsty but do not drink, and for the most part they pant, hang their ears, and emit much frothy saliva. GeneraUy they utter no sounds, and ai-e as it were delirious, so that they do not recognize persons with whom they are familiar. Wherefore they attack equaUy without bai'king aU animals, whether wild beasts or men, and bite them. Their bite at first occasions nothing disagreeable except the pain of the wound; but afterwards it brings on the affection called hydrophobia, which makes its attack with con- vulsions, redness of the whole body, but especially of the coun- tenance, sweatmg, and anxiety; and those affected shun water when they see it, and some every fluid that is presented to them. Some bark like dogs and bite those who approach them and so domg they occasion the same affection. The cause of the other symptoms is obvious, being occasioned by the poison affecting aU the parts, but as to the dread of water some have said that It IS occasioned by inordinate dryness, as if the whole ! fluids of the body had undergone a change. But Ruffus has ) pronounced it to be a species of melancholy which affects them ithe poison putting on the nature of that humour in like man- mer as we know other melancholic persons dreading some one <tlung and some another; which reason accords also with those ^who say that they think they see the image of the dog that bit them m the water. Of persons falling into this affection we Iknow none who has been saved, except that we have learned tthe histones of one or two cases, and these were of persons who ^ad been bitten, not by a mad dog, but by some person who ttiad been bitten and imparted the disease to them. But before the affection has made its attack many, even of those who have toeen bitten by a dog, have been saved. Wherefore we must begin Jhe treatment from thence. And since often from the attack of rfxydrophobia having not yet come on (for most commonly it comes .on about the fortieth day, and in some cases after six months, nay, instances are related of its coming on after seven years,) some iiipposmg that the dog who inflicted the bite was not mad, and making haste to heal up the wound have thereby given rise to Ihe complaint. By the foUowing experiment you may ascer- »ain whether the bite was inflicted by a mad dog or not: Pound