219 SECT. XLIV.] MANDRAKE. CoMJiENTARY. Our author, as usual, follows Dioscorides, Matthiolus, by the way, in his commentary, questions the pro- priety of applying rose-oil and vinegar to the head, as these things are of a cold nature, whereas stimulants and calefacients are indicated. Perhaps these things, when poured from a height upon the head, might prove restorative and stimulant. The other Greek authorities however, as, for example, Aetius and Actuaiius, approve of the practice. Alsaharavius recommends emetics, and also directs us to pour vinegar and rose-oU on the head, and to take vinegar in which hyssop and the like have been boiled. Rhases recommends vomiting by means of water, honey, and fossil salt; after which sweet wine is to be given, and vinegar : and rose-oQ poured upon the head; castor, pepper, and rue are 1 to be administered, along with sternutatories. He mentions, I however, that he knew an old medical man who cured a young I woman, who had fallen into a state of syncope, with flushing of 1 the face, after swallowing the apples of mandragora, by the I aflpQsion of snow-water on her head. Avicenna properly directs everything to be done to prevent sleep. Schulze is satisfied that it is the atropa mandragora of Lin- inaeus. There seems no doubt, however, that the mandragora (Of Theophrastus is the atropa belladonna; while the mandragora I mas of Dioscorides is the mandragora vernalis, Bertol.; and the IM. femina of the same, the mandragora autumnalis. Theophrastus, Dioscorides, Galen, Athensus, Aetius, Suidas, mesychms, Apuleius, Pollux, and Frontinus, have made men- ^tion of the hypnotic property of mandragora. It is singular ithat It should now have faUen into neglect. It appears to «have been used as a medicine in the days of Shakespeare. iJlago says : " Not poppy nor mandragora Nor all the drowsy syrups of the world, Shdl ever medicine thee to that sweet sleep Which thou owed'st yesterday." Othello. me will have occasion to treat of it in the Seventh Book.