[book vr. 346 DEFICIENCY OF PREPUCE. SECT. LIII. ON DEFICIENCY OF THE PREPUCE. ■When there is a small deficiency in the skin of the penis, some, in order to repair the deformity, have attempted a double surgical operation; sometimes cutting the skin all round above at the commencement of the penis, in order that by this solu- tion of continuity the skin may be drawn downwards untU the glans (as it is called) be covered; and sometimes with a scalpel dissecting its inner siu'face from the root of the glans, and then drawing it downwards, and surrounding the glans with a soft ligature; but a piece of cloth must be interposed at the inci- sion, in order to prevent an adhesion of the prepuce to the glans. Antyllus approves most of this method, of which he gives a full description, but we have been content with a brief outline, because it is rare that this surgical operation is required, as the complaint neither occasions any defect of the functional office, nor such deformity that one would choose to submit to the hazard of an operation on account of it. Commentary. Celsus describes the operation as follows : " Cutis circa glandem prehenditur et extenditur, donee illam ipsam condat; ibique dehgatur : deinde, juxta pubem, in orbem tergus inciditur, donee coles nudatur; magnaque cura cavetur, ne vel urinse iter, vel venae quae ibi sunt, incidantur. Eo facto, cutis ad vinculum inclinatur, nudatiu'que circa pubem velut circulus; eoque hnamenta dantui', ut caro increscat, et id im- pleat: satisque velamenti supra latitude plagse praestat. Sed, donee cicatrix sit, cinctum esse id debet: in medio tantum re- licto exiguo urinse itinere.^' (vii, 35.) Rhases directs us to put a proper piece of lead upon the glans, then to draw the prepuce over it, and secure it with a ligature, having previously dissected it from the parts below, if necessary. (Cont. xiv.) This is much the same as our author^s operation for phimosis. See section Iv. The reader will find the ancient operation described by Fabricius ab Aquapendente. (CEuv. Chirurg. ii, 61.)