PRURITUS. [BOOK IV. 28 venesection; but if it offend rather by its quality, we must evacuate it by corresponding medicines, and turn our attention to external applications. Wherefore we must use tbe bath at aU times before a meal; and sometimes, after eating a Mtle it may be used a second time, for tbe affection is of difficult bu- mectation. Tbey are to be rubbed with the decoction of fenu- greek, or of beet, or of barley-meal, or of wild or of garden mallows, or of ptisan; and along with these may be joined the flour of beans, or of lupines, or of myi'obalan (ben), or of the detergent ointment caUed peponaton. If it is protracted, we may use the bath in like manner, and foment with the decoc- tion of sage, of tamarisk, of the herb mercury, of marjoram of pennyroyal, of bay berries, of the root of the wild cucumber, of capers, of strained ley, of vinegar and brine; and then the parts are to be sprinkled with dried natron, or with the lees of vinegar, or with the composition containing of spuma nitri one sextarius, of rosemary, of sulphur vi^nm, of each, lb. 3, of cimoHan earth, Ib.ss; or this: of aphroniti'um, of sulphui- vivum, of burnt alcyonium, equal parts; to be used dry, or with some of the decoctions abeady mentioned; and, if you please, sprinkle some dried heUebore, without grease. But rub in with vinegar and oH, stavesacre pulverized, or sulphui-, or red arsenic, or all together; or mustard, with the refuse of expressed myrobalan, and vinegar and oil; or with snails burnt and tri- tm-ated with honey or the roots of dock, or the detergent omt- ments prepared from them, as described under the head of Elephantiasis; or with some of the applications for scabies. If the parts become ulcerated, use the plaster caUed paiygron, or that prepared from pompholyx; or melt oz. j of wax m a cyathus of oH of privet, and sprinkle upon it of sulphur vivum oz. j . Another appHcation for prurigo: Of large nuts m a rancid state, oz. j; of sulphur, oz. 3 ; triturate with the juice of parsley, and use in the bath with much friction. This alone has proved sufficient for the cure of many cases of scabies and priu-igo; and green parsley by itself, when pounded and rubbed m while the patient is in the bath, has been of great service: and m like manner, pellitory of the wall and maple rosm dissolved with rose oil, and rubbed m..—Another : Bruise three ounces of pure and very white rice, and, baring strained, triturate >ntli strong rinegar until it become of the tliickness of the sordes