CONSTRICTION OF TONGUE. 295 SECT. XXIX.] apply to them a mixture of the flowers of roses, galls, and Com myrrh, and to hold undiluted wine in the mouth. When the '—^ teeth are slackened by any accident, he directs us to fasten them to the surrounding ones with a golden thread, and then to hold some stringent decoction in the mouth. When in young persons a second tooth appears before the first has fallen out, he recommends us to scarify around the latter and pull it out, and to endeavour to force the other gradually into its proper place. Stumps of teeth are to be taken out with a stump-extractor, (vii, 12.) Scribonius Largus makes some ingenious observations on the extraction of teeth, but disapproves of the operation, except m extreme cases. (De Comp. Med. i, 10.) Galen, and the medical authorities subsequent to him, direct us to file down teeth when they are diseased and project, but disapprove in general of extraction. Albucasis is particularly full in treating of the operations on ^he teeth. Like our author, he recommends us to perform extraction by first making free scarifications, and then pulling lie tooth direct with a forceps, the patient's head being held between the knees of the operator. When the tooth is hollow le directs us to stuff" it beforehand with a tent of cloth. When piece of the alveolar process has been broken, he properly ecommends that it be taken out. He gives suitable directions or filing down the teeth, and for fastening them with gold lireads. He gives drawings of instruments for extracting oots. (Chir. ii, 30.) The other Arabians describe the operation, but less precisely lian Albucasis. Haly's directions are judicious. He recom- iiends the operator to use a forceps, and to stuff the tooth hen it is hollow. (Pract. ix, 31.) SECT. XXIX. ON CONSTRICTION OF TnE TONGUE, Oil TONGUE-TIED PERSONS. The affection called ancyloglossus is sometimes congenital, 10 membrane which fastens the tongue being originally harder id more constricted than ordinary; but sometimes is acquired om some hard cicatrix formed under it by ulceration. Those