433 SECT. XC] HEAD. remoAing bones will be applicable in the other fractures of the cranium. But regarding the amount of bones requiring ex- traction Galen informs us, writing thus plainly : " What parts )f a fractured bone are to be removed I will now explain to you in order. When it is greatly bruised it is to be taken out eutii-e, but if certain fissures extend from it farther, as some- times they appear to do, we must not pursue them to their termination, well knowing that no harm will result from them if everything else be properly done." After the operation, having dipped a simple linen rag of the size of the wound in oil of roses, we lay it over the membrane as a cover, and in like manner, having dipped a small ball of wool in oil of roses, we put it over the aforesaid rag, and then having moistened a doubled compress in wine and oil, or in the same oil of roses, we apply it to the whole wound, taking care that they be not too heavy for the meninx. We then have recourse to a broad bandage, which also must not be made tight, but so as merely to preserve the pledgets. And the regimen is to be what is called anti-inflam- matory and such as is apphcable for fevers, frequently bathing the membrane with oU of roses. After the third day loosing them and sponging the part we piu-sue the treatment applicable for recent wounds and the anti-inflammatory ; sprinkling upon the meninx some of the powders called cephalics until it incarnate, and sometimes scraping the bone, if it require it, on account of certain projecting spiculse, or for the sake of incarnation itself. And we may apply medicines of the ingredients recommended for wounds. On inflammation of the membrane of the bruin. Often after the operation the membrane is inflamed, so as not only to rise above the skull but likewise above the skin, and is attended with liardness, and obstructs the natural pulsatory motion of the l)rain, in which case convulsions and other severe symptoms, or death, for the most part supervene. It becomes inflamed either from the irritation of some sharp projecting piece of bone, or from the weight of the dressings, or from cold, or from eating too much, or from drinking wine, or some other cause not ap- parent. If then the cause be obvious it is to be speedily re- moved, or, if it is not, it will be proper to contend strenuously against it, either by having recourse to venesection, if nothing If- 28