216 [book v. JUICE OF THE POPPY. Comm. between heat and the vital actions is very a^jparent also in the ' ' ' inferior animals^ who are not provided with such an apparatus for preserving an equability of temperatuj-e. Thus the zoophyta, insecta, et vermes, with the loss of heat, lose also sensibility and muscular energy, which they recover again when their heat is restored. In this case it is evident that heat is the cause (or at least the co-cause) of the vital actions, and not the vital actions of heat. It has always appeared to me a striking fact, illustrative of the great influence of heat over the vital actions, that the strength of all animals is, bulk to bulk, proportionate to the degree of their animal heat. " This doctrine of the supreme authority of the heart, as being the focus of heat, thus maintained by Aristotle, was eagerly defended by the great Arabian commentator, Averrhoes, and by his countryman, Avenzoar, who keenly attacked Galen for having questioned its truth, and taught, as they represent, that the brain is the leading organ in the animal frame. After ha\ing, however, carefully ransacked every part of Galenas works, in which I could suppose it likely to meet with any allusion to this doctrine, I am led to beheve that these Arabians, in the heat of controversy, have misrepresented the real opinion of their master's rival. Galen appears decidedly to have mam- tained with Hippocrates—' that there is in the body no, one beginning, but that all parts are aUke, beginning and end: for a circle has no beginning.' Agreeably to this idea, Galen re- marks, that the brain cannot properly be said to derive its powers from the heart, since an animal will run, breathe, and cry after its heart has been taken out; nor can the heart be said pro- perly to derive its powers from the brain, since it will palpitate and contract, after aU communication with the brain is cut off, nay, after it has been removed from the body. In so far, then, the functions of the brain and the heart are independent of one another. But the brain is dependent upon the heart and its appendages for vital heat, without which it would be unable to continue its functions; and the heart, on the other liand, is dependent upon the brain for imparting nervous in- fluence to the respiratory organs, without which it could not preserve its vital heat unaltered. Hence the mutual con- nexion and sympathy of important organs—a doctrine much insisted upon by ancient authors, and which beai-s some resem-