^KCT. XXI.] 279 CATARACTS. Commentary. Galen recommends three methods of treat- Comm. ment for the cure of hypopyon; namely, by discutients, shak- —' iug, and incision. (Meth. Med. xiv.) Aetius, Albucasis, and Haly Abbas, like our author, ai-e advocates for shaking and incision. Neither of these methods IS now much in use, but both have had their advocates in modem times. SECT. XXI. ON CATARACTS. The cataract is a collection of inert fluids upon the cornea lit the pupil, obstmcting vision, or preventing distinct vision, ft arises most commonly from a congelation and weakness of I he visual spirit, and on that account the disease rather attacks >ld persons, and those who are debilitated by protracted ill- ;ess. It is occasioned also by violent vomiting, a blow, and aany other causes. Those kinds of cataract which are but •ommencing, as not being proper objects of surgery, have been reated of in the Third Book We shall now give the charac- rs of those which are fairly formed and have acquired con- istence. AU those, therefore, who have cataract see the light aore or less, and by this we distinguish cataract from amau- •sis and glaucoma j for persons affected with these complaints o not perceive the light at all. Wherefore, again, Galen well iistructs us as to the consistence and difference of cataracts and hich kinds ought to be operated upon. Having shut the eye fleeted with the cataract, and with the large finger pressing he eyelid to the eye, and moving it with pressure to this side ud that, then opening the eyelids and observing the cataract II the eye; if it has not yet acquired consistence, a certain ow takes place from the pressure of the finger, and at first it ppears broader, but straightway resumes its former figure and lagmtude. But in those which have acquii-ed consistence no liange takes place as to breadth or figure from the pressure. 5 lit since this appearance is common to those which are of loderate consistence, and those which are over-compacted, we istinguish these cases from one another by their colour. For lose which are of an iron, coerulean, or leaden colour, are of loderatc consistence, and fit for couching; but those which