120 ULCERS. [book IV. manner. If tlie sinus is moderately incarnated you may apply some of the agglutinating medicines, as if you were curing a case of recent bloody wound. Sucli are tliose called the barbarous, dicbromos, and gilvus; and more especially tbat prepared from tbe oil of palma Christi and tbe metals witbout wax whicb is called tbe dun plaster of Galen, is applicable. After tbe appU- cation of tbe medicine, a recent sponge out of wine and boney, or wine alone, is to be put on particularly in a soft manner, and tbe bandaging is to commence at tbe bottom of tbe sinus and end at its orifice. Tbe folds of tbe bandage sbould bind tbe bottom of tbe sinus firmly, yet so as not to occasion pain, but ougbt to be gradually relaxed towards its orifice; and tbe plaster wbicb is put on sbould be so cut as to leave an opening at tbe orifice for tbe escape of tbe matter, but anotber small plaster of tbe same materials sbould be appbed to it in a loose state, so as to favour tbe discbarge. Tbis is to be left on till tbe bandages are loosed, wbicb is to be done on tbe tbird day, wben tbey are to be taken off" and cbanged, but tbe appHca- tion along tbe sinus is to be left. You may judge wbetber tbe bottom of tbe sinus bas adbered, from observing if tbe matter be small and well concocted, or if tbere be no discbarge at all; and moreover if tbere be no sensible pain along tbe sinus nor swelling, but tbe wbole part is contracted, dry, and free from pain. But if you see a bttle well concocted pus at tbe orifice, you may still more confidently entertain good bopes. If on tbe second or tbird day a tbin icbor be discbarged ft-om tbe sinus, you need not despair tbat adbesion bas taken place, for often tbe strength of tbe medicine squeezes out from tbe parts below a tbin fluid, wbicb being discbarged tbe parts become dry and adhere. But if on tbe tbird or fourth day from the commencement the matter appear unconcocted as it runs from the opening, you may be sure tbat the sinus has not adhered, and you must persevere with the same appUcation. Wben owing to tbe moisture of tbe part it falls off, as is not unbkely, it wiU not be improper to make some change in the medicine itself. On sinuous ulcers with a thin covering of skin. When the abscess is too long opened, owing either to the unskilfulness of the surgeon, or the timidity of the patient, the skin which lies over it becomes tbin and ragged, and it cannot be removed,