60 GANGRENE. [book IV, be used. The eschars may be properly removed by bread tri- turated with parsley^ or basil, or by iris, panacea, or birthwort, or by the sweet-flag with honey, or by frankincense. And the medicine of Machajrion takes away the eschars in a proper manner, and the iris spread upon pledgets with honey; but in soft bodies the flour of tares, with honey, is sufficient. From the works of Oribasius, for gangrene. Of scraped verdigris, of vermihon, of stone alum, equal parts; triturate in water and anoint. The flour of darnel, with radish and salts, and sometimes with vinegar, will, when apphed as a cataplasm, be proper for the scarified parts; also dried grapes deprived of their stones with the bark, and with salts and oxymel; the inner parts of walnuts, and myrtle leaves boiled in wine and tritxirated with honey. Radish, with vinegar, breaks the eschars even to the bone. Comm. COMMENTARY. See the authors referred to ia the 17th Section. Paulus copies freely from Oribasius (Synops. vii, 27.) -Upon comparing Oribasius with our author we have ventured to give an interpretation of the last sentence not justified by the text as it now stands, and at variance with the translation of Cornarius. Oribasius does not say that the flour of darnel will scarify the parts (how could he ?) but that it wUl be a proper application after the parts are scarified. Galen (ad Glauc. and Comment, in Hippocr. App. vii. 50,) is the great ancient authority on mortification, and from him Oribasius, Aetius, Paulus, and all the subsequent writers on this subject have copied. He lays it down as the great rule of treatment, to evacuate the blood which is impacted in the part and prevents the diastole of the arteries. To accomphsh this end he directs free incisions to be made, after which the actual cautery is to be applied, at the line of separation between the sound and diseased parts. Celsus is a strong advocate for this practice, which has been revived lately and is much used in France. (See Encyclopedic Methodique, art. Gangrene, and Cross's Sketches of the Medical Schools in Paris.) He states, however, that when the disease goes on spreading, amputation of the mortified limb is the "auxilium unicum." At the commencement he approves of