334 [book VI. MALE BREASTS. Comm. work he expresses himself rather favorably of excision and " * ' burning. (Contin. xiii.) Haly Abbas approves of the operation when the cancer is seated in the mammse or extremities. He recommends us to allow the part to bleed until all the melancholic humour is evacuated, and says nothing of the cautery or ligatui-e. (Pract. ix, 12.) Albucasis says that he never saw a case of cancer cured unless the tumour was small and recently formed. He directs us, when the operation is attempted, to cut out the tumour by the roots, and if the hemorrhage from any vein be profuse to stop it by the cautery. (Chirurg. ii, 53.) Serapion expresses himself rather diflfidently of excision, (v, 24.) Soranus gives a full account of scirrhous breast distinct from the cancerous. He states that when the whole breast is scirrhous and adlieres to the chest, the excision of the sound parts from the diseased ought not to be attempted; but when only the extremity of the breast, or only the half of it is hardened, he approves of amputation without burning, there being no danger of bleeding in this case as in cancer. (66.) SECT. XLVI. ON MALE BREASTS KESEMBLING THE FEMALE. As at the season of puberty the breasts of females swell up, so in like manner those of the males also swell to a certain extent; but for the most part they subside again. In some cases, however, having acquired a beginning they go on in- creasing, owing to the formation of fat below. Wherefore, as this deformity has the reproach of effeminacy, it is proper to operate iipon it. Having, therefore, made a lunated incision below the breast, and dissected away the skin, we unite the parts by sutures. But if, as in women, the breast incline downward, owing perhaps to its magnitude, we make in it two lunated incisions, meeting together at the extremities, so that the smaller may be comprehended by the larger, and dissecting away the intermediate skin, and removing the fat, we use sutures in like manner. But if; through mistake, we should cut away too little, we must again remove what is redundant, and apply the remedies for fresh wounds.