SECT. XX.] HERPES. 63 caUed lierpes by the Greeks. The ignis sacer of Octavius Comm. Horatiairas likewise appears to be erysipelas. And Isidorus states decidedly that the ignis sacer was erysipelas : " Ery- sipelas est quam Latini saa-um ignem appellant, id est, ecce- crandum, per antiphrasin. Siquidem in superficie rubore flammeo cutes rubescunt. Tunc mutuo rubore quasi ab igne vicina invaduntm- loca ita est etiam febris excitatur.'' (See a learned dissertation on the ignus sacer in Bui-man's edition of Serenus Samonicus, 'Poet. Latini Minores.' ii, 335.) Having thus stated the doubts which prevaH respecting the ignis sacer of the ancients, we shall return to Celsus\s account of it, which / certainly, as already mentioned, seems to apply to herpes He ' describes two varieties of it. The first is reddish, or a mixture of redness and paleness, and in it the skin is covered with a great number of smaU pustules. The disease spreads, the part first affected either healing, or becomingulcerated fi-om the rupture of the pustules and discharging a humour intermediate between sa- nies and pus. The breast and sides are mentioned as being fre- quently the seat of this complaint, and hence Bateman concludes that It IS the herpes zoster. The second variety is described as consistmg of a superficial ulceration of the skin, broad somewhat Hvid, but unequal; the middle part healing as the extremities spread, and the part about to become affected be- commg swelled, hard, and of a colour compounded of black and red. It afl-ects principally old and cachectic persons, especially theu^ legs. We cannot understand what could have led Dr Bateman to think that this is the same as the herpes eircinatus 01 his arrangement. Bayer rather supposes it to be the dartre squameuse centrifuge Ahbert. His general treatment consists of abstmence, opening the beUy, food intermediate between the glutinous and saltish, and if there is no fever, exercise, austere wine aijd the like. The ulcers (vesicles?) are to be washed with hot water, or, if they spread, with hot wine; they are then to be opened with a needle, and dressed with applications for eating away putrid flesh. When the sore is cleaned, gentle apphcations are to be used. For the zona or herpes, Scribonius Largus recommends applications containing alum, galls, chalcitis, misy, quicklime, Pollux defines herpes to be inflammatory and pungent pus-