SECT. XXXII.] SCIRRHUS. gg with diminished sensibility is not incurable, and yet it is not easily cured, for it is occasioned by a viscid and thick humour which IS fixed in the hardened parts, so as to be difficult to get dischai-ged. Sometimes, then, the scirrhus is the original complamt, and goes on to increase; but for the most part it IS occasioned by the physicians applying too cooling and as- tnngent remedies to erysipelas and phlegmon. If one, therefore, apply strongly discutient medicines to mdurations of the body, one will indeed produce a visible diminution of the scirrhus in a short time, but will leave the remamder of the complaint in an incurable state; for the thin moisture being dissipated, what remains is rendered dry and hard as a stone. The discutient application, then, ought to be m a certain degree emolHent, without possessing manifestly heating and desiccant qualities. Such are all kinds of marrow more especially that of a stag or of a calf, and the grease of a hon, of a panther, or of bears, or of a buU, and among birds that of geese, of domestic fowls, or of pheasants : but that of bucks and he-goats is drier. And to these may be added ammoniac perfume, bdellium, more especially the Scythian' the humid and fatty storax, and the Egyptian mastich. To aU other parts of the body, when in a scirrhous state, these thmgs may be apphed singly, and in composition; but for tendons and ligaments, we are to dissolve in the strongest vinegar some stone that has been heated in the fire. If pos- sible, the one to be used should be pyrites, or if not it the lapis molaris or miUstone. In this, therefore, the aff-ected part IS to be moved, so that it may receive the vapour which arises Irom It; and afterwards, an emoUient medicine is to be ap- plied. A thin oil then, and not water, is to be poured on the part, by aU means once a day, and sometimes one may boH in the oU the root of marshmaUows, or of wM cucumber. The patients ought to abstain from the use of the bath, at least trom the frequent use of it. But when the scirrhus is mode- rately softened, the softest ammoniac is to be dissolved in very strong vinegar, and the part rubbed with it for several days in succession; after which, we must again have recourse to an emolhent appHcation, having the fattest galbanum and opo- ponax added to it. Such are that from bacon, that ascribed to Amythaon, and those which we are about to describe for scrofula.