LEAD. SECT. LXII.] 237 wounds the intestines, occasions retention of urine and swelling of the body, which becomes of a leaden hue, and assumes an unseemly appearance. In such cases it will be proper, after vomiting, to give the seed of the wild clary (horminum) to drink with wine, three oboli of myrrh, wormwood, parsley-seed, pepper, the flower of privet with wine, and the dried dung of wild pi- geons, with nard and wine. Commentary. The symptoms which Nicander mentions as Comm. being superinduced by litharge are borborygmi, pains resem- """^^—' bling those of ileus, retention of urine, and discoloration of the skin. His remedies are carminatives, warm stimulants, and diuretics, such as myrrh, clary, St. John's-wort, hyssop, pepper, hedge mustard taken in wine, the green shoots of privet, and the finit of pomegranate. Scribonius Largus re- commends emetics and calefacient medicines, such as pepper, myrrh, parsley. The Arabians, namely, Ehases, Avicenna, and Alsaharavius, concur in recommending emetics, drastic purga- tives, and calefacient medicines. The ancient litharge was prepared like the modern. It is a semi-vitrified peroxide of lead. SECT. LXIl. ON LEAD. When a person has drunk the shavings of lead or its soil, Ihe experiences the same symptoms as those from litharge, and is to be treated in the same manner. Commentary. We need scarcely say that litharge is now ascer- ttained to be a preparation of lead. (See the preceding section.) :Most of the ancient authorities state, like our author, that the > symptoms and treatment of poisoning by lead and litharge are ex- aactly the same. It appears singular that it should be asserted in «ome modern works on the materia medica that the ancients were ranacquainted with the deleterious properties of lead. Galen -even mentions that water conveyed in leaden pipes sometimes proves deleterious by occasioning dysentery. (Med. sec. loc. vii.) IA.etius makes the same observation, (xi, 45.) Palladius* the writer on agriculture, speaks of it in the following terms: