^ECT. XXV.] POLYPUS. 289 The ti-eatment recommended by Aetius is exactly the same Co as om- author's. Alexander and Oribasius also deKver similai- lirections. However, Aetius, Oribasius, Alexander, and our aithoi-, copy from Galen, who in his turn acknowledges his 'bhgations to Ai-chigenes and Appollonius. (De Comp. Med. ~ec. loc. iii.) Albucasis's directions are so judicious that we regret our units do not allow of our giving them fuUy. For the extrac- ion of a piece of stone he recommends us among other means o use a slender forceps, of which he gives a drawing. It re- embles the modern dissecting forceps. He also gives a draw- ng of a hook slightly bent, which he commends; and also of brazen tube to be used for sucking out bodies. When other leans do not succeed, he directs us to make an incision at lie under part of the ear, having previously let blood in order ) avert inflammation and convulsions. Animals are to be icked out with a tube narrow below and wider externally, or ley are to be extracted with a forceps or hook. When these leans do not succeed, an oil, to which some substance destruc- ve of these animals has been added, is to be injected with an istrmnent, of which he gives a drawing. The reader may likewise consult Mesue with advantage, erapion also recommends the same remedies as the Greeks. \ icenna supphes no new views. Haly recommends incision hen other means have failed. Ehases directs us to pour tepid oil into the ear, and to put • e patient into a warm bath in order to lubricate and produce laxation. His translator, however, remarks that if the sub- ance lodged in the ear be a bean or a pea there may be mger of the water occasioning a swelling of it. SECT. XXV. ON POLYPUS. The polypus is a preternatural tumour forming in the nose; caUed from its resemblance to a sea polypus, because it re- ables Its flesh, and because, as the animal with its fibrils ists those who would seize on it by catching at their hands, does this afi-ection, in like manner, block up the nostrils, asionmg inconvenience both in breathing and speaking.