[book v. 186 CENCHRINUS. Comm. annoyed the children of Israel in the wUderness. (Hier. ii, 421.) According to Sprengel, it is the coluber natrix. (Notse in Dioscor.) Gesner and Dr. MiUigan make it to have been the coluber lutrix vel chersea, Tj. It is now generally held not to be venomous. We have alluded in our commentary on the fourteenth section to the confusion of the hydrus with the dryinus. Schneider has a learned annotation on this subject in his ' Curse posteriores' to Nicander's Theriacs, (1. 432.) SECT. XVII. ON THE CENCHRINITS. COMM When a person is bitten by the cenchrinus, the bite is like that of the echidna, mortification supervenes, and the flesh melts away, having been previously swelled as in dropsy, and he becomes lethargic and comatose. Erasistratus says that the liver, bladder, and colon are affected; for upon dissection these parts were found corrupted. Wherefore they are remedied by a cataplasm composed of the fruit of lettuce with linseed, and by pounded savory, and by wild rue, and by wild thyme tri- turated with asphodel; and two drachms of the root of cen- taury should be immediately given in a draught with three cyathi of wine, or the root of bii'thwort in like manner, and so also cresses and gentian. Commentary. According to Nicander, the cenchrinus, called also the Hon, has a body of varied size, and marked with punc- tated squamae. Dioscorides and Actuarius give exactly the same account of this serpent as our author. Haly Abbas in like manner de- scribes it as occasioning mortification and putridity of the part. (Theor. viii, 31.) Isidorus says of it, "Cenchris serpens in flexuosis qui semper iter rectum efladt. De quo Lucanus : Et semper recto lapsurus limite cenchris." Sprengel conjectures that it is a variety of the coluber berus, or viper, which is highly probable. According to Belon, it is three palms long, of the thickness of the little finger ; of a cme- reous colour, with black spots. Aetius makes it to be the same as the acontias, which there can be no doubt was the same as