I 214 JUICE OF THE POPPY. [book v. Comm. The Symptoms mentioned by Dioscorides are lethargy, violent "—" ' pruritus, and the perspiration smelling of opium. His remedies are the same as those of our author, namely, emetics at first, then clysters, and afterwards wine and vinegar, with various stimtdant and strong-scented things; such as pepper, cinnamon, castor, marjoram, &c. The patient is to be roused as directed by Nicander; and baths and fomentations axe to be used to relieve the pruritus. Galen relates the case of a person reduced to the last stage of coldness, whom he saved by administering freely a strong, light-coloured, and fragrant wine. Yet, he remarks correctly, 1 a small quantity of weak wine operates unfavorably by pro- moting the distribution of the poison over the system. He, in particular, recommends vomiting at first with wine and oil, and afterwards strong clysters. Aetius mentions, among the symptoms, violent prm-itus and convulsions. None of the other Greek writers mention con- vulsions, but among the Arabians, Avicenna, Rhases, and Alsaharavius, have mentioned them. Modem experience has determined that they are an occasional, but not a frequent symptom produced by the immoderate administration of opium. Scribonius Largus directs us, after repeated vomiting, to apply embrocations of vinegar and roses to the head, to rub the feet, and to put sinapisms to them and the thighs. Simeon Seth strongly recommends vinegar. Haly Abbas and Alsaharavius, and, in short, aU the Arabians recommend nearly the same treatment; namely, emetics of oil and water, or oil and wine, hot clysters, acrid and strong- scented things, such as castor, assafoetida, savin, &c., and the warm bath, friction, sternutatories, and every means calcu- lated to arouse, and to prevent sleep. Serapion, Ehases, Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Alsaharavius, agree in stating that the smaUest dose of opium which will |J prove destructive to human life is two drachms. Modern au- thors are not agreed as to the smallest quantity which may prove fatal, but surely, as Dr. Christison remarks. Dr. Paris has fixed the minimum dose too low, when he aflirms that four grains may be sufficient to produce this efi'ect. On the other hand, we should think that a smaller dose than that mentioned by the Arabians might be sufficient to destroy Ufa.