>ECT. xxxrv.] ABSCESS. 303 ill such a manner as would lead us to infer that the operation Comm. had not been lost sight of in his time, i. e. " Laryngotomy is a 'crtain surgical operation." Avicenna and Albucasis merely copy our author's descrip- lon, and appear to have never seen the operation performed. To show, however, that the windpipe may be opened without occasioning death, Albucasis relates the case of a female who ;ut her trachea while attempting to commit suicide; in which •ase, by scAving up the wound, he effected a cure without diffi- Hilty. (Chirui-g. ii, 13.) Rhases mentions that, in cases of cynanche which threaten ustant death, a certain physician, Ancilisius (Antyllus ?) re- •ommends the surgeon to open the windpipe. His description of he operation is as foUows : The patient's head being kept back he skin is to be divided, and the sides of it separated by means f threads, so as to expose the windpipe, which is to be opened y making an incision in the membrane which connects two f the rings together. After the abcess bursts the wound is 3 be sewed up. (Cont. vii, 2.) Haly Abbas likewise describes the operation accurately, fe directs us to make an incision in the skin, and to separate le edges with hooks so as to expose the windpipe which is to e opened between two cartilages. (Pract. ix, 38.) The modern history of the operation is given in Van weiten's Comment. (814); Me'moires de TAcad. Royale (ii) • id Cooper's Surgical Dictionary. See a complete history of le operation by Sprengel. (Hist, de la Med. 18, 6.) He says .at Anthony Benivieni, a surgeon of Florence, is the first after ntyUus who is known for certain to have performed the aeration. SECT. XXXIV.—ON ABSCESS. That the abscess is a corniption and transmutation of the h or fleshy parts, and what are its modes of formation and a- many kinds of abcesses there are, we have sufficiently ex- med in the Fourth Book. Now we have only to treat of operation upon it. If it be completely changed to pus ich we ascertain from the pains, fever (if any was formerly