SKCT. XXVIII.] TREATMENT. 199 liead is pai-ticularly affected he directs us to evacuate the Comm. bowels with a clyster of linseed, marshmallows, and a decoc- tion of the root of the wild cucumber, after which sternu- tatories and odoriferous things are to be applied to the nose. Like our author, he strongly commends Lemnian earth with wine as an excellent and speedy emetic. This remedy is also mentioned by Avicenna. Galen assures us that he found it an excellent emetic in various cases of poisoning. (Simpl. ix.) It consists principally of siHca, alumina, and oxyde of iron. Avicenna directs us to give immediately as an emetic, oil of sesame or oHve oil, impregnated if possible with the virtues of dill, and afterwards to use demulcents, such as the decoction of hnseed, melted butter and milk. These emetics are to be foUowed by clysters, provided the mischief has spread down- wards. If the disorder continue, another emetic is to be given, and draughts of milk repeated. When, after the emetic' inflammation supervenes, he directs us to give snow-water, or oil of roses, and to promote vomiting with them. When the poison is ascertained to be of an inflammatory nature the parts affected ai-e to be cooled with camphor, rose-water, or that of coriander; or these things are to be congealed in snow and applied over the vital organs. If the poison is ascertained to be of a shai-p penetrating nature, medicines are to be given to blunt its acrimony, such as milk, almond oil, melted butter, . &c. Bloodletting, if indicated, is to be performed. When the poison is known to be of a stupefying nature, garlic is to be given, or the theriac and assafoetida in undiluted wine. When It IS particularly deleterious, the cure is to be effected by imeans of the mithridate, theriac, musk, and other aromatics. He inculcates the necessity of preventing sleep and of rousing by every possible means. The patient is to be covered with .aromatic cloths, the pit of his stomach is to be rubbed, his Iface IS to be fanned, his hair puUed, and in short, everything OS to be done to prevent him from sinking into a state of (Stupor. Haly Abbas recommends the same plan of treatment. When Ithe poison is discharged he recommends citrons, plums and tthe like, as restoratives. Rhases gives the following directions • ^rst, he says, produce vomiting with oil and water; then give food of a nauseating nature to continue this operation ; if the ibowels arc inflamed give snow-water and rose-oil, and after