30 PRURITUS. [BOOK iv. COMM. incense, natron and snlphnr. He also says that the cold bath, and ^ friction with the oil of roses, myrtles, &c., will do much good Isidorus uses the term prui-igo : " Prurigo vocatur perurendo et ardendo." MarceUus also uses this term, and recommends much the same substances as the others. This affection is clearly described by the Arabians, and is rendered prui-itus by most of their translators. Serapion re- commends us, if there is a sanguineous plethora to b eed, and then to purge with myrobalans, colocynth, and black hellebore, and along with these the warm bath is to be used, and the liniments for removing the pruritus, containing Aanegar, roses, nitre &c. The prurigo senilis he pronounces to be incurable. Ehases and Avicenna recommend similar remedies. They treat of prurigo and scabies together, and there is no doubt of their aUiance. Hence Bateman says that prurigo, when neglected, terminates in scabies. Haly Abbas says that scabies and prurigo aiise from a saltish phlegm. Scabies, he says, consists of reddish pustules, which appear most frequently between the fingers and upon the arms. Prurigo, he adds, is apt to run into scabies He recommends, as a lotion, vinegar with rose-oil, the use ot the warm-bath, and other remedies like those of our author. Alsaharavius says that the disease arises from debility of the expulsive faculty of the body or constriction of the pores. He praises highly the hot bath. Avenzoar states that pruritus arises from bile or a sharpness of the blood. Our author has omitted to treat of phthiriasis, for an account of which see in particular CteHus Aurelianus (de Tard. Pass.iv, 2); also, Aristot. (Hist. An. v, 32); Galen (de Comp. Med. sec. loc. i, 8); Phny (Hist. Nat. xxvi, 86); Haly Abbas (Pract. iv, 7); Plutarchus (in Vit^ SyUffi.) The authorities quoted by Bhases recommend compositions consisting of stavesacre, white hellebore, arsenic, nitre, sulphur, subhmed mercury, and the like. (Contin. xxxvi.) Antiochus, Herod of Judtea, Phihp 11 of Spain, and many other celebrated personages, are said to have died of phthii-iasis. Virey accounts for the disease m the foUowing manner : " II est, en effet, tel temperament muqueux, teUe degeneration des humeurs lymphatiques, dans le phthinasis ou la maladie pediculaire, que ces insectes y trouyent une pature inepuisable, qu'ils se propageut avec une extreme exu- berance sous le peau, penetrent dans le tissu cellulaire, et