FRACTURES. [book VI. 448 outwards and upwards j and let another pull the opposite- shoulder, or at least the neck, and let them make counter-ex- tension. The surgeon then, with his fingers, is to set the frac- ture, pushing down what is prominent, and drawing outwards what is situated too deep. If more counter-extension be required, a ball of rags, wool, or something such, may be applied below the armpit, and the elbow brought to the rib adjoining to it; and the other things may be done as described ah'eady. But if it is found impossible to raise up the end of the clavicle con- nected with the shoulder that is lodged down below, ha\ing laid the -man on his back, and placed a moderate cushion under his- back, let an assistant push the shoulders downw^ards, so that the bone of the clavicle, which is lodged below may be bent up- wards, and then set the fracture with the fingers. But if part of the clavicle be broken off and unconnected, and if we find it irritating the parts, we must make a straight incision with a scalpel and remove the broken portion, and smooth the re- mainder with chisels, taking care that the instrument called meningophylax, or another chisel be put under the clavicle to make it steady; and if no inflammation is present, we may use sutures, but otherwise, pledgets. And having prepai-ed various splenia (compresses), we must apply the larger and thicker to the projecting part of the bone; and these, when inflammation is present, are to be dipped in oil, but otherwise they are to be appHed dry. And having put a moderate ball of wool under the nearer armpit, we apply a suitable bandage round by the armpits, the fractured clavicle and the scapula, bringing the folds in a proper direction; and if the part of the clavicle con- nected with the shoulder fall downwards, the middle of abroad thong is to be put under the elbow of the same side, and the whole arm suspended by the neck, and the hand is to be slung in another bandage as in cases of bleeding at the elbow. But if, which rarely happens, the outer part be uppermost, we must not have recourse to this arrangement of the arm. The patient must lie in a supine position, and live upon a spare diet, and if necessary, embrocations and other suitable applications are to be made until the callus is formed. The callus of the clavicle is formed in about twenty days at most. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocrates givcs such an account of