498 DISLOCATIONS. [bookvi. SECT. CXVIII. ON DISLOCATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. The other bones of the human body sometimes undergo sub- luxatioUj and sometimes complete luxation, but the articulations at the hip and the shoulder are subject only to complete lux- atiouj more especially the hip-joint, because it has a deep and round cavity which is further strengthened by a strong brim. The limb, then, being subject to displacement from its cavity by some great violence, many differences arise according to tlie greater or less degree of the dislocation. Dislocation at the hip-joint takes place in four ways, or rather places; for it is dislocated either inwards, outwards, forwards, or backwards; inwards and outwards frequently, more especially inwards; but forwards and backwards very rarely. When the dislocation is inwards, the affected leg, if compared with the sound one, ap- pears longer, the knee is more prominent, the patient cannot bend the leg at the groin, and a swelling is clearly felt in tbc perineum, from the head of the thigh being lodged there When the dislocation is outwards, the symptoms are the con- trary to these; for the leg appears shorter, there is a hollow in the perineum, a protuberance about the nates, the knee i' turned inwards, and the leg can be bent. When the disloca- tion is forwards, the patient can stretch the leg without pain at the knee, but when he attempts to walk he cannot turn the foot inwards; the urine is retaiaed, the groin is swelled, thf buttocks appear wrinkled and destitute of plumpness; and in walking he supports himself upon his heel. Those who expe- rience a dislocation backwards can neither extend the ham noi the knee, nor can they bend the limb before bending the groii also. The leg appears shorter, the groin looser, and the hea( of the thigh is to be felt at the buttock. When, then, fron infancy, or simply, when for a length of time the limb has been iieglected after being dislocated, and allowed to remain so, tin cure is impracticable, callus having been already formed. Bnt when the luxation is recent, it may be managed in the way re- commended by Hippocrates, We must, then, proceed immc diately to the reduction, for dislocations at the hip-joint, whci allowed to remain long, are wholly irremediable. In general then, in all the four kinds of dislocation, the reduction mar