SECT. XXXIX.] 315 GANGLION. sion down to the cyst, and to dissect it from the surrounding Comm. parts with the fingers. When its cyst cannot be removed he ——' recommends us to destroy it with caustic medicines, (vii, 13.) Aetius and Albucasis give exactly the same account of bron- chocele as our author. The poet Juvenal alludes to the prevalence of bronchocele among the people at the foot of the Alps. (Sat. xiii, 162.) Phny attributes it to the corruption of the water, (xi, 37.) Rolandus, Guy of Cauliac, and other of the earlier modem authorities, direct us to remove the tumour by means of two cross setons. SECT. XXXIX. ON GANGLION. A ganglion is a round tumour of a tendon, arising from a blow or violent exercise, being formed most frequently about the wrists, ankles, and the parts about a joint which are much moved, but likewise in the other parts. It is attended with a swelling, which is free from discoloration, unyielding, and without pain, but if strongly pressed upon it has a dull feeling. It is not deep-seated, but takes its origin under the skin, and may be moved laterally, but cannot by any means be forced forwards or backwards. Those then which form in the legs, arms, and extremities it is not safe to cut out, for there is danger lest the part be mutilated. But those about the head or forehead we operate upon by dividing the skin with a scal- pel, and if the tumours be smaU, seizing them with a flesh forceps and cutting them out by the roots. But if they are larger, we transfix them with hooks, and remove them by dis- secting them from the skin, and uniting the lips with sutures, complete the cure by the treatment applicable to fresh wounds. Commentary. We have treated of ganglion in the Fourth Comm. Book, and mentioned the principal authorities on the subject. Hippocrates and most of the others forbid ganglia to be opened. The hard tumour on the bead, to which likewise he applies the name, may safely be removed in the manner described by our author. Albucasis repeats his directions. (Chirurg. ii, 50.) Haly Abbas recommends discutients at first, and if these