397 FISTULiE. SECT. LXXVII.] out with counter perforators, and if necessary we may bore a hole with a wimble (trephine ?) whether the bone be diseased only to the diploe or as far as the marrow. If a bone project, as after a transverse fracture, we must saw it off. Taking, therefore, two bandages, we apply the middle of the one to the projecting bone itself, and get it kept stretched by an assistant; the other being thicker, or formed of wool, we are to take in Hke manuLr, and apply the middle of it to the flesh under the bone, and taking its ends below, we give directions that the flesh below be retracted by this band lest it be torn by the teeth of the saw, and in this manner we accomplish the sawing. When any vital part is situated below, such as the pleiu'a, spinal marrow, or the like, in cutting or sawing the bone, we must use the instrument called meningophylax for protecting them. If the bone is not diseased, but is denuded of flesh all around, it is to be sawn in the same manner, for bones which are disen- gaged from the other parts all around cannot possibly incar- nate. In like manner, the extremity of a bone near a joint, if diseased, is to be sawn off; and often, if the whole of a bone, such as the idna, radius, tibia, or the like, be diseased, it is to be taken out entire. But if the head of the thigh-bone, or pelvis, or a vertebra of the spine be diseased, we must not at- tempt to operate upon them for fear of the adjoining arteries. We must proceed in this manner in every particular case, atten- tion being paid to the situation, proximity, and connexions of the affected parts, the extent of the disease, the strength and powers of the patient. The favus being a fistulous sinus with a milky discharge must be subjected to the same operation and treatment as fistula. Commentary. For an account of the practice of Hippo- crates we refer to our notes on the 49th section of the Fourth Book. Celsus states that if fistulas spread deep, are crooked, or are numerous, they are to be cured by an operation rather than by medicines. Wherefore, if it spread transversely, he recommends us to introduce a specillum, or sound, and cut down upon it. But if it is crooked, its bondings are to be followed out and cut open in the same manner. When the operator has reached the end of the fistula, all the callus is to be cut out, and the