172 THE SCORPION. [book v. decoction of rue ; and in like manner the pounded seed of tlio herb trefoil may be applied with advantage. They may also take propomata containing two drachms of birthwort, more particularly of its bark with wine; or gentian pounded, or pennyroyal properly boiled, and ten bay-berries bruised, and calamint long boiled with oxycrate, and cyperus with wine; and in hke manner, rue, the juice of the fig, and laserwort, if at hand; but otherwise we must use the Parthian juice. The fruit of trefoil and the seed of basil-royal may be taken in a draught with advantage. Silver immediately applied to the wound has a wonderful effect. The benefit of all these may be increased by the frequent use of the bath, copious perspira- tions, and drinking strong or dduted wine. The following compound propomata may be taken : Of sulphur vivum to the size of an Egyptian bean, with eight grains of pepper in half a hemina of wine, or the juice of laserwort triturated with crabs in wine, or equal parts of gith, Ethiopian cumin, and the seeds of the chaste-tree in wine. For severe stings of scorpions and j)halangia. Of the lees of wine, dr. xvi; of pellitory, dr. iv; of the seed of wild rue, dr. iij ; of castor, of the seeds of rocket, of each, dr. ij; let them be mixed with the blood of the sea-tortoise. The dose is four oboli with wine, or three cyathi of unmixed vinegar.—Another: Of pellitory, of birthwort, of each, oz. iv; of pepper, dr. ij; of the juice of the laserwort, dr. j. The dose is the size of an Egyptian bean. Commentary. Nicander describes several species of the ' scorpion. The white, he says, is innoxious. The red occa- sions a fiery heat with restlessness and great thirst. The black brings on inquietude, delirium, and laughter. The green occasions chilliness with horror. The symptoms superinduced bv the other species are also detailed. (See Theriac. 775.) iElius Promotus gives a very circumstantial description of the effects produced by the sting of the different species of scorpions, but it would appear to be mostly taken from Galen aud other Greek authorities. On the nature of the scorpion, see further, Pliny (H. N. xi, 25); and ^lian (vi, 20.) On the medical treatment, see in parti culai' Dioscorides (vi, 44) ; Aetius (xiii, 19) ; Nonnus (269); Actuarius (Meth. Med.