SECT. xvii.J PHLEGMON. 53 with a deep-seated throbbing; it seems stretched and broken • there is a sensation of increased heat, so that the pai-t feels as if It were bui-nt and desires cooling; there is a florid redness as m those who have been in the bath, or have been warmed at the fire, and by other means. This affection, he says, gets the generic appellation of phlegmone, or inflammation. He enu- merates many causes of it, such as bruises, fractures, and dis- locations; but even without these, he adds, it may arise from the veins being immoderately distended with humours, and the superfluity being cast off upon a part fitted to receive them at the time. Such a part, from some Cciuse or other, hap- pens to be weaker, or more lax, or more calculated to attract or is more inactive than the other parts of the body. He lays It down as a general principle, that the cure of such affec- tions is to be accomplished by evacuation. Reason and expe- rience, he adds, teach us that the general system is to be evacuated by the suitable means, and the inflamed part by em- brocations and cataplasms of a repeUent nature, and such as are calculated to give tone and strength to it. Such are his general principles of treatment. His particular remedies we need not mention, as in fact our author's are entirely borrowed from him. Oribasius, Aetius, Actnarius, and Nonnus, in like manner, borrow from him everything which they advance upon this subject. Celsus does not treat of phlegmon in particular, but he has given an excellent account of inflammation in general. His definition of inflammation is singularly appropriate: "Notce mflammationis sunt quatuor, rubor, et tumor, cnm calore et cioiore. Isidorus attempts the same not so successfully ; i-hlegmone est fervor cum extensione et dolore; sive est in- quietudo cum rubore, et dolore, et extensione, et duritie, et vastitate : quae quum caeperit fieri, inquietudo et febris inse- qmtur." Avicenna gives a clear and comprehensive exposition of the aoctrines of the Greeks, but supplies no new information. He • 18 at pains to explain that the term phlegmon appUes generaUy to every inflamed part; and also to a hot aposteme in particu- • ar- He joins Galen in recommending a free incision when it IS apprehended that the member in wliicli it is seated will bc- ^come cornipted. Serapion's treatment is nowise dissimilar