HERPES. 62 [book IV. siccant things to the alfected part. At the commeacemeut, therefore, we may apply cataplasms from vine shoots, bramhle, and plantain; but afterwards we may add lentil to them, some- times with honey and polenta. And the cataplasm recom- mended for phlegmons from defluxion may be applied without the house-leek. But ulcerated parts are to be rubbed with trochisks dissolved in must, or in a thin and austere wine, not very old, or in a watery oxycrate. Administer also horned poppy, and similar tilings in water; and when these do not prove effectual, vinegar may be added. But wine diluted with the juice of plantain or strychnos is of great service, or linseed bruised and boiled in wine and oil may be appHedj or Cimolian earth, mixed with the juice of strychnos may be applied by anointing : and take of litharge, oz. iv; of the juice of leeks, vij cyathi, and of the juice of beet an equal quantity, tritm-ate and anoint. But when these iilcers have become chronic, the trochisk of Musa and that of Andron will be convenient applications.— Another : For herpes phlyctsenodes : having triturated the dross of lead in austere wine and anointed with it, apply above it beet leaves boiled in wine, or of wax, oz. iv; of myrtle oil, oz. xvj; of the dross of lead, oz. iv; anoint with one half of Avine. When it has stopped from spreading, use the cerate from the dross; or apply boiled lentil with honey. For herpes, under the skin, mix the dross of lead with the juice of levigated rue, or myrtle cerate, instead of the rue.—Another: Of old unwashed wool wrapped round a dead pine and burnt, dr. xij ss; of wax, dr. xxv; of the dross of lead half an acetabulum; of goat's tallow cured and washed in water, dr. xxxj ; of myrtle oil, oz. V.—Another : To those which spread rapidly : of the ' rind of the sweet pomegranate, dr. vj ; of litharge, dr. vj; of unwashed wool about a dead pine and burnt, dr. iij; of wax, 1 dr. xij ; of ceruse, dr. viij ; of fissile alum, dr. j; add to wine j and myrtle oil. | Commentary. The writers on phlegmon treat immediately ' afterwards of herpes and erysipelas. Fabricius ab Aquapen- dente. Dr. Bateraan, and most of our modern authorities on this subject, are of opinion that the ignis sacer of Celsus and the other Latin authors was herpes. Scrilionius Largus, how- ever, distinguishes the ignis sacer from zona, which, he says, was