355 CALCULUS. SECT. LX.] relaxed and again stretched in an uncommon degree, because, owing to the irritation, they are perpetually handling it, more especially in the case of children. When the stone falls into the neck of the bladder a sudden retention of urine takes place. Of those cut for the stone, children to the age of fourteen are the best subjects for the operation, on account of the softness of their bodies: old men are difficult to cure because ulcers of their bodies do not readily heal; and the intermediate ages have an intermediate chance of recovery. And again, those who have lai'ger stones recover best because they have become liabituated to the inflammation, whereas those who have smaller lecover with difficulty for the opposite cause. These things being so, when we proceed to the operation, we first have re- course to shaking the patient, sometimes by means of assist- ants, and sometimes by making him jump from a height, in order that the stone may be forced down to the neck of the bladder. We have then to place him sitting in an erect pos- ture, with his hands under his thighs, in order that the bladder may be forced down into a small space. If then we ascertain by feeling externally that the stone with the shaking has fallen clown to the perineum, we proceed immediately to the opera- tion ; but if it has not descended, we must introduce the index finger of the left hand well oiled, or, if an adult, the middle also, into the anus, and with the fingers in a supine, direction y. c search with them for the stone, and, bringing it down gra- Uially to the neck of the bladder, we fix it there, pushing it out with the finger or fingers when so fixed; and having given (Hrections to the assistant to press down the bladder with his bands, and ordering another assistant to raise the testicles in ''is right hand, and with the other to stretch the perineum to he other side from that upon which the incision is to be made, ve take the instrument called a lithotome, and between the Mills and the testicles, not, however, in the middle of the peri- ura, but on one side, towards the left buttock, we make an .l)lique incision, cutting down direct upon the stone where it .l otrudes, so that the external incision may be wider, but the nternal not larger than just to allow the stone to Ml tlirough t. Sometimes, from the pressure of the finger or fingers at lic anus, the stone starts out readily at the same time that the iicision is made, without requiring extraction; but if it does