FRACTURES, [book vr. 474 them from tlie first, taking care not to hurt the parts about the ulcer, and tightening them according to necessity, or again slackening them. When a scale of bone is going to exfoliate, which we ascertain from the discharge being more copious and thin, we must remove the loose fungous flesh about it, and the bandages must be appHed loose; but having removed the scale with a hook or some such instrument, we must have recourse to tighter bandages. During the whole time of the heahng of the sore, the dressing called motophylax with some of the anti-inflammatory medicines is to be laid over the wound, to be kept on with a simple bandage, which is to be removed at each dressing; everything else remaining the same as de- scribed in the treatment of the arm. Comm. COMMENTARY. Hippocratcs treats of these cases at great ' * ' length. His method of rectifying the protruded ends of bones by means of a lever, is described by our author. He says, it may be done on the first or second day, but not on the third or fourth, after the inflammation is begun, for fear of occasioning convulsions. Compresses dij)ped in wine and oil, or soft bandages are to be used, but splints are not to be applied until the sore puts on a healthy appearance. He mentions that some were in the practice of bandaging the limb above and below the wound, and leaving it bare, in order to allow the discharges to escape; but this practice he greatly disapproves of, as tend- ing to produce swelling in the place ; and he recommends the whole limb to be well secured with bandages, but then not too tight. He states that all bones which are completely denuded, must exfoliate and come out. "When a bone projects and cannot be replaced, he directs the' surgeon to cut it off" if it irritate the soft parts. No splints are to be applied when there is a bone which it is seen will exfoliate. If it be the summer season, the compresses applied to the M'ound are to be frequently soaked with wine; but if it be winter, greasy wool is to be dipped in wine and oil and applied. Compound frac- tures of the thigh or arm, attended with protrusion of the broken bone, are said to be peculiarly dangerous; for if replaced, they are apt to occasion convulsions ; and if let alone, they give rise to acute bilious fevers. Some, however, he adds, recover when the bone is replaced. (De Fract. cum Comment, Galeui.)