'■0)2 SECUNDINES. [book vi. Ci MM. liip-joiut when in footling presentations the delivery cannot he ' ^ ' otherwise accomplished. When the head is preternaturally large, he directs us to open it and evacuate its contents; and to do so in like manner with the chest when any obstruction takes place at it. He makes no mention of any instrumeut resembling the modern forceps. (Pract. ix, 57.) SECT. LXXV.-—ON RETENTION OF THE SECUNDINES. Often, after the removal of the foetus, the placenta (which is also called the secundines) is retained in the uterus. When the mouth of the uterus is dilated and the j)lacenta separated, and rolled into a ball in some part of the uterus, the extraction is most easy. The left hand warmed and anointed is to be introduced into its cavity, and the secundines extracted as they present. But if they adhere to the fundus uteri we must in- troduce the hand in like manner, and grasp them and pull them along, not straight down for fear of prolapsus, nor with great violence, but they are to be moved gently, at first from this side to that, and afterwards somewhat more strongly, for thus they will yield and be freed from their adhesion. If the mouth of the uterus be found shut we must have recourse to the same treatment. If the strength is not sunk, sternutatories and fu- migations with aromatics in a pot may be used; and if the mouth of the womb dilate, the hand is to be introduced and an attempt made to extract the placenta, as aforesaid. If even in this way it cannot be extracted, one need not be alai'med, for after a few days it will putrefy, dissolve into sanies and drop off. But since the fetid smell affects the head and disorders the stomach, we must use suitable fumigations, among which cardamum and dried figs are much approved. Comm. COMMENTARY. We have mentioned in another place that I—,—- Hippocrates' practice in retention of the placenta consisted in suspending weights from the end of the umbilical cord. Celsus directs us, when the placenta is not cast off" soon after the delivery of the child, to draw doAvn the umbilical cord geutly M ith the left hand, taking care not to break it. The right hand is then to follow it up to the secundines, and theii- veins and