[book IV. 112 ULCERS. Comm. The Arabians, although they supply nothing new, add their * ' authority in confirmation of the remedial virtues which the Greeks assigned to the substances mentioned above. Avicenna and Rhases recommend arsenic, copperas, misy, sori, chalcitis, flos ceris, quicklime, alum^ galls, ammoniac, the trochisk of Andron, &c. When a part becomes black and putrid, Haly Abbas directs us to open a vein leading to it, if the age and state of the patient permit, and afterwards to apply odoriferous things, such as camphor, &c. SECT. XLV. ON ULCERS REQUIRING CICATRIZATION. By drying and constringing the flesh of ulcers requiiing cicatrization to such a degree as not only to dissipate the pre- ternatural superfluity, but also to touch upon that which is in its natural state, we may render the surface of the sore like skin, and make the ulcer cicatrize. This is promoted by im- mature gaUs, the moderately desiccant bark of pomegranate, and whatever else is desiccant without being possessed of pun- gent astringency. And such things as these promote cicatri- zation : myrrh, litharge, and oysters if burnt, for they must be sprinkled on the sore dry. And these things often produce cicatrization: pine bark with myrtle cerate, ivy flowers with cerate, the root of the lily with rose-oil, dried pine-rosin, burnt pumice stone, the flakes of copper; they are to be used in equal proportions dry. The following also repress: mix a small quantity of manna and of diphryges with levigated pumice, and use; or of litharge p. j ; of diphryges p. ss, apply on a pledget with cerate. Birdlime with frankincense cica- trizes old ulcers, also verdigris with an equal portion of diph- ryges and with myrtle cerate, or the small centaury applied fresh. To the more humid apply the root of cypress. To those about the anus and pudendum, more particulai-ly if in- flamed, use levigated aloes, either in a diy state or with water, or squama seris ; or soften chrysocolla in the sun with wax, and apply. A dry application for producing cicatrization. Of oysters, dr. xij ; of manna, dr. vj ; of calamine, dr. iv. It applies also to spreading sores.—Another ; Of birthwort, dr. vj; of pine