SECT. CXVII.] SPINE. 497 tion he directs us to apply a splint with bandages^ as recom- mended by our author. Avicenna describes all the methods of reduction here men- tioned; and in the Latin edition of his works there are plates to illusti-ate his descriptions. Judging from our own experience of such cases, however, we would say that such contrivances can seldom be required to reduce these dislocations, as there is much less difficulty in the reduction than in keeping the parts in place afterwards. Haly Abbas copies the description given by Hippocrates of the mode of reduction. After the parts are restored to their place, he recommends us to apply a board (tabula lignea) three fingers broad, and of such a length as to comprehend the dislo- cated vertebrae and some of the adjoining ones; and to bind it firmly on to prevent a recurrence of the displacement. The ancients were well acquainted with the curvature of the spine occasioning pai-alysis of the lower extremities. Alsaha- ravius remarks that it occurs most frequently in childhood, and arises from an inflammation or collection of humours between the vertebrae. Sometimes, he adds, it is occasioned by a gross flatus. This is the disease called spina ventosa. When con- nected with a coDection of blood in the part, he recommends bleeding, clysters, and various emollient appKcations. When it arises from flatulence he prescribes the hermodactylus. If tlie usual means do not succeed he approves of the actual cau- tcry. (Pract. xxviii, 9.) But no ancient author has treated so fully of curvature of the spine as Rhases. He states that it occurs most frequently in chUdhood, and often proves fatal by occasioning pressure on ^he thoracic viscera. The disease, he says, may arise from a all, a blow, an abscess, or a gross flatus contained in the ver- < br£e. In cases of paralysis of the lower extremities connected vith this disease, he approves of applying the actual cautery to he back. (Cont. 1.) He states correctly that dislocations of he upper vertebrae often prove suddenly fatal. He directs the 'ii-geon to keep them reduced with a spHnt extending the ^ hole length of the spine. (Cont. xxix.) On the spina ventosa gibbositas, see further Serapion (v, 26.) For the cure of it, 0 recommends first discutient plasters, and if these do not iicceed he advises recourse to the actual cautery, (v, 37.) 33