[book IV. 138 ANCYLOSIS. scirrlious parts, but still more particularly the applications to paralysed members will be proper, and more especially pouring upon tbe part water and oil, in wbich. linseed, fenugreek, marsh- mallows, bay, the root of the wild cucumber, and the Sicyonian oil itself, have been boUed. After bathing we may apply first the more simple acopa, such as that from poplar, that from fir, the one called bromium, that ascribed to Basilius, and the pyxis; and after these the Aristophanian, and that ascribed to Azanites. But the strongest are those called lysoponium and varium. Of plasters, that ascribed to Amathaon, and the anicetum. This is a most excellent one : Of bdeUium, of . calves' fat, of ammoniac perfume, of Illyrian iris, of each, dr. xvj; of opoponax, of galbanum, of the seeds of rosemary, of storax, of frankincense, of each, dr. viij ; of pepper, clx grains; of wax, lb. ss.; of tiirpentine-rosin, lb. ss.; of the lees of the oil of iris, q. s.; of wine, q. s.; the medicine is pounded. It forms a good acopum when diluted with oil of iris, of privet, or of bay. Intermediate between the acopa and plasters is the preparation from bacon called polymigmaton. The acopa are to be used with soft and continued friction, along Avith gentle attempts to bend and stretch the affected joint. Comm. COMMENTARY. The principles of treatment here laid down '—'—' are the same as those inculcated by all the other authorities. For a complete account of the formation of malagmata, we refer the reader to Galen (Med. sec. gen. vii), and to Aetius (xii, 42.) Actuarius recommends an acopum composed of old oU, the oils of bay, iris, and storax, with turpentine, spurge, castor, ammoniac, pepper, opoponax, galbanum, and stag's marrow. He remarks that emollient and relaxing medicines are indicated, (iv, 16.) Celsus recommends, " ad recenti vulnere contractos articulos, quas ay/cuXac Grseci nominant," a malagma consisting of frank- incense, rosin, galbanum, ammoniac, and bdeUium, with wax. ■ (v, 18.) Avicenna makes mention of a similar one. Scribonius Largus gives a prescription for ancylosis consisting ot bdellium, opoponax, ammoniac, galbanum, calves' fat, &c. (civ.)