CATHETERISM. 351 SECT. LIX.] he particularly approves of using the actual cautery. These CokM. intractable tumours on the genital member are now frequently ' met with. SECT. LIX; ON CATHETERISM^ AND INJECTION OF THE BLADDER; When the urine is suppressed in the bladder, owing to some obstruction, such as a coagulum, or stones, or from any other cause, we have recourse to catheterism for the removal of it. Wherefore, taking a catheter proportionate to the age and sex we prepare the instrument for use. The mode of preparation is this: having bound a little wool round with a thread, and in- troduced the thread with a sharp rush into the pipe of the catheter, we adapt the wool to the opening at the head of the catheter, and having cut off the projecting parts of the wool with a pair of scissors, we put the catheter into oil. Having then placed the patient on a convenient seat, and used fomen- tations, if nothing prohibit, we take the catheter and introduce it at first direct down to the base of the penis, then we must draw the privy parts upwards to the umbihcus, (for at this place there is a curvature of the passage,) and thus push the instrument forwards. When in the perineum it approaches the anus, we must bend the member with the instrument in it down to its natural position, for from the perineum to the bladder the passage is upwards ; and we must push the instrament forwards until it reach the cavity of the bladder. We afterwards take out the thread fastened into the opening of the catheter, in order that the urine being attracted by the wool may follow, as hap- pens in syphons. Such is the method of introducing the ca- tlieter. But since we have often occasion to wash an ulcerated bladder, if an ear-syringe be sufficient to tlirow in the injection it may be used, and is to be introduced in the manner described above. But if we cannot succeed with it we may fix a skin or the bladder of an ox to the catheter, and throw in the injection through its opening. Commentary. Although we have treated succinctly of stran- Comm. gury and retention of urine in the Third Book, it may be proper, before explaining the ancient methods of introducing