451 SECT. XCV,] BREAST-BONE. If there be an external wound, it is to be healed with suitable Comm. dressings; after which the fissure or hole in the bone will fill' ' up with callus. If the skin be entire,, he merely enjoins rest, a suitable cerate, and gentle bandages. Albucasis and Avicenna, as usual^ copy from our author. The former states that fractures of the scapula are healed in twenty or twenty-five days. Haly Abbas, like the others, directs us to remove any spiculse which occasion irritation, to apply soothing cataplasms, and suitable bandages. Uhases re- marks that the body of the bone is little subject to fractures, hut that its extremities may be broken ofi". A fracture of the lioUow portion of it is ascertained by a rising in the part; fis- sures are recognized only by the local pain. SECT. XCV. ON THE BKEAST-BONE. The middle of the sternum is fractured by simple division and by expression, and the extremity of it is broken off". When, therefore, the fracture is deranged, pain and inequality of the place follow, and there is crepitus upon pressure with the fingers. When by expression, there is Adolent pain, dyspnoea, and cough, owing to the pleura being irritated ; and rarely there is vomiting of blood, a hollow in the fractured place, and yielding thereof. The same treatment is to be applied as that recommended for the scapula. When the fracture is by ex- pression, we may practise Hippocrates's mode of setting which i he recommended for the clavicle when it inclines inwards, I having recourse to the supine posture, the application of a cushion upon the back, pressing down the shoulders, and draw- liing the sides together with the hands. The sides being covered • with wool, we apply a circular bandage, having first put on t two thongs straight from the shoulders, so that afterwards the : two ends may be united in a proper manner, and prevent the circidar bandage from falhng off. Commentary. Hippocrates holds injuries of the sternum Com to be more dangerous than those of the ribs. He recommends "-^ in this case a light diet, rest, silence, bleeding at the arm, and •so forth. (De Artie. 50.)