SECT. XXI.] 283 CATARACTS. l)ut evidently copies from Pauliis. He makes no mention, how- Comm. ever, of extraction, as far as we can discover, in any part of his """"—' works. The operation of couching the cataract is minutely descrihed hy Jesu Haly, but he makes no mention of extraction. He was the son of Haly Abbas. Sprengel, in his ' History of Medicine,' refers to Haly Abbas as one of the ancient autliorities who make mention of the operation of extracting the cataract; but if tliis be the case the edition from which they quote (Venetiis, 149.2) must be considerably different from the one with which we are acquainted. (Lyon, 1523.) Haly forbids examinations of the eye after the operation, to ascertain whether or not the patient has recovered his sight. We will give the description of Vegetius in his own language: " Jumentum igitur pridie temperabis a cibo vel potu maxime prohibebis, in loco molli elides caputque ejus et ceiwicem apte coUocabis : ita patentem oculum facies ut claudere non possit: deinde ab ipsa fronte paracenterium inter tunicas oculares sub- jicito, nepupiUam tangas, aut aliquid Isedas interius. sed ipsum album de superiori parte ubi hypochysis posita est, capitello pa- racenterii deorsum deprimis ad palpebram inferiorem subtiliter. Quod si depositum fuerit, non prius paracenterium eximas, nisi ^lausum oculum penicello caUdo diutissime vaporaveris. solet :nim resilire. Quod si evenerit, reprimito, donee ita compo- latur ut resihre non possit. Cum itaque intellexeris claritatem upillse sine illo obstaculo hypochysis, tunc eximes ferrum, et nvenies animal videre." Sprengel affirms, but not quite correctly, as will be perceived lom the account of the ancient opinions given above, that it .va.s towards the beginning of the 18th century that it was first liscovered that the crystalline lens is the seat of the cataract )therwise he gives an admirable history of the operation, in vhich he does ample justice to the ingenuity and inventive ,'enms of the ancients. (Hist, de la Med. xviii. 2.) Fabricius's description is altogether borrowed from the an- ient authors. (CE. C. ii, 16.) Guv of CauHac, and the other urgical writers of that age, describe the operation in the same onus as the ancients. Guy mentions the operation of sucking I It the cataract through a cannula, but does not approve of it VI, 2.)