485 SHOULDER. SECT. CXIV.] tlie affected side, if the right shoulder be dislocated, let hira put the heel of his right foot upon the ball previously fitted to the armpitj or if the left, that of the left foot; and seizing the hand of the affected arm, let him pull down to the feet, at the same time making counter-extension by the heel in the armpit, while an assistant, standing behind the head, pulls at the other shoulder in an opposite direction, to prevent the body from being dragged along. There is another mode of reduc- tion, namely, by suspending the patient upon a person's shoulder. A young man taller than the patient, or stand- ing on some elevated object, by his affected side, (the patient also being in a standing posture) is to apply his shoulder below the patient's armpit, while he stretches and pulls the patient's hand towards his own belly, so that the rest of the patient's body is suspended at the back of the person who supports him. But if the patient be light, another light child is to be suspended from him. For wliile the arm and the rest of the body are pulled downwards oppositely, the shoulder put under the armpit, readily replaces the dislocated limb. And the same thing may be done by means of the instrument called a pestle. It is a long piece of wood which is erected on the ground upon some other firm object. Its upper extremity, then, being rounded, and neither very thick nor thin, is ap- plied below the armpit of the patient, who either stands or sits, according to the length of the pestle, and the hand being stretched along the pestle and pulled downwards, while the rest of the body is balanced on the opposite side and weighs downwards, the reduction takes place either spontaneously, or Avith the assistance of another person pulling down. And this may be done with the step of a ladder, as we described when treating of the extension for a fractured arm. Here some round body is to be fitted to the step of the ladder, such as will suit the armpit of the patient, and propel the head of the arm. But if, owing to the oldness of the accident, or the hardness of the body, we find the reduction difficult, we must have recourse to the method by the means of the instrument called ambe. The ambe is a piece of wood about two cubits in length, of the breadth of three fingers, and about two fingers' breadth in thick- ness, having the one extremity round and adapted for the liollow of the armpit, like the extremity of the pestle. Hav ing