9 ELEPHANTIASIS. SECT. I.] tribution of the food is performed regularly, and the vitiated Comm. pai-ts strongly attract the chyle to them as a pabulum to the disease. There ai-e large callous eminences on the skin, and the veins appear enlarged, owing to a thickening of the vessels and not to a plethora of blood. The hairs of the head, pubes, and other parts of the body, drop off. The face in particular is af- fected with callous tubercles or warts, and it is not uncommon for the tongue, and most parts of the body, to be also covered with them. The eyebrows are thickened, stripped of their hair, and hang down Hke those of the lion. The general ap- pearance of the skin, covered as it is with hard tubercles, and intersected with deep fissures, is said to bear some resemblance to that of the elephant. Sometimes particular members, such as the nose, feet, fingers, the whole hand, or the pudenda, will die and drop off; and it is not uncommon for incurable ulcers to break forth on different parts of the body. Dyspnoea, and a sense of suffocation, are occasionaUy present. He says, it is dangerous to have any intercourse with persons labouring under the dis- ease, no less so than in the case of the plague, as both are readily communicated by respiration. He directs us, at the commencement, to abstract blood freely, because blood is the pabulum morbi. He recommends us to purge with hiera, and to procure vomiting by radishes, but more particularly by the white hellebore, upon which he bestows a glowing and eloquent eulogy. Like our author, he approves of the theriac of vipers. He makes mention of many external applications of a detergent nature, and in particular praises a soap used by the Celts for cleaning their clothes. He also commends natron, alcyonium, sulphur, alum, ammoniac with vinegar, and the hke, for the same purpose. When the flesh is livid, he directs us previously to make deep incisions in it. The diet is to be plain and di- gestible ; sulphureous baths are to be used: the patient is to swim frequently in sea-water, to take a sea voyage, and other- wise not neglect suitable exercise. Plutarch informs us that it was disputed in his time whether or not elephantiasis was a new complaint. ' Galen, as far as we can recollect, has nowhere treated very par- ticularly of elephantiasis, but in his work 'De Causis Morborum' he has briefly mentioned that in this disease the nose becomes flattened, the lips thick, and the ears extenuated, the whole ap-