84 [book IV. EMPHYSEMA. is a tender wick of a lamp, soaked in sucla a fluid, and applied. A good remedy also is horned poppy. When the oedema has become chronic, having first anointed the part with oil, and then applied a sponge out of lye, bind it firmly, and you will effect a cure. Every kind of earth discusses and represses oedematous sweUings, more especially the Egyptian, and also the matured woad. Comm. COMMENTARY. See Galen (ad Glanc. ii; de Tumoribus) Aetius (xv, 1); Oribasius (Morb. Curat, iii, 51); Leo. (vu, 5) Actuarius (Meth. Med. iv, 16); Nonnus (251); Serapion (v, 23) Avicenna (iv, 3, 2); Haly Abbas (Theor. viii, 11; Pract. iii, 30) Alsaharavius (xxix, 13); Rhases (ad Mansor. vii, 12.) Our author's account of this disease is taken from Galen, Oribasius, Aetius, and, in fact, aU the Greek, Latin, and Arabian authorities adopt his views, without any material alter- ation. They all concur in recommending cooling and astrm- gent applications, with suitable bandages; and, in certain cases, friction. Rhases recommends that the limb should be buried in heated sand. He also approves of vaiious cooling and astringent applications with bandages. In the translation of Alsaharavius, the oedema is described by the name oiapostema flegmaticum; in those of Avicenna, Haly Abbas, and Serapion, by that of undemia. The celebrated Paracelsus used the term undemia for oedema. In some late works we have seen it stated that the undemia was a species of erysipelas, but this is evidently a mistake. SECT. XXVIIT. ON EMPHYSEMA. Emphysema is formed by a flatulent spirit, collected some- times under the skin, sometimes under the periosteum, or the membranes which surround the muscles. And it is also sometimes collected in the stomach and intestines, or between them and the peritoneum, in those kinds of dropsy which are called tympanitic; and it differs from oedema in tHs, that the parts do not pit upon pressure Hke it, and that it sounds hke a drum The density of the body co-operates in preventing the flatus from being dissipated, at the same time that the