ANEURISM. SECT. XXXVII.] 311 and neck, and those in other parts of the body, which are very large, we must decline operating upon, on account of the large- ness of the vessels. But those which occur in the extremities, the limbs, or the head, we operate upon thus. We make a straight longitudinal incision in the skin, and then having se- parated the lips with hooks, as we mentioned in the operation of angiology, and having dissected away the skin, and sepa- rated it with the instruments used for operations on membranes, we lay bare the artery, and passing a needle under it, and tying it with two ligatures, and having first divided the intermediate part of the artery with a lancet used for bleeding, and evacuated its contents, we have recourse to the suppurative treatment until the falling off of the ligatures. If the aneurism be occasioned by rupture of the artery, we must seize in the fingers along with the skin as much as possible of the aneurism, and then below what we hold in our hand we push a needle having a double thi'ead, and after it has passed through we cut the double, and thus with the two threads we bind the tumour on this side and on that, as we mentioned for staphyloma. If any appre- hension be entertained from the falling off of the hgatures, we must push another needle entirely through, in the course of the first, having in like manner a double thread, and, cutting the noose into four pieces, we may bind the tumour. Or, having opened the tumour in the middle, after the evacuation of its contents, we cut away what is redimdant of the skin, leaving what is secured Avith the ligatures, and applying an oblong compress soaked in wine and oil, we have recourse to the treatment by lint. Commentary. Galen, we beHeve, is the first author who c treats of aneurism. He states that he had known cases in which an aneurism had been occasioned by a wound of the artery at the bend of the arm in performing venesection. He relates the case of a cure having been accomplished by the ap- plication of a sponge with bandages. (Meth. Med.v, 7.) The pas- sage quoted by our author is from his work De Tumoribus (11.) Aetius gives a most interesting account of aneurism. He states that it arises most frequently in women during labour, owing to the breath being violently retained, but that it may take place in any part of the body from a wound, as when an