[book VI, ■488 LUXATIONS. Comm. of reducing dislocations inwards merits attention. The mau is to be laid on his back, and a strip of cloth or a thong of leather being placed in the armpit, its two ends are to be brought behind the patient's head and given in charge to an assistant, while another takes hold of the arm ; the surgeon is then to push back the patient's head with his left hand, while with the other he raises the fore-arm and arm, and pushes the bone into its place. After reduction the armpit is to be stulfed with wool, and suitable bandages applied. Oribasius treats of dislocations downwards, outwards, and forwards; and gives a very elaborate description of complicated machines for reducing them. Of these it is impossible to convey any coiTect idea without proper plates. We must be content, therefore, with referring the reader to his work. (De Machiuamentis.) Albucasis describes three kinds of dislocation at the shoulder, namely, downwards, inwards, below the pectoral muscle, and upwards, about which he expresses himself somewhat doubtftd. He denies the possibility of dislocations forwards and back- wards, the former being prevented by the muscles and latter by the scapula. His methods of reduction are exactly the same as those mentioned by Paulus. Avicenna expresses himself as being doubtful whether any dislocation takes place at the shoulder except downwai'ds, at least, he adds, he had no experience of any other case. He gives the symptoms of it very accurately, and describes all the methods of reduction mentioned by owx author. He approves of the cauterjr to obviate the tendency to repeated dislo- cations. Haly Abbas questions the occurrence of dislocations up- wards, forwards, inwards, or backwards. He appears, therefore, to agree with Hippocrates in considering that downwards as the only unequivocal case of dislocation. He recommends the processes of reduction described by our author. E-hases remarks, that owing to the shallowness of the glenoid cavity and the weakness of the ligaments the bones at the shoulder are more . subject to luxations than those of any other joint. He describes the symptoms very accurately. The top of the shoulder, he says, is sharper than natural, tlic head of the humerus is felt in the armpit, the arm cannot be brought