SECT. XLTV.] ULCERS. 10!) one from Cnppadocian salts, and in like manner the isis, are most effectual in preventing fungous flesh in ulcers. CoMMENTABY. The powerful applications mentioned by our Comm. author will be found amply sufficient to fulfil every intention in conducting the treatment of these ulcers. Many of them are mentioned by Hippocrates. Galen lays it down as a rule that these fungous excrescences are to be repres^^ed by powerfully desiccative substances, such as misy, chalcitis, or more especially verdigris; when burnt and washed they become mild detergents. (Meth. Med. iii.) Aetius gives many useful prescriptions for such preparations, but they are entirely formed of the ingredients which enter into those of om' author. Celsus gives a long list of caustics highly applicable in such cases : Adui'unt, auripigmentum, atramentum sutorium, chal- citis, misy^ aerugo, calx, charta combusta, sal, squama ^ris, veratrum et album et nigrum, cantharides, sandaracha, alumen scissile, &c. PHny speaks of a composition of unwashed wool, with barley flour, and verdigris. Octavius Horatianus recommends the Phrygian stone pulver- ized, and a powder consisting of the recrementum plumbi, ver- digris, aloe, and quicklime. Rhases and Avicenna copy from our author. Haly Abbas speaks of removing the superfluous flesh with an instrument. SECT. XLIV. ON SPREADING ULCERS, PUTRID ULCERS, AND PHAGEDENA. Spreading and putrid ulcers are to be bathed with vinegar and oxycrate, an astringent wine, cold water, sea-water, or the decoction of lentU, of pomegranate rind, of the flowers of the wild pomegranate, of lentisk, of myrtles, of Egyptian thorn, or some other astringent and desiccant medicine. Cataplasms are to be applied to them of the flower of tares and Hquid alum, the inner part of bread made of similago, an old goby fish, or some other old pickle, unwashed flesh, and liquid tur- pentme; these things are to be all pounded together in equal proportions. Or the parts may be anointed with equal pro-