sEOT.-i.] ELEPHANTIASIS. as cbs. V of washed squiUs in honied water, or in honey, as a Hnctns; or Cj^enaic juice, to the amount of a bitter vetch, mixed with honey and butter; or, dr. ss of the shavings of hartshorn, Avith two cyathi of wine; or, drs. iij of ^Ethiopian cumin, ^ith honey, as a linctus. But a more suitable remedy IS a drachm of the theriac trochisk, ti'iturated in a cyathus of fine wine, and drunk; and a drachm of the trochisk of squiUs may in like manner be taken in a draught. And they praise the juice of calamint as a most effectual remedy when drunk, and say that the dose to commence with is three cyathi, which may be increased to six. But of aU others the theriac of vipers IS the most effectual remedy, both in a draught and when rubbed m externally. But where plenty of these animals can be pro- cured, nothing answers so well as eating the flesh of the vipers boded m white broth, with much water, salts, leeks, and dill to the separation of theii- back-bones, their head and tail being first cut off to the extent of four fingers^ breadth, and their entrails and skm taken away. And theriac salts are in the same celebrity when taken with other food. By using them thus it happens that the scales, or, as it were, the bark, falls oil from the skin. The regimen is to be as foUows : After sleep, having been first rubbed, and the bowels evacuated, let the patient have recourse to gestation and vociferation, then to friction and gym- nastic exercises of aU kinds, partly by leaping, but more espe- cially by usmg the halcteres and leather bag. Having wiped off the sweat, let him be rubbed with the grease of a boar, of a wolf, of a goat, or of some winged animal, or with fresh but- ter; and after a short interval let him bathe, having his body anointed with the juice of fenugreek, of ptisan, or with a little ammomac dissolved in vinegar. After the bath, having got his body wiped, let him anoint with the oil of lentisk, of wild vme, or of myrtles; and with a little wine, containing alum and ammomac, so as to be of the thickness of the sordes of )aths. Having had his body rubbed again with soft rags let am rest for half an hour, after which, having drunk water et him make himself vomit by putting his fingers or a feathe^ ^lown his throat. Having vomited, let him drink the wine of » ormwood or of marjoram. The food should be barley bread >r- a cake of dried barley flour, and of potherbs, the beet the