SECT. LXXXVIII.] 423 WEAPONS. \veapon is to be extracted either by the part at wbich it enters comm. .ir by that to -which it tends. If it is not deep-seated, or if it' ^ ' has not passed any great vessels or nerves^ there is no better plan than to draw it out as it entered. But if there is a greater space through which it must retm-n than there would be to push it out, and if it has already passed the vessels and nerves, it will be better to open what remains undivided, and extract it in this direction. If the weapon is to be drawn backwards, the opening is to be enlarged by a scalpel, which wiU occasion less inflammation and obstruction of the parts than if they are torn by the weapon itself. In whichever way it be extracted great care ought to be taken that no nerve, large vein, or artery be divided. If any of these parts be detected in the wound they are to be drawn aside with a blunt hook. These are his general directions. He then subjoins instructions for extracting particular kinds of weapons. An arrow being a slender body, and generally impelled with great force, is often lodged deep, and is to be extracted for the most part rather by the opposite side to which it entered, especially as it has bai'bs, which tear most if drawn backwards. The flesh about the weapon is to be separated by means of a suitable instru- ment, and then if the head (mucro) appear with the shaft aruado) fixed to it, the weapon is to be propelled until it can be laid hold of at the opposite side and extracted; or if the shaft has fallen out and only the iron remain lodged within, ; he head is to be seized with the fingers or a forceps, and re- moved, and it is to be extracted by the opening at which it entered, upon the same principles; for the wound being en- larged, the weapon is to be draAvn back by the shaft if it remain, or otherwise by the iron itself. If there appear to be barbs upon the arrow, and if short and small, they are to be broken off with a pair of pincers ; or, if larger and stronger, they are to be covered with split writing-pens (fissis sci'iptoriis calamis) to prevent them from tearing the flesh during extraction. (And here we may mention, that the com- mon calamus scriptorius of the ancients was made from an Egyptian reed. See Montfau§on (Palseographia Grteca, p. 3.) When the weapon which is lodged in the body is large it must not be extracted by the opposite side, as it would make the wound too large. He directs us to draw it back by means of