VENESECTION. [book VI. 316 Comm. have not tlie desired effect we are to strike the tumoui- with a ' ' hard body so as to break its cyst, (ix^ 10.) Ehases recommends striking the tumour with a hammer, binding a piece of lead on it, and excision. When excision is practiced he directs us to take pains to extirpate the cyst or tunic which surrounds it. (Cont. xxviii.) SECT. XL. ON VENESECTION. Although the mode of performing venesection be known to everybody, yet, in order that no part of surgery may be omitted, and for the sake of its technical distinctions, it must not be overlooked by us. The fii'st object then iu venesection is the evacuation of a fulness of blood. It has been shown that fulness of blood is of a twofold nature': first, with regard to the strength, although the veins do not appear full, in which case those affected soon become weak and enervated, nature not being able to support, as it were, the load; and second, with regard to the containing vessels, as is seen in the paren- chymatous parts, in which case, although the strength seems able to support the fulness without stress, the vessels some- times burst, and a spitting of blood or some other discharge takes place. Plethora then as regards the strength may be ascertained from the heaviness upon the body; and plethora of the veins from their distension and from their appearing full. In both cases evacuation is indicated; and, therefore, if necessity require, you must bleed on the first attack of the disease, waiting only for the digestion of the food in the stomach, or the complete sanguification thereof in the liver. But if on any account venesection has not been had recom-se to in the beginning, and has been postponed until after the seventh day, there will be no impropriety of bleeding even then when necessity requires it, and the strength does not contra-indicate. But when about to let blood it is necessaiy to ascertain that there be not a great obstruction of faeces in the intestines, and, if there be, the bowels ought first to be evacuated by an emollient clyster, lest the veins of the intes- tines suck in the putrid matter of the excrements. Those re- quiring the abstraction of blood from the presence of a disease