SECT. vr.J ALPHI. 35 treat of them under the names of morphea alba and nigra Dr. Willan makes them to be varieties of lepra, in which opinion we fiilly coincide -nith him. The description of the two diseases by Actuarius is so precise that we shaU give it in Keu of aU the others. The alphi, he says, are superficial, but sometimes extend in depth, so that the hairs appear of the same colour. The white species is tried as to the depth it has spread, by being pricked moderately with a needle; when blood flows though the needle has only pene- trated the skin, the disease is curable, but if the dischar-e be milky It IS mcurable, inasmuch as the flesh is converted" into the disease. Others, he adds, rub the part with rough towels and if It become red they have good hopes, but if it remain of the same colour they abandon aU hopes of recovery. They are of a more aggravated nature when they affect different parts of the body and are inveterate. The alphi, he says, are generally milder than leuce, and can be cured by gentler means, but wheu they become inveterate they require similar treatment. The difference between the white and the black alphos is produced oy the colour of the prevailing humour. There is scarcely any difference of opinion among the au- 1 thorities respecting the general plan of treatment. Haly Abbas i has correctly remarked, that the alphi are to be cured by the *8ame sort of remedies as lepra (leuce?) only that they do not r require so strong applications. The Arabians greatly commend tneir myrobalans with ginger, mastich, parsley, &c. Their in- terna applications are powerful detergents and escharotics, such as hellebore, natron, sulphur, vinegar, arsenic, copperas, &c. Lelsus says nothing of internal remedies, but recommends ex- <ternal apphcations of a stimulant nature, containing sulphur, alum, nitre, frankincense, alcyonium, &c. In the 'Isagoge' •t is said that all these complaints are to be cured by phlegma- Wes, and by abstergent apphcations externally. .lescZ'fi?^'^'"'"'^ "^^'^^^^l authorities of that age, r^ tl Z "^"^^ ^1^- -'I mgra They recommend applications containing sulphur, ^um, natron, arsenic, and the like. As usual they are the •nere copyists of the Arabians.