ERYSIPELAS. [book IV. 06 at the elbow, especially the humeral, or, if it cannot be seen, any one that appears. But if any thing prohibit venesection ■we must have recourse to purging by cholagogue medicines. The same treatment may be applied to erysipelas of other parts, or we may administer strong clysters. And we are to rub the parts affected by erysipelas with cooling things, in order to repel the defluxion, and with moderately heating and moist- ening things so as to dissipate that which is collected, before the parts become livid or black; but the parts which are anointed are to be kept constantly in a wet state, by frequently changing the apphcations, which may be done by cleansing them with soaked sponges: for the heat of the part by converting them into vapour soon renders it dry. As I have said, erysipelas at the beginning requires such things as are cooling and moist- ening, without astringency; such as house-leek, purslain, and fleawort; the marsh lentil, endive, and gourd; the nightshade, henbane, lettuce, and horned poppy. And parsley, and the leaves of rhamnus by themselves, and made into a cataplasm with bread, are proper applications ; also cerates used vdth very cold water; but we may mix with them some opium, the juice of poppy, cicuta, and mandragora, and thus form them into compound applications. And a cerate may be made of white wax mixed with four parts of rose-oil, prepared from the oil of unripe olives without salts, the ingredients being pounded in a mortar, and as much cold water poured in as it can receive. But if you add a little thin and transparent vinegar, you will render the medicine stiU better : but polenta, with some of the aforementioned cooling herbs, cool very properly, and fat dates with any of them. And the part may be anointed with ceruse, CimoHan, or potter's earth, with the juice of strychnos, or Htharge with rose-oU, or chalcitis with oil and must; or ceruse, ■with vinegar and buckthorn; or acacia, with vinegar. yf\xe\\ the effervescence subsides we may use these simple applications, native sulphur and mint, with vinegar and rose-oil; or rue with worm-wood; vinegar and oil, or Htharge with the juice of leeks and beet; or compoimd ones, as this trochisk, more especially to the head : of htharge, of ceruse, of saffi-on, of native sulphui', of opium with must; and in common, for aU parts, of Smopic. vermiHon, of chalcitis, of roasted misy, of verdigris, of cop- peras, of fissile alum equal parts, use with vinegar.—Another :