HEAD. SECT. XC] 437 however, not to mistake a suture for a fissure, as was once clone Comm. bv Hippocrates, upon whom he bestows a merited eulogium for ' ' ' this frank confession of his own blunder. When this method of inspection does not succeed, he advises us to pour writing ink on the part and to scrape the bone, which will appear black when there is a fissure. Sometimes, however, he adds, the blow has been sustained on one part of the skull, and the fissure occui-s in another. This is the case of fracture by repercussion, of which we will make farther mention afterwards. Celsus says, we ought to suspect the existence of it when symptoms of fracture have occuiTcd without our being able to detect one in the part which received the blow. He also recommends us, if softness and swelhng be detected in any part, to examine it, as it is likely that a fissure of the bone may be found there, (By the softness and swelling, of which he speaks, he pro- bably meant the pufy tumour, described by Mr. Pott, in his work on ' Injuries of the Head.^) Sometimes, he adds, but rarely, although the skull be safe, a vessel in the membrane of the brain bursts and pours forth much blood, which, becoming coagulated, occasions great pain and dimness of sight. In such a case, he says, the pain will point out the seat of the extrava- sation, and if an incision be made in the skin, the bone will be found to be pale—" eo loco cute incisa, pallidum os reperitur." (Heliodorus, in like manner, states that when extravasation has taken place within the cranium, the bone wiU be found to be pale—Nicetse CoUectio.) The fact that in cases of extravasation below the skull the bone is pale, that is to say, does not bleed, is pointed out by Mr. Abernethy as an unerring guide to prac- tice in such cases. He says, "unless one of the large vessels of the dura mater be wounded, the quantity of blood poured out will probably be inconsiderable; I believe that a bone so circumstanced will not be found to bleed.^^ Celsus then pro- ceeds to the description of the operation. If the injured por- tion of the bone is not sufficiently exposed, he directs us in the first place to enlarge the wound of the integuments. The periosteum is then to be scraped away with a raspatory. The foiTn of the incision, if made solely by the operator, is to consist of two cross lines intersecting one another like the letter X, from the extremities of which the skin is to be ^dissected away. , If there be a discharge of blood it is tp