EXTRACTION OF TEETH. 294 [book VI. SECT. XXVIII. ON THE EXTRACTION OF TEETH. Having scarified around the tootli down to tlie socket, we must by degrees shake the teeth with a tooth-extractor, and draw it out. But if it is carious we must first plug up the hole with a small tent, that it may not break when comjjressed by the instrument. After the extraction we may consume the flesh that is left by sprinkling it with finely levigated salts, and afterwards gargles of wine or oxycrate may be used untU the completion of the cure. And since sometimes supernumerary teeth are formed, those that are fixed in the socket we must scrape down with a graving-tool, but those that are not so fixed we must extract with a tooth-extractor. If any tooth grow to an unnatural size, or is broken, we may scrape away the projecting or redundant part of it with a file. The laminas which unite to them we may remove as may appear proper, with the concave part of a specillum, a raspatory, or a file. Comm. COMMENTARY. Cselius Aurelianus disapproves of extracting teeth, except in cases of extreme necessity. HerophUus and Heraclides Ponticus, he says, have related cases in which the operation had proved fatal; and in modern times we hear some- times of such occurrences. (Pass. Tard. ii, 4.) Celsus directs us, when the pains of toothache cannot be got otherwise alleviated, to separate the gums from the tooth by free scarifications, and then to shake it until it is loosened, and forbids us to proceed rashly to perform extraction, for fear of occasioning dislocation of the jaw-bone, or, if the tooth belong to'the upper jaw, of hurting the temples or eyes. If loose, it is to be taken out with the hand, but othenvise with a forceps, and, if eaten, the hole is to be filled with a tent, or with lead, to prevent it from breaking during extraction. The instrument is to be pulled direct, lest the spongy bone to winch the tooth is fixed should be broken. Of this accident occur- ring there is, he adds, considerable danger; and not unfre- quently when the tooth is short and its roots long, the instru- ment takes hold of a piece of bone and breaks it; in which case he directs us to extract the broken piece with a pincers. When the teeth are carious he directs us to scrape them, and