8 ELEPHANTIASIS. [book iv. COMM. the symptoms is defective. He makes mention l^ow^ver of ^ ^«c.L, which aifect principally the face; he e-^ends that th whole system is attacked Mdth the disease, and that «ie flesh is cormpted. His remedies are much the same as those le- commendedby the other authorities, namely, bleeding, purgmg, vomiting, the thexiac of vipers, and rnbbing wxth t^e -nal ap- phcations for scabies. He also speaks favorably of the natural and the sea-water baths. • i, j ;„ MarceUus the Emperic,who is supposed to have flourished in the reign of Theodosius, recommends, like Serenus, mmt, iuniper, and mezereon, for elephantiasis. He describes it as being attended with hai'd excrescences of the extremities, erup- tions on the face, and disease of the bones. He speaks ot its being endemic in ^gypt. . The disease, elephantiasis, according to Isidorus, is so callea from its resemblance to the elephant. The skin m it is hard and rough, from which it gets its appellation, because the sur- face of the patient's body resembles that of an elephant; or be- cause it is a mighty afi-ection, as the elephant is one of the largest of animals. Vegetius, the great ancient authority on veterinary surgery, describes elephantiasis as it afi-ects cattle. The symptoms are hai'dness and roughness of the skin, squamae, eruptions on the feet and head, and a fetid discharge from the nose. He ap- proves of bleeding, and the other means recommended by the regular surgeons. _ . We shall next give the descriptions of the Greek authorities. Aretseus gives a most elaborate but surely somewhat over- strained description of elephas, which he paints in colour's the most hideous and disgusting. We shaU endeavour to convey to the reader an idea of his sketch, stripping his picture of its flowery ornaments, and contracting its bulk. The disease is called elephas, he says, from its magnitude, leontium or morbus I leoninus, from the supposed resemblance of the eyebrows to those of the lion; and satyriasis, from the venereal desires with which it is attended. The disease is described as esca,ping no- tice at first, being deep-seated and preying upon the vitals, but afterwards it is determined to the superficies, commenciag some- times with the face, and at other times mth the extremities. The belly is dry, because, as he ingeniously remarks, the dis-