WORMS. 142 [book IV. it in as far as possible. This is an admirable method with children who can hardly be prevailed upon to take medicines, and in this way we may often inject soup in cases of anorexia. And cyphi and masuaphium may be properly administered, and burnt hart's horn with pepper in honey or oxymel; and we may also endeavour to give tlie other medicines in oxymel. But the vinegar of squills will be still better, especially when given to adults. Or mustard with oil and vinegar may be given to the amount of a spoonful. Those whose bowels are troubled with a flux owing to worms may take a potion of the juice of plantain, or the plaintain itself may be given in a dry state, for it is of use both for the flux and the worms. We may apply to them cataplasms of crude barley flour, of fern, of wormwood, of the flower of lupines, of wormseed, and of south- ernwood, and likewise pomegranate rind, acacia, galls, and the flowers of the wild pomegranate are to be mixed with them. And since many people often loathe bitter draughts, we may give of those we have mentioned, such as are not decidedly bitter, and in addition, ground pine and horehound, elecam- pane, bay berries, cassia, thyme, pennyroyal, carpesium, cyperus, polypody, iris, bastard-saffron, madder, Egyptian thorn, with an equal quantity of pepper, to the amount of scr. vj, to a decoction of mint, the juice of the root of mulberry, or the de- coction of stone parsley, or of other aromatic seeds. Externally we may use aloes with the oil of apples and wine. This also whets the appetite, which is a thing to be much attended to. With the aloes we may often mix wormwood; or the navel may be filled with bull's gall along with some of the bitters formerly mentioned; or the oU of rose-bay may be constantly rubbed in, or cedar-pitch may be applied alone and along with cerate to'the whole belly; or dried pitch may be levigated and sprinkled on it; or it may be anointed with mint and gith in rose-oil; or we' may mix with them the decoction of seriphum; or we may triturate peach leaves and apply. We may use stag's marrow in the form of an ointment to the navel, pubes, and loins; and, if necessary, we may apply the cerate of aloes, of wormwood, of the flour of lupines, of seriphum, of gith, of each, scr vj ■ of wax, oz. jss; of oil of camomile q. s.; triturate the powders with bull's gall. We may give them frequent injections of honied water, that the worms may be attiv-icted downwards