SECT, viii.] EXANTHEMATA. 37 The Pseudo-Dioscorides recommends the ranunculus, the Comm. juice of the leaves of capers, or that of mandragora, &c. Actuarius copies from our author. Scribonius Largus mentions a composition containing gai-lic, cantharides, sulphui-, chalcitis, &c. Avicenna recommends friction with natron and the other substances mentioned by our author. Dr. WUlan defines the stigma, « a small speck on the skin occasioning no elevation of the cuticle." The ancient authori- ties, It wiU be perceived, apply the term in a wider sense. SECT. VIII. ON EXANTHEMATA. Exanthemata are formed by thick humoiu-s impacted in the skin, and more especially if the cuticle be thick. In these cases, then, even if the humours are deep-seated, they must be fii-st purged away; for unless you do this in the first place, before attempting to dispel them, you will only impact them the more firmly, instead of evacuating them by the skin. But if the deep-seated parts be free from crudities, you may eva- cuate the humours by the skin, and not produce revulsion of them to a distance, which is the case, if you attempt to evacuate them by the beUy or emetics. But the cure of humours fixed m the skin, is to be accomplished by fomentations and calefa- cients, more especially when the exanthemata happen to be broad, for these are formed by a cold and thick humour. Wherefore, take of the tender leaves of bay, of manna, and of rue equal parts, triturate together, and dissolving frankincense m honey, anoint with it; or, having boiled and pounded ten- der beet, apply as a cataplasm ; or, take of wax, dr. viij • of sulphur the same quantity; of salt, dr. vj; triturate tlicm dry, »and having poured on them half a cyathus of oil, boil all to- igether, and use the plaster that is formed. But one must at- tentively sit by while the boiling is going on. It is a very excellent medicine. CoMMKNTARY. See Hippocratcs (Epidem. ct alibi); Galen C, (Meth. Med. v); Alexander (i, 5); Oribasius (Synops. vii, 7); ^ Morb. Curat, (iii, 21); Aetius (v, 129); Actuarius (Meth. Med.