SECT. III.] MAD DOGS. 167 constriction, and with this view he recommends friction with tepid oil, venesection, and all remedies of a relaxant natui-e. He also directs us to administer clysters of tepid water and oU • and proposes to quench the thirst by forcing a cooling injec- tion up to the stomach; for which purpose pressure with the hands is to be applied externally. He makes mention of the internal administration of heUebore, but disapproves of it. The use of white hellebore, however, is favorably mentioned by Aetius (vi, 24), by Actuarius (Meth. Med. vi, 11), by Theom- nestus (Geopon. xix, 3), by Dioscorides (ii, 3), by Alexander IraUian (i, 15), and by Avicenna (iv, 6, 9.) Galen, in his work on 'Antidotes,' gives prescriptions for several compositions of this sort for the prevention and cure of hydi-ophobia; and mentions the disease incidentally in several parts of his works, but has nowhere given any description of It. Dioscorides' account of the symptoms, and his plan of treatment ai-e nearly the same as our author's. He strongly recommends the cautery. The external application of the cautery is also commended by Celsus, Galen, PHny, Scribonius Largus, Aetius, Actuarius, JNonnus, Avicenna, Rhases, and Alsaharavius. See a good account of hydrophobia in Haly Abbas (Theor. viu, 20); and in Alsaharavius (Pract. xxx, 2, 30.) None of the ancient authorities insists with so much earnestness as Haly Abbas on the necessity of applying strong stimulants to the wound, namely, the most acrid vinegar, copperas, and the hke so as to keep up a discharge from it for a considerable time! Rhases is a strong advocate for bleeding when the poison is distributed over the system. (Cont. xxxv.) Perhaps Alexander Aphrodisiensis is correct in stating that 1 the disease m the dog is a species of fever. (Problem.) There is a sensible account of hydrophobia in a ' Fragment' of an anonymous Greek author, published in Bernard's 'Re- lliquiie. The complaint is said to arise either from the bite of «a dog, or from humours engendered in the body. It is cor- irectly stated that persons affected with it dread all liquids, so tthat at the bare mention of them they start up with a scream, ttrembhng, cold sweats, and chattering of the teeth. Among rather things cold applications over the stomach and chest are nrecommendcd.