402 FISTULiE IN ANO. [book vi. Comm. introduce a specillum, and having cut open the fistula upon it, '—"—' to pare away the callous parts of it. (xiv, 11.) Actuarius approves of the same practice as the others. He cautions against making large incisions lest the sphincter ani be wounded. (Meth. Med. iv, 6.) Albucasis delivers nearly the same rules of treatment as our author. According to circumstances he approves of the knife, the cautery, or the apolinose. (Chir. ii, 80.) Haly Abbas describes only the operation by the incision. He also states that if the sphincter ani be wounded, it will oc- casion irretention of the fteces. (Pr. ix, 60.) See also Rhases (Ad Mansor. ix, 80; Cont. xxviii) ; and Avicenna (iii, 18, 1, 18.) Avicenna prefers twisted hairs or bristles of a hog, as they will not putrefy. Upon the whole no other of the ancient authorities has treated so efficiently of fistulse in ano as Paulus. See an excellent account of the operation in SprengeFs ' History of Medicine.' John de Vigo trusted to septics, such as arsenic and the jegyptiacum. Ambrose Pare approved of the apolinose and incision. Severinus was an advocate for the cautery. Foubert and Camper likewise practised the apolinose —the one with a leaden thread, the other with a sHk one. Guido de Cauliaco and Rogerius approve of the Ugature. Brunus and Theodoricus prefer the actual cautery, but describe the others. The surgeons of tMs country have now generaUy rejected the methods with the ligature and the cautery. The foUowing account of the ancient speciUum by the learned Harduin wiU serve to illustrate our author's description of the operation. We overlooked it in the commentary on the fifteenth section. " Quid sit specillum Varro explicat (Lib. 5 de Lingua Lat.) Quo oculos inunguimus quibus specimus (hoc est, aspicimus), specillmn est. Grsecis ^ijXtj dicitur. Aetius Serm. 8, 14, cum specillo instrumento, quod melam Grmci ap- pellant. Instrumentum parvum ac teres, quo utuntuj ad vul- nerum aut fistularum viam aut profunditatem pernoscendam Une sonde de chirurgien." (Ad Plin. H. N vii, 54) II the KOTTc^pto., however, was the same as the ^,X», ^he spe- ciUum, it was evidently used for cutting with as well as tor cutting upon.