78 [book IV. ANTHRAX. strengtli as to produce a separation between the dead and sound flesh. But if these applications fail, recourse must be had to burning. He recommends abstinence from food and wine at the commencement^ and directs water to be given freely, especially if fever be present. Pliny gives an indistinct account of an epidemical anthrax, which, he says, prevailed in the province of Narbonne. (Nat. Hist, xxvi, 4.) Galen ascribes the carbuncle to a defluxion of hot, black, and thick blood, which gives rise to blisters, ulcers, and eschai's. He directs us to apply to the eschars those medicines the pro- perties of which resemble fire, such as misy, chalcitis, arsenic, quicklime, and sandarach. His particular remedies are quite similar to our author's. (Meth. Med. xiv), and (ad Glauc. ii.) He mentions the carbuncle as a very unfavorable symptom of the plague. (Epidem. iii, and de Diff. Febr. i, 6.) The account of the carbuncle given by Aetius is full and accurate, but is entirely derived from Galen. Oribasius, Actuai-ius, and Nonnus also repeat his docti-ines. Actuarius says that the disease is occasioned by melancholic blood over- heated. This is much the same as Galen's theory. Octavius Horatianus recommends bleeding at the commence- ment, and external applications of an acrid and caustic nature, or the actual cautery itself. When danger is apprehended from a hot cautery, he directs us to use a cold one. In the Latin translation of Avicenna the carbuncle is de- scribed by the names of pruna and ignis Persicus. It was called pruna from a black slough which is formed in it, resembling a burnt coal. His account of the disease is am- ple, but mostly copied from Galen and his successors. Rhases approves of venesection at the beginning, and of the actual cautery. He also recommends an appHcation containing mus- tard and figs. Alsaharavius describes the varieties of anthrax by the names of alcubam and alcoasat. (Pract. xxix, 12.) At the commencement, he approves of general bleeding and leeches, and afterwards of refi'igerant and analeptic medicines, to obviate the tendency to sinking. When these things do not succeed, he directs us to use powerful caustics or the actual cautery. Serapion, like Avicenna, describes it under the name of the ignis Persicus.